[{"Title":"The Screen's Best Marlowe","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"82 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I caught the blackjack right behind my ear. A black pool opened up at my feet. I dived in; it had no bottom.- Phillip Marlowe in MURDER, MY SWEET. There are plenty of bottomless pools in MURDER, MY SWEET, Edward Dmytryk's outstanding noir. Tapping into a direct line to the dark places of the human psyche, the film raises the curtain on one shadowy scene after another. It leads the viewer on a convoluted trip through a very gloomy and treacherous labyrinth where oily con men, pesky cops, scheming ladies, and at least one gargantuan lovesick Romeo put the down-at-heels private investigator through the wringer. Moose Malloy's vanished girlfriend (and a tidy retainer) occupies Marlowe at first. Then, when an expensive jade necklace needs retrieving (with another fat fee offered), Marlowe bites again. But suddenly those too deep pools begin to appear. John Paxton's screenplay has the cast of characters thinking out loud a lot, which helps occasionally. But just as in Raymond Chandler's other overly schematic crime story, THE BIG SLEEP, strict attention must be paid. Yet even if you become confused, you can still revel in Harry J. Wilde's sterling cinematography. (As mentioned in another review, Wilde, along with a slew of other people, including Orson Welles, shot additional scenes for THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS for which he and the others received no credit. As Welles himself intones rather solemnly at that film's conclusion Stanley Cortez was the photographer). The really big draw in MURDER is Dick Powell, not just delivering a career-changing performance (and being the first actor to play Marlowe) but also giving the best interpretation of Marlowe on film- and that includes Bogart's fine outing in Hawks' THE BIG SLEEP(1946), Robert Mitchum's two disappointing films, and Elliot Gould's daring 1973 performance in Altman's THE LONG GOODBYE. Powell projects the detective's weary cynicism and dogged determination without any hint of showy mannerism or overplayed toughness. His presence is completely natural and convincing, far from any Hollywood ham acting. In addition, MURDER, MY SWEET presents the polished villainy of Otto Kruger, slithering around Powell with his characteristic reptilian menace; Anne Shirley as a spunky good girl who brightens the gloom somewhat; and, on the femme fatale side, the high voltage glare of Claire Trevor, laminated in heavy make-up like a pricey, megawatt doxy. Literally towering over everything is Mike Mazurki's Moose (far more effective than Jack O'Halloran's catatonic trance in Mitchum's FAREWELL, MY LOVELY). Mazurki's silent entrance into Marlowe's office at the beginning sets the uneasy mood where huge, powerful forces stir and then emerge from the darkness. "},{"Title":"Film Noir 101","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"79 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is the movie that hooked me on Film Noir. I first saw this on the late show while suffering a killer flu. Even through local TV editing and enough medicine to tranquilize a circus tent, it had me sitting at attention from start to finish. It wasn't until several years later that I got to see it uncut on cable that I got the full effect. Having grown up with Bogart's hard-boiled private eye archetype, Dick Powell was a complete revelation to me. If you double-bill this with Bogart's Big Sleep, you see at once that Powell truly IS Phillip Marlowe (even Raymond Chandler thought so), and Bogart is much better suited to portray Hammet's colder, meaner Sam Spade. Powell gives Marlowe a vulnerable cynicism as well as a touch of the everyman, that Bogart wouldn't be able to pull off until later in his career. Powell's background in romantic musicals gives him access to a far deeper emotional range, needed to play the complex and conflicted Marlowe; his cynicism, his humour, his loyalty to his code...it's all there. Powell manages to give extra resonance to some of Chandler's throw-away similes! No wonder he claimed this as his favorite role!The direction by Edward Dmytryk and cinematography by Harry Wild are perfect, giving the film a tight, economical yet alluring vintage feel. Working on a tight budget, they manage to infuse it with all the seedy, chaotic topography that would serve as the touchstones for every film of this type from Night of the Hunter to Blade Runner. While this isn't the first Noir film, it may well be the best. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Chandler","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"71 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This 1944 adaptation of Raymond Chandler's Farewell, My Lovely, had its title changed so that audiences wouldn't mistake it for a musical! One might think that this would mean that the movie was off to a bad start, especially since the chief reason for the title change was that the actor who was cast in the hard-boiled lead, Dick Powell, was best known as a singer. As things turned out, the film was a huge hit and Powell changed his screen image forever, from crooner to tough guy, and enjoyed an upturn in his career as a result. Producer Adrian Scott, director Edward Dmytryk and screenwriter John Paxton also saw their fortunes rise, but in their case the success was short-lived, as they all suffered during the Hollywood blacklist. As to the movie itself, it has become for many the definitive film noir. Produced on a tight budget on the RKO lot, it was made at the right place, the right time,  at the right studio, and with the right people. This is a movie for night owls, maybe the ultimate night owl movie, since there's scarcely any daylight in it, and when there is, the action moves sensibly indoors almost immediately, as if to avoid the glare of the sun. Night-time L.A. has never looked more seductive than here, with every bar, office, nightclub and bungalow seemingly shrouded in mystery, as if harboring secrets it's loath to reveal. Harry Wild's photography is brilliant, and while he and director Dmytryk often go for flashy, arty effects, they're always appropriate, and seem at all times the way detective Philip Marlow, who narrates the story, would want it to be told, as he's a rather glib fellow with an offbeat sense of humor. The dialogue, much of it lifted from Chandler's novel, is excellent and at times quite funny, though some of the author's best lines (such as his description of Moose Malloy as at at one point being about as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food) are absent.The plot, concerning the attempt of the aforementioned, hulking giant, Moose Malloy, to find his old girl-friend, having just served a stretch in prison, is convoluted and hard to follow. But the tale matters less than the telling, and the way it's told is what makes the movie so effective. Chandler was not a great one for plots, as one reads his books primarily for the writing, not the stories, and Dmytryk and his associates wisely follow this aesthetic, emphasizing odd bits of business, visual and verbal, often taking the movie in strange directions, making what one normally thinks of secondary aspects of a film the main event. There's a confidence in this approach, every step of the way, as the men behind the cameras knew just what they were doing. My only serious complaint has to do with the way the character of quack psychologist Jules Amthor is written (I'm a quack), which ought to have been more subtle, especially with such a sterling actor as Otto Kruger playing the role.Murder, My Sweet is not without its flaws, but it wholly succeeds where it counts making nocturnal L.A. and its inhabitants both larger than life and dream-like. The confrontation at the beach-house near the end has a dream logic to it, with Malloy, whom we had almost forgotten about, turning up, rounding out the story with a kind of poetic justice, or rather injustice, that is devastatingly effective. Dick Powell is as far as I'm concerned the best Marlow of all, as he nicely turns his musical comedy slickness into a smart-alecky private eye. That Powell is always on, in a way that, say, the more sincere Bogart or Ladd wouldn't be, works in the movie's favor, and while I wouldn't say that he sings his lines exactly he delivers them with a singer's precision and sense of timing. Claire Trevor's femme fatale is as good as anything Stanwyck ever did. I like the affected, upper class accent she uses, especially early on. Anne Shirley is okay as her stepdaughter. Mike Mazurki's Moose, who sets the story in motion, is a forbidding figure, turning up when one least expects him, his presence can be felt even when when he isn't there, as he spurs Marlow, and the film, on, like an ugly god. "},{"Title":"I Don't Know Which Side Anybody's On!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"60 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"       Private dick Phil Marlowe is hired by a paltry, foppish man to accompany him on a midnight assignation.  What follows is a glorious piece of Chandleriana, a ganglion of a plot involving a jade necklace, a jailbird who carries a torch for a showgirl, a big-league blonde with a rich old husband and an eye for private eyes, and more narrative twists and turns than a Restoration comedy on acid.     Will Moose be reunited with Velma?  Who's the brunette in the gulch?  What is Anthor's precise relationship with Marriott?  How many more times can Marlowe get slugged from behind without having his skull disintegrate?     Golden tenor Dick Powell may not be the obvious choice to play Marlowe, but in fact he turns in THE definitive performance.  Chandler once defined the ideal hero in one of his essays as a special man, but at the same time a man of the people.  Not amazingly bright, subject to bouts of confusion and wrong-headed wilfulness, but for all that a tough, decent, dry-humoured guy who just happens to be as sexy as hell.  Powell delivers.     Watch out for a remarkable dream sequence after Marlowe is forcibly injected with heroin (yes, heroin).  Expressionist cinema was never as evocative as here!     All in all, the film is an example of a genre captured at its apex - like lighting a stick of dynamite, and telling it not to go off! "},{"Title":"That couldn't be the same fellow","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"41 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" When I was a lad back in the 1950s I saw one of those Warner Brothers Busby Berkeley items on television and my father remarked that was Dick Powell. I thought he was pulling my leg, that sappy tenor singing those love songs, Dick Powell? I was used to the Powell who hosted Four Star Playhouse and acted in them every so often. My reaction was the reverse of what the movie going public must have thought back in 1944 when Murder My Sweet was released. Here was Dick Powell, no make up, a five o'clock shadow, and a voice down an octave and very cynical and jaded as Philip Marlowe.Raymond Chandler's private detective has been hired by two people, Gargantuan Mike Mazurki to find his missing girl friend and lovely Claire Trevor to locate a stolen jade necklace. The coincidences keep piling up and it's obvious the two cases are related, but how. That you have to watch the movie for.Powell was some revelation as Philip Marlowe. He considered himself very lucky to finally escape typecasting as so very few in Hollywood do. It would have been nice to have been in the Oscar sweepstakes, but in 1944 no one was going to beat Bing Crosby out that year for Going My Way. Another singer/actor who escaped from musicals and lengthened his career was John Payne. I can't think of any others.Claire Trevor also broke some casting mold here. Usually she played good time girls, but with a heart of gold. From Stagecoach, Key Largo, Honky Tonk and Man Without a Star, those were usually her type role. Here she's unredeemably bad, but she has a whole lot of men jumping through hoops for her. I don't think she was ever this bad on the screen ever again.The mores of 1944 dictated that the film not get to specific on certain items. There were references to gay males and lesbians quite explicit that later did appear in Robert Mitchum's version in the 1970s that were exorcised here. But the spirit of Chandler's novel comes through.I'm not sure Dick Powell is the best Philip Marlowe ever on the big and small screen. But he certainly has his champions and I wouldn't want to take sides in that debate. He's just very very good.So good in fact that in the 1950s lots of fans were remarking, was he really ever in musicals? "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining Detective thrillers ever made.","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  'Murder, My Sweet' is based on Raymond Chandler's classic detective novel 'Farewell, My Lovely'. The book was later filmed in the 1970s under its original title starring Robert Mitchum. The Mitchum version is actually more faithful, but for some reason nowhere near as entertaining. 'Murder, My Sweet' tones down some of the racial and sexual aspects of the original story (which are included in the 1970s remake), and I'm might be mistaken (it's been a while since I read it), but the Anne Shirley character appears to have been created as a potential love interest for Dick Powell. She seems to have been inspired by a similar character in 'Double Indemnity' (written by James M. Cain and filmed the same year with the help of Chandler). Dick Powell was originally a crooner and casting him as Philip Marlowe was a very strange choice at the time, but it certainly works. Personally I would have preferred to see Robert Mitchum playing Marlowe in this version, but by the 1970s he was too old for the part, and comparing the two versions Powell definitely wins. Claire Trevor is also excellent as one of the definitive noir femme fatales, and her scenes with Powell are compelling. The drug sequence is also very memorable.  'Murder, My Sweet' is one of the most entertaining detective thrillers ever made, and along with 'Double Indemnity' and 'Out Of The Past' one of the very best crime movies of the 1940s. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Filming of Raymond Chandler","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  One of the early film noir masterpieces!  As a major fan of Chandler novels, some of the lousy filmings (e.g. Marlowe, The Long Goodbye)are of a more recent vintage.  But they had hit the jackpot with this one.I do not see how those reviewing this film could fail to appreciate it - they are reviewing a film through a post-2000 prism. Set in 1944, censorship was the rule, even the novel had to be careful.  Edward Dymtryk, his cast and crew, with a low budget (which helped create the necessary mood!) have done a sensational job transferring the book to the screen.And gambling on crooner Dick Powell is akin today to putting Sean Penn in a musical --- to me he met the challenge brilliantly (although I still hear Robert Mitchum when I read Chandler).  Wonderful supporting roles, as with the 1941 daddy of them all, The Maltese Falcon. Best of all, Claire Trevor, her voice, her manner, her style. Bravo lady!Easily 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"The second version of the story and the best, with atmospheric direction, tough dialogue, convincing characters and great performances","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Phillip Marlowe is tired and resting in his office when Moose Malloy comes to visit him and hire him as a private detective to investigate his former lover, Velma, who has gone missing in the past 8 years that Moose has been in jail. Without a great deal of luck early on, Marlowe takes another case, escorting a Mr Marriott. When Marlowe is knocked out and Marriott murdered, things begin to get more confusing. With the police suspecting him of being involved more than he is letting on, Marlowe investigates further, getting involved in other jobs for clients who want to find Moose Malloy for some reason. Murder follows murder as Marlowe finds himself right in the middle of it with only his link to Moose keeping him alive.Having recently seen a strange telling of this story in 'The Falcon Takes Over' I decided to go back and see the most famous version. Of course this actually involves going forward in time (the Falcon did it first by almost two years) but it is certainly a step up in quality as this version is much, much better since in the first version it was used as plot fodder within an existing formula. I have not read the book but for me everything works really well here with the right mix of plot, character and atmosphere. As I have admitted before, I'm not the smartest of men on this earth and, as a result, I do get confused by some of this type of film where the twisty plot is not that well explained (The Big Sleep always has me a bit spun) and here at times I was a bit unsure of who was what, but this comes good by the end and is clear with a satisfying ending to the piece. The atmosphere is tough considering the period and is more effective for being built tough on the characters and not by just writing lots of F words into the script. Dmytryk directs really well with the time honoured shadow and use of music, the camera also moves well even if some of the shots look a bit dated (well &#150; it has been sixty years this year you know).The characters are well-written and convincing. Marlowe is a dead beat &#150; cool but not so tough and together that it takes away from his status as being a downbeat. Powell is not someone who leaps to mind when I think about the noir genre but he is very good here and gets the character really spot on. Mazurki makes Malloy his own with a firm performance that shows Moose to be strong but also manipulated by the love he totally believes in. Trevor is very good, as are Shirley and Kruger. The dialogue is sharp and tough and all of them do really well with the lines and the characters they have (making them more than pigeon-holed genre clichés) but the film mostly belongs to Powell.Overall this is a very good film and is miles better than the first filmed version of this story. The film is atmospheric and looks great; the story is not afraid to risk losing the audience and is smart but pulls it all together and didn't lose me totally at any point. The dialogue is tough and quotable and is delivered by a collection of actors giving good performances, headed up by Dick Powell, doing his best to make us think of him first when we think of this story and the character of Marlowe. "},{"Title":"The film certainly marked an astonishing transformation in its star...","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" There were many attempts to recreate on the screen Raymond Chandler's immortal character, Philip Marlowe, and probably the first serious effort was in 1944, with Edward Dmytryk directing&#133; The film was called Farewell My Lovely in Britain and Murder, My Sweet in the United States&#133; The plot, as always with this genre, mattered far less than the characters and the action it was sparked when Marlowe was hired to find an ex-convict's girl friend&#133; This Marlowe was played by Dick Powell&#133; He made a daring, successful effort to drop his all-singing, all-dancing image, and he was tough enough; but he was a little too charming, a shade too superficial, to suggest the depths and the strengths of the real Marlowe&#133; Humphrey Bogart was the man to do this above all others&#133; And he did it superb1y in Howard Hawks' The Big Sleep in 1946&#133; Murder My Sweet is a complex thriller which seemed at the time to demonstrate all manner of strikingly new techniques in a film noir mood, and certainly marked an astonishing transformation in its star... Thirty years later, the second half has a jaded look... "},{"Title":"Love The Wisecracks, But Wish It Was Easier To Understand","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is considered one of the classic film noirs ever made and some think THE film noir. In recognizing that before I had seen it, perhaps I was disappointed because I expected more.What I found was a very confusing film, at least in the last third of the movie as everything started to be explained. It almost got ridiculous in the last 10 minutes when Dick Powell (Philip Marlowe) explained the whole story. He talked too fast and it was next to impossible to follow. I guess I will have to view this more often to understand it better, or find someone who can explain it for my feeble brain.The best part of the film was the cinematography, which really comes to life on the DVD. Someone did a very nice job restoring this film. That, and the general dialog by Powell, were fascinating. You could make a short book with all the wise-guy remarks made by Marlowe in this film - a lot of great stuff. I just wish they had made a simpler story and made it easier for the viewer to digest all the facts at the end. "}{"Title":"Chandler's opinion of Powell","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Chandler once said that Powell was his favourite - not, naturally, his ideal - screen Marlowe.  Though Bogart is always excellent as Bogart, he wasn't Marlowe.Claire Trevor is the classic proof of how personality is more important than looks, even in sexy parts.  Short, powerfully built, coarse-featured, she comes across here as overpoweringly glamorous and alluring.  "},{"Title":"Fine Cast, Messy Plot","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The hard-boiled dialog flies faster here than eggs at Easter. Then too, practically every line out of Marlowe's (Powell) mouth is a cynical figure of speech, making the 90-minutes one of the more corrosive in the private eye canon. No need to recap the plot since I couldn't, anyway. There're so many twists and turns on who did what to whom, you may need to call in the proverbial rocket scientist. But then, I think writer Chandler said something about reality being a lot messier than usual detective fiction. Judging from this, he wasn't kidding.Speaking of messy, catch the great Esther Howard as old lady Florian. No one was better at sloppy slatterns than the be-robed Howard, and when she says no peeking to Marlowe as her robe flops open, I'll bet a wave of shudders swept across theatres everywhere. At the same time, ex-song and dance man Powell shows he could do hard cases with the best of them, that is, when he wasn't jumping helplessly into another 'black pool'. And who knew hulking thug Mazurki could go from lion to lamb so quickly. It's really he who gives the film a heart.There's some great photography and art direction from RKO's expert production team. No wonder that studio became the one of record for post-war noir. In fact, this 1944 effort signals the emerging era of noir, bringing together the private eye and a chaotic world of shadows, as it does. I especially like those final beach house scenes, perched precariously beside a dark sea of eternity.Anyway, the movie's a fine piece of private eye noir; just don't try to figure out the plot, which is incidental, anyhow. "},{"Title":"Murder, My Sweet Just About Unforgettable","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In the course of a detailed exploration of the history of Hollywood cinema, I came eventually to the world of genre. Film noir was one in particular which enticed me, its combination of German Expressionism influenced cinematography, gritty drama, and memorable dialogue instantly more appealing than the inherent morality of the western or the choreographed aesthetic of the musical. Offered as a paragon of the noir, Murder, My Sweet was my second of the genre, and first to introduce me to both the private eye and the femme fatale.Hired by the appropriately named Moose Malloy, private eye Philip Marlowe is tasked with finding his former lover Velma. When a client hiring Marlowe to act as a bodyguard is murdered whilst attempting to purchase back a stolen necklace, the detective finds himself thrust into a world of deception, confusion, and convolution.A narrative explored through the now-blinded protagonist's flashback, Murder, My Sweet benefits from one of the greatest narrations in cinematic memory. Adapted from the novel Farewell, My Lovely by hardboiled crime fiction legend Raymond Chandler, the film exploits the author's rich dialogue at every chance it gets. Marlowe is the king of the simile, each line coming from him awash with a cynicism-laced hilarity. The script is the kind that, upon a second viewing, will have your lips moving along with it, so unforgettable are the words within. Dick Powell, a musical star, delivers these iconic lines as though he was born to speak them, his straight-faced gaze as important to their effect as their original composition. The plot, in line with this seeker hero vein of noir, is distorted, intricate, and demanding. Full attention is a base requirement to understanding the turns in the film's story as Marlowe pursues the answers to questions which have often yet to be asked. Powell's performance&#x97;surely the best interpretation of Marlowe set to celluloid; certainly the greatest of what I've seen&#x97;finds support in the broad cast of characters which appear regularly throughout his investigation. The archetypal noir relationships are all present here, and well articulated. Not afraid to play on concepts to a degree, the film has us wondering for a time the allegiances of the two central female characters, neither of their motives entirely understood until the film's climactic ending. One of the most cinematographically experimental and entertaining aspects of the film is the inevitable scene in which the protagonist is knocked unconscious by a sadistic thug, Marlowe's awakening from this accompanied by some of the narration's best moments and the camera's oddest tricks and techniques. A particularly enjoyable aspect of the film, to mention yet another, is the ongoing relationship between Marlowe and the police force, the balance of animosity and tolerance&#x97;a staple of the genre&#x97;given some of its best treatment here.Thanks to Murder, My Sweet, my undying admiration for this genre was cemented after just two visits. On the more comedic side of the aforementioned, it is undoubtedly the finest example of the delicious dialogue of the novels from which the genre was spawned. Powell's Marlowe is, for my money, the finest, Marlowe himself perhaps film noir's greatest character. Probably the finest of this branch of detective based noir, Murder, My Sweet is just about unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Murder, My Sweet","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Based on the novel Farewell, My Lovely by Raymond Chandler, Edward Dmytryk's film adaptation Murder, My Sweet is one of the essential works in the genre of film noir. The film stars one of Chandler's most famous characters private detective Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) has been arrested and explains his story to the police in a flashback. Everything started when Marlowe is hired by a tall, violent man named Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to track down a woman. He is also approached by a rich family to investigate the theft of a valuable jade necklace, but Marlowe soon realizes that there is more at stake than just jewellery. Can anybody be trusted, when everyone from the family's daughter Ann (Anne Shirley) to a self- proclaimed psychic named Amthor (Otto Kruger) seems to be reaching for their own personal goals?Describing Murder, My Sweet is like listing the characteristics of film noir in general shadowy and starkly contrasted black & white cinematography, morally ambiguous characters, snappy dialogue... All the traditional noir elements work fine in the movie, but what Murder... is probably best remembered for is the surreal dream sequence and its drug-hazed aftermath that powerfully capture the sense of confusion and weakness in front of an overpowering opponent. The striking imagery of the sequence is actually so effective that it somewhat overshadows the other scenes that are largely dialogue-driven. The arguably confusing plot is full of twists and turns that further underscore the unpredictable nature of the world the film is set in &#x96; it can be said that the mood is equally important to the plot.Dick Powell plays the lead role quite lightly and doesn't come across as tough as some other noir detectives. The final scene would actually fit better in a romantic comedy, but for the most part Powell can pull the hard boiled image off well enough. Of the supporting actors the most memorable ones are the menacing Mike Mazurki as the easily angered (if slightly cartoonish) Moose Malloy and Ralf Harolde as the calm Dr. Sonderborg whose indifferent attitude during the drug sequence makes the scene all the more devoid of hope.Even though film noir hasn't become one of my favourite types of cinema, Murder My Sweet is a rather enjoyable crime story on its own right. As one of the most notable examples of the genre, it is a good starting place for noir novices and essential viewing for any experienced fan of the genre, in case there are any noir enthusiasts that have yet to see it. "},{"Title":"The jade necklace","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raymond Chandler's novels made great film adaptations based on his strongly written characters. Point in case, Philip Marlowe. He was a practical P.I. man. In the adaptation of the novel Farewell, My Lovely, by John Paxton, Marlowe gets a great treatment from Mr. Paxton and the director, Edward Dmytryk.This 1944 film has been dissected by a lot of contributors to this forum. As it happens with films of this genre, the convoluted plots create an aura of mystery without sometimes making too much sense, but the viewer is hooked from the start. One goes along for the ride with this version that proves to be one of the best adaptations of the Chandler novel, something the other version didn't have.The film works because of the presence of Dick Powell. He was a good actor who came from a different world into playing Marlowe. Mr. Powell is the glue that holds all the action together. He doesn't make us believe he is a super hero, he is just a regular man on a mission for solving the mystery of Velma's disappearance for his client, Moose Malloy, but he gets side tracked by circumstances that bring him back to Velma, after being hit and doped by the people that don't want him to get to the truth.Claire Trevor contributed to the success of the film with her duplicitous Helen, who we realize is holding out on us. Anne Shirley, who plays Ann Grayle, is of two minds, while hating her attractive step mother, Helen, she will do anything to separate her from the father she adores. Mike Mazurki is the burly Moose Malloy. Otto Kruger and Don Walton have important moments among the supporting cast.Murder My Sweet was given a great look by Harry Wild. His impression of Los Angeles, at night, and the interesting camera angles he photographed, are what distinguishes this film and makes it a classic. The atmospheric music is by Ray Webb. Director Edward Dmytryk showed he was inspired in this production that remains a must see for all fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"a decent Marlowe","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Philip Marlowe in the persona of the former crooning ingenue, Dick Powell, in a radical image change which is pulled off fairly well.  In actual fact I'd seen this before the likes of 42nd Street, so it was more of shock to see Marlowe singing and dancing in those bits of Warner fluff - as Marlowe, Powell is a convincing, world-weary detective, and this story (aka 'Murder, My Sweet') has particular strengths, particularly the scene with the cupid's statue, and the hallucinations. "},{"Title":"The best Marlowe film there is!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Probably the best Chandler adaptation there is. Dick Powell's Marlowe blows Bogart's clean out of the water, with a characterization much closer to Chandler's original. This Marlowe is a  confused, sometimes naive, man trying to find his way in an emotionally and morally corrupt world. Claire Trevor's icy femme fatale is the controlling presence in the film making the men around her dance to her tune. "},{"Title":"The best Raymond Chandler adaptation and the best Philip Marlowe?  Chandler thought so.","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk's Murder, My Sweet was one of the clutch of American movies finally released in France after World War II that led Nino Frank to coin the phrase film noir. (And the world hasn't been quite the same ever since.) The term was in startled reaction to the darkened, fatalistic look and sensibility that had crept into America's perpetually sunny cinema. And while less than a perfect recension of Raymond Chandler's more discursive and ruminative novel Farewell, My Lovely, (which had been filmed if butchered the year before, as The Falcon Takes Over), the movie remains, at more than 60 years, a hellishly entertaining thriller and one of the more emblematic titles of the noir cycle which it helped to inaugurate.Picking up where the (just) pre-war The Maltese Falcon left off, Murder, My Sweet takes us down those mean streets of Los Angeles that were to become, immortally, Chandler's milieu. As opposed to Dashiell Hammett's cynical, hard-as-asphalt gumshoe Sam Spade (the role, along with his Mad Dog Earle in High Sierra of the same year, that made Humphrey Bogart a big star), Chandler's Philip Marlowe was a more sullen, complicated and emotionally involved private eye; while Hammett told Spade's adventures in the third person, Chandler let Marlowe's unfurl, tellingly, in the first &#150; he's plainly the major character in his stories. And in Dick Powell, reborn from '30s light leading man into rough-stubbled tough guy, Marlowe finds an ideal embodiment Testy, reluctant and often befuddled, Powell intuitively gauges and portrays Marlowe's range and personality more convincingly than his rivals Bogart (in The Big Sleep) or the various Montgomerys (Robert and George, in The Lady in the Lake or The Brasher Doubloon, respectively) came close to doing.Murder, My Sweet gets narrated almost entirely in flashback. We open in a police station where Marlowe, his eyes bandaged owing to gunpowder burns, undergoes a grilling about a bloodbath. But soon we're back in Marlowe's office at the beginning, where his creep-in client Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) looms up spectrally, reflected in a night-darkened window (the responsive photography is by Harry Wild, whose work would dignify many fine films from The Magnificent Ambersons to Gentlemen Prefer Blondes).Next, we travel out the window through a neon-lit nightscape to the faded allure of Florian's Bar, in pursuit of Malloy's old squeeze Velma Valento, who has seemingly vanished from the crust of the earth while he spent eight years in stir. A lot changes in eight years, including Florian's, no longer a night spot with a stage but a hard-hat bar. Nobody there claims to have heard of this Velma, but Mazurki trashes the joint anyway.With the help of a phone book, which obliging lists (as wid Mike) the former proprietor's wife, Marlowe pays a visit, bottle of top-shelf booze in hand, to Jesse Florian, a blowsy old streel played to the hilt by Esther Howard (whose face looks like a bucket of mud). Ostensibly (and habitually) drunk, she has enough wits about her to steer Marlowe wrong about the whereabouts of the elusive Velma and to place an ominous phone-call at his parting.With the introduction of what seems to be a sub-plot, Murder, My Sweet pays belated homage to its predecessor. A dandified client (Douglas Walton) plays the Joel Cairo role from The Maltese Falcon (He smells real...nice, the elevator boy tips off Marlowe). It's a story about a rendezvous to score back some stolen jade, and he wants Marlowe to serve as bodyguard; Marlowe ends up sapped, and his client ends up dead.Feeling he's failed however doubtful a client, Marlowe follows the trail of the purloined jade. His quest leads him to monied Brentwood and the many-acred manse of Judge Grayle, an old eminence equipped with a wife decades his junior (Claire Trevor). When His Honor, in need of an emergency nap, departs, his wife continues to entertain Marlowe (Let's dispense with the polite drinking, shall we? It's less a question than an invitation).From then on, it's a trip up and down the many interlocking strata of Los Angeles society, from Grayle's daughter (and Trevor's stepdaughter) Anne Shirley (in her last role), to quack psychic Otto Kreuger, who operates a sinister sanitarium on non-existent Descanso Street. It's a trip into a shadow world where furtive connections, made or broken years ago, come unwillingly into the light. But, as a man true to his chivalric code, Marlowe persists, even when it leads him, at least three times, into the dark pool of unconsciousness (the phantasmagorical sequences owe a debt to the guilty nightmare in Boris Ingster's Stranger on the Third Floor). Ultimately, his persistence leads him to lock horns, if not quite lips, with the most unregenerate of femmes fatales....Murder, My Sweet's a bit too short to do full justice to Chandler's rich web of duplicity and dead ends. But it stays closer to the author's vision, and his protagonist's code, than the most popular version of his work, The Big Sleep, where Bogart played the most Hollywoodized of the Marlowes. Here, Powell hews close to Marlowe's ambivalence, even squeamishness, about the messes he's paid to clean up. And Chandler's almost puritanical distaste for the matters he chose to write about surfaces, most notably in Shirley's tirade near the end (she had started out talking about why she hates men, but expertly shifts gears) I hate their women, too. Especially their big-league blondes, beautiful, expensive babes who know what they've got...but inside, blue steel &#150; cold. At least one of those blondes started out as a redhead, singing at Nick Florian's bar....Murder, My Sweet revivified the careers of its two stars, Powell and Trevor. And it helped prime the stalled pump of the noir cycle, which would roll along for another 15 years or so. And, as one of its best achievements, it ages well, even into a new millennium. "},{"Title":"Dark and confusing murder/drama set in 1944 L.A","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** We, the audience, get the whole story from from private eye Philip Marlow ,Dick Powell, who's eyes are bandaged up from a gun flash that blinded him in the police station. This big gorilla of a hood Moose Malloy, Mike Mazerski, who just was sprung from the pen comes to Marlow's office paying him to find his girlfriend Valma Valento who he lost touch with when he was put behind bars for a robbery that she was involved in that he took to rap for. As Marlow goes to find the elusive Valma Valento things start happening that at first seem to have nothing to do with her. Lindsay Marriott, Douglas Walton, drops into Marlow's office the next day wanting Marlow to go with him to a secluded area in some canyon on the outskirts of L.A. Marriott wants Marlow to help him to retrieve a stolen jade necklace that he paid or was going to pay those who stole it that belongs to a lady friend of his. Marlow driving to the designated spot that night with Marriott gets knocked out and Marroitt murdered by an unseen killer with the necklace nowhere to be found; was it all a set up? The next day this young girl reporter a Miss. Allison shows up at Marlow's office looking for information about the mysterious jade necklace only to be exposed, by a very perceptive Marlow, as being non-other as Ann Grayle, Anne Shirley,the step-daughter of the women Mrs. Helen Grayle, Claire Trevor, who the necklace was stolen from. It's also found out later by Marlow that Anne was on the scene of the Marroitt murder when he ended up being clobbered and put to sleep.Mrs. Grayle is being blackmailed by this hood who's also a quack psychiatrist named Jules Amthor, Otto Kruger, who knows about Mrs. Grayle's wild and steamy past as a bar and show girl at the Florian nightclub. The Moose for some reason, it's never explained why, hooks up with the Amthor Mob who kidnap Marlow. After shooting Marlow up with dope his kidnappers dump him in this sanitarium run by another quack doctor Dr. Sonderborg, Ralf Harolde. The drugs Dr. Sonderborg injected Marlow with was to get him to tell the Amthor Mob about the jade necklace that Marlow has no idea about where it is; but that they seem to think that he did. Later escaping from Sonderborg place Marlow with the help of Moose, did he have a change of heart?,gets to Anne's place where she tell him this whole magilla, long story, about her step mother being a gold digger and wanting to take her father Mr. Grayle, Miles Mender, to the cleaners, by cleaning him out. Despite her greedy intentions the sick old man is both too naive and too much in love with the much younger and beautiful Helen Grayle to notice that.Meanwhile Mr. Grayle who's being caught up with all the goings on about the jade necklace that cost the life of Lindsay Marriott wants the investigation by Marlow to stop and is willing to pay him in full for his failed efforts to find the necklace and drop the case. By now Marlow in in too deep and knows too much to do that, which leads to the final and deadly conclusion of the movie Murder my Sweet at the Grayle beach-house where almost everyone involved in the Jade Necklace/Valma mystery end up dead. Hard to follow and in the end not really that interesting of a story about murder blackmail and betrayal that has the audience watching at times trying to keep awake as the lights in the theater as well as those in the movie are turned off. Murder my Sweet seems to have taken place in Alaska during it's six months of darkness. I've never seen a movie that takes place over a period of time, in what seemed like a few days, so dark and gloomy. Even the fact when Marlow, and later Moose, find out just who this Valma is was so anticlimactic that if you didn't really concentrate hard enough to what was happening it would have completely eluded you.Murder my Sweet is nowhere as good and as interesting as it's remake some thirty years later as the movie Farewell my Lovely with Robert Mitchum in the same role of hard boiled private eye Philip Marlow. "},{"Title":"Chandler's Marlowe at his gritty best--a creative whirlwind","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Murder, My Sweet (1944)One of the classic film noirs. And with all the trademarks of style, story, and character. On top of that, it's really good! I can watch any low grade bad film noir and like it, but this one is for everyone. Fast, crazy, dramatic, beautiful. And with such sparkling noir dialog you want to see it twice. In a row.The premise here is that a jade necklace has gone missing and a man hires detective Philip Marlowe to be bodyguard when he goes to buy it back. Things go wrong, but lucky for Marlowe he is now on the inside of a duplicitous bunch of thugs, many of them part of one family. It gets confusing if you don't listen closely and don't get the noir slang, but you realize you don't totally need to follow every nuance of the plot. It's also largely about style, about how this is all told and played out for the cameras.There are a handful of formative early film noirs going back to The Maltese Falcon which has some echoes to this one. Most are based on detective stories like this one by Raymond Chandler. Like most mystery or detective fiction, there is a formula at work, a huge dependency on one main character and his point of view, and a slightly contrived plot without deep emotional stakes. Later noirs can get more personal and involving emotionally (like Out of the Past or even the 1945 Mildred Pierce) but the point of view of the protagonist is still important because it's from a lonely position as the world swirls around. The detective was a perfect starting point for this genre--detectives work alone, after all, and see things the rest of us never dream of.So Marlowe gets taken for quite a ride. Dick Powell is terrific in the role. He's no Bogart or Mitchum, and he's no looker (no Dana Andrews). And so he becomes a really regular guy, someone you can relate to. He's tough and savvy and he has a great sense of humor in his interior monologues (another feature of noirs, used heavily here). And when he's abused you feel less like it's a Hollywood star up there but just a character. It works well.There are some really inventive visual things happening. The first happens several times, with black inky pools taking over the screen when he gets knocked out. But there are other distortions, and a fabulous (if technically simple) hallucination sequence that surely had some small influence on Hitchcock in making Vertigo. When you finally get to the end of this whole up and down adventure you've been a lot of places quickly. It's quite a movie.Don't expect normal realism. The movie is stylized and made to be illustrative, even as it gets gritty and real. The whole situation is a bit improbable, but forget likelihood. Go for the ride yourself. Get into the dialog (which is as classic as it gets). And watch it. Or watch it twice.Oh, and if you want a treat, check out the weird and actually terrific remake, hard to find on DVD, with Robert Mitchum in rich noir color called Farewell, My Lovely. With Charlotte Rampling, no less. "}{"Title":"From musicals to Marlowe one giant leap","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Dick Powell accomplished the most astonishing change of image in Hollywood history when he took on the part of Philip Marlowe. Hitherto known as the bright-eyed bush baby who squired Ruby Keeler through Busby Berkeley musicals, Powell suddenly emerged as a convincingly battered but unbeaten private eye, retaining in his characterisation the kernel of idealism that Chandler appreciated and Bogart and Mitchum missed. (As for Robert Montgomery in Lady in the Lake, maybe it was sensitivity about his total physical unlikeness to Marlowe that made him adopt the through-the-camera-eye technique.) Murder My Sweet has much of the gloomy atmospheric power and clipped, incisive dialogue of Force of Evil a few years later. It's one of the founding titles of the film noir cycle. Not till James Fox played Chas in Performance would an actor pull off such a transformation in his screen personality as Powell managed here. "},{"Title":"Good movie, better book.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  From one of Chandler's best novels comes a movie that's been put through Hollywood's gloss machine (thought not as much as Hawks' The Big Sleep) but still turns out great. I can't think of anyone, living or dead, who would better fit Marlowe's description physically or give a performance truer to the books. In fact, of all the actors who played the role in his lifetime (1888-1959), Powell was Chandler's favorite. (Bogart is a terrific actor, but slightly old and thin for the part.)Claire Trevor is the perfect Helen Grayle, married into high society but still with the morals and discretion of a girl from the wrong side of the tracks. Given what could've been a throwaway role, Trevor treats the character like a human being instead of just an amusing caricature.Anne Shirley plays an Ann that differs somewhat from Ann Riordan in Farewell My Lovely, and not only because in this she's Helen's stepdaughter, adding a new dimension to Helen's extracurricular activities. Miss Grayle is sweeter and shyer than Miss Riordan, and also less interesting.All in all, every noir or Chandler fan should see Murder My Sweet at least once. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell is a revelation","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Having recently watched several of the 1930s Goldiggers movies, I cannot get over how good Powell is in this movie -- completely unexpected. From sappy (some would say slightly creepy) song-and-dance man with the mooning eyes to hard-boiled gumshoe -- what a contrast! The grittiness is convincing. I love he scene where he stumbles into the girl's apartment after being socked around for 3 days and just asks for black coffee, eggs, and a scotch and soda. Of course, the girl falls for him -- who can resist a guy who drinks at breakfast? This movie is both dime-novel cheap and a masterpiece. And what a great move by Powell. "},{"Title":"Marlowe Burned, Battered & Bewildered","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Murder, My Sweet is the extremely well written and visually impressive adaptation of Raymond Chandler's novel Farewell, My Lovely. The screenplay by John Paxton is particularly effective because it succeeds in bringing a level of clarity to the story's rather complicated plot at the same time as accurately capturing the style of hardboiled dialogue which is such a strong feature of Chandler's work.Dick Powell who plays the part of private detective Philip Marlowe, had previously been known for his roles in comedies and musicals and so Murder, My Sweet represented a new departure for him. In the circumstances, it's to his great credit that he managed, not only to turn in a very convincing performance, but also one which became Chandler's favourite portrayal of Marlowe. Powell is especially good at conveying the confusion and uncertainty that Marlowe frequently feels as he tries to make progress with his investigations whilst being confronted by a series of characters whose mendacity and duplicity seem to know no boundaries. His delivery of the dialogue is also superb and equally credible whether he's being witty, sarcastic or even just self-deprecatingly humorous.Marlowe certainly suffers in his work as he gets hired by five different clients during his investigations, is viciously strangled by one of them, gets his eyes scorched and also spends an inordinate amount of time unconscious as he gets knocked out twice and drugged on another occasion.In Murder, My Sweet, Marlowe is initially hired by the enormous Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to find his girlfriend Velma who Moose hadn't seen for eight years because he'd been in prison. Shortly after, another client, Lindsay Marriott (Douglas Walton) hires Marlowe to accompany him to deliver the ransom for some stolen jewels. At the meeting place where the ransom is due to be paid, Marriott is killed but Marlowe doesn't see who did it.It later transpires that there's a link between the two jobs as Velma (now known as Helen) is married to an elderly gentleman named Mr Grayle (Miles Mander) and is also the owner of the stolen gems. A link between Helen Grayle (Claire Trevor) and Marriott also comes to light as both were clients of the self confessed quack psychologist Jules Amthor (Otto Kruger). Helen tells Marlowe that her necklace was stolen from her at gunpoint and he agrees to hunt down both the missing necklace and Marriott's murderer.Mr Grayle has a daughter Ann (Anne Shirley) who is devoted to her father and despises Helen who she accuses of being a gold-digger. Helen, contradicting her previous story, tells Marlowe that when she was Amthor's patient he got to know about some of her affairs and when he'd blackmailed her, she'd paid him off by giving him the necklace. Mr Grayle also becomes very concerned about his wife's probable infidelity and asks Marlowe to bring the whole business to a close as soon as possible. The action that Marlowe takes to do this eventually leads to a series of events at Grayle's beach house which result in some characters getting shot and Marlowe's eyes getting scorched before he successfully achieves his goal.Director Edward Dmytryk and cinematographer Harry J Wild make this movie a visual treat which is rich in atmosphere and highlighted by some real stand out moments such as - 1. the first scene where Marlowe is being interviewed by the police.2. the occasion when Marlowe is sitting alone in his office at night and suddenly, as a neon light flashes outside, the massive frame of Moose Malloy is projected intermittently onto the top pane of Marlowe's window.3. the dream which Marlowe has after he's been drugged.4. the scene at the beach house where Helen is lying on a sofa in very deep shadow and the only evidence of her presence is the cigarette smoke which is seen rising above her.With its intriguing story, fine performances, great direction and excellent cinematography, Murder, My Sweet really is an exceptional film for its time. "},{"Title":"The dark pit opened up and I dived right in!","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Well well, here we have a noir film that really has to be one of the most divisive in the genre, it would seem that some feel it's closer in texture to what Raymond Chandler wrote, and that the portrayal of Phillip Marlowe by Dick Powell is spot on in its execution.Many others disagree completely though...Now since I haven't read any of the novels Chandler wrote I have no frame of reference there, but having watched The Big Sleep this past week I feel the push me pull you polar opposite feelings this film creates.Phillip Marlowe (Dick Powell) is a gruff wise cracking private eye, he is hired by ex convict Moose Malloy (a splendid Mike Mazurki) to find former girlfriend Velma who has been missing for 6 years, this sends him spiralling into a web of deceit, blackmail, theft, murder, in short all the great ingredients for classic noir, and for sure the film has a cracking plot that dovetails a treat, but is it dark enough to fully flesh out the material? I just got this annoying itch that where the film should be getting murkier and deadly dark it was in fact far too breezy, Powell does good enough, but the wisecracks to me became more of a hindrance than an enjoyment, I felt in short that I was being lifted out of the dark when I actually wanted to stay cloaked in mud.The film is still an incredible watch, the photography from Harry Wild is lush, and the core essence of the story is bang on the money, and I should mention the cracking performances of the supporting cast, Claire Trevor and Otto Kruger join in the mystery to raise the film to a higher standard. Some scenes are joyous in the extreme, witness a nightmare sequence that is as gorgeous as it is unnerving, and director Edward Dmytryk excels in creating a bleak topsy turvy underworld, I just wish this particular film had done away with the airiness. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Shadows, Lies, and Private Eyes","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" If you're not confused, you're not paying attention. - Tom Peters The best film noirs are impossible to follow. Sure, mainstream audiences like such fare as La Confidential, Minority Report and Body Heat, but real noirs, the real juicy stuff, are impenetrable. You should be able to watch them countless times, get lost in their murky underworlds, and always remain perplexed. Noirs are cosmic conspiracies, atmospheric labyrinths that, at their best, extend outwards, enveloping their audiences. If you don't find yourself confused, hacking through that narrative even on your third and fourth viewing, then you're not in noir.Think the convoluted plots of The Maltese Falcon, The Blue Dahlia and The Big Sleep in the classical mould, The Big Lebowski and The Black Dahlia in the neo-mould, and The Wire, Eyes Wide Shut, Inland Empire and Miami Vice (and the sprawling novels of Connely and Gibson) in the...well there is currently no term for these noirs. The true successor to classical noirs, I call them hyper-noirs because they emphasise a lack of boundaries, horizontal and vertical. They are noir as global conflict, a series of hyper-links, of overlapping labyrinths, always in flux, always unresolved, offering no ground zero reality. The problem with the term hyper noir is that it conjures up fare like Sin City and Watchmen, annoyingly retro films with super-mediated, augmented, CGI visuals. So maybe some other prefix should be used trans-noir?, post-noir?, techno-noir?, contra-noir?In any case, Murder My Sweet is a noir in the classical mould. The story is told in flashbacks and revolves around detective Philip Marlowe (played by Dick Powell), who, of course, is the iconic creation of Raymond Chandler. Marlowe, hired by a big dumb guy to find a former showgirl called Velma Valento, finds himself tangled in a plot which involves a stolen jade necklace, rich playboys, assorted cops and various thugs. Beyond this I can't tell you what the film is about, despite having reading Chander's book numerous times as a kid and adoring it. But that's a good thing.With the plot impenetrable, we're thus left to savour the film's mood and ambiance. Director Edward Dmytryk does his best, and there are some truly gorgeous moments, but the film lacks the immediacy of Hawks, the prowling camera of Hitch, the wit of Wilder, the expressionism of Lang, the intellect of Kubrick and the sensuality of the stylists who would come 5 decades later (Mann, Coens, De Palma, Lynch etc).Still, the film exudes an atmosphere of dread and paranoia, and for fans of noir, the film creates a swirling vortex just waiting to suck you into its orbit.7.5/10 &#x96; Gould and Bogart are my Marlowes, so I found it difficult warming to Dick Powell. Nevertheless, though the film doesn't reach the heights of the genre's best, it is a worthwhile second-tier noir in the vein of Preminger, Aldrich and Fuller.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Above par but no Bogie","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Watchable film noir with Dick Powell slightly improbably taking on the evergreen Philip Marlowe character in a typically convoluted Raymond Chandler plot-line, directed with pace and occasional imagination by Edward Dymytryk.To be truthful I'm still trying to reassemble the jigsaw puzzle storyline and characters together in my head, but it's probably better just to absorb the dialogue and played out situations instead. I don't think Dick Powell can be put down as one of the great Marlowes, Bogart's shadow is too large to allow that and although he obviously puts a lot into the part, fails ultimately to deliver that feeling of grittiness and casualness, even sexiness that Bogie conveyed so easily. His lead actresses do well but lack the frisson of Mary Astor or Lauren Bacall. Of the male supports, I really liked Mike Mazurski as the gargantuan Moose but again felt a want of presence in the main protagonists put up against Marlowe.The direction is fast-moving (as always with Chandler, it has to be, just to get the story down) and has fine noir-ish touches, like Moose's ugly mug looming back at Marlowe from his office window or the drugged dream-scene where Marlowe is pursued through a succession of ghostly doors by his hypodermic-wielding adversary (predating Hitchcock's similar Spellbound scene in the process). And does Marlowe really say coked-up to describe his state of mind at this point - he sure does although the BBC sub-titler on the version I watched obviously opted out and substituted cold-cut. I could also have done without the sappy happy-ending which just doesn't seem right in any Chandler adaptation.On the whole, then a passable but not definitive Marlowe adventure. You know where the real deal is... "},{"Title":"One of the best detective films ever","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A web of blackmail falls over a very confused private dick in this suspense mystery.  Powell is the much-abused PI and Trevor supplies a saucy femme fatale.  They're supported by a strong cast highlighted by Kruger as the blackmailing self-confessed quack mystic and Mazurki as a very shortfused parolee who instigates Powell's investigation and unwittingly unleashes a diabolical chain of events leading inevitably to a handful of murders -- and finally that of his beloved.  The look of amazed fury on his face when Marlowe hits him is alone worth the price of admission.  Good dark dialogue, compelling photography (with surreal dream sequences and all), good direction of actors.  A superior example of its breed. "},{"Title":"Farewell My Lovely","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Americans know it as Murder, My Sweet, because they thought people would mistake it for a musical, we the English however have it with the original title based on the Raymond Chandler (writer of Double Indemnity) novel. Basically private eye Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell, famous in musicals) is hired by recently released petty crook Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to find Velma Valento, his former girlfriend not seen for six years. At the same time, Marlowe is also hired by Mrs. Helen Grayle (Claire Trevor) to find a horde of jade jewels, and it seems that this case may be moulding into the Velma one also. There are some promising enquiries leading into him into a complex web of deceit involving bribery, perjury and theft. At one point Marlowe is taken into a world where he almost goes mad or something, but he eventually gets out, and the twist is that the Femme Fetale is Mrs. Grayle, revealing herself as Velma. Also starring Anne Shirley as Ann Grayle, Otto Kruger as Jules Amthor, Miles Mander as Mr. Grayle, Douglas Walton as Lindsay Marriott, Donald 'Don' Douglas as Police Lieutenant Randall, Ralf Harolde as Dr. Sonderborg and Esther Howard as Jessie Florian. Powell makes just as good presence as Bogart did playing the role of Philip Marlowe, I may not have caught up with everything going on, but it is a good black and white classic film noir. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Great Classic Film","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Have seen this film many times over the years and always enjoy watching Dick Powell playing the role as Philip Marlowe a private investigator who is a rough and tough guy who has a very warm heart for all kinds of women. One attractive blonde named Mrs. Helen Grayle,(Claire Trevor) seeks Marlowe to locate her stolen Jade necklace, Helen is married to a very rich sixty-five year old man and of course Philip greatly enjoys her company in more ways than one. There is another character named Moose Malloy, (Mike Mazurki) who wants Marlowe to find his girl friend who he has not seen her for many years because he was in prison. Marlowe meets up with a crook named Jules Amthor, (Otto Kruger) who hits Marlowe on the head so many times and even has a doctor shoot dope in his veins and causes him to be knocked out for three days and he goes through plenty of nightmares. Raymond Chandler wrote this story and the veteran producer was Edward Dmytrk, don't miss this film, enjoy. "}{"Title":"Just my observations of an interesting film","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I am sort of a cult fan of the films of the 30s and 40s. Mr Powell was one of my favorite actors which made this film even more satisfying for me. Even though, by today's standards, the plot would appear fanciful and unrealistic, in my view it is what it was intended to be, great entertainment. No blood, profanity or intense graphics. Just a blend of imagination and film to create a pleasurable 2 hours. Some great scenes while Mr Marlowe was unconscious. Classic portrayal of an oaf by Mr Mazurki also a favorite of mine. Thank God for films like these. Now.....On to Charlie Chan. "},{"Title":"You Gotta' Find Velma","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I'll grant you that Dick Powell is not Humphrey Bogart and Claire Trevor is not Lauren Bacall but they were a tough act to follow....or in this case to precede.  You've got to give Powell credit for changing his screen persona so dramatically, and professionally it was a smart move on his part.  It may be difficult to imagine him as Chandler's hard-boiled detective and you might expect him to break into By A Waterfall at any minute, but give it a chance.  He actually does a damn good job and plays Marlowe with style and toughness.  Although you wonder how many times he can be beaten up, conked on the head and drugged before he falls completely apart!  The support in this film is top notch.  Otto Kruger is so smarmy as Anthor.....what was this guy's story anyway?  Mike Mazurki, a former wrestler, who made a career out of playing big, dumb guys plays a big, dumb guy who just wants to find Velma.  He can't be trusted.......in fact nobody can be trusted in this film.  It will keep you guessing and will hold your interest throughout.  The story line is a bit convoluted but not as much so as The Big Sleep which is the epitome of film noir.  This movie is right up there with the best, so don't be put off by the fact that a former singer from the 30's is the star......he pulls it off beautifully!! "},{"Title":"No tap for Mr. Powell","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Dick Powell left his tap shoes in home, take a cigarette and kiss a blonde in this classic film noir about a lost Jade and a private eye (Powell) covering the mystery against the wishes of other conflicted characters. The cliché of Marlowe is present (as we love), and Powell is almost unrecognizable if you look back to his old Busby Berkeley's classics. Still, Powell managed to be the rough man and convinced us. The acting is good by all, specially by Trevor as the femme fatale. Is not the best film noir ever but is undoubtedly a pulp delight that every cinephile would love, specially because the film doesn't even take to seriously. It's a silly mystery and knows it,and for it, works. "},{"Title":"If You Had To Explain Film Noir To Someone","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" MURDER MY SWEET (1944) (RKO RADIO) If someone asked you to explain what exactly film noir is, this would be the film, that I would have them watch, to answer their question. This landmark film is arguably the quintessential film noir.Los Angeles is the setting for this fantastic tale of stolen jade, marital misconduct, a search for a lost love and of course....murder!Raymond Chandler's world weary Private Eye Philip Marlowe was first brought to the screen in this adaptation of his novel Farwell, My Lovely. Dick Powell's casting as Marlowe, must have seemed crazy, at the time. But Powell made the amazing transformation from amiable song & dance man to hard boiled private dick & set the standard for all of those who came later. As much as I loved The Big Sleep & Humphrey Bogart, Powell's performance as Marlowe stands alone.RKO assembled an excellent cast in support of Powell. Claire Trevor, as the femme fatale Helen Grayle strikes the right balance of greed, tawdriness, sex appeal & cattiness, to match up with Marlowe. Anne Shirley, as the good girl Ann Grayle (Helen's step daughter) provides a fresh faced softness to counteract against her stepmother's hardness. Her character brings out the humanity in Marlowe. Powell's chemistry with both ladies is evident. Otto Kruger is at his slimiest as Jules Amthor, the con artist bad guy. Don Douglas as LAPD Detective Lt. Randall, convinced that Marlowe is the murderer he is after. Esther Howard, in a small role as boozy widow Jessie Florian, in a scene where Powell's gives one his best (of many) voice oversShe was a charming middle-aged lady with a face like a bucket of mud. I gave her a drink. She was a gal that would take a drink, if she had to knock you down to get the bottle. Last but certainly not least is Mike Mazurki as the lovestruck punch drunk brute Moose Malloy. The former pro wrestler nearly steals every scene he's in.Edward Dmytryk's taut direction & keen pacing keeps you on the edge of you seat through out the entire film. Groundbreaking use of special effects by Vernon Walker & fantastic lighting & camera work & angles by Harry Wild make this film feel very realistic when it needed to be & unrealistic (the black pool montage) when it needed to. John Paxton's adaptation of Chandler's novel brought the characters to life with cracking dialog & narrative to keep this complex tale of murder & deceit moving along until the climatic ending.Rating 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Haunted by a lovely face... hunted for another's crime!","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Murder, My Sweet is a Philip Marlowe detective thriller starring Dick Powell. Powell was a controversial choice at the time because he was known as a musical/light comic actor. I have no idea what else he was in. So seeing Powell as Raymond Chandler's most famous private dick suits me just fine. The only thing that may not jive for some noir fans is his light, confidant manner. Some may want Bogie (or one of the many square-jawed actors who played him since) doing his down-in-the-dumps lovable loser character. I admit that's what I was expecting. However, about ten minutes in, Powell makes the part his own. In fact, he fits the Chandler books more than Bogart ever did.The story is told in flashback and is confusing as the day is long. (Hell, I'm still trying to figure out The Big Sleep!) It's a noir world of double crosses and beautiful dames. The dialog and plot is pure Chandler. The end isn't the movies payoff; it's the wild ride to get there. The drug induced dream sequence is fantastic, rivaling only Salvador Dali's dream scene in Spellbound.There are so many good lines in this film.here's just a sample from the witty screenplayMARLOWE It was a nice little front yard. Cozy, okay for the average family. Only you'd need a compass to go to the mailbox. The house was alright, too, but it wasn't as big as Buckingham Palace.OrMARLOWE She was a charming middle-aged lady with a face like a bucket of mud. I gave her a drink. She was a gal who'd take a drink, if she had to knock you down to get the bottle.Cinematographer Harry J. Wild, who did The Magnificent Ambersons two years before, is no slouch. His work on this movie is top notch. Apparently many of the RKO crew also worked on Citizen Kane and it's no surprise the movie is a black and white visual treasure. The lights and shadows are usually coming from the side - threatening to eat up the cast. The sets are top notch too. This does not look like most noir B movies using darkness to hide poor sets and backgrounds.  "},{"Title":"Satisfactory noir style but not up to THE BIG SLEEP...","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In terms of its story-telling technique, MURDER, MY SWEET is just as convoluted as THE BIG SLEEP--but there the resemblance ends. When Dick Powell says I don't know what side anybody is on, that's true for the viewer most of the time. The story is etched in puzzled fashion with none of the pieces coming together until the beach house finale. Nevertheless, you won't want to look away until the conclusion.All of the actors go through their paces in satisfactory noir style. Dick Powell is not Humphrey Bogart but his crisp delivery of Chandlerisms and tough guy demeanor are enough to convince you he means business. His performance is especially good during his hallucination scene in which the camera acts as subjective witness to his beating. Claire Trevor, as usual, does her femme fatale stint convincingly although the role itself is practically a throwaway. Mike Mazurki is at his best as a hulking menace with a short fuse. Otto Kruger does a fine piece of work as a charlatan doctor. Anne Shirley is wasted as the other femme lead in a role that has no substance.Powell takes an inordinate amount of beatings which reminds me of the Alan Ladd-William Bendix fracas in THE GLASS KEY. The low-key lighting and night visuals are a fine example of film noir at its grittiest. And Roy Webb's score creates an evocative mood.Worth seeing at least once--but don't expect anything even remotely approaching THE BIG SLEEP. "},{"Title":"The Jewel of the Musical becomes the Rhinestone of the Detective Story.","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" As America wrapped up its four years of World War, a more cynical Hollywood began putting together films with more serious methods of storytelling, a crisp new formula called film noir. There had been tidbits of film noir going back to the silent era, and even as early as 1932 with I am a Fugitive From a Chain Gang, Hollywood began telling darker stories with brooding anti-heroes, sexy femme fatals and creepy supporting characters looking in the background. There were a few early examples of the upswing of this genre, but it wasn't until 1944 that the era of Film Noir truly began, exploding with such masterpieces as Laura, Double Indemnity, The Phantom Lady and this dark look at the world of Philip Marlowe with former musical star Dick Powell in the part, moving on to the third phase of his career, having been more the light-hearted non-singing leading man during the early war years and now much more serious.Murder My Sweet is actually a remake of one of the Falcon films, told much darker here, with Powell initially seen being blindfolded and interrogated by cops for his involvement in murder. The road to discovery is a twisted one, interrupted by hellish nightmares, innocent heroines, a deadly femme fatale and some unforgettable character performances of people you hope never to meet in the dark. Everything exploded for Powell's Marlowe when flashing lights kept a stranger standing behind him moving in and out of his visuals. Mike Mazurki is Moose, a dumb knucklehead searching for his wife, a man tending towards violent mood swings which he seemingly can't stop himself from having. Powell's search for the missing wife leads him to the drunken hag Esther Howard, and a mysterious phone call which she makes that leads him on to even more deadly encounters.Another client has Powell searching for some missing jewels, but this client soon is found dead with Powell knocked out like a light, being rescued by a mysterious young woman. He later encounters the same woman (Anne Shirley in her last film) pretending to be a reporter and discovers the truth which involves her father and his much younger second wife, the seductive Claire Trevor. Powell's involvement with this convoluted family brings him back in contact with Mazurki and the family's shady lawyer (Otto Kruger) and into a dangerous situation which he fears he may not come alive out of.Tensely directed by the controversial Edward Dmytryk (Crossfire), Murder My Sweet is the first of the truly dark film noirs, one with so many twists and turns that you fear the plot might crash over the side of the road. But you are glued to find out what is really going on, and this really explodes when Powell has a nightmare of such horrific experiences that you could swear you were in a horror movie. Hitchcock picked up on the power of such dream sequences, utilizing it with equal power in the following year's Spellbound.All of the performances are exceptional, with Powell's darkness a far cry from the juvenile he played in the Gold Diggers series and 42nd Street. Trevor is an exciting vixen, and of course, gets some great lines. Shirley is an appealing young leading lady, and it seems a shame that she didn't continue on, even part time, as a movie actress. She's come along way from Anne of Green Gables and Stella Dallas. The always unforgettable Howard makes the most of her one scene as a wretched woman whose life has fallen into utter despair, yet there's a tenderness about her which makes you want to see more of her. Of the male character performers, Mazurki stands out the most, his gentle child-like mentality being overcome with his brutal nature. Everything about this film will have you entranced, and even if the ending is a slight let-down, everything which comes before makes this stand out as one of the greats in a wonderful genre which has obtained a huge cult audience of its own. "},{"Title":"Powell performs admirably in pure film noir","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) is a private investigator who, at the start of the film, is hired by the hulking Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to track down his old girlfriend who he has lost touch with during his stint in jail. After his leads go sour, Marlowe turns his attention to another case when he is approached to act as an escort for a Mr. Marriott (Douglas Walton). Marlowe is knocked out cold and wakes up to find Marriott murdered, and Marlowe finds murder and femme fatales at every turn. The two cases may be linked, and Marlowe finds himself unwittingly caught in the middle of it all, with the cops hot on his tail.I've read a couple of Raymond Chandler's breathtaking Philip Marlowe novels, and although Farewell My Lovely (called Murder, My Sweet in the U.S.) is not the best Marlowe adaptation, it can only be described as pure. It's the most confidently directed of the Marlowe films, and seems more than comfortable in its noir tones of whiskey, gangsters, and fast- talking dames. My favourite is undoubtedly The Big Sleep, which came two years later, but the two are just as confusing as each other. I could just about keep up with this one, but I'm still lost on The Big Sleep, although it doesn't ruin what I believe is one of the best of the film noirs.Dick Powell, most recognisable from musicals and comedies such as the Gold Diggers films and 42nd Street, seems an odd choice to play the deadbeat Marlowe. He divided fans of the books down the middle, with some feeling he combined a sense of humour with Marlowe's street wise behaviour, but some felt him too fresh-faced to convince as a hard- drinking loner. I feel he performs admirably, although he's no Bogart. The rest of the cast are solid too, but if anyone comes out on top, it is director Edward Dmytryk, who drenches the film with atmosphere and style. It is certainly confusing, but this is top notch film noir from the genre's heyday.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Snappy Detective Yarn.","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" With this movie, Dick Powell switched his image from faded musical star to tough guy, and he's pretty good. He's nasal and cynical and sure of himself as he works his way, as Philip Marlowe, through a world of suave villains (Otto Krueger), gigantic and rebarbative clients (Mike Mazurki), blond seductresses (Clair Trevor), and other assorted Chandleresque types.Actually, Raymond Chandler's novel, Farewell, My Lovely, is followed about as closely as the agents of social control would allow in 1944. Edward Dmytryk's direction is efficient and the black-and-white photography, along with the special effects, are well done for their time. Of course, we get Dick Powell's narration of Chandler's prose with its curious tropes. We HAVE to get Chandler's prose because what else is there? A PLOT? Five minutes into the film and already Marlowe is working on two separate cases with two separate casts, one having to do with stolen jade, the other with Velma Galento. The threads come together late but it would take the devotion of a Talmudic scholar to figure out all the meanders of this torturous story. No, the key to enjoyment of the film rests with the acting -- from one disjointed incident to the next -- and the recherché charm of the narration. (I only took the case because my bank account was trying to crawl under a duck's belly.) The movie, like the prose that guides us through it, is inelegant and pretty literal. When somebody hits Marlowe over the head with a sap, the narration tells us that a big black hole opened up in front of me. I dived in. It had no bottom. And the screen shows us a big black hole opening up in front of him. He dives in. It has no bottom.It's a good film and enjoyable from beginning to end, once you blind yourself to its limitations. I prefer the 1975 remake with Robert Mitchum. The features that are good in this movie are improved upon in the later version. The photography here is just fine. The photography in 1975 was magnificent. And Powell is a good Marlowe, tough and confident, but Mitchum brings something unique to the role. Mitchum isn't stereotypically hard boiled like Powell. He slouches with exhaustion. (And that's acting, not Mitchum's natural state, because in Mitchum's remake of The Big Sleep, a year or two later, he was speedier and carried the momentum of a bull dozer.) And Mitchum brings more nuance to the role. Watch the scene in which he's slapped hard by the whorehouse Madam, gapes at her for a second, then lets out a feral yell, leaps to his feet and belts her in the mouth. Powell, satisfying as he is, doesn't have that kind of range.This one has everything that a thoroughly coagulated detective story ought to have. Great scene, when Powell tries to shrug off the effects of the drug he's been given and finds himself surrounded by smoke and spider webs. He tries to threaten the placid doctor who has shot him full of joy juice I've got a GUN. When people with a gun tell you to do something, you're supposed to do it! He sounds frazzled, confused and a little saddened because the conventions of the detective genre aren't working for him.See it, you big lug, or I turn your face into a dish of moo goo gai pan. "},{"Title":"A black pool opened up at my feet. I dived in.","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The hard-boiled writings of Raymond Chandler helped to define the film-noir movement during the 1940s, particularly the novels that featured unsentimental private-eye Philip Marlowe. Though 'Murder, My Sweet (1944)' is not the first adaptation of a Chandler novel &#150; that would be 'The Falcon Takes Over (1942)' &#150; nor is it the best &#150; Howard Hawks' 'The Big Sleep (1946)' falls comfortably into this category &#150; it does contain all the traditional ingredients for pure film noir murder, betrayal, sex, alcohol and one cold-blooded dame! Though undoubtedly low-budget, and lacking the sparkle and professionalism of such films as 'Double Indemnity (1944)' which, I've just realised, Chandler co-wrote with Billy Wilder, director Edward Dmytryk does well with the material, and leading-man Dick Powell surprised everyone with a dramatic departure from the frothy family musicals in which he had made a name for himself. In fact, in order to prevent American audiences from expecting a romantic wartime musical, the film's title was changed from Farewell My Lovely, the name of Chandler's source novel.Dick Powell may not be Humphrey Bogart, but he brings a wonderful comic swagger to the role of Marlowe. He may not always be in complete control, but he knows exactly what to say, and, with words as his weapons, he's quite capable of beating down any of the shady characters who come his way. After a brutish ex-con (Mike Mazurki) comes to the detective in search of an old girlfriend, Marlowe finds himself thrust &#150; not entirely reluctantly &#150; into the dark, fiendish underworld of crooked doctors, oafish thugs and back-stabbing femme fatales. Armed with a hard-edged cynicism that encourages him to expect the worst and suspect everybody, Marlowe navigates a plethora of conspirators and villains, as two seemingly-unrelated detective cases come crashing together with an almighty smash of gunfire and drug-fuelled hysteria. Claire Trevor is excellent as the opportunistic seductress holding a knife to your back, whereas Anne Shirley provides the obligatory non-lethal love interest, a sweet young woman who only vaguely realises what trouble she's gotten herself into.Thinking about the convoluted plot of 'Murder, My Sweet' is liable to give one a rather nasty headache, but I'm convinced that every detail comes together in the end; though an abundance of unlikely coincidences tend to surface on occasion. The story, which is told entirely in flashback, is complemented by the predominantly night-time setting, creating a sense of ominousness that can only be accomplished through our natural fear of that which prowls about in the darkness. Even if there is a distinct lack of surprises in the story &#150; perhaps a product of its influence more than anything else &#150; the mystery is sufficiently engrossing to hold our attention for 90 minutes, though I'm unsure if it could have held out for much longer. Harry J. Wild's dark and moody cinematography also works in the film's favour, and I particularly liked the use of the bottomless black pool which opened up before Marlowe whenever he caught the unsympathetic end of a blackjack, a fist or a needle. "}{"Title":"Private Dick Powell Gets Tough","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Good looking film version of Raymond Chandler's Farewell, My Lovely, with Dick Powell taking a great career turn as private detective Philip Marlow. Claire Trevor and Anne Shirley are perfect (and sexy) as the two women who become involved with the storyline, and Mr. Powell. Though very well written, and adapted (by John Paxton), this is still a sometimes confusing film. Mainly, it's the flashbacked story which begins the piece - Powell is hired by burly Mike Mazurki (as Moose Malloy), fresh out of prison, to find his old girlfriend, Velma...Director Edward Dmytryk and photographer Harry J. Wild give the film a fantastic look, despite a limited 1940s budget; a surrealistic, drug-induced sequence fits the film perfectly. The supporting performers, like Otto Kruger, Ralf Harolde, and Esther Howard are great. Ms. Howard is particularly memorable as sobering drunk Jessie Florian; she provides an essential clue to the film's main mystery. ******* Murder, My Sweet (12/9/44) Edward Dmytryk ~ Dick Powell, Claire Trevor, Anne Shirley, Otto Kruger "},{"Title":"Hold on to your chair, don't step on no snakes, I got an idea.","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Watching Murder, My Sweet, one thing is certain - do not divert your attention for a single minute or you'll be hopelessly lost. Fortunately I read a few reviews on this forum prior to tuning in, so was prepared to stay focused, along with pen and paper to keep notes. I usually do that anyway, but sometimes it's more necessary than others. Even so, I was caught off guard when old man Grayle (Miles Mander) turned up later in the film after I thought he became a murder victim, it was actually Amthor (Otto Kruger).Director Edward Dmytryk creates a dark and bleak netherworld in 'Murder', populated by sordid characters who give detective Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) a run for his money, which by the way he gladly accepts since there's no regular payday on his calendar. He spends a lot of time on the wrong end of a blackjack, or in the case of Amthor's doctor friend, in a coked up digitalis nightmare that portends Hitchcock's Vertigo by more than a dozen years. That dream sequence was rather artfully done, culminating in the cobweb twilight of Marlowe's brain fog.What I'm not willing to concede however is Powell's turn as Marlowe being the definitive interpretation as some claim. For me, it would be Bogey all the way in The Big Sleep, dispensing sarcasm and wit in between dead bodies. Though this film also offered some snappy rejoinders, it also had it's share of clunky dialog as well, and when it did, the flow of the story was momentarily disrupted.So what we know is - Moose killed Amthor, and Grayle killed Velma, but who killed Marriott? Marlowe offered some thoughts on the matter, but I don't think it was ever confirmed in the flick. But two out of three ain't bad, especially since the murderer's identity in The Big Sleep was entirely bypassed by the time that film ended; even Raymond Chandler didn't know who did it, and he wrote the book.Here's a thought - how great would it have been if Mike Mazurki, Claire Trevor, Otto Kruger, Anne Shirley, heck, even Dick Powell were still around to do Sin City? Now that would be sweet... as murder. "},{"Title":"Murder, My Sweet","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A jade necklace, a brute wishing to find a dame he loved from eight years back waiting patiently to being let out of prison, and a young woman wishing for the end of her father's marriage to a much younger woman are just the start of Marlowe's problems as he sinks into an abyss of untrustworthy characters in this marvelous film noir. Crackling, sharp observational dialogue full of metaphorical magic is perfectly placed in the trustworthy hands of a very good Dick Powell as Philip Marlowe who must somehow find this long-lost jaded necklace for it seems to be desired by several individuals.It seems the necklace's owner, Claire Trevor perfectly embodying the femme fatale, seems to be the center of all of Marlowe's troubles. But what does the big brute(who nearly at certain points breaks Marlowe's neck when others misinform him of things the detective didn't do)have to do with those scheming to get their hands on the missing jade? The lovely Anne Shirley plays Ann Grayle, the daughter of the 60ish father married to much younger Trevor's Helen. Ann gets immersed in the plot as well as Marlowe often battles forces he never realized he'd ever face such getting walloped over the head several times from the back and drugged.RKO score another highlight noir with trippy visuals when Marlowe is drugged or hit over the head. The B&W photography is also top notch.Otto Kruger plays the villainous intellectual who desires the jade necklace and blackmailer of Hellen who also coerces Mike Mazurski's Moose, the brute, to choke a possible confession from Marlowe for whom he believes has the necklace(he lies to Moose by way of Marlowe's hidden secret of the missing girl in order to get the massive man to assist him). "},{"Title":"Classic Hard-Boiled Private-Eye Murder Mystery","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Private-eye Philip Marlowe takes on two cases at once; a goon named Moose who is looking for an old girlfriend, and a dandy named Marriott trying to paying off some blackmailers who have stolen a valuable necklace. Marriott winds up dead, Marlowe's the chief suspect, both the necklace and the girlfriend seem untraceable and there's a nasty connection between the two cases ...With an excellent script by John Paxton, this adaptation of Raymond Chandler's seminal detective novel, Farewell My Lovely, is amongst the best and most stylishly filmed of the great crime thrillers of the forties. It sensibly sticks close to the novel, retaining a constant stream of great dialogue quips (You're not a detective, you're a slot machine. You'd slit your own throat for six bits plus tax.), but it also employs a barrage of cinematic tricks to terrific effect - Moose's first appearance reflected in the neon in Marlowe's window, little iris animation accompanying Marlowe's frequent blackouts, seriously creepy filter distortions in the digitalis-poisoning sequence, and so on. The cast of characters are all sensational, right down to the elevator attendant, but special mention must go to Trevor's sizzling, slithering femme-fatale and Powell's career-redefining turn as the world-weary, straight-as-a-corkscrew trenchcoat. Powell had previously been a romantic singing lead and so the studio changed the original (book) title to avoid people thinking it was another such picture, but it was subsequently changed back (the UK TV print at least has the original title). This is a textbook example of how to turn a great novel into a great movie - sadly the talented Dmytryk was hounded from the US not long after it was made by the infamous Hollywood communist witchhunts of senator Joe McCarthy. However, if you like your whisky straight, your women scheming, and your private eye movies hardboiled, this is the picture for you. "},{"Title":"Two Guns in the breastpocket?","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Has anyone else but me ever noticed a major continuity glitch during the climactic beachhouse confrontation between all the principal cast members of `Murder, My Sweet'?  After an embrace, Claire Trevor pulls a gun on Dick Powell.  Although we don't actually see her do it, she says she retrieved it from his breast pocket (`You should never kiss a girl with a gun in your breastpocket.  It leaves such a bruise.').  Yet minutes later, after the arrival of Anne Shirley and her father, Trevor tells the latter to go get Powell's gun from his breast pocket.  Surely, he wasn't carrying two there!  I do like `Murder, My Sweet' as well as anyone, even though it does get a little too talky, and the plot is complex enough without all the additional loose ends (just what did Moose do for Velma that put him in jail for 8 years?) and `cinemamistakes.'  On the other hand, perhaps these are what keep the movie so fascinating upon repeat viewings.  I've lost count of the number of times I've seen it over the years and on the new DVD release, it looks better than it ever has before. "},{"Title":"A real noir","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This movie is one of the examples that show how a proper noir is made. It features a decently complex story that will keep you in your chair throughout the whole film along with the appropriate cast. Dick Powell plays a very good Philip Marlow and has just the right amount of filth and toughness for this role. Add to that some Hitchcockoesque shots and scenes and also the apt amount of dry humour. A nice one! "},{"Title":"This is one seriously dark film...","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I love this film (being that I love film noir) and I think that anyone worth his salt should see it at least once.  I feel that Murder My Sweet really epitomizes what a good detective film should be. Chandler's Marlowe is dark, sardonic and cool.  The story really carries you along and the use of light and shadow is nothing short of masterful.  While there are definitely other film noir movies that match this one, there is something about the charm and beauty that Dmytryk captures here. "},{"Title":"This movie is a must for Chandler fans.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  The best thing about this film is that it stays true to the spirit of the book; more so than the much more famous The Big Sleep.  Dick Powell is closer to my impression of what Marlowe should be like rather than Bogart. There is plenty of quirky humor which comes from both the book and the characters.  Edward Dmytryk's atmospheric directing captures the spirit the novel.  This is one of my all time favorites.  Like all movies based on Chandler books, you need to pay close attention to details.  Rush out to see this one!  "},{"Title":"To die for...","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In terms of craftsmanship, it's hard to beat MURDER, MY SWEET it's tight in every respect, from beginning to end. It also boasts some truly outstanding cinematography, with some of the most unique shots you're ever likely to see Dick Powell as Marlowe, sitting at his desk, looking at his own reflection in the window, while behind him appears the man-mountain, Mike Mazurki. It's effectively a three-shot, with two clearly visible faces and the back of Powell's head. Mazurki is one of the most intimidating presences to ever lurk nearby in a film noir he literally hauls Powell off his feet as he tries to convince him to help him keep tabs on a crooked dame. It's like a big kid, unaware of his own strength, manhandling a smaller kid. Powell's narration is priceless A black pool opened up under my feet. I dove in. That's Raymond Chandler, of course, but the line (delivered at least twice in the movie, if memory serves) is delivered perfectly, almost matter-of-factly, by Powell. One of the great films noir. (There's also a memorable sequence wherein Marlowe is kidnapped and force-fed drugs; his torment makes what Ray Milland goes through in THE LOST WEEKEND look like a walk in the park. This idea would be used decades later in THE FRENCH CONNECTION II, but II isn't quite as good as MURDER, MY SWEET.) "},{"Title":"Fun and engaging noir thriller","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Murder, My Sweet may not be the most influential or groundbreaking film in the Film Noir cycle, but it's certainly a solid entry and a film that is sure to please fans of this sort of film. I would say that this Noir edges more towards the fun side of the styling than the serious one as the emphasis is always on the central plot and mystery rather than the central character, which ensures that the film is easy to enjoy as the plot never gets too deep. The film is based on a novel by Raymond Chandler and follows the familiar noir plot base of a private eye trying to track down something that is missing. In this case, the missing item is a blonde woman known as Velma. Detective Philip Marlowe is hired by ex-convict Moose Malloy who has spent the last six years in jail to find Velma, his missing girlfriend. However, things are never so simple; and while on the case, Marlowe soon finds himself drawn into a situation that is much more complicated than he first assumed, and pretty soon he finds that the web he's tangled in may not be as easy to get out of as it was to get into.My favourite thing about this film is, without doubt, the dialogues. Lead actor Dick Powell gets the best lines and clearly enjoys himself rattling them off. Powell is better known for musicals, but he bodes well with Film Noir here and gives the film the perfect lead. He is joined by the likes of Claire Trevor, Anne Shirley and Mike Mazurki; all of whom do well in their supporting roles. Director Edward Dmytryk gives an assured performance also; as he ensures that the film continually benefits from a dark and gloomy atmosphere and is exciting in all the right places. The locations help to make sure that the film looks and feels like a Noir movie should. The plotting is well pitched; as the audience is allowed to get inside the plot just enough to make sure that we always want to know what happens next. There's a tad of humour present in this movie too, which is nice, and it comes across largely in the form of the aforementioned one-liners and the dialogues between characters. On the whole, I won't say that this is one of the best Noir films ever made; but it's certainly a very good one and comes recommended. "}{"Title":"a classic film-noir","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I would love to see more films made today of this quality, but I guess the minutiae (of detail) would be lost on a modern day action-hungry mainstream audience. The photography is just terrific and plot twists send you from one dark avenue to another. I believe it was for this film that the French coined the actual term, and you can see why. The cast milk every drop from Chandler's well-crafted prose and Powell's Marlowe uses every gloriously written epithet to make the (then) curiously cast role his own. I would love to have taken my girlfriend to see this in the forties, in New York, and both come out and walk the darkly lit route home, in the rain, thinking that there must be a little of Marlowe in all of us. But my girlfriend is now my wife, and I live in Manchester, England. But then, we do have a little arthouse theatre called the Cornerhouse that runs classics from time to time, and the nights are drawing in, and they say it always rains here --- now if only I could get a babysitter!  "},{"Title":"An Archtypical Example of 1940s Film Noir","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Not quite up to the level of the `The Big Sleep', another Raymond Chandler story featuring the character of detective Philip Marlowe that was released as a movie at approximately the same time, `Murder My Sweet' is, nonetheless, a very creditable example of the 1940s film noir genre. `Murder My Sweet' relies on its plot to a greater extant than `The Big Sleep', a film in which atmosphere and character dominate and the plot becomes almost incomprehensible.Although Dick Powell is no substitute for Humphrey Bogart, who played the same character in `The Big Sleep', he does a good job of portraying the Chandler's gritty Los Angeles private detective.  Claire Trevor is equally effective in the roll of another classic Chandler character, the `Dangerous Woman'.  She and Powell don't quite manage to duplicate the legendary Bogart-Bacall chemistry of `The Big Sleep' but, then again, who could? Otto Kruger effectively reprises the role of the smoothly polished, upper-class villain that he had previously done so well in Alfred Hitchcock's `Saboteur'.  Mike Mazurky is perfect as Moose Molloy, a dumb guy who is just smart enough, and strong enough, to be dangerous.Unlike Bogart, Dick Powell was playing against type when this film was produced.  Up to that time, he had appeared in a series of movie musicals such as `42nd Street'.  By the mid forties he was getting too old for the kind of roles he had previously been playing and, in any case, the sort of musicals he had been doing were going out of style anyway.  `Murder My Sweet' completely altered the direction of his acting career and was, thus, a very smart move for him.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Film-Noir","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Dick Powell's portrayal of the legendary screen detective Philip Marlowe is a stand alone achievement in making the character his own. Just his facial expressions while listening to someone else talk is amusing and keeps you focused on this interesting character. Murder, My Sweet is a underrated masterpiece formed from the brilliant mind of Edward Dmytryk. This is truly one of the best film-noir's out there. It has passed the test of time, and i guarantee it will keep doing so in the future. The character moose , this big intimidating guy is just a creepy dimwitted type and is in fact one of the most scary characters i have seen from that era. like a big Frankenstein who could crush you with his huge bare hands. Well i said enough, but i highly and intensely recommend this classic film. "},{"Title":"A wonderful adaptation of a landmark book.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie, like my personal favourite - Casablanca - it has PERFECT casting, mood, feel - everything.  Dick Powell made this off the back of a string of light romantic musical comedies in which had made his name; he's a class act, the perfect Philip Marlowe.  If you don't believe me, watch it and see. "},{"Title":"Murder, My Sweet","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Philip Marlowe might now always be associated with Humphrey Bogart but this first adaptation of Farewell my Lovely, directed by Edward Dmytryk and a suitably film noir lighting by Harry J Wild who created a dangerous shadowy world.Dick Powell plays the hard boiled tough talking private eye Philip Marlowe hired by a recently released ex-convict Moose Malloy to find his girlfriend Velma. The case may sound simple but it leads Marlowe to a complex web of lies, deceit and danger.I expected this film to have aged badly but was surprised by how much I enjoyed the film, it is edgy and hard hitting in places, very well adapted from Raymond Chandler's novel and nice to see another take on Marlowe from that era played by a different actor. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell is Philip Marlowe","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A film adaptation of Raymond Chandler's novel Farwell, My Lovely, Murder, My Sweet is a great example of noir, with dramatic lighting, many night scenes, and a number of tough characters. Dick Powell--in a dramatic shift from the crooner roles he was used to--plays Philip Marlowe, the private eye who lives in a seedy world of losers and the corrupt. Marlowe's office is a small hole is a trashy building. Yet, he is always needs rent money, so he is not very picky about the cases he takes.The film starts with Marlowe getting the third degree from the cops. Most of the story is his recounting of two cases, with Powell's voice frequently providing the voice-over narration. In one case, Marlowe agrees to search for a missing woman. The other starts as an insignificant job attending a planned rendezvous. As the cases develop, Marlowe discovers both are complex and dangerous enterprises.Along they way, he meets Ann Grayle, featuring Anne Shirley in her final screen role. Her motives are obscure, but she definitely gets Marlowe's attention.He also deals with Ann's step-mother, Helen Grayle (Claire Trevor), who has an eye for interesting men, and it doesn't take much to interest her. A few years after this role, Ms. Trevor will win an Oscar for her work in Key Largo in a very different role.Chandler's Marlowe is quick with the wisecracks and the similes (She had a face like a Sunday school picnic.) I leave it up to the viewer to decide if Powell fully embodies the tough guy, but I think he does surprisingly well. Watch for the scene where he tries to shake off a drug-induced stupor. As with all Marlowe stories, the characters are stylized and so is the dialogue. But good acting makes even a stylized role realistic. The acting of Miles Mander (as Mr. Grayle) is likewise convincing.Another attribute of many noir detective films is a convoluted story (see The Maltese Falcon for example), and this film is true to form. But the story holds up to scrutiny. Still, I think the viewer will have greater success watching this film without distractions at home. I wonder how many moviegoers in 1944 were able to follow the story while seated in a theater with the usual distractions.One of the charming aspects of the film is the humorous dialogue, sometimes dark and deadpan, usually from Marlowe. It differentiates Marlowe from Sam Spade, for example, who is more intense. "},{"Title":"You're not a detective, you're a slot machine. You'd slit your own throat for 6 bits plus tax.","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Produced by the legendary RKO during the golden age of American film noir, Murder, My Sweet remains to this day one of the best adaptations of the adventures of Philip Marlowe.The mythical antihero Raymond Chandler had a slew of excellent adaptations to the big screen including The Big Sleep by Howard Hawks and The Private by Robert Altman. Philip Marlowe has inspired dozens of imitators and one can still find his DNA in the chronic darkness of James Ellroy. Everything is there the smoky bars populated by exotic dancers, the femme fatale, the weary detective who is constantly beaten up after his hilarious escapades, etc. To this Dmytryk adds a few original touches straight out of German Expressionism. Humphrey Bogart will overshadow him a few years later, but Dick Powell portrays a Philip Marlowe deeply funny, always ready to deliver a good line. A memorable performance, although the actor did not necessarily look the part. Powell is accompanied by excellent supporting characters, including two femmes fatales Claire Trevor and Anne Shirley. In the role Moose Malloy, Mike Mazurki intimidates while managing to remain touching. As for Otto Kruger, he plays a deliciously evil villain. Scripted by John Paxton, the film is somewhat watered down compared to the Chandler novel, he nevertheless manages to bring out the very substance without too many sacrifices.Murder, My Sweet is a fine example of film noir. "},{"Title":"The First Philip Marlowe.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk directed this first adaptation of author Raymond Chandler's classic private detective character Philip Marlowe(soon to be made even more famous by Humphrey Bogart in the Howard Hawks directed The Big Sleep). Here, Dick Powell plays Marlowe in a typically complex case that will put him in mortal danger(and confusion). Marlowe is hired by recently released ex-convict Moose Malloy(played by Mike Mazurki) to find his girlfriend Velma(played by Claire Trevor) whom he hasn't seen in several years, and still loves. The case will not be as simple or as straight-forward as it first appears... Powell is fine as Marlowe, with good direction and reasonably intriguing story. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film based on a novel I don't like much","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Murder, My Sweet is first proper adaptation of a Raymond Chandler novel featuring legendary detective Philip Marlowe. Title was changed from Farewell, My Lovely because it sounded like another lighthearted Dick Powell musical.Speaking of Powell, I was not aware of his matinée idol image prior to doing this film. I haven't seen him in anything else, though as the director of the WWII submarine drama The Enemy Below, he left a good impression on me. But I admit that I was skeptical. I cannot be blamed for being so because my idea of a perfect Marlowe is Bogart's portrayal of him in The Big Sleep. I had my doubts whether Powell could match up to it. So you can imagine my pleasant surprise when it turned out that he did have it in him to match Bogart. Maybe he wasn't as outwardly tough but he definitely nailed it in the clinic scenes where he is in a drugged state and then coming out of it. I felt that he gave Marlowe a vulnerable and hence relatable edge.I don't like the novel much. It has the expected hardboiled dialogue but I could not bring myself to care about any of the characters or the mystery, unlike The Big Sleep. Many fans of the novel crib on this film's board about the changes it made to the novel but I think that at least a few of them were for the better. I liked that the role of Grayle's aged husband was enlarged. It injected some genuine emotion in the film which otherwise might have ended up being another cold exercise in mystery solving. It also suited me better that instead of Marlowe stumbling into a mystery by accident, he was expressly hired by Moose Malloy to solve it.Even if he is working on a low budget, Dmytryk employs a lot of interesting gimmicks and tricks to make the film interesting to look at. I loved the way Moose Malloy was introduced as an ominous reflection in the window. The design of the drug trip/withdrawal scene in the clinic had to be believable for it to work and it is certainly a striking feature, but my most memorable single image in the film would be the perfect match cut when Marlowe holds Marriott's driving licence in his hand and then it cuts to the same card in the hands of a detective.And before I forget, Mike Mazurki was simply awesome in his role as the soft-hearted toughie Moose Malloy. He perfectly managed to make his character look dimwitted and menacing simultaneously. "},{"Title":"Excellent intro to the hard boiled school.","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Everybody lied. The first time private eye Philip Marlowe encountered somebody, good or bad, he/she was always lying. The only differences were whether the liars were protecting themselves or other people. Marlowe had the full time job of disentangling the deceptions, and finding the truth behind and within all the scheming.She was a charming middle aged lady with a face like a bucket of mud. I gave her a drink.Screenwriter John Paxton retention of Chandler's deathless first person prose in a series of voice-overs is only one of the things this movie does right to capture the authentic feel of the hard boiled crime novel. The novel itself is complex, almost too complex, but Paxton did a fine job of stripping down the story to a 99 min. running time without actually dumbing anything down. The characters remain tricky in their schemes and manipulative in their approach to each other. When everything comes revealed, the viewer is not left musing over loose plot threads.The dark shadowy world of its private eye hero is visualized nicely visible (single) source lighting, night sequences, pools of light under street lamps, people turning switches on and off. Light becomes this awkward enemy force, as if humans are allergic to it, like cockroaches. This is the essence of film noir, and cinematographer Harry J. Wild did imaginative, professional work here. In camera effects, designed to bring out less pleasant aspects of Marlowe's world - getting sapped, beaten, drugged etc. - only serve to enhance the appeal of this.This is the sort of movie that was done well at one time, but is something of a lost art. It's a great way to spend an afternoon, kicking it old school. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Detective, the epicenter","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Chandler is a tricky guy, because he always builds his stories in a deceiving way. He creates a simple thread, which at first you can very easily follow. Something about looking for some girl missing, or some old coin, or find some blackmailer. This we start doing always with the detective, usually Marlowe, as our surrogate. We know what he knows, from the facts that get to him, to his thoughts - easily transpired in the books, but many times tawdry represented in films, as off voice. But every time, the unfolding of the initially simple investigation becomes filled with contradictory events, an incredible amount of new characters, and endless possibilities for explanation of the story. We get lost. So does Marlowe. And that's the point. We find ourselves suddenly pushed around, by everybody, all our mental mechanisms of understanding the story betrayed at every moment. We fall into the black hole, like Marlowe when he gets hit in the head. As if we experienced the hallucinogenic effect of the drugs that take Marlowe's notion of time and space away.This is truly powerful writing, when you think of the concept. Not great literature in the specific qualities of literature as art, but very good narrative concept. These detective stories are never about exactly how everything happen. In the end the explanation is so complicated that it becomes impossible to make credible, or so simple that it lacks interest. This is no Agatha Christie, where the intellectual mechanics of the story is what drives you to go with it. Here what matters is the world in which the story takes place, the rules of the universe where the characters live. These are literary characters, living in a literary world of their own, with very specific rules.When you bring this powerful concepts, and mix them with film, than you have something really worthy. That's what happened when filmmakers working in Hollywood, supported by visual ideas developed in Germany 10 years before, started to use this otherwise minor literature. In 1941 we had the Maltese Falcon, the first truly developed noir film, in this narrative sense. This means that when we get to this film, 3 years later, the genre is still developing, but already totally in inscribed in the mind of the viewer. This film understands what this is all about. It is competent in how it is able to cast us into the chaos of an unexplainable world. Marlowe is a pawn, from the beginning, when he finds Moose inside his office without being able to put him out or refuse his request. Actually I find it interesting how this Marlowe is much more vulnerable to the pushing around by every character than Bogart's typical Marlowe. I suppose without Bogart on the boat, the writers were able to take liberties with the character. What we have here is not the character of Chandler's books, but it's interesting to see Marlowe as a poor manipulated fellow, permanently on the edge.The problem is actually the actor. It is very rare for me to be put off by a poor performance, but in a film like this, with the central role of the detective as our surrogate in the narrative, if the actor fails so deeply as Powell failed here, the film is seriously damaged. Bogart was always limited as an actor, but at least he had enough self-awareness to project his own unique character and carry the film with it. Not Powell, all those facial gimmicks, denounced expressions. The director doesn't help, the editing is not fair for the actors (specially the men), but that's no excuse for all the distracting elements of Powell's performance. And Anne Shirley shines much more brightly than Claire Trevor. Hard to believe the man would ignore the first one to become bewitched by the other one.My opinion 3/5 "},{"Title":"That Great Performance From Claire Trevor","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" What's remarkable about this film is that nearly all the plot takes place at night. Hardly surprising then that the visuals are noirish, with high contrast B&W lighting, ideal for a story of deception and murder in 1940's Los Angeles. Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) asks private eye Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) to find a woman named Velma, Moose's ex-girlfriend. The search for Velma leads Marlowe to seedy bars and to seedier characters. Eventually, the film's plot takes Marlowe and viewers to the home of a wealthy man named Grayle (Miles Mander) and his glamorous wife Helen (Claire Trevor). At the heart of the story is an expensive jade necklace that's missing.Based on the Raymond Chandler novel Farewell, My Lovely, this film is like many 1940's detective stories, in that the plot is confusing, convoluted, and hard to follow. To some extent, this weakness is offset by the terrific performance of Claire Trevor. And the film's lighting and dark shadows render visuals that are appropriately atmospheric.The script is very talky. A lot of the dialogue is back and forth give and take between characters. Some viewers will argue that Dick Powell makes a weak Philip Marlowe, compared to Humphrey Bogart. But I don't think so. Both actors, in their own ways, portray what a 1940's private detective might be like.Murder, My Sweet will appeal to fans of Dick Powell and to fans of noir detective films of that era. But what I found most alluring was the lighting, and the performance of Claire Trevor. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell as Marlowe","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Here are some facts about this movie and its collaborators...The director and producer are among the Hollywood Ten - so called communists...The original title of Farewell My Lovely was changed because fans of Dick Powell associated his name with 30's musicals which were going through a lean period. Starting the title with Murder emphasised that this wasn't a musical...Producer Val Lewton forever struggling with low budgets resorted to lighting and sound as cheap and effective ways to advance the plot line - used to good effect in a number of noirs...Writer Raymond Chandler saw Philip Marlowe as a Bogart type tough guy. Dmytryk saw him more as a regular guy caught up in events like Dick Powell...The guy who plays tough guy Moose is a Ukrainian immigrant like the director.This is one of 15-20 all-time great noirs although I prefer the Bogart tough guys over Dick Powell. If anyone who hasn't been introduced to noir's likes this, I also recommend The Maltese Falcon (Bogart), To Have and Have Not, The Big Sleep (Bogart as Marlowe), The Big Carnival, Double Indemnity, Sunset Boulevard, Night of the Hunter, Pickup on South Street, Chinatown, LA Confidential, Body Heat, Sin City..... "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film. Dick Powell's Great As Marlowe.","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" After being hired to find an ex-con's former girlfriend, Philip Marlowe is drawn into a deeply complex web of mystery and deceit.Murder My Sweet is based on Raymond Chandler's novel, Farewell, My Lovely. The movie differs from the book because of The Hays Code, meaning that it had to be dumbed down. But nevertheless, the movie is still an excellent movie all the same. Murder, My Sweet is a very effective mystery film, featuring a great performance from Dick Powell as Raymond Chandler's legendary detective, Philip Marlowe. Considering the fact that I like mystery films, especially the ones from the 1930's, 1940's, and even into the 1950's, and the fact that I am also quite interested in the films based on the works of Raymond Chandler, I decided to watch this movie. I enjoyed this movie very much, it's tense, it's compelling, and not to mention it's well acted, directed, and written. Edward Dmytryk did very good work directing this movie. With his direction, and with the cast's performances, as well as with the script, we ended up receiving a fine mystery film that certainly does somebody like Raymond Chandler proud.Dick Powell does a fine job at playing Philip Marlowe. His best moment in my opinion was the sequence when he was drugged. The way that Powell handles those scenes are really something to talk about, as it's not like his earlier films (he was known mostly for his roles in musical films and the like), and it also shows that he truly was a talented actor who could play a variety of roles. Claire Trevor does good in her dual roles as Mrs.Helen Grayle aka Velma Valento. Anne Shirley, Otto Kruger and Mike Mazurki also do good jobs with their roles. However, as you might have guessed, Dick Powell gave the best performance in the movie, and one of his best performances of his entire career for that matter. Everyone did good work, but Powell stole the show, he did Chandler proud in his turn as Philip Marlowe.Out of all of the Philip Marlow movies, I would have to say that this one is one of the best. Basically, if you are into murder mystery films, as well as detective films, not to mention the works of Raymond Chandler, then the chances of you enjoying this movie are quite good, as like I said, it definitely does Raymond Chandler proud. This is one mystery film that will have you filled with anticipation as you wonder what will happen next. On a side note, I heard a few people say that they didn't care much for the ending of the movie. But in my opinion, there wasn't anything wrong with the ending, and hey, like I said, because of The Hays Code, there was a lot from the book that had to be dumbed down for the movie. All in all, this is an excellent movie, if you decide to watch it, then you'll like what you will be seeing.9/10 "},{"Title":"He died in 1940, in the middle of a glass of beer. His wife Jessie finished it for him.","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Exciting, taut film noir detective story. One of the greats. Private eye Phillip Marlowe (Dick Powell) is hired by recently released convict Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to locate his old girlfriend Velma. If only it were that simple. Based on the Raymond Chandler novel Farewell, My Lovely. Edward Dmytryk's direction is top-notch, as is John Paxton's script. He adapts Chandler's novel very well, keeping all the best scenes and lines. I've seen all of the film adaptations of this book and this is the best. Excellent cast including Mike Mazurki as the brutish Moose Malloy; Otto Kruger as the villainous Jules Amthor; Anne Shirley as the innocent pretty girl caught in the middle of things, and Claire Trevor as the femme fatale. Of course, Dick Powell in the lead. He was extraordinary in this. This is the role that helped convince audiences Powell was no longer just the comedy and musical guy they liked throughout the 1930s. All said, this is one of the great film noirs and great detective stories of the 1940s. Top entertainment from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Murder, My Sweet","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Murder, My Sweet (or Farewell, My Lovely to quote the title of the Chandler book it's based on and the American film title) is an involvng film noir directed by Edward Dmytryk and starring Dick Powell as Chandler's famous detective Phillip Marlowe &#x96; some say the definitive portrayal of this character. Claire Trevor, Ann Shirley, Otto Kruger and (most effectively) Mike Mazurki are an able cast for a story in which two of Marlowe's cases appear intertwined, but it's best not to get tangled up in the complex plot Just enjoy Powell's one-liners ('My mind felt like a plumber's handkerchief') and let the plot wash over you. The best scene is where the detective finds himself in the house of an unmerciful doctor (complete with a dream sequence every bit as good as Salvador Dali's in Alfred Hitchcock's Spellbound). It felt a little overlong, but that's a small criticism against the film's merits. "},{"Title":"Just about the epitome of classic noir","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Apparently, Dick Powell was a matinée idol and crooner before taking on the role of Philip Marlowe in this Chandler adaptation. To be honest, I'm not familiar with Powell's earlier work and would never be able to tell judging from this. As the tough guy detective, Powell gives an excellent portrayal. He perfectly captures the cynicism, intensity, and occasional vulnerability of the classic character. To think he was starring in fluffy romantic comedies prior is unbelievable. The rest of the cast is serviceable, but this is Powell's show all the way.Its not only Powell which makes this production masterful. Edward Dmytryk's direction is atmospheric as all hell, perfectly capturing the quintessential noir feel. You can practically smell the smoke and whiskey coming off the screen. The cinematography and editing find the right balance between the slick and seedy and occasionally the violence is ahead of its time. Plus, there's a drug trip sequence (no kidding) which is just about as surreal as Hollywood would get at the time. All in all, I actually prefer this to The Big Sleep. The plot is convoluted as well, but it all ties up at the end.To be honest, the film doesn't get a 10 from me, only because it lacks the subtext that makes the best noirs so memorable (Kiss Me Deadly, Detour). Still, it is one of the most entertaining mysteries to ever come from Hollywood. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Successful Chandler adaptation","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Murder, My Sweet is based on the novel Farewell, My Lovely by Raymond Chandler. It follows hardboiled detective Philip Marlowe as he becomes embroiled in a tangled plot involving a missing girlfriend, a stolen jade necklace and more than enough shifty characters.Dick Powell is excellent as Marlowe and lends the character an appropriate toughness balanced with cynicism and sardonic remarks. The rest of the enigmatic cast was excellent as well, especially Anne Shirley, Claire Trevor and Mike Mazurki.The story generally closely follows that of Farewell, My Lovely. Some elements of the story were considered controversial when the film was made and were left out, but the essential Chandler mystery is there. That means we get a nicely convoluted plot with intrigue and twists. Notably also the film retains some of Chandler's clever first-person commentary and features some commendable effects to illustrate some of the sequences from the story. Murder, My Sweet is a must-see for Chandler readers and those that enjoy detective stories. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell Dances His Way Through the Role of Philip Marlowe","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Dick Powell exchanges his dancing shoes for the film noir anti-hero's characteristic fedora in this fiendishly inventive 1944 entry based on the Raymond Chandler novel, Farewell, My Lovely. Many at the time questioned Powell's ability to pull off this tough-guy role, but he does just fine with it, thank you very much. His Philip Marlowe isn't as much of a hard case as the Sam Spade inhabited by Humphrey Bogart in The Maltese Falcon; he doesn't have the same imposing physical appearance and he doesn't try to strong arm anybody to get what he wants. He uses a caustic tongue in place of a fist, and if he gets intimidated, scared or ruffled, you'll never know it, because he's always ready with a sarcastic comment to complement his cool exterior.In this movie, private detective Marlowe finds himself mixed up in a murky and byzantine scheme involving a jade necklace and a blackmail plot. Meanwhile, another case has him searching for a missing person, a Velma Valenti, one-time lover of a big ox named Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki). Gradually, Marlowe realizes that the two cases are connected, and he does his own share of scheming to make sure he's not the dupe that everyone involved seems to want him to be.Claire Trevor appears in a fabulous performance as one of the best femmes fatale ever to grace the genre. She has much in common with that other classic femme fatale from 1944, Barbara Stanwyck in Double Indemnity. She also gets the film's best and most suggestive line -- when talking about a male friend and his desire to be a sculptor, she tells Marlowe, He couldn't get started for fear of failure. You've got to love film noir for lines like that. Anne Shirley gets saddled with the sweet, wholesome good girl role that all of these films must have in order to balance out the evil vamp; she's about as uninteresting as you'd expect her to be.Director Edward Dmytryk adds all kinds of flourishes to the film to keep it visually appealing imaginative use of key lighting, those angular shadows so common to films like this, a bizarre nightmare montage when Marlowe is tripping on heroin. Whenever Marlowe blacks out (which is often), oily black fog comes curling out of the edges of the frame to engulf the screen. Dmytryk maintains a firm but light grip on the material and keeps his film just as playful as it ought to be.For coming so early in the film noir cycle, Murder, My Sweet, like Double Indemnity, is pretty cynical and bleak (though it has a much happier ending than the other film). It's a high-water mark of its genre.Grade A "},{"Title":"Powell the definitive Marlowe","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Unlike almost everyone else, I liked Robert Montgomery's Marlowe; Bogart's Marlowe is more Bogart, and more Hawks, than Marlowe, but is indispensable; Gould's was interesting, and Mitchum's makes one regret he didn't play the part 20 years earlier. Almost everyone seems to have done fine by Marlowe (with the possible exception of George Montgomery in The Brasher Doubloon,') but Powell is simply in a class by himself. His scenes in the asylum are amazing-- easily the most convincing portrayal of substance-induced psychosis in the movies--even more believable than Ray Milland's DTs in The Lost Weekend. (And why didn't Powell even get a Best Actor nomination?) Robert Montgomery and Bogart do the glib, smart-ass stuff equally well, but no one else ever brought such a 3-dimensional quality to Marlowe as Powell did. A very underrated actor. "}{"Title":"Powell's Gumshoe Does Good","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk directs this second version of the Raymond Chandler classic Farwewell My Lovely with care, flair, and all those wonderful film noir touches. Murder, My Sweet is another one of Chandler's very confusing mysteries cluttered with lots of ambiguous dialog and reeking atmosphere for the era it portrays. Murder, My Sweet ably brings these qualities to film through Dmytryk's taught direction, amazing camera-work, and innovative techniques(like the black pools for blackouts). Dick Powell, the singer/dancer/general all-around performer, plays detective Phillip Marlowe trying to break out of his stereotypical roles. His Marlowe is very good - and though I will take Bogart as Marlowe any day - I must confess I was more than impressed with Powell's take on the character. He gives his Marlowe a more believable air of credibility than even Bogart, but he lacks Bogie's strength of character. Anyway, I am not slamming Powell at all; he did a first-rate job playing Marlow. The rest of the cast is characteristically good for a film of this type and cast. You can't go too wrong with the likes of Claire Trevor, Anne Shirly, and Otto Kruger. All do good jobs. Shirley and in particular Trevor are both sultry vixens you get use to seeing in films of this type. Trevor's performance immediately reminded me of Barbare Stanwyk's turn in Double Indemnity. The story - though typically Chandleresque with is bizarre closure and multiple red herrings and sometime ludicrous but always effective dialog - is one of the movie's definite strengths. The scene where Powell is drugged was in particular powerfully scripted and directed. And Dmytryk and his camera are the real stars of the film. This is film noir at its height. A most impressive film in many ways. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell's Finest Hour","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" What did audiences think when Dick Powell was cast as Philip Marlowe in this great film? Apparently the film was a smash hit and has become a classic, but in 1944 Powell was still know as a musical star. He was Warners' premiere male singer in 30s musicals like 42nd Street, Dames, Flirtation Walk, Gold Diggers of 1933 (and 1935). Yes he had played non-musical roles in films like Page Miss Glory and Hearts Divided, but he had never been given meaty dramatic roles. He left Warners over this lack of diversity and signed with RKO for the chance to star in this film. And he was wonderful! Murder, My Sweet started Powell off on a whole new career. He should have won an Oscar nomination for his portrayal. And this is a very good film, certainly ranking with the best of 40s film noir.Here Marlowe gets caught up in an intricate plot of murder and deception involving a wealthy family, disguised identities, and dumb cops. Deception is the central theme. Claire Trevor (she should have been a major star) and Anne Shirley are good as the women in his life, both of whom seem to be lying. Miles Mander is good as the wizened Grayle (pun on words here, get it?). Mike Mazurki is wonderful as the cluck looking for Velma. Don Douglas is the dumb cop, Douglas Walton is the gay man, Otto Kruger is the quack psychiatrist, and Esther Howard (excellent) is the drunk). All the performances are rock solid, but Dick Powell is the eye opener here as the sometimes tough Marlowe who can still toss off one liners. Murder My Sweet is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Film noir in transition","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is based on the novel Farewell, My Lovely by Raymond Chandler. There are many deviations from the text as is usual with Hollywood, although some were necessitated by differences in the art forms. More significantly however is the treatment itself which is very different from the way Chandler handled the story. Philip Marlowe's character in particular is not nearly as world-weary as he is in the book, and the Los Angeles depicted is not nearly as sleazy as Chandler saw it. Furthermore the ending here with the prospect of a future romance for Marlowe is nothing like the cynicism that Raymond Chandler had in mind. Yet, I understand Chandler liked this film, perhaps because of its popularity.Comparing this to the remake, Farewell, My Lovely (1975) starring Robert Mitchum as Marlowe and based on the same material, I have to say that this is a more agreeable and entertaining movie, although not nearly as veracious. Both movies really skirt around the racial prejudices of the times. Here in Murder, My Sweet the bar Florian's isn't even a black bar as it was in the novel and in Farewell, My Lovely. There is also no good cop/bad cop angle and nary a hint of police corruption--which is certainly anti-historical since Los Angeles in those days had one of the most corrupt police forces in the country.But none of this bothered me--partly because I expected it, and partly because the movie stands by itself as an entertaining example of the mystery/murder genre done with an emphasis on a crime doesn't pay treatment and an upbeat ending--which is the way Hollywood used to play these things until film noir caught hold in the forties. Although this is a forties film and clearly within the film noir genre, it is best seen, I believe, as an example of a genre in transition.Claire Trevor plays Helen Grayle, scheming wife of a multimillionaire (and young enough to be his daughter), a woman who freely admits to having affairs as she tries to put the make on Marlowe. No such luck since Marlowe usually prefers his whiskey to his women (at least that is way Chandler wrote the novels). Here too Marlowe seems more interested in Helen's stepdaughter, played by Anne Shirley.Mike Mazurki, who played the heavy in a score of films around mid-century, plays Moose Malloy, the big, dumb guy who is forever looking for his lost Velma (cute as lace pants). Esther Howard has a small part as the alcoholic Jessie Florian, just one scene which she does very well. In the Robert Mitchum film, the part was expanded for Sylvia Miles who got a supporting actress Oscar nomination for her work. As for Anne Shirley, who was known as Dawn O'Day until she played Anne Shirley in the first Anne of Green Gables in 1934, she retired after doing this film and never returned to the silver screen.What I think makes Murder, My Sweet (intriguing title, of course, but not really descriptive or accurate) work is the fine direction by Edward Dmytryk (best known for directing the splendid The Caine Mutiny (1954) which starred Humphrey Bogart as the deranged Captain Queeg)--that and the engaging performance by Dick Powell. It's clear that the former song and dance star had a great time playing the tough guy gumshoe. I think he loved the jaunty fedora he wore and the terse tough guy dialogue. He fit the part (and somewhat rearranged it) like a hen settling on a nest. (Okay, that's a bit of a metaphorical reach, but never mind.) See this for Dick Powell, one of the mainstays of Hollywood during the thirties and forties, a fine actor with charm and a crisp style who made his first splash in the period musicals The Golddiggers of 1933 and The Golddiggers of 1935.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"One of the great film noirs","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I feel the need to add the positive comment that this movie is worth every frame.  Perhaps not to every individual taste, it is nonetheless generally regarded as one of the great film noirs, and with good reason.  The performances are terrific.  Powell really is fabulous as Marlowe, giving the famous world-weariness an ever so slight light touch.  The dialogue is terrific.  The dames are sexy and beautiful.  The story, of course, is Chandler, and it's translated faithfully to the screen by Dymtryk, an extremely underrated director. German expressionism influenced the visual touches, and this movies actually set the standard for the genre.  This is one of the classic film noirs.  The fact that it's not out on DVD yet, is a crime.  Every film student or film noir aficionado should watch, and/or own a copy of this film. "},{"Title":"Moody, excellent film noire","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I think this is a great movie adaptation. Dick Powell is good but its the supporting cast that really lift it above the competition. Claire Trevor is superb and there is definitely screen chemistry between her and Powell. And the character of Moose, well what can you say! Film noire at its best. "},{"Title":"Well-directed Marlowe Mystery","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is a well-directed mystery.  Dick Powell makes a surprisingly faithful Philip Marlowe, and Claire Trevor and Mike Mazurski are dynamite.  The direction by Dmytryk is powerful and the atmosphere is perfect.  The narration is just the right touch. All-around, this is a classic Hollywood mystery. "},{"Title":"Eyeball scorching","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Chandler cannibalised two of his earlier short pulp stories to use for Farewell my lovely, Try the girl (1937) and Mandarin's Jade (1939). The procedure worked much better with this story than the Big Sleep, providing just the right amount of sleazy confusion with the dovetailing plot lines working well for each other. Hollywood sanitised and almost soft-boiled it but it's still a quintessential noir and in my top 100 somewhere.Marlowe gets ordered to find a cute girl Velma for chunky Moose Malloy fresh out of prison. This embroils him in the other thread concerning the apparent theft and ransom of a $100,000 jade necklace. With many twists and turns, a thousand metaphors and quotable Chandlerisms the threads converge into a satisfying denouement. The atmosphere is laid on thickly with the help of some glorious gleaming b&w photography on nitrate stock and realistic acting from all concerned. This is the bit that still surprises people - that Dick Powell could and did turn in such a good performance, so good in fact it altered the direction of his future career. He applied far more self-deprecating humour to the role than Bogart - I always wished that the pair of them had re-visited the character, they were both so good. Anne Shirley had a good part and was excellent eye-candy, but Claire Trevor's hairstyle ages the film more than anything else.All in all still a fantastic 90 minute trip into Hollywood's version of Bay City, better than the Falcon's truncated outing, and with the truer atmosphere and more restraint better than Mitchum's. "},{"Title":"a curved, sharp story, with a very good (if not great) performance from Powell","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk's Murder, My Sweet, adapted from Raymond Chandler's classic Farwell, My Lovely, is clear from the first viewing that anyone with a remote interest in the style and approach of the film noir should see it, particularly if one has a fondness for the couple of dozen private-eye films made from the era. Like with Chandler's scripted Double Indemnity, we get the story told in flashback (under strange circumstances), and many of the familiar tones and notes in the subject matter (femme fatale, of course, and also the big half-wit and the 'good girl'). But what makes the film memorable even more on a repeat viewing (as my second time around, and not having read the novel but not being a stranger to Chandler's works) were a few great assets.For one thing, Dmytryk supplies steady and surprising direction, with many shots and shadows throughout characteristic of the style of film at the time. There is, of course, the unforgettable, shocking (in terms of 'how did they do that back then') scene involving Philip Marlowe (Powell) in a tortured state. He's been injected with something by someone (or some people), and sees 'smoke' all around him. The camera lens is covered with a kind of glaze that pops up again in another scene- one of the most exciting in the picture- and that was the kind of approach that really struck me about the film long after I saw it. There is always a swift, cool touch of atmosphere in many scenes, even the ones that don't draw attention to themselves (which are also done wonderfully). On that note, Dmytryk's work on the film, with the look of the film as well as the proper casting (some of it appropriately one-note, some of it not), is flawless.For another thing, there is the performance by Powell, his turn from his previous musicals and comedies. It would be one thing to try to compare his work to Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep, but I'm not sure that would do the film justice. I found that there were notes of humor in Chandler's writing that weren't carried as well as could've been, and maybe he doesn't seem to carry off that sense of 'aloof' that I found when I read Chandler's Marlowe. But then, Powell is also very strong at carrying his performance in and of itself, by having a certain level of ingrained charm that keeps him afloat with the other character actors. He's not the first actor you'd think to play a private-eye (not like Bogart, who for my money fared better anyway as Sam Spade), thankfully however he didn't over-play some of the cynicism, which was just getting accustomed to the audience of the times. And when the film gets relatively dramatic, he finds the right pitches and reactions with the story (it's one of the more amusing aspects in all of film-noir with his chemistry not with the women, but with the actor playing Moose Malloy).Mystery stories may come and go with time, but the work of Chandler outlasts many stories without a grounded sense of humor, believable and likely characters, and twists to keep people on their seats. The movie is no exception, and it's got a few good quotable lines to boot. Grade A "},{"Title":"Great movie. Great radio!","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I own a copy of this film and only wish they made them this way today. There is no disputing the importance of this film and while it is a piece of cinema history, it is also a piece of Old Time Radio history. Murder My Sweet was broadcast on the Lux Radio Theater on June 11, 1945. Dick Powell, Claire Trevor and Mike Mazurki recreate their film roles for the radio presentation. It is excellent radio and is an excellent companion to the film. The two scripts are almost identical except that the radio version is a little shorter in duration. A real treat is that Powell, Trevor and Mazurki return to the microphone after the show to talk about their parts. If you like old time radio, you'll love this. Turn off the lights, light a candle and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Classic Film Noire!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raymond Chandler's Murder My Sweet is a classic example of 1940s film noire. It has all of the elements of the genre; dark shadows, night scenes, plenty of cigarette smoke, mist, crisp black and white photography together with murder and mystery.Private eye Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) is approached one night by the aptly named Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) who has just been released from prison and wants Marlowe to find his former girlfriend Velma. Along the way, Marlowe is framed for the murder of a foppish man named Marriott (Douglas Watson). Marriott's murder leads Marlowe into a web of intrigue involving a valuable jade necklace.Villain Jules Amithor (Otto Kruger) thinks Marlowe has the necklace and pressures him to surrender the jewels. Amithor drugs Marlowe in an effort to make him talk. Marlowe also meets the Grayle family, father (Miles Mander) his daughter Ann (Anne Shirley) and voluptuous young wife Helen (Claire Trevor).Some how the two plots become intertwined with Malloy throwing in with Amithor in order to find his Velma. Ann and Helen alternately make moves on Marlowe for various reasons. Finally Marlowe figures out the whole mystery and........Dick Powell had been a successful musical song and dance man in the 1930s but his career had slowed. He re-invented himself with this picture and would play many similar tough guy roles for the rest of his career. Claire Trevor too was re-inventing herself as a femme fatale. Anne Shirley had been a child actress and adopted the name of her character in the movie Anne of Green Gables (1934).Also in the cast are Donald Douglas as the police lieutenant, Esther Howard (in a delightful bit) as Jessie Florian and veterans Dewey Robinson and Ernie Adams as the owner and bartender of a bar.This movie was remade in 1975 under its original title Farewell My Lovely with Robert Mitchum as Marlowe. "}{"Title":"Easily one of the best film noirs","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) is hired by big, violent ex-con Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to track down a woman he loved before being sent to prison. He's also hired by a man to accompany him when he goes to get a stolen jade necklace. They go, Marlowe is knocked unconscious and things get very twisted. Also Claire Trevor and Anne Shirley play the two femme fatales who get mixed up in the business.Not an easy film to follow. The plot is very convoluted, twists and turns pop up everywhere and if you don't pay STRICT attention you're gonna be lost. Still this is one of the best noirs of the 1940s.Powell, before this, just played an annoyingly sweet guy in musicals. When I read he was in this I expected the worst--I didn't think I could take him as a tough detective. I'm glad to say I was wrong--he's GREAT! Even the author (Raymond Chandler) of the book this was based on said Powell was perfect as Marlowe--even better than Humphrey Bogart! Powell plays Marlowe as a regular tough guy just in over his head--and he knows it. Bogart played Marlowe like he was superhuman. Also Powell narrates the movie and Chandler's (sometimes) ridiculous tough guy talk comes out sounding quite natural. Also Trevor is incredible playing an evil woman. Shirley is just OK playing a younger kid (this was also her last movie).For its time this was pretty strong stuff--the violence is brutal and at one point Marlowe is shot up with drugs (quite a taboo subject for 1944). It's still pretty grim today but well worth seeing. I recommend this highly but remember--you have to give this film your FULL attention. Otherwise forget it. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Densely-plotted hardboiled crime","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" FAREWELL, MY LOVELY is a dyed-in-the-wool film noir production featuring everyone's favourite hardboiled private detective Philip Marlowe on the trail of a missing girl. With Dick Powell's dogged detective as the lead, the rest of the character list is populated by a mix of backstabbers, villains, henchmen, conmen, and femme fatales, and just keeping track of the complexities of the storyline is a job in itself.Still, the film benefits from Edward Dmytryk's solid direction which enlivens the film with atmosphere and some fun suspense scenes, a lot of them involving characters skulking around or getting beaten up by a seven foot tall bad guy. There are some good performances here from the likes of Otto Kruger and Mike Mazurki, and FAREWELL, MY LOVELY proves a solid example of the detective genre as a whole. "},{"Title":"Dated.","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a good movie but it's dated. This is the kind of my that has turned into an antique, meaning that when it was new it was a gem but with the passage of time it has lost its luster. Now, that does not mean that the movie is not worth watching. It has a wonderful cast and excellent cinematography, but still, the movie is essentially dull and hokey. This has nothing to do with the actors. Rather, it a question of changing tastes. What passed for an exciting crime drama in the 1940s would seem stodgy today. Maybe one should not make such generalizations, but to remake this movie today would require a massive re-write to bring it in conformity with the tastes of today's audience, and unless someone today is willing to accept this movie on its own 1940s terms, it will not excite; rather it will bore, and maybe even cure you of insomnia. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell is the Definitive Philip Marlowe.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" RKO was on the verge of bankruptcy when they signed ageing matinée idol Dick Powell for a sting of musicals, but he insisted that he could do a straight dramatic role. Thank goodness he did, because his performance gave us the definitive Philip Marlowe, P. I. Created by Raymond Chandler, this private detective was the blue-print for all overs. Always mean, always moral, Philip Marlowe was the man you hired when you were in trouble and didn't want the police involved. Trouble was his business. The film itself sticks pretty closely to Chandler's plot, with a few exceptions, such as the beginning. The dark shadows are always there and so are great performances from the supporting cast, especially Mike Mazurki. The direction is as taught as a rope with excellent sequences including a dope clinic and a murder scene. A quintessential Film Noir. "},{"Title":"A great movie within its genre, due to its solidly written story.","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a real old fashioned film noir alright. No way a movie like this could be made- and work out as well now days. This movie is even more film noir-like than most genre movies I have seen.What makes this movie even more film-noir like than others is its story. It has an incredible amount of twists and turns in it. Characters reappear at unexpected moments, you don't know who to thrust and the story will leave you guessing to the end. The movie starts simple with a man who hires a private detective to find his wife but the plot starts to thicken more and more rapidly after that. Yes, it's a complicated story but its also such a fine written one that you can't help to be sucked in by it.It's quite atmospheric, though perhaps not as atmospheric as other genre movies. It's really more it's story than anything else that makes this movie such a classic film-noir.It also doesn't feature the best genre actors but the acting is still fine, mostly due to its simply wonderful dialog and script. Its tough dialog is typical for its genre and provides the movie with a really typical sense of style and atmosphere.A great movie within its genre.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Marlowe mystery with Dick Powell","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Dick Powell is seen as the famous detective Philip Marlowe, a character created by Raymond Chandler.In this movie he's hired by the big man Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki) to find his old girlfriend Velma he lost track of while doing time in prison.That's not an easy task, Marlowe soon notices.Edward Dmytryk's Murder, My Sweet (1944) is a Film-Noir treat.Dick Powell does very good job in the lead.Some people may say he's no Bogie but the truth is he's not.He gives his own kind of portrayal of the character and it works.The femme fatale Mrs.Helen Grayle is played by Claire Trevor and she's wonderful.And so is Anne Shirley, in her last performance before her early retirement.She does the role of Ann Grayle.Her father is played by Miles Mander.Otto Kruger plays Jules Amthor.The movie looks good from the beginning till the end.It's great how they blacken the screen when our protagonist goes senseless.Murder, My Sweet is another great Marlowe mystery. "},{"Title":"An excellent introduction to Film Noir","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is where people need to start on their journey of Film Noir. It was made in 1944 so that puts it right before the Film Noir Era which was a postwar genre and look usually found in crime films until the mid '50's . I find the remarks about Dick Powell not pulling off Philip Marlowe quite tiresome. Raymond Chandler's Marlowe while very world weary and jaded is completely capable of making mistakes. While I love Bogart, he's much more suited to the role of the very unlikable Sam Spade. Bogart's Marlowe always seems invincible and that is a huge departure from Chandler's books. With Powell, you get a guy who will always try to avoid violence if possible, but if he can't avoid it, he's more than willing to smack somebody around. Chandler's wonderful similes, metaphors and sarcastic humor are a great fit for Powell. As for the positive comments about Mitchum's turn as Marlowe in the 1970s, I'm mystified. I always thought Mitchum was amazing, but those two films with him are vile. He was wildly too old for the part and the supporting casts were heinously miscast. People need to go back and read Raymond Chandler's books and they'll hopefully discover why Dick Powell was Chandler's favorite Marlowe. "},{"Title":"And Sweet It Is","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Y'know, I never appreciated Dick Powell until I saw this movie this week, in fact, I don't think I even knew who Dick Powell was other than an old movie name without a face for me. I read all the Chandler books long ago and have seen quite a few of the movie versions. Mitchum was okay, he caught the low end of the character but not the energetic part. Bogie was Bogie playing Marlowe, not bad but not quite the actual character. Powell comes the closest for me - strung high but usually able to keep his cool, hard to read, keeps you guessing if he's serious or not, sort of a gumshoe Miles O'Brien. This one makes me want to see more of Powell - it starts with some bristling dialogue and then gets raveled in the tangled plot characteristic of all of these film noirs. May have been grist for the Firesign Theater mill, this plot and Dick Powell's Marlowe seem suited for Nick Danger, Private Eye. Excellent wrap up. Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Most accurate Chandler adaption","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" *Minor Spoilers herein*The remake, Farewell My Lovely, with the great Robert Mitchum, was more faithful to Chandler's original text without doubt. However, this film is much more thematically similar. The central character is nailed down by Powell. The more famous portrayals are undoubtedly from Mitchum and Bogart, but Powell is the better man as far as this is concerned. He took the best bits from both of them Bogart's wisecracking quick wit and Mitchum's tough cynicism, and added something to make the role his own. It's hard to define the 'something', but I think it comes from his grace of movement, not surprising considering Powell had previously made his living in musicals. And, unlike his predecessors, Powell's Marlowe actually looked like he had a job to do and was trying to do it, not merely wandering around with a glass of whiskey and some eye candy. The directorial duties are taken on by Edward Dmytryk, later blacklisted during the McCarthy Witchhunts. I recently read a comment which mentioned that John Huston was only a brilliant director when he was interested in what he was doing. I think the same can be said of Dmytryk. His most outstanding films aside from this are The Young Lions (1956), which I loved, and Crossfire (1947) which I have yet to see. He was obviously interested here the direction is very good, though he mostly refrains from noir-ish camera angles. The lighting composition is also very good, and the stylistically fake sets add to the dark atmosphere. Claire Trevor is wonderful and characteristically energetic in her role as femme fatale Velma Valento/Mrs Grayle. The actor playing Merriot made me laugh, with his strange Cockney accent, Oi'm not in the 'abit of givin' people grounds for blackmail, Mister Marl-OH!. Aside from that, all the other supporting players were very good. The special effects employed for the hallucination scene were quite cutting edge for the time, and managed to freak out my Terminator-hardened younger brothers.A good introduction to film noir the plot is dazzlingly complicated, the women have weird hair and the cops wear hats. Enough for anyone to get started on the genre, as far as I'm concerned. "},{"Title":"An excellent Phillip Marlow film...with an odd ending","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is the second filming of Raymond Chandler's novel, Farewell My Lovely. Oddly, the first version was made just a few years ago and was a Falcon series film--with George Sanders instead of Phillip Marlow. While Sanders was quite dapper and sophisticated, he was nothing like the hard-boiled and sarcastic Marlow. Despite this, it was still a dandy film and it actually stayed closer to the original story in some places--particularly the ending (which, oddly, MURDER, MY SWEET screws up). I've also seen the Robert Mitchum version made in the 1970s, and while it's good, overall MURDER, MY SWEET is the best of the three film versions.Perhaps the best thing about MURDER, MY SWEET is how well Dick Powell fit into this tough guy role. While in the past he was known as a pretty boy and a song and dance man, here he is all sarcasm--much like Bogart's rendition of Marlow in THE BIG SLEEP and Robert Montgomery's in THE LADY IN THE LAKE. All three veteran actors did a great job at catching the character, though (and I know this will sound like heresy), I liked Montgomery's version the best--he took sarcasm and being a total jerk to a level the other two didn't quite reach. I'm sure some of this was due to Montgomery, but having excellent writers also helped a lot.As for the movie, like the other two versions I mentioned (THE FALCON TAKES OVER with a score of 8 and FAREWELL MY LOVELY also an 8), it is rather sanitized. Marlow is a smart-aleck--not quite as cold and hard-bitten as he is in the book and the Black neighborhoods and prostitutes and all are somehow missing or look amazingly Hollywood-ish. However, given the censorship codes of the time, you can't blame the first two films from changing the plot--at least in some places--otherwise the film never would have been shown!Now despite these problems, this is a wonderful Film Noir picture---with a complicated but excellent plot, very good acting, writing and direction and it can't help but keep your interest. For a Chandler novel, you can't get much better even with its mistakes and omissions (though I still think LADY IN THE LAKE is a tad better--but not by much--both are 9s).By the way, with a few negative story elements you might wonder HOW I still could give this film a 9. The dialog and suspense were so good, even with a few problems, it's a dynamite film. "}{"Title":"Wonderful nonsense","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Apparently this is also known as 'Murder, My Sweet' after its original title fooled people into thinking it was a musical...having watched it I can confirm that it's probably the furthest from a musical you'll get in a film. With all the gruff-voiced moody faux-menace you'd expect from a Raymond Chandler book this is a great piece of nonsense that raises many a smile even though it wasn't meant to. A 21st century audience is never going to take the dialogue, or the plot, very seriously but that doesn't mean it's not enjoyable and entertaining. How can a film with the line She had a brain like a plummer's hankie not be worthwhile?! The acting is a bit wooden though Dick Powell ends up as being quite a success. The murky lighting and the daft stereotypes all become part of the fun. A diverting time was had, my wife and I chatted whilst watching the fun, and all was good in the world. "},{"Title":"Wonderful nonsense","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Apparently this is also known as 'Murder, My Sweet' after its original title fooled people into thinking it was a musical...having watched it I can confirm that it's probably the furthest from a musical you'll get in a film. With all the gruff-voiced moody faux-menace you'd expect from a Raymond Chandler book this is a great piece of nonsense that raises many a smile even though it wasn't meant to. A 21st century audience is never going to take the dialogue, or the plot, very seriously but that doesn't mean it's not enjoyable and entertaining. How can a film with the line She had a brain like a plummer's hankie not be worthwhile?! The acting is a bit wooden though Dick Powell ends up as being quite a success. The murky lighting and the daft stereotypes all become part of the fun. A diverting time was had, my wife and I chatted whilst watching the fun, and all was good in the world. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite film noirs&#133;much more enjoyable than THE MALTESE FALCON (1941) and THE BIG SLEEP (1946), in my opinion&#133;","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" While watching the opening credits of MURDER, MY SWEET on TCM, I knew I that I was going to end up liking this film&#151;unlike previous film-noir mysteries like THE BIG SLEEP and THE MALTESE FALCON (1941), which had me bored within minutes and only ended up as confusing, talky mishmashes with too much exposition in the conversations. The things that immediately appealed to me were the excellent black-and-white cinematography (by RKO's Harry J. Wild) and the imaginative editing techniques (by Joseph Noriega). This is a film-noir that depends more on atmosphere than on plot. It's very well-directed by Edward Dmytryk and it includes an impressive hallucination/dream sequence that rivals Gregory Peck's dream sequence in SPELLBOUND (1945).To me, the plot seemed relatively simple in places&#151;there were few characters and, despite the puzzling and complex twists and turns throughout the plot, everything made sense at the film's conclusion. Compare this to THE BIG SLEEP, where the average viewer soon gets completely lost in the film's highly improbable plot and never recovers. THE MALTESE FALCON had so much exposition in its conversations that the mystery was still confusing. Here Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) is asked to buy back a jade necklace from a wealthy womanizing client. There's a subplot where Marlowe is also asked to find a hulking client's former girlfriend. These two entirely different situations lead Marlowe to a baffling case that involves phony doctors, being exposed to hallucinogenic drugs, and a young femme fatale (Claire Trevor) who has recently married an old aristocrat (Miles Mander). I think Marlowe's narrating voice-over helped simplify the plot a lot, as well as turning on the closed captioning in order to catch every single word.Personally, I prefer Dick Powell to Humphrey Bogart any day. There's something more natural and convincing in his performance as Philip Marlowe, while Bogart's Marlowe always seemed cold and distant to me in THE BIG SLEEP. Powell proves here that he could play an all-out gritty tough guy and still play a romantic tenor of sappy love songs in movie musicals of the period.My only complaint is this they could've used a more alluring, memorable femme fatale than Claire Trevor&#151;maybe Jane Greer, Hedy Lamarr, or Dorothy Malone could've pulled it off better. Other than that, the film is very entertaining despite a few occasional lulls here and there. Thankfully, the atmosphere really helped make the film fascinating to watch. Watch this at night with the lights off and you'll have the perfect atmosphere for a classic film-noir mystery, originally written by Raymond Chandler and containing an impressive cast and technical achievements. "},{"Title":"for noir connoisseurs","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The passing of time has not been kind to Hollywood's gumshoe detectives, and this now dated example of a once popular genre is best approached as an antique of faded vintage. In this early incarnation, the celebrated private eye Phillip Marlowe is played by diminutive Dick Powell, shown criss-crossing the stark, black-and-white cityscapes of wartime Los Angeles and becoming tangles in another of Raymond Chandler's elaborately contrived crime plots. There's nothing here that hasn't been seen before, but the familiarity alone is comforting, and lovers of classic film noir will no doubt appreciate the patented cynicism and late-night atmospherics. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell was brilliant .....","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I don't know whether to call this one a crime thriller or a laugh out loud comedy. There are some truly hilarious moments, maybe more than the usual in a pretty over the top thriller.The film has an interesting structure and the director sort of makes an intervention towards the end of the film. The movie is narrated by PHILLIP MARLOWE until the end but the director sort of steps in to give the film a happy ending.MURDER MY SWEET is pretty wild for a film that came out in 1944. There are some seriously psychedelic interludes and highly stylized imagery. JOHN PAXTON really packs it in with the one liners.DICK POWELL sort of made this film for me. He is tough, funny and vulnerable especially in the scenes where he is drugged. He really nailed the MARLOWE character. ANNE SHIRLEY looked gorgeous. I don't understand what was so erotic about CLAIRE TREVOR - i guess she did a fair job, despite her physical limitations. MIKE MAZURKI was pretty sinister and exuded danger as a thug who lived purely on instinct.As a viewer, you better pay attention to the goings on in the movie because its full of twists. I think this is the best crime thriller I have ever watched. "},{"Title":"Dick Powell as Philip Marlowe...an interesting--if somewhat uneasy--choice","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Adaptation of Raymond Chandler's enduring mystery novel Farewell, My Lovely (filmed previously, so to speak, as The Falcon Takes Over in 1942) is mostly a set-bound noir, with Dick Powell looking a tad fit and clean as grubby Los Angeles detective Philip Marlowe tying in the disappearance of some jewels to a missing lounge singer. Powell revitalized his career with this performance, and he's indeed quite good in the scenes where his Marlowe is drugged and being held hostage. The mixture of darkly sarcastic humor with gun-play was probably very fresh in 1944, but some of the joshing (as with the final tag outside the police station) is a little broad for a crime drama. Remade (and improved) in 1975 with Robert Mitchum as Marlowe. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Hard-boiled P.I. Classic; Dmytryk's Camera-work, Chandler's Dialogue","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Despite what some postmodernists have argued, Dick Powell is far from Raymond Chandler's ideal hero in the filmed adaptation of Farwell My Lovely, whose title was Murder, My Sweet. He is a charismatic lead, a man with a way with one-liners, a man capable of both dramatic and comedic acting, bright, and personable enough to achieve an on-screen dimension that viewers can care about. He deserves credit for taking on this very challenging and different role; it gave him a new career as a semi-tough-guy lead in Corrnered, Stage West, 'Johnny O'Clock and To the Ends of the Earth, plus launching his directing career. Here he plays Philip Marlowe, down-at-the-heels closet-romantic private eye; also, he is under the extremely capable direction of legendary Edward Dmytryk, whose fluid camera work here is ground-breaking by my lights. The entire film is told in a long flashback, which begins with Marlowe, his eyes temporarily bandaged after a gunshot wound to the head, sitting in a police station. John Paxton adapted the book to the screen, which had served as the basis of The Falcon Takes Over for a George Sanders film earlier. This case for the p.i. had been one of multiple murders, and was remade in 1975 with Robert Mitchum in the lead role. Marlowe is involved in strange doings by huge Moose Malloy (Mike Mazurki), half-crazed, now out of prison; he hires Marlowe to find Velma, the girl he left behind eight years ago. Marlow finds nothing when he visits the bar where she was a dancer, even from former friends and the bar's attractive owner. He is soon hired by Helen Grayle (Claire Trevor) through the effeminate Lindsay Marriott (Douglas Walton) to help him pay ransom money for Mrs. Grayle's necklace, one that her much-older husband had given her as a gift. In a lonely canyon at night, Marlowe is clobbered, the payoff money disappears and Marriott is murdered. The police doubt his story but cannot hold him. Anne Grayle, played attractively by young Anne Shirley, dislikes her new mother and comes after Marlowe thinking he may have stolen the very expensive Magoffin. He falls for her, and convinces her to let him meet the parents; there Helen puts him on the payroll to find the missing bauble. It turns out Marriott's shady partner is after the necklace too (Otto Kruger). Moose tries to strangle Marlowe for neglecting his case and withholding information about Velma; and soon after in a famous sequence, Marlowe ends up imprisoned in a sanatorium run by one Dr. Sonderborg who keeps him under hallucinogens so he can find out where the necklace is from the doped detective. After Marlowe's finally manages to escape from his captors and get back, he figures out that someone must have fingered him to deliver him to his captors, and who must be that person, as well as the long-missing Velma. He engineers a general meeting at the Grayle house, where violent passions drive a powerful and satisfying conclusion. At the station, Anne Grayle comes for him in the aftermath, and as she drives him off, we have the impression there is going to be a happy ending with the sprightly Anne Shirley. As Anne, Shirley is perky, talented and promising; like most other younger actresses, she was made to look very good by Powell. Kruger and Mazurki are very powerful and memorable; Esther Howard as the bar-nightclub owner, Miles Mander as Grayle and Don Douglas as the cop on the case are all very well cast. Claire Trevor as Velma gives her usual gem-like performance. Others in lesser roles are well-chosen also. Original music was supplied for this feature by prolific Roy Webb; famous noir cinematography by Harry Wild, art direction by Albert S. D'Agostino and Carroll Clark and sets by Michael Ohrenbach and Darrell Silvera aid the effect enormously. Edward Stevenson designed the gowns and Vernon L. Walker was in charge of the innovative special effects. This film has been much copied; its use of basic sets, allusive dialogue and strong two-person relationships on many levels became signature of the hard-boiled school of detective films, built on The Maltese Falcon and The Big Sleep and Raymond Chandler's elevation of the private detective mystery into an ethical and dramatic vehicle genre. One of the best entertainments of the 1940s I suggest. "},{"Title":"As Noir as it gets","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" MURDER, MY SWEET (why on earth was the title changed? FAREWELL, MY LOVELY is so much stronger!) is a powerful Chandler adaptation. A very likable feature of the film is the way in which it captures the atmosphere of Chandler's L.A.With the use of voice-over, many typical Marlowe remarks from his narrative in the novel are included (listed in the memorable quotes section). Needless to say, this lends the film sheer Noir brilliance. The streets of LA at night are filmed in an adequate wandering and dark style.Dmytryk's direction can be deemed erratic or brilliant, depending on your mood the flashback may seem unnecessary, as well as many of the twists in the plot (but then what would a Chandler plot be if it was straightforward?), and the final showdown is particularly inconsistent. But the dream sequences are inventive and masterful (the 'black pool' opening at Marlowe's feet was later used ironically in the Coen Bros' BIG LEBOWSKI), the black and white photography is both neatly framed and scary. The atmosphere is thus perfectly rendered.However I beg to differ from other reviewers who consider Bud Powell the best ever Marlowe on screen. I thought his performance quite lame, lacking in physical presence (the scene where he is visited in his undies by dangerous blonde Helen Grayle is indeed pathetic in this regard), in toughness, above all in irony - he delivers those powerful one-liners with a dull, blank expression, far from Bogey's sharp grin or Gould's sarcastic glance.This diminishes somewhat the beauty of the film, which fails to match THE MALTESE FALCON or DOUBLE INDEMNITY in my opinion. Yet it is without doubt among the best 'Film Noir' ever. "},{"Title":"Seeking The Grayle","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I lost count of the changes John Paxton - presumably under instruction from Adrian Scott and Eddie Dymytryck - inflicted on Raymond Chandler's original novel - and least of all was the meaningless device of having Marlowe narrate the whole thing as a flashback. First up is Florian's, the place where Velma was working when Malloy went to gaol and where he takes Marlowe at the outset. In the novel it was owned and patronised by negroes rather than the lower-class Whites we get here; okay, maybe in 1944 they needn't need to highlight this aspect but then they dispense with Annie Riordan, a key character in the novel who finds Marlowe after he's been sapped and Marriott has been killed. Riordan takes Marlowe home, nurses him and punctuates the novel from then on, revealing that her late father had once been a cop in LA. Here, for no apparent and/or logical reason, it is Ann Grayle (who wouldn't have known where the meet was located) who spots Marlowe then runs away. Jules Amthor drugged Marlowe with a cigarette rather than have Moose choke him and his aide was an Indian. Another main character, Laird Brunette - he runs a gambling ship moored outside the five-mile limit and Moose holes up there - is also omitted. Anyway you get the picture. Having said that what remains is quite good and Powell, a lousy crooner, makes a decent fist of Marlowe. Claire Trevor is also effective as Velma though again there is no mention of her paying the freight for the widow Florian thus losing another link between the two seemingly unconnected cases. We have to make do with low-key lighting and light-and-shadow photography but all in all it has a thin edge over Howard Hawk's The Big Sleep a couple of years later. "},{"Title":"Not so Classic","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The story is solid, and hits all the noir checkpoints, but the leads have very little chemistry and seem miscast. Dmytryk struggles to bring any excitement to proceedings, and the whole thing lacks the required grit and sexiness. The characters come across like the B-Movie versions of better, more dynamic counterparts in other movies. Dick Powell is no Humphrey Bogart, just as Ann Shirley is no Dorothy Malone and Miles Mander is no Clifton Webb. Claire Trevor delivers the film's only memorable performance. The drug induced dream sequence is interesting, though not as accomplished as in the following year's 'Spellbound'. Pretty tepid stuff. "}{"Title":"Dick Powell was a lousy actor.","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The simple fact is that Dick Powell was a lousy actor, completely wooden and without conviction.This is a terrific story and the much better film of it is the 1975 version with Robert Micham.Because a person is popular does not mean that they are good &#x96; Dick Powell was very popular in his day.The book is very good and I would urge people to read it &#x96; complicated plot lines which are often simplified for the cinema audiences. The direction of this movie is nearly as bad as the acting &#x96; watch the later version. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Not bad but not particularly gripping either. The villains were totally unmemorable, the femme fatale only moderately better. Dick Powell made a decent Marlowe; I don't think I'd complain but if I were planning to produce another Chandler book I'd probably look for someone different. Moose was good though. You won't exactly regret watching it but there are better ways to spend your time. "},{"Title":"Very disappointed","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I had heard that Dick Powell had made this movie to change his image from a song and dance man to that of a tough guy.   I watched it last night on TCM and tough guy he wasn't.   I was waiting for him to break into a song at any time.    My neighbor could have made a better tough guy than him.  I think that William Bendix in the time that he was bully would have made a much better Marlowe.   If you want to the part done right, don't miss the remake with Robert Mitchum. "},{"Title":"A big casting mistake.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I taped this movie about four years before I finally brought myself to watch it entirely, and the reason for that was Dick Powell. Powell, of course, was a comedic actor/dancer in the years before this film, and was pretty good, but as a hardboiled detective he simply does not work--Powell does not have the toughness that the role requires and his physical build is a joke. As one other reviewer pointed out, the plot takes a backseat in Chandler stories, as this one does. Marlowe, here, meets two different clients at different times and it is all too predictable that their problems will intertwine, with predictably confusing and ultimately uninteresting results. As I watched the movie, I couldn't shake the idea that Powell was just pretending to be tough the whole time--his voice isn't even cut out for the narration. Also, almost all of the other characters are pure cardboard, with one exception Claire Trevor. Trevor's performance is absolutely wonderful and our first glimpse of her in that white, bare-midriff dress is one of the most amazing sites in movie history. Powell ultimately took roles better suited for him, especially his light-hearted role as a detective in You Never Can Tell. "}]