[{"Title":"Haunting, Brooding masterpiece!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Mummy's Ghost is haunting and unforgettable thanks to the appearance of probably the most ravishing starlet to ever grace the screen Ramsey Ames. She portrays the doomed Princess Ananka/Amina Monsouri heroine with a brooding, tremulous quality and when she sinks into the quicksand at the end with the mummy, you're shocked by watching her age into a 1000 mummy's bride. John Carradine is in great form as the high priest of arkham. Robert Lowery is unusually surly as the boyfriend. Reginald LeBorg directed this l944 classic. He originally wanted Acquanetta as the heroine but this sultry starlet fell and injured her shoulder on the first day of shooting. Ames was criminally ill-used by Universal but looked great in a short bob for the Republic serial, G-Men Never Forget in l947. Before she died two years ago from throat cancer, she remembered that Lon Chaney, who played the mummy, created many problems but she wouldn't specify. Other reports have it that Chaney was usually drunk by 12 noon. Ames was terrified he would stumble with her on the long, steep boardwalk to the remote shed and also into the swamp.wonderful atmosphere, classic musical scoring (originally from Son of Frankenstein). Vera West does brilliant job in designing Ames beautiful white silk gowns. "},{"Title":"Best of the '40's series","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This horror yarn gives new meaning to term  'til death do us part. This was a real quickie movie and it shows. However, it's one redeeming value is the mummy finally wins the girl, albeit, it may leave one with that sinking feeling. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Ghost (1944)  ***","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite the increasingly familiar nature of these Mummy sequels, this one still has enough to make it brisk and enjoyable. A significant boost is added in casting John Carradine as the newest high priest, who keeps Kharis fed and back on the march - this time with a new angle in trying to reunite the mummy with his princess Ananka, now reincarnated into the form of a sexy modern woman (Ramsay Ames). For some reason, Lon Chaney thankfully invests some character into Kharis this time, allowing him to become angered, frustrated, and even saddened during the course of the movie. The biggest drawback for this chapter is that Robert Lowery and Ramsay Ames are pretty lousy as the two leading lovers. Universal stock music is used to great effect in many sequences, and there is an offbeat ending that may be the best one of the series. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Ramsay Ames Makes 'Mummy's Ghost' so memorable","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Without being too nostalgic, my earliest memories of Universal Horror include the images of lovely Ramsay Ames rising out of her bed to follow the eerie shadow of Kharis out to her front yard, being carried off by the mummy and aging into a 3000 year old mummy herself, and sinking into a bog with her kidnapper as her boyfriend Robert Lowery and townspeople look on in shock. A vivid memory, and one in particular, because the lovely heroine did not reunite with her mortal leading man in the end, but rather joined the undead and opened the way for an interesting sequel later that year in 1944. Ramsay was 'discovered' by fellow Universal contractee Allan Jones at a Miami Beach nightclub and brought to Universal by same in early 1943. Ramsay, at that time, was the leader of an all-girl rumba orchestra, and did not fancy herself a leading lady, but took the opportunity at a movie contract in stride. Her first screen appearance was in the Olsen and Johnson comedy Crazy House, where she played herself, shaking her maracas and singing The Tropicana as Tony and Sally DeMarco danced away. Her next appearance was in the first Inner Sanctum chiller Calling Dr. Death, where, frankly, she was rather poorly directed by Reggie LeBorg, and while she shows signs of real nastiness as the adulterous wife of Lon Chaney, what appears to be outtakes of her laughing at Chaney in a key scene brings her whole performance down somewhat in that feature. In true Hollywood style, horror queen Acquanetta was being filmed for a scene in the newest Universal chiller, 'Mummy's Ghost', and as she 'fainted' for a scene, struck her head on a stone in the pathway she was being photographed in. Acquanetta, being seriously hurt (a concussion), Universal replaced her with Ramsay, and the rest is horror film history. Ramsay looked gorgeous in her satin nightgown, wandering the streets of Mapleton, Mass., and, being carried away in the climax. After a great role in the Universal 'B' 'Hat Check Honey' where she played bitchy movie queen Mona Mallory, Ramsay left Universal for Warners, but only scored bit parts in 'Mildred Pierce', and 'Green Dolphin Street.' A serial followed, and the Monogram quickie, 'Beauty and the Bandit,' but Ramsay was never featured again in a true golden age Hollywood Classic. A friend once described to me that Ramsay was the 'Girl that every mother wanted her son to marry.' Absolutely gorgeous, and with a touch of spice and mystery she is one of the true Hollywood beauties of the 1940's that created the image of the Hollywood Starlet. "},{"Title":"Nice entry in the Universal series","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING **1/2  (of ****)This third film in the Kharis series is one of the better efforts, thanks to a new storyline centering on the reincarnation of the mummy's lover into the body of a modern-day woman.John Carradine is on hand as the high priest who revives Kharis (Lon Chaney for a second time) and supplies him with tana fluid to keep him stalking. This chapter also features Chaney's best performance as Kharis, and you can definitely see his looks of sadness, frustration, and anger in key scenes.Ramsay Ames and Robert Lowery are weak as the leads, and they bring the evaluation of the movie down a notch.An easy 60 minutes of classic fun from Universal.   "},{"Title":"another decent mummy B-movie","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This mummy film is one of a series of four produced by Universal Pictures in the 1940s--well after their original film starring Boris Karloff. While none of these films opened up a lot of new ground, they were good escapist fun--for kids and adults willing to suspend reality and have a good time. I personally LOVE these old Universal horror films--even the lesser ones like this film. This one's plot isn't so special (except once again the mummy somehow makes it to America), but it stands out due to the acting of George Zucco and John Carradine--two wonderful veteran horror actors who played up the campiness of the film and made it far more entertaining.The film looks a lot less impressive than the newest mummy films from Hollywood, but they still managed to be fun. Plus, the newer films, in my opinion, lack fun because they are so special effects-driven. See this film and have a good old fashioned time. "},{"Title":"Most watchable Mummy sequel (Spoilers!)","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Spoilers!) Yet another Egyptian high priest, John Carradine, is sent to America to utilize the still-living mummy Kharis, Lon Chaney, to bring the mummy of the princess Ananka back to Egypt. I consider this film an improvement over the first two sequels of 'The Mummy.' Why? God knows it isn't the plot, which is the third recycling of the theme of the priest falling in instant lust for one of his intended victims. I have two reasons for enjoying this film more than the first two sequels; the first is the performers, and the second is surprise. John Carradine gives a terrific performance as high priest. Every scene he appears in is worth watching. Additionally, Lon Chaney desperately tries to breathe a little life into his character, particularly at the end when he obviously objects to Carradine's plan for the young lady. However, it is the ending of the film that ultimately gives it some true distinction. The heroes fail to save the woman in jeopardy! She perishes along with the Mummy. That's a true rarity for an American film of the time. "},{"Title":"Don't Let the Children See this Movie","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie will scare the pants off of children. I grew up in the 50's. Our house was on a semi-rural road overshadowed on one side by a thick forest. At the foot of the tall hill upon which stood our house there was a swamp. The nearest neighbor was a quarter mile away. To an adult eye, the evening view on a moonlit night was, I am sure, romantic. To a child, however, the scene was an empty vessel ready to be filled with imaginary images of fearsome things.One weekend night, my parents left me in charge of my two younger brothers. I put them to bed and sat down to see what could possibly be on TV. An hour or so later, I lay in bed, in the moonlight, in a pool of sweat, thinking about tana leaves and the possibility, however remote, that a pot of them might have been mistakenly left simmering on the stove. In my imagination, I knew he was out there coming for me. It didn't matter if he was miles away or just down the road. He knew who I was; he had taken a special interest in me. Up the moonlit road, step by step, limping along, relentless, unstoppable. Somehow I made it through the night but that mummy stayed with me for years and inspired many a nightmare.My point here is that horror films are designed to scare you. We pay money to get scared. This one will do the trick if you're 10 years old and you're all alone (or almost alone -- when you're surrounded by mummies, you really do need an adult). Nine stars. "},{"Title":"Definitely a step up again from the previous mummy movie entry.","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a definitely better movie than the previous Unviversal movie entry The Mummy's Tomb, from 2 years earlier. The story and characters are better again this time. Although this doesn't mean that the actual story is really that much special but at least they definitely put some effort in it. It's of course a quite silly story and it gets sort of tiresome how they keep bringing back the mummy back to life time after the time, no matter how often they have killed him off already in the previous movies. Same goes for the Andoheb role played by George Zucco. But oh well, at least the story keeps the movie enjoyable to watch. There aren't really any slow or dull moments ever in this movie.The movie features both John Carradine and Lon Chaney Jr. again in the role of the mummy. They were both like THE Universal horror movies stars at the time. It's not that they roles are that interesting within this movie but nevertheless their presence is enough to uplifts the movie and makes it all the more enjoyable to watch for the genre fans of the Universal '40's movies.Unlike the previous Universal mummy-entries, this movie does not feature an happy end, in which our hero kills the mummy and gets back the back. This was quite surprising and also a reason why this movie is better than just the average and typical Universal '40's horror attempt.The movie has some good typical Unverisal '40's horror moments. Of course it's nothing too scary, at least not by today's standards but it's very classy and good looking all, with the use of shadows and some handy camera-work.A perfectly watchable mummy-entry.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Mummy Rises Again!","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Ghost is a sequel to The Mummy's Tomb (1942). In that film Kharis the Mummy (Lon Chaney) perished in a house fire. Also the old high priest (George Zucco) dies of old age while handing over his powers to a new high priest. In this film we find out that not only did Kharis survive the fire unscathed but the old high priest turns up alive and shaking.This entry has the High Priest Yousef Bey (John Carradine) being assigned the task of going to America to retrieve the mummies of Kharis and his queen Ananka. Hero Tom Hervey (Robert Lowery) is courting a beautiful Egyptian by the name of Amina Mansouri (Ramsay Ames). Meanwhile Yousef Bey sets about arranging to take the two mummies back to Egypt. To this end he unleashes Kharis upon the community to murder anyone who stands in their way.At the same time Amina starts to experience blackouts as she is being gradually taken over by the spirit of Ananka (the ghost of the title) to become the re-incarnation of Queen Ananka. This suddenly becomes a point of issue between Kharis and Yousef Bey until......Becoming a B movie second feature series, the films did nonetheless benefit from Universal's expertise in making this kind of film. Although it features a B list cast and runs a scant 61 minutes, it is still an entertaining way to spend an hour.Lon Chaney would continue in the role of the Mummy in The Mummy's Curse (1944) the final film in the series. "}{"Title":"All Wrapped up","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lon Chaney doesn't say much to me as the mummy.The old high priest is still alive(yet again he thinks he's dying though)and he passes the job of feeding Kharis to one of his students again.This time their job has something added to it.Now they're going  to get princess Annaka back to life.But along the way,they run into an unexpected suprise........... "},{"Title":"Zucco The Uncanny....","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A tough, old bird may not be an apt enough description of George Zucco's high priest character in the Mummy series. Somehow, still alive and shaking, he passes on the priesthood of what is now referred to as Arkham to Yousef Bey (John Carradine) & once again feels the need to recap the mummy's life history, which has been altered since Mummy's Tomb. Now the story goes that the once exalted Princess Ananka died an accursed death and that Kharis was buried with her. Now it's the task of Yousef to go to Mapleton and bring the royal dead of Egypt back to their homeland.Meanwhile, the wafting scent of tana leaves in the air attracts Kharis to the home of one Professor Norman. As Kharis shambles his way towards the cup of life, a young dish named Amina Mansouri (Ramsay Ames) gets a chance to show off her talents in filling out a nightgown as she sleepwalks her way to the very same house. Anyone else notice that black cat that ran in front of Ames during this scene? I believe that's called foreshadowing.The reincarnation angle from the original Karloff Mummy gets dusted off. The spirit of Ananka has left its mummified shell & taken residence in the body of Amina. Now Kharis must go about what must be for him a pleasant task of carrying off yet another woman clad in white (it's the only activity that gets his dead arm to work) and hope that another high priest won't succumb to any lascivious thoughts lurking in the back of his mind.But, that's not how things work out, for the life of an undead character stuck in repetitious sequels penned by unimaginative story writers is a hard one. The only merciful thing to do would've been to let Kharis & his Princess drown in eternal bliss, but the call of the box-office demanded one more sequel (Amon-Ra help us). "},{"Title":"The Bride of Kharis","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE MUMMY'S GHOST (Universal, 1944), directed by Reginald LeBorg, marks the return of Kharis, the living mummy, for the first time on screen since THE MUMMY'S TOMB (1942) where he met his doom in a blaze of fire in the Frankenstein monster tradition. He lives again (with no explanation on how he survived) in another venture set on American soil in a college town ten years after his last stalk.In THE MUMMY'S TOMB, Mehemet Bey (Turhan Bey) was assigned by the aged High Priest Andoheb (George Zucco) as the new guide for Kharis. After failing on his mission, THE MUMMY'S GHOST starts off its new chapter in Egypt where the High Priest assigns Bey's son, Yousef (John Carradine), a high priest of Arkhom, to undertake the new assignment by going to the New England town of Mapleton where Kharis still lives, and bring him, along with the mummy of Princess Ananka, whose remains are displayed at the Scripps Museum, back to their final resting places in Egypt. In the meantime, Matthew Norman (Frank Reicher), a college professor of Egyptology, lectures his class of the mummy that terrorized the town years ago. One of his students is Amina Mansori (Ramsay Ames) of Egyptian ancestry, engaged to Thomas Harvey (Robert Lowery), another student. As Professor Norman experiments with the tana leaves associated with Kharis, this restores him to come over and strangle the professor to death. Because Amina was nearby when the murder took place, and not knowing how she ended up on his grounds, she is automatically linked with Norman's murder. After Yousef Bey and Kharis break into the museum to retrieve the body of Princess Ananka, Kharis touches the preserved body only to have it crumble into a pile of tattered bandages. (At that very moment, Amina awakens from her sleep to the horror of feeling that someone has touched her). With Ananka now living in another form, it is revealed that Amina is the reincarnation of Ananka. (Take notice that the reincarnation of the princess is borrowed from the 1932 version of THE MUMMY starring Boris Karloff). After Amina is abducted and taken to a secluded building where Bey is to perform the sacred rites, Kharis carries her away as he is pursued by the villagers while the young girl slowly ages into a centuries old woman, to startling results.While he stories tend to repeat themselves by this time, making it hard to determine which Mummy movie was which, THE MUMMY'S GHOST, another one of Universal's attempt in keeping their studio monsters alive with its endless series of cut-rate sequels, is in fact, a pleasant surprise as being by far the best in the entire series, thanks to its straightforward story and very creepy scenes. And if this is not the best, then an improvement over the others. Lon Chaney Jr. is offered little or no opportunity in adding more than he already has with his character, bandaged head to toe, dragging his one leg and walking slowly, having the strength to stretch out his one arm and kill. In addition to the series is police inspector Walgreen (Barton MacLane) investigating the murders with questions in the traditional detective movie mystery fashion. There's also a cute little dog named Peanuts adding some light touches to the story. Regardless, THE MUMMY'S GHOST (what ghost?) is a very effective production that should not disappoint horror movie fans.Formerly shown in the 1990s on the Sci-Fi Channel during its Mummy's Day festival in October for Halloween, and American Movie Classics (2000-2002), this, and other Universal monsters, can be found on video cassette or on the current DVD format. Next installment THE MUMMY'S CURSE (1945).(***) "},{"Title":"Something happens to me when I think of Egypt.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If at all possible, try to view all five of the Universal Mummy films in order, not so much for the continuity between films, but for the very evident lack thereof. Of course it goes without saying that the original Boris Karloff classic The Mummy really shouldn't even be mentioned in the same breath as the so called sequels, all of which come off as campy or cultish. This time around, it's revealed that the mummified remains of Princess Ananka have made their way to the United States. And once again, as your eyes deceive you, Kharis the Mummy didn't really die for the second time in The Mummy's Tomb, but is alive and searching for his lost love Princess Ananka, with the help of the rhetorical nine tana leaves brewed during the cycle of the full moon. To complete the mythology, Kharis needs a caretaker, ably filled by a gaunt John Carradine as Yousef Bey, entrusted with the task by George Zucco's Andoheb, high priest of Arkan. Kharis and Ananka are to be returned to their final resting place in the hills of Arkan in Egypt. But as we've seen before, being entrusted with the duty of a high priest is a sure bet to end in failure, with Carradine's character falling for the reincarnation of Ananka, Amina Monsouri (Ramsay Ames). It's shocking to see Yousef Bey and the PO'ed bandaged one come to blows over the gorgeous Amina. Riddle me this - in both Tomb and Curse, Lon Chaney portrays the Mummy with a limp right arm folded helplessly across his chest. When he encounters the fainted Amina, he lifts her up in both arms with no problem; as soon as he puts her down his right arm returns to it's crippled position once again.The ending of the film is most notable - the monster gets the girl! But it's a short lived victory, as the Mummy and his kidnapped bride succumb to a swampy grave, an ancient Egyptian curse is fulfilled - The fate of those who defy the will of the ancient gods shall be a cruel and violent death. "},{"Title":"Another Fun Mummy Movie","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Universal mummy series takes a step down with each entry but they're all fun. This time high priest George Zucco sends John Carradine after the infidels. Lon Chaney, Jr.'s back as the mummy, despite seemingly dying in the last film (we never saw an actual death, to be fair). Carradine tries to get the mummy of Princess Ananka but discovers her soul has been reincarnated in the body of a young woman (Ramsay Ames). Robert Lowery plays the leading man and Barton MacLane plays a cop. Ramsay Ames is a beautiful leading lady. It's easy to see why Lowery, Carradine, and even Kharis are crazy about her. Maybe these sequels are a little repetitive, but they're good times for me. I love Universal horror films. The Mummy series are short, fun escapist adventures with horror and some romance added to the mix. This one isn't the best but it's entertaining. Surprising ending too! "},{"Title":"another let-down of a sequel to The Mummy's Hand","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In The Mummy's Hand, George Zucco's Egyptian High Priest character very definitely was shot four times, and fell down a flight of stone steps and died. In The Mummy's Tomb, he supposedly was only shot in the arm once in the last film, but he died in this one from old age, having fulfilled his priestly responsibilities by passing on the mantle. He's back again here, inexplicably. Here, he doesn't die, which is funny since he doesn't return for the next film.The Mummy's Ghost takes places, like The Mummy's Tomb, thirty years after The Mummy's Hand. If that film took place in 1940, this film should be set in 1970, but as in Tomb, no effort is made to create the appearance of it being set in the future.The mummy was shot and burned in Hand, shot and burned in Tomb, and yet he's back again in this one, his bandages not even singed. In fact, he's even got his left eye back, when in Hand it was all black and in Tomb a crusty mass. Where's the script girl!?In this one, a young university student is dating an Egyptian named Amina. A priest is sent from Egypt to retrieve Kharis and Ananka's bodies. As in Hand, Kharis can be lured by Tana leaves, something they forgot in Tomb. However, Ananka's body collapses when touched, and she is somehow reincarnated into Amina. She seems unaware of this, apart from getting a white streak in her hair that spreads.Another odd change is that the priests are priests of Arkam now, rather than Karnak.This wasn't terribly good, though it does have a somewhat bold tragic ending. At only an hour long, it's not a waste of time at least. "},{"Title":"There's a foreign substance on his neck...it looks like mold....from a mummy!","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here we have the 3rd of 4 movies in Universal's Mummy series. You don't really need to describe the plot because I think it is pretty much the same in every one of these Mummy films. Mummy meets girl. Mummy and girl fall in love, violating the laws of Amon-Ra in the process. Mummy and girl are cursed and buried for thousands of years. Mummy is woken up by rude explorers. Mummy kills explorers. Mummy tries to reunite with girl, who is now a pile of moldy rags.MUMMY'S GHOST takes place in poor, little Mapleton Massachusetts. Kharis has been presumably just wandering around the countryside like a dirty hippie since the end of the last mummy movie. When a professor brew up some nice Tana leave tea Kharis comes running (in a manner of speaking) like a hungry hound at chow time, kills the Prof. and guzzles down the tana tea. At the same time, yet another high priest is skulking about trying to get Kharis and Ananka, who is cooling her moldy heels in the local museum, back to Egypt. But you know how it goes with mummies. One thing leads to another and the high priest realizes that Ananka's soul resides in the body (meeOW) of a local girl, Amina Mansouri. He starts out trying to kill Mansouri in order to free Ananka's soul so it can return to her old mummy body (EWW!) but decides to keep her for himself and nuts to Kharis and the laws of Amon-Ra. Well sir, Kharis doesn't much cotton to this idea and he throws the high priest out a window and over a cliff. He then grabs Mansouri and carries her into one of Massachusetts many, many swamps where he and the rapidly aging Mansouri/Ananka sink into quicksand.Lon Chaney does a great job as Kharis. He actually manages to convey some emotion through the make-up, and there are a few times when the mummy is portrayed as a relentless, unstoppable juggernaut of destruction. There is a tiny bit of humor and more suspense than I was expecting . I found the Mummy's Ghost especially interesting in the way the townspeople were so accepting of the fact that a mummy was loose in their town. They gathered together, rather calmly to discuss how they were going to deal with it. I guess it just shows the scrappy attitude of people in that day when they can just comfortably roll up their sleeves and go out on a mummy hunt, as if they were going out to trap gophers . Mapleton is one Bad a$$ town.There is nothing classic about this movie, it was made quickly and cheaply and it shows. But it gives you what all b movies should an hour or so of decent, escapist entertainment. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Ghost","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Lon Chaney Jr returns to lumber along as the mummy Kharis seeking his mate, Annanka whose soul now resides in the beautiful host of descendant Amina(Ramsay Ames). Andoheb, High Priest of Arkan(George Zucco)leaves Yousef Bey(John Carradine)in charge of Kharis to continue their evil-doing ways. Tom(Robert Lowery)must find a way to save his beloved Amina from certain future mummy terror.Routine, predictable entry in the Kharis series proves that nearly every film follows a specific format/formula. The city is threatened by a skulking, one-armed corpse masked in wrapping who seems to have been gifted with superhuman power to choke the life out of able-bodied men who are restrained with relative ease by a mere chokehold from Kharis. Frank Reicher, who saw Kharis in action..and knows a great deal about Egyptian history..in the previous film(The Mummy's Tomb), proves that anyone who happened to survive a previous encounter with the mummy is sure to die if he returns in the next flick. Well produced, but lacks originality that would set it apart from the other films in the series. Sadly, Carradine sleepwalks through his role as the evil Yousef Bey. Embarrassing script mistake has Kharis, who is known for donning a crippled, lame right arm, carrying an unconscious Amina with both arms for long distances with no ill effects. One aspect, the shocking climax where Tom's attempt at heroism doesn't go according to plan as Kharis holds his damsel-in-distress hostage, lifts the film from the doldrums slightly. "},{"Title":"An Odd Corner of New England","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We are introduced to a world where living mummies are explained to undergraduate students and the police deal with them in a matter-of-fact manner. A big-city police inspector, made aware of the mummy's latest rampage, devises a very sensible plan of action against him which probably would have worked. Alas, his scheme is never put to the test, as the night he tries it coincides with the mummy's mission to retrieve the reincarnated Princess Ananka, the one task which takes precedence over the imbibing of tana fluid (although the mummy is visibly distracted by its lure). Upon beholding the girl, the latest high priest of whatever their cult is called succumbs to a sly and literal voice of temptation and attempts to keep her for himself (again), which ticks off poor Kharis, who has had enough of these unfaithful, horny priests. The hero, a 35-year-old undergraduate student, pursues the captive girl and her shambling suitor, only to witness her being drawn into a swamp as a withered crone. Perhaps a sip of tana fluid would have done the girl some good after all. "},{"Title":"Continuity?  What's that?","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this installment of Universal's Kharis mummy series, George Zucco is back as Andoheb, High Priest of Arkan. He sends his loyal servant Yousef Bey (John Carradine) to America to reunite Kharis with his love Ananka (to have been dead for thousands of years, this woman is a lot of trouble). Tana leaves are brewed, the mummy comes back to life, and Ananka's spirit is transferred into the body of another woman. Will Kharis find his true love before the storyline changes? Attempting to keep up with the ever-changing storyline in Universal's Kharis mummy series can be a daunting challenge but part of the fun of these movies. Some of the obvious examples in The Mummy's Ghost include ---- 1. How is Andoheb back again? He was apparently killed in both of the previous two mummy movies. 2. Arkan? It was Karnak in the first two Kharis movies. 3. In the previous movies, Kharis' purpose was to protect Ananka's tomb and seek revenge on anyone who dared to defile it. All of a sudden, the mission changes to reuniting Kharis with Ananka so they can return to their tombs in Egypt. 4. Kharis has been burned twice yet there doesn't appear to be so much as a singe on any of his wrappings. 5. How many Tana leaves does it take to bring Kharis back to life? The number changes from movie to movie. ---- If all this sounds confusing, just watch what happens in the next sequel. Continuity doesn't appear to have been very high on the priority list.With the exception of The Mummy's Hand, the Kharis films have fairly interchangeable parts. One is not much better or worse than the others. And while there are moments in each I enjoy, it's difficult to call any of the last three Kharis films good. At best, The Mummy's Ghost is a harmless, sometimes entertaining way to spend an hour or so. I watch these movies over and over because I'm a sucker for mummy movies and mummy lore. The whole concept of a mummy coming back to life fascinates me like few other movie monsters. "}{"Title":"Toto Tries to Foil the Mummy's Plan","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a lot of ways, the original Universal Mummy series of movies set the blueprint for what a horror sequel should be. Consider all of the similarities to modern series like Friday THE 13th. The monster keeps returning film after film, even though we've seen him destroyed each time. Even more, there is seldom any rational explanation given for his return, he just simply is back because the studio needed him to be. Though there is some half-hearted attempt to connect the continuity of the series, for the most part each of the movies features completely different actors in completely different scenarios, the only common thread being the monster itself. Each sequel supplanted the atmosphere and quality of the original by increasing the violence and sex (okay, so by sex I'm talking about a hip-hugging night gown in this case, but it's the 40s, right). At this point in the Mummy series, they are pretty much following a cookie cutter format. We have George Zucco as the high priest of an Egyptian order initiating a new priest (in this case John Carradine). That priest's purpose is to resurrect Kharis the Mummy to avenge some wrong. Queue up a few random murders from the Mummy until we meet the modern reincarnation of the lost princess. Some drama unfolds until the Mummy can kidnap her, but instead the priest falls in love with her and ruins everything. I am not lumping the original Karloff classic into this mold. That's an excellent atmospheric creeper with a dreamlike tone, but the four Kharis movies pretty much follow the same path but with diminishing quality.If there are positives here I would say that Chaney puts some more effort into his role as Kharis in this one that he did in the previous MUMMY'S TOMB. I still don't understand why one arm doesn't work and I miss the hollow eyes that they employed in MUMMY'S HAND, but he's more physically imposing in this one. Also, this is the only classic horror film I can recount from memory that does not have your standard hero saves the day ending. I don't want to spoil too much, but it's pretty dark for a movie from this time period.Most everything else about this movie pales in comparison to the ones before it. The boyfriend and his college pals are just bad actors, with some terrible dialog written for them. They are just there for nothing more than to move the plot along. Same goes for the museum types and the police, who are all cardboard and offered nothing much to do. Even John Carradine, who I normally enjoy, is not nearly the maniacal villain that the previous priests were.It's not awful and there's still a lot of fun to be had in this movie, but it's not one of the best Uni sequels by any sort. "},{"Title":"On the Loose Again","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No need to recap the plot&#x97;the point is the mummy's on the loose again, dragging his foot behind. As a kid, I could never get too scared since the 3,000-year old guy moves like he's even older. So I figured why doesn't everyone just run away when he comes, but then his movies show how really good he is at trapping people, and how they're toast after that. Plus, he can have an occasional hissy-fit, as he does here when he re-decorates the museum with one big hammer hand. And guess who's cooking his tanna leaf dinner this time. It's scary old John Carradine looking and sounding like a voice from beyond the grave. Between them, I still get a few chills, even this many years later. But one thing has really changed between then and now. Now I follow the beauteous Ramsay Ames like a bee on honey. Okay, so her acting is not exactly Oscar bait&#x97;but with looks like that, it doesn't have to be. Thanks to her and my improved glands, I now understand why old bandage body keeps wandering around Universal's backlot looking for her in movie after movie. I would too. Anyway, not a whole lot happens on screen til that bang-up finale when you might say everything and everyone comes together in front of a rickety old trestle to nowhere. However, I do recommend that Miss Ames keep her beauteous make-up on, since that last frame does nothing for getting her a next job. "},{"Title":"A watchable sequel, though there are some inconsistencies","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Ghost is another installment of the Kharis mummy series produced by Universal. This time, John Carradine is the Egyptian high priest who is seeking for the mummies of Kharis and Ananka. He kidnaps a young lady who he believes is the reincarnation of Ananka, but loses control of the mummy Kharis and mayhem results.The Mummy's Ghost is a watchable if not a great sequel in the Mummy series. John Carradine does well enough as the high priest, and Lon Chaney Jr is back again as the mummy Kharis. None of the performances in this film are bad. But the movie itself, like many of these mummy movies, just doesn't seem to hold my attention. There are also some inconsistencies between this and some of the other sequels that detract from the story.Still, this is watchable and might be enjoyable for those who are fans of mummies in general and Kharis in particular. "},{"Title":"Mummy Goes to the Dogs!","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, one might and could quite ably argue that the Mummy sequels are perhaps the least of any of the Universal Horror franchises, but they are all, for better or worse, for lack of anything else, all quite short in the department of time investment. This makes all of them highly watchable if nothing else as they all do have some of those magical, necessary Universal touches some quality actors, able directors, brooding music and great set designs - and, oh yeah, a great monster even if on the decline. Coming in at just 61 minutes, The Mummy's Ghost now follows Kharis and a new high priest going off to New England to fulfill Kharis and Anaka's destiny. The film has good ole George Zucco bequeath his desire and servitude to this quest to a young John Carradine. Zucco's brief role is great and Carradine is pretty good as well. You get all the same Mummy stuff here with the 9 Tana leaves under a moonlit sky, a slow striding, almost catatonic Lon Chaney moving about in a decidedly lumbering fashion, those old-fashioned Universal murder scenes(the one with Frank Reicher particularly effective), and, of course, the ridiculous romance between two actors that cannot act - here the lovely Ramsay Ames and the vacuous Robert Lowery. Throw in Barton MacLane as a tough detective and you have all the makings of not-so-classic Universal fare. This Mummy sequel actually has some originality along plot lines and is much better than at least two of the other sequels. I do have some questions; however. A swamp? Really, a swamp in New England? Huh. There are some others about what Kharis does and Anaka, but suffice it to say they are inexplicable too. Lon Chaney gives a bit more range in his performance in this his second time around as the wrapped one, but he is beginning to become camp here - unintentionally I think. There are several scenes with dogs that best Chaney and they are amusing and pathetic as well, not cutesy as I am sure some may have projected. All in all The Mummy's Ghost is one of the better Mummy sequels and will be mercifully short. "},{"Title":"Forth verse, same as the third","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Ghost is the same film as Mummy's Tomb, which is pretty much the same film as the Mummy's Hand. Complete with the same archetype priests having the same conversation in a darkened throne room with seemingly the same elder of Arkan regarding the same leaves using the same lines and the same plot twist happens at about the same time in all the pictures&#151;yeah, if you've seen the Mummy's Tomb, you've seen the Mummy's Ghost. Now I know where F13 gets its inspiration.This film makes the mistake of trying (trying way too hard, I might add) to recapture the feel of the film before it. Unfortunately, sequels are not remakes; they should be the next chapter of a greater story. The Mummy's Ghost does not challenge the audience's expectations, it barely makes an effort to develop its own material, and it doesn't even have its own pace . . . like Mummy's Tomb and Mummy's hand, it's just a shadow of a greater film.Good films should invite the audience into its world, and they accept what happens on screen without question; the Mummy's Ghost, like so many horror films, gets on its knees and just begs the audience to start asking questions. Questions like What did the mummy do after the events of the previous film? and Didn't they search the remains of the fire? and How can the mummy carry people and climb up ladders with that limp and lame arm? Undeveloped characters plague the film, but then again, a meaty chunk of the running time goes to reciting the sacred vows of the high priest of Arkan, and may a violent death befall anyone who defies Aman Ra etc. etc. etc. As a result, I'm sick of hearing that same speech, and I have only the faintest clue who these new victims are supposed to be so why should I care? To make matters worse, this films cast resonate with the same vibes of a T.V series.Oh but wait, Mummy's Ghost does have a handful of minor differences from its predecessor. Sure, it's just a shame that, like the characters, these plot points never really develop since so much is dedicated to making sure the audience still remembers the whole point the priests of Arkan setup time and time again. The Mummy's Ghost makes a vain attempt to explore the reincarnation theme of the first film with princess Ananka; however, by that point in the story it's too little too late.Still, I have to praise Lon Chaney's performance as the mummy, although I lament the fact that he had to work with someone else's creation (again.) He expresses an extreme amount emotion through his general body language and that one good arm. He did an admirable job with what he was given . . . but honestly, the limping lame mummy really didn't work very well for me - I wish Chaney was given something a little better. "},{"Title":"Kharis And Ananka, those wild and crazy kids.","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The last time we left Lon Chaney, Jr. as Kharis the Mummy he was burned again in a fire. But you can't keep a good Mummy down if there is money to be made in a sequel which Universal Pictures has provided in The Mummy's Ghost. Although how you can have a ghost of an undead creature I will leave to the metephysicians.George Zucco sends another handler for Kharis this time it's John Carradine. The assignment get the Princess Ananka's Mummy out of display at the museum and get them both back to their tombs in Egypt. And of course kill anyone who gets in the way.In a plot element taken from the Boris Karloff mummy film, a young girl of Egyptian descent is the Princess reincarnated. Ramsay Ames is going out with Robert Lowery, but when Carradine starts his chants Kharis starts moving about, she gets all strange.In fact Ananka's body finally turns to dust because Ames has become Ananka. Kharis still has a 3000 year old crush on her and he's had no nookie for that long so no wonder he's got such a bad attitude. Carradine like Turhan Bey the Kharis handler in the previous film gets his own crush on the leading lady.Add Barton MacLane to the mix as the police inspector tracking down all these Kharis homicides and you've got a recipe for a film that was wearing a really thin premise to start with to death.The Mummy films were getting weaker and weaker. "},{"Title":"Dull, but what an ending!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This second sequel to The Mummy's Hand is pretty terrible. They totally switch facts around in the story, has unlikable characters and John Carradine REALLY hamming it up. Carradine is a high priest (or something) in Egypt. He's sent to Mapleton MA to bring back Kharis and Ananka who (according to this) were lovers! It seems Kharis somehow survived being burnt to death in the last movie. Anyway Ananka has been reincarnated in college student Amina (Ramsay Ames) so Carradine and the mummy plan to kidnap her, kill her and go to Egypt.Dull, slow (even at 60 minutes--it moves slower than the mummy!), and indifferently acted. Still the ending is great and saves the movie.SPOILER!!! The mummy gets the girl (!!!!!) and she ages rapidly as the both slowly sink in a swamp reunited forever. This is (I believe) the only time in a Universal monster movie that the monster got the girl! END SPOILER!!! That aside, this is strictly amateur night. Probably the worst of the mummy sequels--and that's saying something! "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Ghost (1944) **","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Perhaps the weakest film in the Kharis series, despite the presence of John Carradine (miscast as an Egyptian high priest) and George Zucco (as his predecessor, hilariously afflicted by a bad case of Parkinson's Disease) supporting Lon Chaney Jr. as the titular creature - if indeed it was him under the bandages, as his contribution is negligible at best! It's a watchable 60 minutes in itself, I guess, but the standards have considerably lowered when compared even to the two previous entries, and the end result is strictly routine and not at all memorable. Just about the only interesting feature here is the fact that the female lead happens to be the reincarnation of Princess Ananka, mentioned a great deal in earlier films but never actually seen. "},{"Title":"Good 3rd Film in the Kharis Series","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film series does not include Universal's and Karloff's The Mummy (1932). This particular film series starts with 'The Mummy's Hand (1940), 'The Mummy's Tomb (1942)' and then this third film 'The Mummy's Ghost (1944).What is nice about this series, it picks where the last film leaves off. They always give a little background on the previous which helps when the films are 2 years apart or if you simply find yourself watching one of the films one night on TV.The ghost in this film is not that of Kharis but the long dead Queen Ananka whom you will see slowly entering and taking over Amina Mansouri. It makes for an entertaining mummy film.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Well, at least this sequel tried to be different","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" None of the four Universal Kharis films are particularly great, and to me The Mummy's Hand is the only one that is near-good. This said, neither of them are bad either, and of the sequels to The Mummy's Hand my vote for the best of them goes to this, The Mummy's Ghost.What makes The Mummy's Ghost the best of the sequels(if not exactly by much) is that it is the only one that tried to do something different. Even if the basic plot is still very flawed and formulaic, The Mummy's Ghost contains by far the boldest and most shocking ending of the four(and in a very good way, it's the highlight of the film), and is the only one to have almost non-existent stock footage material. The Mummy's Ghost does contain some campy fun with John Carradine and a few scenes with Kharis have some creepiness(others however just read of repetitive running around).There are some attractively made sets, some atmospheric lighting and Ramsey Ames' costumes are to die for, though on the most-part The Mummy's Ghost is not one of Universal's most accomplished-looking films. Three performances register quite well. Best of all is John Carradine, who is deliciously diabolical and although he doesn't feature in much of the film he is still very memorable. George Zucco's role is also brief, but nonetheless played with sinister authority. Lastly, Lon Chaney Jnr's performance as Kharis is more consistent this time round, he intimidates much more and lumbers less, there even was glimpses of effort at giving Kharis a human side despite not having much to work with.However, apparently The Mummy's Ghost was made very quickly and it does show in some shoddy editing, some terribly staged close-ups of Kharis and Kharis basically looks like a man very poorly wrapped up in bandages. While Chaney, Zucco and Carradine fare well, the rest of the cast on the other hand are bad. Ramsey Ames' alluring appearance and beautiful costuming are not enough to make up for how she spends her whole screen time looking bewildered and on edge, while Robert Lowery is hopelessly wooden to the point he veers on irritating. The chemistry between the two of them is non-descript.The story does try to do things differently, but still manages to be on the paper-thin and formulaic side, with much of the plot reading of a series of familiar plot devices routinely handled. It also takes too long to get going, with an incredibly dull first third to the extent that the final fifteen minutes feels like a real relief, and is let down even further by tediously padded out college scenes(that are poorly played and add very little to the storytelling) and a sickeningly saccharine and passionless romantic subplot that seemed to only be there for the sake of it. The college and romantic scenes also suffered from the worst of the film's erratic(mostly lethargic) pacing and incredibly trite dialogue. The direction shows little care and style, with occasional glimpses of atmosphere that stops it from falling into ineptitude, and the characters are even more thinly written than the story, and some like Lowery and his friends are annoying.All in all, has a lot lacking but has just enough to make it watchable. 5/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Rather mediocre sequel entry","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Still alive and searching for his long-lost love's remains, the mummified Kharis sets out to find her body and comes across a college student reincarnated as his love which puts his rampage in jeopardy as he tries to save her.This turned out to be quite the enjoyable effort in the series. More than anything else, what works here is the rather large amount of screen time given to the mummy, having a chance to really get a lot of scenes even if he's just shuffling through the background though this one does have some enjoyable moments. Among them are the early attack at the professor's home along with the abduction later on which manages to feature a lot of fun in the initial abduction and transportation scenes along with the scenes of the crises of faith in the temple all making this one quite enjoyable. There's still several other big highlights here, the big one obviously being the finale in the hideout as the mummy tries protecting the girl from the townspeople attempting to reclaim her back while it wages a secondary fight to hold off his attempts to get with her and the end result of all this action is the fire-packed burning of the building in a spectacular display. As well, the sequence in the museum works rather well as the ceremony to restore her is nice B-level charm and the resulting encounter with the guard makes for a rather exciting time. Finally, this one fully explores the connection history of the tanna leaves in resurrecting and controlling the mummy, all of which helps this one overcome its few flaws. Frankly, the biggest stumbling block here is the inherent cheapness in practically everything from the special effects to the mummy costume and even the sets in the different hideouts which are quite obvious and really distracting at times. Also, despite the fact that the mummy has a lot of screen time most of it is random shot of him shuffling around in brief interstitial scenes without really showing it doing much. It really makes these scenes pretty questionable, almost as questionable as the decision to have a hideout with a gimpy-legged creature on top of a mineshaft with a one- hundred-plus inclined slope to get to it. The concept is pretty stupid and is executed similarly. It's not as big a detriment but it does stand with the other flaws.Today's Rating-Unrated/PG Mild Violence. "},{"Title":"Kharis and Ananka Get Stuck in the Mud","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Mummy's Ghost is the third in the Kharis the Mummy series and Griffin Jay's script is more or less a rehash of the same old lady in distress plot line of the first two with a twist ending that is a grabber.Director Reggie LeBorg was Chaney's buddy and knew Lon would be pretty well crooked when the lunch break was over, particularly when Lon was in his mummy makeup. Jack Pierce got very tired of Lon's constant gripping and moaning about it. There is a story that LeBorg told about the scene where Kharis strangles Prof Norman. Frank Reicher was one of Hollywood's most respected character actors. When the scene started rolling, Chaney went charging in,grabbed Reicher by the throat and pushed him into the wall. Chaney had been hitting the bottle and was pumped. When Chaney broke off, Reicher screamed He almost killed me! and proceeded to verbally ream Chaney a new one, calling him unprofessional and stupid. Chaney just sat there in his mummy makeup muttering an apology and shivering in shame. Chaney's glass breaking scene when Ananka's mummy dissolves is yet another legend. Again he fortified himself with some Jack Daniels and did the whole scene himself without a stuntman. He cut his chin under his mask on a shard of glass, you can see the blood at the end of the scene.Acquanetta had been originally cast in the Amina/Ananka role but she injured herself on the first day of shooting. Ben Pivar claimed, however, that LeBorg had demanded that she be replaced during rehearsals because of her poor acting. Anyway, the beautiful Ramsay Ames was thrown into the part with just a few days notice, which may account for her confused look.in most of her scenes. Ramsay had been hired to appear in musicals because of her singing and dancing talent but Universal kept casting her in horror and mystery films. Robert Lowery was way too old to play a college student and wasn't happy about being cast in the movie. He seemed to have a lets get this thing over with attitude throughout the film.The plot holes and lack of continuity in the Mummy series are well known and have been pointed out in many knowledgeable sources. Kharis is a killing machine and not a sympathetic creature as some of the other Universal monsters are. His tendency to kill senior citizens is yet another reason not to root for him. Watching The Mummy's Ghost isn't the worst way to spend an hour and is essential if your are following the series. "},{"Title":"Seen on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater in 1966","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1943's The Mummy's Ghost was third in the Kharis series, second to star Lon Chaney in the title role, and was, like all its predecessors (including Karloff's 1932 original), included in Universal's popular SHOCK! package of classic horror films issued to television in the late 50s. An improvement on the listless The Mummy's Tomb, Chaney's Mummy sports a different mask but actually shows more range, whether stalking a helpless victim like Frank Reicher (also back from Tomb), or recklessly shattering a glass museum exhibit, which resulted in a visible gash on the mummy's chin. John Carradine lends his exquisite sepulchral tones to Yousef Bey, High Priest of Arkham (Karnak having retired from shame), who leads Kharis to Manhattan's Scripps Museum to recover the mummy of the Princess Ananka, only to see the body disappear from its wrappings before their very eyes. Incredibly, by returning to Mapleton, they're able to find the girl now possessed by Ananka's reincarnated soul, who proves to be too much for Yousef to resist, forcing Kharis to eliminate the competition in typical fashion (apparently, Egyptian priests were never taught about the birds and the bees). Once again, we get stuck with a belligerent, unsympathetic 'hero' in Robert Lowery, so the climactic twist actually makes sense, the reincarnation theme successfully revived from Karloff's 1932 classic. Director Reginald Le Borg, a recent graduate from short subjects, worked well with Lon Chaney, continuing with Calling Dr. Death, Weird Woman, Dead Man's Eyes, and The Black Sleep. Deputising for the injured Acquanetta, Ramsay Ames proves sadly lacking, her Amina Mansouri registering as a total blank (she was little better as Chaney's unfaithful wife in her Universal finale, Calling Dr. Death). George Zucco contributes another welcome cameo (his last in the series), but Barton Mac Lane is woefully out of place in his only Universal horror, the dead end investigation trailing behind Lowery (this time, Kharis scrupulously avoids crowds). Look fast in the opening reel for Martha Vickers (The Big Sleep), previously seen in Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man and Captive Wild Woman. Next up for Chaney was the final entry, The Mummy's Curse, which amazingly continued the upswing from the previous two, now set in the Louisiana bayous. The Mummy's Ghost made five appearances on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater- May 7 1966 (following 1959's The Angry Red Planet), Feb 3 1968 (following 1956's The Undead), Mar 31 1973 (following 1969's Attack of the Monsters), June 19 1976 (following 1967's Island of the Burning Doomed), and Aug 13 1977 (preceding 1934's The Man Who Reclaimed His Head). "},{"Title":"A Little Better Than It's Two Predecessors","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the previous movie, The Mummy's Tomb the mummy known as Kharis (Lon Cheney Jr.) had been killed by fire. However, because of his curse 3000 years earlier he cannot remain dead as long as a certain ritual involving tanis leaves are prepared during a full moon. So the High Priest of Karnak instructs a priest named Yousef Bey (John Carradine) to bring him back to life. When Yousef Bey boils the tanis leaves Kharis reappears in the small town of Mapleton where he was last seen. This time however there is a beautiful Egyptian woman by the name of Amina Mansouri (Ramsay Ames) who becomes his intended target due to her now possessing the soul of Princess Ananka. Anyway, rather than give away the entire story and risk ruining the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this particular film is a little bit better than it's two predecessors, The Mummy's Hand and The Mummy's Tomb in that it seemed to flow a bit more smoothly. Obviously, it should be remembered that this was made in 1944 and as such it doesn't have the advanced techniques available to horror films today. But it's still pretty good and I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"The most depressing of the Mummy Movies","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was made in 1943, but not released until 1944, probably because audiences probably hated it.The movies starts out with George Zucco (still alive despite dying in the two previous installments) commissioning John Carradine to find the princess' mummy because Tuhran Bey failed so miserably in the last film. Killing off the last of the Bannings seems to have been forgotten, I guess the hero of the last movie got killed in WWII or something.The ending is kind of nihilistic, in that the girl gets turned into a mummy for no other reason than she was the only Egyptian chick within range of the Primcess Mummy when it disintegrated.It pads out its requisite 60 minutes with a lot of needless chase scenes and scenes of poor Lon Chaney shambling around sideways. "},{"Title":"Those who defy the ancient God's a cruel and violent death will be their fate!","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** By far the worst of the Mummy movies has a young Abraham Lincoln looking John Carradine as Egyptian priest Yousef Bey who's instructed by his boss Andoheb the high priest of Arkan, George Zucco, to travel to Mapleton USA and retrieve the body of the long dead, for some 3,000 years, Princess Ananka, Ramsay Ames, from the town Scripp Museum.Were told that some 30 years earlier Ananka's lover Kharis the Mummy, played by Lon Chaney Jr, went on a rampage through town trying to get her back on the first boat to Egypt. Kharis ended up being burned to a crisps when he was trapped by the angry townspeople in a deserted house. As things tuned out Kharis just went on vacation and was just waiting for a chance to come back to life and finish the job that he started 30 years ago! It was in fact Scripps Museum curator Prof. M. Norman, Frank Reicher, by discovering the secret of eternal life in the fluid of nine brewed Tana leaves that brought Kharis back. This ended up costing Prof. Norman's life when Kharis paid him a visit at his office where he was brewing the Tana leaves!Slurping up the Tana leaf solution Kharis went on his way with Jousef Bey directing him to find Princess Ananka and bring her back home to her eternal resting place in Egypt. What Yousef Bey didn't figure on is that the princess was not in her tomb at the Scripps Museum but in fact was reincarnated as Amina Mansouri! An Egyptian exchange student at Scripps Collage studying ancient Egyptian history!The movie really goes nowhere with Kharis doing what he does best by killing a number of unsuspecting Mapleton citizens, just to keep in practice, as he goes on his search for Princess Ananka who's soul is now in the body of Amina Mansouri. When Kharis finally does find the princess, as Amina Mansouri, it's Jousef Bey who screws things up by trying to keep her all for himself at the now angry as hell Kharis' expense! This has Kharis throw a fit as well as throw Yousef Bay to his death from the top of the mine shaft where Ananka/Amina was being kept. It's now up to Amina boyfriend Tom Hervey, Robert Lowery, to save the day as well as her life by taking on the what looks like the indestructible Mummy Kharis! ***SPOILERS*** As things turned out it was the cute little dog Peanuts, who's a dead ringer for Toto from the Wizard of Oz, who in fact put an end to Kharis reign of terror. With Peanuts Sniffing Kharis out at the abundant mine shaft outside of town he has an angry mob cornered him and chase Kharis with Ananka in hand into the nearby swamp. Tom Hervey who was at first ready to jump into the swamp to save his girlfriend Amina's life had second thoughts when she started showing her true age, 3,000 years old give or take a century, and soon came to the realization that it wasn't worth the effort! "},{"Title":"This is the same as the one before and after.....","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Shamble, shamble, choke, shamble, etc. That's this movie.And word is that you don't really see much of Chaney Jr. as the Mummy, instead you get his stuntman. Not that it matters, no shots of his face or anything pre-wrap, unlike the other movies. You have Turhan Bey as the evil assistant priest, Zucco back for his regular slot as the aged Priest passing the baton, so to speak, all the usuals.Problem I have w/ these---the mummy shuffles, shuffles, shuffles, it's like being chased by a sloth. No one gets away. He always manages to get into someone's house/room and strangle them after being shot or whatever. No one chases after him. What gives? Get in a car...drive off...And how does this mummy w/ one good arm carry the gal around w/ both?? Hmmmm.The professor, cops, students are all interchangeable, you saw a couple of them in the last movie. Some die. I will say the killings are more frequent than you'd suspect in a 40's movie.It's okay time-filler, you might like it if you liked the others in the series. Oh and the mummy is sucked into muck at the end w/ the girl.** "},{"Title":"Third Kharis Film.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Lon Chaney Jr. returns as Kharis the mummy, once again brought back to murderous life by another young priest(played by John Carradine) who was sent by a dying Andoheb(George Zucco for the last time). The mission this time is to retrieve the body of Princess Ananka, but upon breaking and entering into the Scripps Museum, they find that her body has disintegrated, meaning she has since reincarnated, quite conveniently in a local college student played by Ramsey Ames, though her boyfriend is determined to save her from her inevitable fate. Frank Reicher returns as a college professor from the previous film, who is now dispatched by Kharis after brewing a batch of the life-sustaining Egyptian leaves that keep Kharis alive. Only the quicksand finale distinguishes this contrived and ineffectual entry in any way. "},{"Title":"Fair Entry in the Series","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mummy's Ghost, The (1944) ** 1/2 (out of 4) A high priest (John Carradine) travels from Egypt to America to locate the bodies of Kharis (Lon Chaney, Jr.) and Princess Ananka. Once in America the priest seems to think that the princess has had her spirit lifted into another body so Kharis must get to her and kill anyone who stands in his way.THE MUMMY'S GHOST is perhaps the weakest mummy film in Universal's series, although fans of monster movies will probably still find it mildly entertaining. I think there's a lot more that could have been done with the film but it's clear that the studio wasn't interested in anything fresh or original but instead they were just trying to deliver a quick B picture and that's pretty much what they've done. The film manages to have a few decent ideas scattered throughout but when you really think about it, the story doesn't add much that the previous two didn't do.Once again we've got a high priest bring the mummy back to life who once again goes out looking for his long lost love. This time out I found the mummy make-up to be the least attractive and perhaps this was due to its star Chaney simply refusing to wear more. It's well-known that Chaney and make-up artist Jack Pearce weren't exactly on the best terms. Carradine is good in his brief role and it's also fun seeing George Zucco back on hand. The supporting players are also decent.The biggest problem with the film is the rather bland direction and even at 61-minutes not too much happens. I think it doesn't help that the quality is obviously a lot lower than the previous three films so the decline is right there in front of you. I think the best thing working for the picture is the climax, which ends in a way that you really don't expect it to. THE MUMMY'S GHOST isn't classic Universal but fans of the series will still want to check it out. "},{"Title":"Slow an dull.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The mummy wreaks more havok on a group of arechologists. Pretty boring entry in the series of mummy films, suffering from poor effects, acting, and direction.Nothing terribly bad, but too slow for it's own good. If you like b-movies, rent it. Otherwise, this is pretty passable. "}{"Title":"Terrible sequel not even the 2 good performances can save it WARNING!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Terrible sequel not even the 2 good performances from John Carradine and Lon Chaney Jr. can save it and here's why. the whole movie is very dull with hardly any excitement and it seems very rushed too boot. the two main love interests hardly have any chemistry and the ending was very lame and rather abrupt. Plus even for it's short running time it's a pain to sit through and plus all the boring dialog does not help. There is no violence or blood. The Acting except for 2 people is downright awful. Lon Chaney Jr. is very good as the Mummy once again as i said he can play any role. John Carradine is excellent here as the High Priest and always adds class to flick he's in. Robert Lowery is terrible and unconvincing and he got on my nerves. Ramsay Ames is also not convincing either and isn't that great of an actress Overall i'm not wasting any more time on this shoddy sequel * out of 5 avoid! "}]