[{"Title":"One of the most popular musicals of the period&#133;","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Released some months before the end of the war, Anchors Aweigh is one of Gene Kelly's major musical triumphs of the forties&#133; Under the direction of George Sidney, it had the benefits of a pleasant score, and&#151;best of all&#151;the services of Gene Kelly in his first true starring role at MGM&#133; The year before, in Columbia's Cover Girl, he had revealed an innovative approach to dance on the screen, a light but agreeable singing voice, and considerable charm In Anchors Aweigh, although he was billed under Frank Sinatra and Kathryn Grayson, he was laying the solid groundwork for his most revealing years at MGM&#133; The film's story, a kind of dry run for On the Town four years later, follows sailors Kelly and Sinatra on shore leave, spend their holiday in Hollywood, where they become involved in the affairs of an aspiring singer (Grayson) and her little nephew (Dean Stockwell).Grayson, it appears, has her heart set on an audition with conductor-pianist Jose Iturbi&#133; She gets the audition, of course; Kelly gets Grayson after some misunderstandings; and Sinatra, has forgotten to be shy, and has lost his heart to a girl from Brooklyn (Pamela Britton).The plot is conventional for the period but, regrettably, it now seems barely tolerable&#133; But there is Gene Kelly, who dominates the movie with his agreeable personality&#133; Perhaps he grins too much, but when is permitted to dance, the film finally lifts off the ground&#133; I Begged Her, his early song and dance with Sinatra, is amusing and slightly absurd, in which he imagines himself as a bandit chieftain in a Spanish courtyard, courting maiden Grayson with a flamboyant flamenco dance and some athletic leaps&#133; He also does a charming Mexican dance with little Sharon McManus in the square of a Mexican settlement in Los Angeles&#133;The highlight of the movie, however, is Kelly's famous dance with the cartoon character Jerry the Mouse (of Tom and Jerry fame). Delightful and innovative, it skillfully combines live action and animation in its tale of a sad mouse king who refuses to allow music in his kingdom until Kelly, a sailor in the Pomeranian Navy, wearing a striped shirt and a beret, shows him how to dance&#133; Look at me, I'm dancin'! says the gleeful mouse king... "},{"Title":"Flashy, funny, overlong... but Kelly shines through!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  ANCHORS AWEIGH sees two eager young sailors, Joe Brady (Gene Kelly) and Clarence Doolittle/Brooklyn (Frank Sinatra), get a special four-day shore leave. Eager to get to the girls, particularly Joe's Lola, neither Joe nor Brooklyn figure on the interruption of little Navy-mad Donald (Dean Stockwell) and his Aunt Susie (Kathryn Grayson). Unexperienced in the ways of females and courting, Brooklyn quickly enlists Joe to help him win Aunt Susie over. Along the way, however, Joe finds himself falling for the gal he thinks belongs to his best friend. How is Brooklyn going to take this betrayal? And does Joe end up with Susie, who loves him too?The first and second times I saw ANCHORS AWEIGH, I also saw it at the same time as I did ON THE TOWN, the Kelly/Sinatra collaboration from 1949. Both times I felt that ANCHORS AWEIGH was the better film in terms of plotting and structure--all the dances and songs fit the moment in the plot, and they develop the characters and story rather than hamper them. Yet, both times I came away feeling that ON THE TOWN is the better film overall. Having now seen both films a third time, I still stand by that judgement. Somehow ON THE TOWN, as a film and a piece of entertainment, is just lighter, gayer, purely and simply *happier*. The numbers are more outrageous and less integral to the plot, and yet somehow it works better than all the dances and singing in ANCHORS AWEIGH. I'm not quite sure why this is. The typical argument is that the latter film is over-long at almost two and a half hours, this is certainly a valid criticism to make. I certainly felt the length the first two times I saw it! However, it's also a film that grows on you--the more you see it, the shorter it feels and the more you appreciate the technical mastery involved in its making. And yet, something just doesn't hang together quite right. It feels almost as if the script was pored over, and *every* single moment when Kelly could break into dance or Sinatra into song was noted, and that's exactly what happened. No opportunity to shoehorn a musical number in was given up... and that's probably the film's biggest weakness. It has 16 numbers (give or take a few), and no matter how big a fan you are of Kelly or Sinatra, this really starts to turn one numb after a while. (Contrast this, for example, with the ten numbers in ON THE TOWN.) You might well feel that each song, each dance, can't be taken out of the film without leaving it lacking... and that's true. But that's also because the writers weren't more restrained in adding them in in the first place.All this long preamble doesn't mean there's nothing good about ANCHORS AWEIGH. The musical *is* splashy with great songs bursting out all over, like the duets between Kelly and Sinatra ('We Hate To Leave', 'I Begged Her' and 'If You Knew Susie'), the singing of Sinatra ('What Makes The Sunset', 'The Charm Of You', and the best of all, 'I Fall In Love Too Easily'), and without a doubt the always inventive, always breathtaking dancing of Kelly. It's also hard to miss with a cast of this calibre. Grayson is sweet and seems to improve on each viewing (her voice becoming stunning rather than frightening); Jose Iturbi's role is written sympathetically and he does a great job with it; even Clarence's own Brooklyn, Pamela Britton, is cute and charming... as close as one could get to Betty Garrett without being Garrett herself! Sinatra is adorable with those blue eyes and curls of his, and plays the innocent boy-man wonderfully (a role he reprises in ON THE TOWN). His singing is, as usual, simply faultless from enunciation through to timing and phrasing. His solo numbers might seem to drag a little, but when you've got the voice of a century, showcasing it is probably as good a reason as any to slow up the rest of the film!Gene Kelly's sheer genius in this film is worthy of its own paragraph. Third in the billing behind Sinatra and Grayson respectively, ANCHORS AWEIGH really is Kelly's film. His Joe Brady is a believable, real character--he's tough on the outside, glib and willing to lie when necessary to win a gal, but he's actually the biggest softy on the inside. Kelly makes this charming rather than cloying, but also gives Joe a real edge that you see in the scene when Joe chases Brooklyn around the room with a genuinely murderous look on his face and his breakfast tray in his hands. And the *dancing*--again, the film suffers from the 'too much of a good thing spoils the effect' syndrome, as it does with Sinatra's singing. But once again, if it's Gene Kelly doing the softshoe, or tapping across the screen in a sailor's outfit or dressed up as a bandit chief... might as well err on the side of overdoing it! All of Kelly's dances are breathtaking, be it the pared-down simplicity of his tap number with Sinatra to 'I Begged Her', his 'Mexican Hat Dance' with the sweet wide-eyed little girl, or his lavish Spanish-influenced dance 'La Cumparsita'. Of course, the classic image left in audiences' minds for all time would be Kelly in his red, white and blue sailor suit, dancing with Jerry Mouse of 'Tom & Jerry' fame. A well-deserved golden film memory, to be sure--it's not often that one can say you're impressed by the special effects in a film made in 1945, given the saturation of CGI in the contemporary film market. But Gene and Jerry still look great, with Kelly always hitting his spots and looking exactly where he needs to look. It *would* turn out that just about the only people who could really keep up with Gene Kelly would be Kelly himself (in COVER GIRL) and a cartoon animation. It's doubtless that this first daring, inventive Kelly dance with Jerry has reserved a place for ANCHORS AWEIGH in film history and the hearts of classic film buffs. But it's also notable for being the first of three Kelly/Sinatra film collaborations, and though rather too drawn-out, still a great couple of hours of entertainment. Watch it first, then again and maybe again--it'll grow on you before you realise it! 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"All Kinda Mixed-Up And - Interesting","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"       MGM was intent on making the most of its hot new properties Kelly and Sinatra in this affable sailor saga.  The stars' characters were created with maximum screen impact in mind, and were to be retained (with minor adjustments) in Take Me Out To The Ball Game and On The Town.  Gene Kelly plays Joe Sea Wolf Brady, the twinkle-eyed Irish womaniser who never quite seems to get a woman.  Clarence Brooklyn Doolittle, Sinatra's screen persona, was put together as a blatant attempt to pander to his bobbysoxer following.  He is the bashful, slightly geeky ingenu, pushing his cuteness for all it's worth - the romantical type fella.     Anchors Aweigh set the pattern for a whole assembly line of MGM musicals to come, and one could almost say it established an art-form.  Kelly did the choreography, and his first-ever 'dream ballets', two of them, are on display here - the famous pas de deux with Jerry The Mouse, and the Zorro interlude.  The dance sequences are brimming with innovative ideas - mixing human action with animation, artistic use of slow motion, 'playing' the items on the craft stall and bouncing on the beds in the servicemen's hostel.     MGM itself appears, almost as a character in the movie, with self-indulgent shots of the art deco facade and the bustle of the back lot.  Jose Iturbi, the Spanish musical director contracted to MGM at the time, plays himself in a slightly odd role.  He is the big noise at the studio whom Aunt Susie is anxious to impress, and in a bid to give the meandering storyline some cohesion, he opens the film conducting the Navy band (this strange set-up is 'explained' in a later throwaway line he was brought in to tighten-up the Navy's musical style).  There are two problems with giving Iturbi an important role in the movie - one, nobody has ever heard of Jose Iturbi, and two, his Valencian accent is so strong that it renders him virtually unintelligible.  But anyhow, Iturbi conducts the said Navy band, and then an orchestra on the MGM sound stage, playing a Rhapsody In Blue rip-off.  He presides over Aunt Susie's auditon, and plays some classical stuff at the keyboard (including an interesting Hungarian Rhapsody at the Hollywood Bowl, with massed pianos).     The plot (if that is not too choate a term for it) goes thus an aircraft carrier puts in at San Diego, and two sailors are given shore leave.  They encounter a little boy who leads them to his pretty Aunt Susie, a taco joint chanteuse who dreams of the big time.  Without giving the game away, I can reveal that more than one person falls in love Susie, leading to the customary complications and misunderstandings.  The energy and exuberance of the performances, and particularly that of Kelly, carry the madcap action along nicely, and the eccentricities of a storyline which goes from mariachi groups to Tom And Jerry don't seem so very outlandish after all.  This new brand of musical comedy, breaking completely with the pre-war conventions of tuxedos and ocean liners, is attractive and refreshing.     Young Mister Sinatra, under a separate contract from the others, sings numbers specially written for him by Jules Styne and Sammy Cahn.  By far the best of these formulaic boy-crooner ballads is the final one, I Fall In Love Too Easily.  Throughout the film, Frank sings in his upper register, aiming for a light ballad sound, and consequently not doing any justice to that reedy baritone voice.     The film has attractive visual gimmicks, quite apart from the man-and-cartoon-mouse stuff. Iturbi plays a transparent keyboard, shot from below.  In a clever comment on the storyline, Joe rises from the table and physically comes between Clarence and Susie.  The string section of the orchestra is filmed playing pizzicato in the reflection of Iturbi's grand piano.     Katherine Grayson is more than adequate playing the female ingenue, and her voice is spectacular, if a little too showy and operatic.  The screen test is a knockout coloratura performance.       The film falls away a little towards the end.  The Hollywood Bowl is incorporated, one feels, merely to give the movie a photogenic location to use, and this passage distorts the storyline somewhat.  The fallings in and out of love are totally arbitrary, and the resolutions hurried and thin.  But for all that, Anchors Aweigh is fun to watch, and its stylistic innovations paved the way for the great MGM musicals of the next ten years. "},{"Title":"Musical comedy at its best","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Everything a musical comedy should be. Gene Kelly (as Joe Brady) doesn't miss a step, and Frank Sinatra (as Clarence Doolittle) doesn't miss a note. Scenes with them together are very good, showing how much talent can add to a somewhat uneven plot. Sinatra's I Fall in Love Too Easily is an indication of his then and future best. Kelly's Mexican Hat Dance with a young Mexican girl is delightful. Kelly certainly earned his nomination as Best Actor. And there is a bushel of truly funny lines, like You think the navy takes dopes?; You think anybody sings a sailor to sleep?; and, We got in a little trouble, we picked up a little kid. A thoroughly enjoyable movie, just the thing for shaking off the dust of a recently concluded World War II.  "},{"Title":"A Kingpin Of A Musical With A Dancing Rodent","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" In the Citadel film series book The Films of Gene Kelly, Anchors Aweigh is described as a kingpin of a musical. I sure can't do better than that. It's such an important film in both the careers of Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra. Kathryn Grayson didn't do too badly with this either.Louis B. Mayer had lent Gene Kelly out to Columbia where Harry Cohn had an inspiration to let Kelly choreograph his own numbers and because of it, Cover Girl became a classic. So if Mayer didn't learn a lesson, producer Joe Pasternak did and allowed Kelly artistic control. When Anchors Aweigh was finished, Fred Astaire at last had a dancing rival for monarch of cinema dance.The main number everyone talks about with Gene Kelly here is the dance with Jerry Mouse. Originally Kelly wanted to do the number with Walt Disney's Mickey Mouse, but Disney wasn't lending Mickey out to nobody. Mickey would have to wait until Who Framed Roger Rabbit to do an outside film. Not to worry because MGM had it's own animated rodent one half the team of Tom and Jerry.Kelly as dancer always strived to do something new and different on screen as did Fred Astaire. For the next dozen years, these two were allowed all kinds of artistic control and were praised for their work even if the films themselves weren't up to snuff. It was like each inspired the other to bigger and better creativity, Kelly for MGM, Astaire for MGM and any number of other studios. In Anchors Aweigh, Kelly got Sinatra to dance a bit. In fact Frank Sinatra always gave credit to Gene Kelly for showing him how musicals should be done as he gave credit to both Burt Lancaster and Montgomery Clift for their help in earning him is Oscar for From Here to Eternity.When Frank Sinatra had half of his contract bought from RKO by MGM he insisted on a little artistic creativity on his own. He'd become friends with the songwriting team of Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn. In his autobiography Sammy Cahn tells about how Sinatra insisted that they write his songs for this film. Louis B. Mayer gave in and the team wrote some really fine ballads for him to sing. One of my favorite Sinatra numbers comes from Anchors Aweigh, I Fall in Love Too Easily. Frank sings it accompanying himself on the piano at an empty Hollywood Bowl. It's Sinatra at his best. With Jule Styne and later with Jimmy Van Heusen, Sammy Cahn richly earned the title of having put more song lyrics in Frank Sinatra's mouth than any other person. They were lifetime friends and Cahn always credited Sinatra with this milestone boost in his career.On a bet Styne and Cahn said they could write a song just using a chromatic scale. They proved it in Anchors Aweigh when Kathryn Grayson put her soprano to work on All of a Sudden My Heart Sings. She also did some classical numbers.Here singing in fact is the basis of the plot. Two sailors on leave through a combination of circumstances meet up with Kathryn Grayson and her orphaned nephew Dean Stockwell. Trying to fix her up with Sinatra, Kelly says he can get her an audition with Jose Iturbi. They spend the film trying to accomplish just that. My only disappointment in Anchors Aweigh was that Pamela Britton, who plays the waitress 'Brooklyn' never got a number herself. She had gotten rave reviews from her performance as Meg Brockie in Brigadoon on Broadway and that's what brought her to Hollywood. I have a suspicion she had a number that was cut and somewhere in MGM's vaults it might still be.Anchors Aweigh is a great example of why musicals just aren't made any more. All that creative talent was under contract to Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer. If you had to pay market value for it, the cost might retire some third world country's debt.But the film results would be extraordinary. "},{"Title":"One of the best examples of dance ever...","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" The only reason I give this movie 8/10 stars, and not 10, is because 1) Sinatra is awful and 2) the love interest of Kelly's character leaves much to be desired, (IMHO). Do love that Dean Stockwell, Quantum Leap - Al, is the little boy. The dance sequence with Jerry Mouse is one of the most entertaining and amazing dance sequences I have ever seen. Tom and Jerry is still a personal favorite of mine and my daughter's. I'm 28 and she's 4, so while the character is less iconic than Mickey, he is still a favorite of many children and adults today. Kelly is as always captivating, his eyes full of fun and excitement. In every movie I have ever seen him in, he always steals the show. One of the best dancers of the 20th century. It is no wonder Paula Abdul sampled Kelly's moves. I would also list Gene Kelly as one of the most beautiful people of the 20th century. If you were to watch only one part, don't miss Kelly's dance with Jerry Mouse. You will NOT be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Overstuffed","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" There are some great bits in the film but this is not a good film. They have taken some of the best talent on the MGM lot at its zenith and produced a long, meandering, hugely inconsistent film with no pacing and no plot. The worst offense is....no charm. It is all a huge waste of fabulous production values and many talented contributors. I think a significant part of the lack of charm is the way MGM handled Mr. Sinatra. Frank was not the kind of white bread handsome hunk who gets the girl in an MGM picture. So they have him end up with a more comic or ethnic type better suited to his kind. They did it in this picture and in several others. Considering Mr. Sinatra's well documented appeal to women, the joke, in the long run, was on Mr. Mayer and his minions. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Full Of Life","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Overall this is a delightful, light-hearted, romantic, musical comedy.  I suppose a small case could be made for the movie being to long.  But I'm not sure what you would cut out.  The singing that Kelly and Sinatra do?  No.  The fabulous dancing that Kelly does?  No.  The time the movie takes to develop the story line and develop the relationships of the characters?  No (that seems to be a common complaint many times that more recent movies don't develop the characters).Some comment that Iturbi didn't bring much to the movie but this gives us a chance to see and hear a great talent from the 1040s.  So what if he wasn't an actor?  He was an important part of the movie as the basic plot was to get Grayson an audition with him.  Originally Katherine Grayson wanted to be an opera star.  Louis B. Mayer brought her to MGM for a screen test that included an aria.  During her audition in the movie there is a shot of the MGM brass nodding and smiling.  You can just imagine it was like that when she had made her real screen test years before.This movie is so full of life it is hard to hit all of the highlights.  Great use was made of color and lighting throughout the movie.  You can see why Frank Sinatra became the star he did.  A nice counter-point in the movie is how Sinatra (a ladies man even then) played the role of wanting to just find a date while on leave.  You'll feel good after seeing this movie.  7/10 "},{"Title":"nostalgia, unlimited","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Since I first saw Anchors Aweigh in 1945, viewing it on videotape holds a lot of nostalgia for me. At age 15, it was easy for me to be drawn into the first of the great MGM Technicolor musicals. Now I am perhaps most interested in thinking about the future careers of the leading players. Though Sinatra had done a couple of negligible films soon after his emergence after his Dorsey days, as a solo singer, this was his first major film appearance. As another viewer noted, this seems almost to be a warm-up for On the Town. Sinatra may have had to work hard at it, but his dance with Kelly is credible, and he would do better in their next pairings. However, observing his physique, it's easy to see why he was caricatured as a string bean. Who would have imagined that within a decade he would win an academy award for acting, and go on to play many roles as a tough detective or leader in combat. Though Gene Kelly's personality and dancing dominated this film, his winsome performance did not suggest that he would become a major creative force, almost the iconic figure, for MGM musicals, where he developed a style of dance complementary to that of Fred Astaire. Finally, it was strange to see the fresh-faced Dean Stockwell and remember that he would later play a thrill killer in Compulsion, based on the Leopold-Loeb murder from the 1920s. An additional note One reviewer praised the performance of Betty Garrett as Sinatra's love interest. She later played opposite him in On the Town, but Pamela Britton was featured in this film. "},{"Title":"the dancing debut of Jerry Mouse","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Famous for the scene where Gene Kelly dances a duet with Jerry Mouse, this zippy musical is also the one where Kathryn Grayson trills 'Jealousy', and Frank Sinatra sings in the arena of a thousand pianos ('I Fall in Love Too Easily').  Grayson is a young mother who wants more than anything else to be in the movies.  Her little boy (Dean Stockwell, who would turn up much later in TV's Quantum Leap) wants to join the US forces, and so he meets sailors Kelly and Sinatra heading out for a bit of leave.  There are some echoes of 'On the Town' in this movie, but not enough to spoil the mix.  "}{"Title":"Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly  singing and dancing on the shore","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Joseph Brady and Clarence Doolittle are two sailors, who have a four-day shore leave in Hollywood.Joe knows everything about girls and can't wait to see Lola, while Clarence is shyer and needs some advice from his buddy on how to meet girls.They then run into a little boy, Donald Martin, who has ran away in order to join the navy.They take him home and meet his beautiful aunt Susan, who wants to be a singer.Clarence wants Susie to be his girl, but his shyness gets in the way.But he doesn't feel shy with a waitress, who comes from Brooklyn, like he does.Soon Joe notices he's in love with Susie.The boys are in a fix when they lie to Susie on meeting with a big time music producer they don't even know.As they are in a fix with their feelings.George Sidney's Anchors Aweigh (1945) is a great musical comedy.Gene Kelly is top-notch, once again, in his singing and dancing routines.Frank Sinatra is terrific as the shy guy from Brooklyn.Shy isn't the first thing that comes to mind when you think of Frank Sinatra, but he plays his part well.Kathryn Grayson is fantastic as Susan Abbott.We sadly lost this gifted actress and operatic soprano singer last month at the age of 88.The 9-year old Dean Stockwell does amazing job as the little fellow wanting to become a sailor.Jose Iturbi does great job performing himself.It's magic what he does with the piano.Edgar Kennedy plays Chief of police station.Sara Berner is the voice of Jerry Mouse.There's a lot of great stuff in this movie and some fantastic singing and dancing numbers.Just look at Kelly and Sinatra performing We Hate to Leave.It's so energetic.If You Knew Susie (Like I Know Susie) is quite funny.It's a nice moment when Frank sings Brahms' Lullaby to little Dean Stockwell.It's lovely to listen to Grayson singing the tango Jealousy .The most memorable sequence is the one that takes into the animated fantasy world, and there Gene sings and dances with Jerry Mouse.Also Tom Cat is seen there as the butler.They originally asked Mickey Mouse but he refused.The movie was nominated for five Oscars but Georgie Stoll got one for Original Music Score.Anchors Aweigh is some high class entertainment. "},{"Title":"Goes on...and on...and on...and on...","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I like those old MGM musicals - Gene Kelly, Judy Garland, and the gang - but this was not one of them. At a bloated 2 hours and 23 minutes, it goes on long after it should have ended. It seemed like every three minutes, there was some excuse for a musical number. People would just up and sing. Jose Iturbi is a fantastic pianist, but there are so many times that the plot takes a back seat for him to play the piano. Interminable dance routines. All of this gets distracting. Kathryn Grayson is extremely tolerant of these strange sailors who barge in and out of her house, lie to her, and interfere in her private affairs.The only parts that are worth tuning in for is the wonderful cartoon sequence with Tom & Jerry, as well as Iturbi's performance at the Hollywood Bowl accompanied by a group of teenage virtuosos. "},{"Title":"Overlong, but watchable with a memorable sequence with Gene Kelly and a certain mouse","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Anchors Aweigh is not a favourite of mine by all means, but I do enjoy it. It is overlong, the story is somewhat slight and the dialogue is unexceptional. Despite its failings, it is enjoyable. The production values are pleasing to the eye, while the score and songs are very pleasant and the choreography sprightly. The direction is good enough, while the pace while slightly mannered I had little problem with, as there are certain delights that stop the film from being dull. The cast, dancing and singing are excellent. Gene Kelly is always likable and here is no exception, while Frank Sinatra delights with his beautiful voice and and Kathryn Grayson is graceful and beautiful. The real delight though is the film's most famous sequence and no surprise really, the sequence when Kelly dances with Jerry of Tom and Jerry fame is as clever as it is memorable. So overall, not exceptional by all means, but there is much to enjoy still. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Another Magical MGM Musical","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Anchors Aweigh is the product of the classic MGM musical production unit, and on the whole the film is every enjoyable &#150; good music by Jule Styne and others, excellent dancing by Gene Kelly (and even a passable job by Frank Sinatra), and a funny well-paced script. The only major element I would criticize would be the casting of Kathryn Grayson, whose presence in a film always means the audience will be subjected to endless pseudo-operatic warbling from the petite Miss.Kelly plays a naval serviceman named Joseph Brady, a man with a mythic reputation around the ship as a lover but whose Valentino-charms are constantly being subdued by the presence of his less cocksure friend with the improbable middle-American name of Clarence (Sinatra). Upon receiving 3 days of shore leave for saving Clarence's life, Joe reluctantly agrees to help Clarence find a girl based on the dubious premise that he owes him something for saving his life. They are drafted by a policeman (Rags Ragland), who needs them to help coax a precocious young boy (Dean Stockwell) who wants to join the Navy into returning home to Aunt Susan (Grayson). At first it is Clarence who is interested in wooing Aunt Susan but eventually Kelly's character emerges as the more likely candidate.There are several standout musical scenes but nothing to come close to Kelly's more famous work in films like Singin' in the Rain and American in Paris. The closest we get is a gimmicky sequence with Kelly's character in a fantasy sequence dancing with Jerry, the mouse from Tom and Jerry (although he seems to be closer in size to a dog or cat here than to a mouse). It's a startling sequence for its time but doesn't have enough complexity or emotion to really stand the test of time. I actually enjoyed the parts of the sequence that took place prior to the animation, where Kelly was using semi-balletic moves to emphasize the transition into the fantasy world and where we see him dance down a tunnel that looks like something right out of Alice in Wonderland.Eventually the characters find their way to Susan's favorite bar, a somewhat sanitized Mexican restaurant/bar in Tijuana. There the patrons happily allow Ms. Grayson to chirp her arias with abandon, and the management becomes very excited at the opportunity that Clarence and Joe have extended for her to sing with their friend Jose Iturbi (playing himself with a light humorous touch). Of course they've never met their friend Iturbi and they spend much of the film's length trying to reach him (in an amusing scene Sinatra's character meets Iturbi but mistakes him for a piano tuner and urges him to abandon tuning pianos and try a professional career), sneaking into the studio and the Hollywood Bowl, where Iturbi is rehearsing a surreal symphony comprised of dozens of young piano players &#150; you haven't seen anything like this outside of 1000 Fingers of Dr. T. Iturbi himself is a kind of a god-figure in the story &#150; he represents the opportunity for salvation from the drudgery of unfulfilling work and the possibility for fame and artistic achievement for the heroine. Everyone is 100% sure that as soon as Mr. Iturbi so much as hears Ms. Grayson, her operatic career will be a reality. The 3 primary characters are desperate to reach him and they think of him as some kind of remote and distant mythological figure &#150; a lot of the film's charm and humor comes from the contrast of this perception to the very down-to-earth real mannerisms of the maestro. And speaking of Iturbi's contributions to the film, he also provides a very stimulating musical moment with his orchestral interpretation of Donkey Serenade.When all is said and done, this is a film that nobody who enjoys musicals will want to miss. The majority of the music was written for this film, a nice contrast to recycled soundtracks for other Kelly opuses like Rain and American. Kelly is still at his early peak, adventurous and boisterous in both his dances and his interpretation of the character. Sinatra's voice was never in better form and he rarely had better songs to sing. Stockwell is a charming addition to the clan, and Grayson's character is endearing when she isn't posturing on stage. Iturbi adds that well-grounded but sophisticated tone that perfectly matches the atmosphere and style of the classic-era MGM musical. This is one of the better ones. "},{"Title":"One of Hollywood's worst musicals","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra play sailors on leave who get mixed up with Kathryn Grayson. They promise her an audition with musical director José Iturbi (playing himself) in order to get her in good with Sinatra, but the two sailors are unable to procure such an audition. Predictably, Kelly begins to fall for Grayson instead, but, luckily, the second female lead (Pamela Britton) attracts Sinatra's attention. This was the first iteration of this formula, which was used again in the other Kelly/Sinatra pairings Take Me Out to the Ball Game and On the Town, but the other two films did it better. Yes, even Take Me Out to the Ball Game. The difference? Ball Game wraps up its plot in an efficient 93 minutes, and has a few memorable songs (along with several very unmemorable ones). Anchors Aweigh runs for two hours and twenty minutes with this hackneyed plot. The songs are more in line with Sinatra's early crooning days, and several of the musical numbers here consist of classical music (not to knock classical music or anything, but it's just not what I want when watching a Hollywood musical). The film is best known for Gene Kelly's dance with MGM's Jerry the Mouse. That sequence is great. I also very much like the adorable Grayson, and the set design is often excellent. Otherwise, it's completely forgettable. "},{"Title":"The plot groans, but it's a vehicle for great fun, dance, and polite romance","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Anchors Aweigh (1945)In some ways this movie is so innovative and fresh, it's hard to fault. The mixed animation and Technicolor in one scene, the sheer variety of dances, the two great songs (amidst some ordinary ones), and some great dancing all make this a great movie.In parts. There is a lot of filler&#x97;a lot, and at times it almost kills the movie. But then, suddenly, it takes a formal twist (more than a twist of plot) and is suddenly terrific. The plot? Formula, and not really the point. What matters is the song and dance (of course) and the leading actors Gene Kelly (wonderful) and Frank Sinatra (a great singer and at this young age a mediocre actor). But it's great to see both, on any level, and to see both together. And to see the real cartoon characters Tom and Jerry act with the mere actors.The Technicolor is great, and there are scenes of MGM back in those glory days that are almost worth it alone (brief as they are). Look for I Fall in Love Too Easily as a highlight. But let's be honest, the plot is a mishmash of mini- events, the leading actress Kathryn Grayson (with a harsh soprano voice) is an old-fashioned taste more famous for other movies, and the insertion of pseudo- classical music strikes us in the 21st Century as interesting and unconvincing.I suppose this might amount to what makes the movie a great period movie. But be prepared to like it in spurts. But some of those spurts are really wonderful. "},{"Title":"The navy has landed","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Anchors Aweigh is a Technicolour MGM musical focusing on Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra as two sailors on shore leave in Hollywood.Kelly did the choreography on two dream sequences show dances which are the highlight of the film. The cameo from Tom and Jerry and the dance with with Jerry The Mouse is what makes this film well known. The other is the Paso Doble/Tango as Kelly playing a bandit which was impressive.The storyline of Sinatra being the young, naive sailor who falls for Aunt Susie and later the waitress from Brooklyn and Kelly as the more experienced one who has a girl waiting for him before being diverted to look after a young Dean Stockwell, a kid who plans to run off to the navy is a more humdrum affair.Sinatra never convinces as an innocent and looks too old (He was almost 30 years old.) Stockwell, who almost seventy years after this movie was made is still acting is a charm as the kid. There is good chemistry between Kelly and Sinatra and Kelly and Kelly and Grayson.The film is overlong and some of the songs just come across as a filler. A good try but not a classic MGM musical. "},{"Title":"not the best songs but everything else is great","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Anchors Aweigh (1945)5 word Summary2 sailors look for dames Anchors Aweigh is a fun comedic musical but it does have some issues. The story itself is fun and funny, however I don't think most of the songs were that great, which isn't good for a musical. The dances were great but the music could have been better. One song I did like is the one done with Jerry the Mouse. The piano playing by Jose Iturbi is also very good and entertaining. Gene Kelly plays the same roll he usually does, so its nothing special for him but he is still great. Frank Sinatra I think did much better, and showed his ability to play different roles. He usually plays a confident, smooth ladies man where in this film he plays a character who is awkward and shy, far from his best work but its good for his early work. Most of the minor characters are played well too. The highlight of the film is definitely the dance with Jerry the Mouse, it kind of has no real point to be in the film, it works, but seems unnecessary. It's a great dance and a great song and a very unique scene that hasn't really ever been copied or redone The movie by itself has some great laughs and is definitely worth watching, especially if you are a Gene Kelly or Frank Sinatra fan. It seems to be a little longer than it need to be but as long as that doesn't bother you its great. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A painfully long Gene Kelly film where he dances with Jerry mouse.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Right away Anchors Away delves into Navy and sea related iconography with a medley of related tunes over the title cards with significant imagery straight into a big naval orchestra performance immediately showcasing the films ostentatious choreography focusing on the film's inclusion of composer, Jose Iturbi. The audience is then introduced to a sickly looking Sinatra and Kelly, who after being awarded the silver star, prepare for four days leave to hit the town with the same flamboyance as the opening scene suggests. Following a random scene with a little kid, Sinatra reveals his cuckold fantasies as he wishes to watch Kelly chat up his girl on the mainland so he knows what it's like to be a real man. All this interaction is cut short when corrupt police officers take the two protagonists to the station without arresting them so they can be acquainted with the random orphan boy we met earlier who wants to learn more about the navy. This starts a whiz bang friendship between the two leads and the boy's Aunt Sue. Cue love triangle. The working class humour of Gene Kelly that have made his films less dated then most other musicals of the Golden Era of Cinema is completely on show here where the audience is treated to humorous dance numbers about hooking up with women and sarcastically showing sympathy to fellow crew members when they're awarded with leave. Out of nowhere, pandering to the South American market (who were contributing in the war effort or something like that.) occurs when the characters end up in Mexico. It's this sort of randomness that occur in the film's painful 2hr 19minutes run length that distract the viewer from being fully engaged in the film compared to stronger Kelly efforts like An American in Paris or the near-perfect musical Singin' in the Rain. It's not surprising then when the most memorable sequence is about Kelly as he tells a group of children a fairy tale involving himself and a group of animated anthropomorphic woodland critters provided by the MGM animation department that climaxes with an iconic dance off between Kelly and Jerry mouse from Tom and Jerry. The sequence has absolutely no relevance to the film's paper thin plot but it doesn't matter and it's neat seeing an animated mouse upstaging Jose Iturbi in the star power department. I imagine musicals like these were a way for young people to spend a day out of the house rather than sitting at home and being on the Internet or watching TV like today. Anchors Away has very little to do with cause and effect story development here and more to do with killing time. When do they sing New York? "},{"Title":"Jerry the Mouse debuts as a dancer","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Kathryn Grayson, and Jose Iturbi star in Anchors Aweigh, directed by George Sidney.Kelly and Sinatra are Joe and Clarence, two navy guys on leave in Hollywood. They meet a little boy (Dean Stockwell) and on taking him home, they meet his aunt (Grayson). Clarence falls for her. She wants an audition for Jose Iturbi. They try to help, but there's a mix-up.This is a very energetic musical with great dancing and singing by Kelly and Sinatra. Kelly gets to dance with Jerry the Mouse in a delightful sequence. Grayson sings Jalousie and My Heart Sings. Not one of my favorite voices, but she does well. Iturbi's piano work is beautiful.Sinatra gets to show his versatility and why the girls swooned over him, with those big blue eyes and boyish face. For Kelly, this was a major break for him at MGM.Wonderful movie, very buoyant. "}{"Title":"Fun Prelude to On the Town","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Similar to On the Town, this musical about sailors on shore leave falls short of the later classic in terms of pacing and the quality of the songs, but it has its own charms. Kelly has three fabulous dance routines one with Jerry the cartoon mouse of Tom and Jerry fame, one with a little girl, and a fantasy sequence where he is a Spanish lover determined to reach his lady on a high balcony. Sinatra, playing Kelly's shy, inexperienced buddy, and Grayson, the woman who serves as the love interest for both men, do most of the singing. Iturbi provides some fine piano playing. At nearly two and half hours, it is a bit too long for a light musical but it doesn't drag. "},{"Title":"Think About WHEN This Movie Was Made","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" The United States was still fighting World War II (the movie was released in between VE day and VJ day). Any studio worth its salt was either making fighting movies where fearless American soldiers beat the enemy, or Americans in general were singing and dancing. Technicolor Musicals were what America thrived on in the depressing days when everything was rationed. Most musicals of the day were simply a bunch of musical numbers strung together with the best available plot slipped in to fill time til the next musical number! I get the feeling now that the people reviewing this movie were all born after 1970. Depressing how quickly we forget.This film could've been called The Search for Jose Iturbi but now everyone wonders why. Allow me to explain. From 1929--his arrival in America--until his death in 1980, Iturbi was one of the finest pianists to grace a concert stage. He agreed to do a few movies in 1942, but Hollywood had been after him for nearly a decade at that time. Not only an excellent pianist, but a successful conductor as well, Iturbi was very much a household word for more than 40 years. The scene where Iturbi and 17 other pianists play one of Liszt's Rhapsodies was planned early on--and hasn't anyone ever noticed the other pianists were all children? Joe Pasternak, who produced that movie & many other MGM musicals, credited Iturbi with interesting America's youth in classical music. Grayson's wanting an audition with Iturbi in the movie was not unlike real life at the time. Everyone wanted Iturbi back then. The joke among soldiers was that GI meant Get Iturbi (he did a lot of concerts at military bases).Gene Kelly was a great dancer and Frank Sinatra an excellent singer, but at the time this movie was made Sinatra was barely 30 and had only been under contract to Columbia Records for four years. Kelly was already well-known as a dancer, but Iturbi had by then been a world-wide sensation for 20+ years.And as to the lack of a plot, Americans didn't need plot. They were tired of war, they were sick with fear for their loved ones, and worried about the future. They needed happiness and hope and the assurance that things would work out fine in the end. They needed music and smiles and joy and romance. This movie and others like it delivered just what was needed.Enough lecturing. Mouse dancing aside, the best scene in the movie occurs between Sinatra and Iturbi with each of them ignorantly complimenting the other's music.If you have any interest in Jose Iturbi, the Spaniard who conquered more of America than De Soto, Cortez, and De Leon put together, please drop by my website, www.joseiturbi.com, where you can find a plot summary, excerpts from movie reviews of the day and pictures from this and certain other MGM musicals of the 1940's, as well as a biography and discography of Iturbi.Trout "},{"Title":"I had forgotten how good this one was !","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Usually musicals in the 1940's were of a set formula - and if you studied films you know what I'm talking about - a certain running lenghth, very showy performances that were great on the surface but never got into the real personalities of the characters etc.THIS ONE IS DIFFERENT - and light years better and well worth it's nomination for best picture of the year - 1945 (although had no chance of beating the eventual winner - Lost Weekend).Gene Kelly was probably in the best form of his career - yes I know about American in Paris and Singing in the Rain. This one is different. He really gets into his character of a sea wolf thinking (at first) that picking up any girl while on leave is nothing more than a lark. And if you had to make up a story to get her - so be it - until. Sort of like the Music Man when he gets his foot caught in the door. The eventual hilarity of the film stems mostly from his and his new pal (Sinatra)'s attempt to make the story good in order to get the girl that he REALLY and unexpectedly falls in love with. You are going to have to see the movie to see what I mean.Besides that there are so many other elements of great film in this one, it's a classic buddy story, nostalgia to a time when WWII was almost over (the war ended about a month after the films release), a realization that a guy that always laughed at life can find out that he really is a great human being, great songs and probably a few other elements of classic film making that I can't think of right now.Why not a 10? Near the end - at nearly 2 1/2 hours starts to feel a bit long. There is a small ballet number that Gene Kelly does that must have been a sensation in 1945 but seems dated and feels like it just adds minutes now. But overall, this ones a definite winner on every level. "},{"Title":"Maybe George Sidney was a bit too eager to discard some anchors, but this is still a good film","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Although in my opinion this is one of the lesser musicals of stars Frank Sinatra, Gene Kelly, Kathryn Grayson and director George Sidney, a lesser musical featuring anyone from that line-up is nothing to sneeze at, and in conjunction, the line-up makes Anchors Aweigh a pretty good film despite its flaws.Sinatra and Kelly are Clarence Doolittle and Joseph Brady, respectively, two Navy men. As the film begins, they're just pulling in to the Los Angeles area for some much needed leave. Brady plans on visiting a girlfriend named Lola. Doolittle is still a bit wet behind the ears, appropriately enough, and seeks advice on women from Brady in private (publicly, scriptwriter Isobel Lennart and Sidney have all of the Navy men comically exaggerating their finesse with women to each other). Brady promises to help get Doolittle hooked up, but primarily because Doolittle won't leave him alone otherwise. A kink is put into their plans when local police basically force them to assist with a young boy who is obsessed with the Navy. He won't give the police any information about who he is or where he lives. Brady helps and he and Doolittle end up taking the boy back home. When the boy's guardian, Susan Abbott (Grayson), finally shows up, Doolittle goes gaga for her. Brady tries to convince him to forget about her; Brady just wants to get back to Lola. But they keep getting coaxed back to Abbott's home, and eventually something of a love triangle forms. Things become more complicated when Brady lies about Doolittle knowing a famous musician, Jose Iturbi, who is in residence at a film studio, and claims that Doolittle has set up an audition for Abbott, who is a singer and actress, in front of Iturbi.Because of the story, the music is a strange combination of militaristic music--because of the Navy premise, obviously, Broadway pop--what the stars tend to sing in more informal settings, opera--what Abbott's character excels at, Liberace-like popular classical--what Iturbi did, and Mexican music--because Abbott frequents a Mexican restaurant in a Mexican section of L.A. The combination doesn't work as well as it could. Plenty of the songs are good, and everyone involved is certainly talented as a singer or musician, but the genre hopping tends to lose coherence. Worse, there are a couple showcases for Iturbi, who was apparently a big star at the time, that effectively bring the plot to a halt and that seem more than a bit hokey at this point in time. I just watched another film that happened to have outstanding music, Robert Altman's Kansas City (1996), but that misguidedly stopped the plot to periodically turn into a concert film. Anchors Aweigh takes a similar tactic. Yes, this is a musical, but there's a difference between songs that propel and are integral to the plot and concert showcases that seem like contractual obligation material.There are also some plot problems. It's not very well established why Brady is so against Doolittle's pursuit of Abbott. We can guess that Brady thinks Doolittle shouldn't become involved with someone who has to take care of a kid, and who seems relatively proper and traditional, but on the other hand, Brady can tell that Doolittle doesn't have the same womanizing disposition that Brady admits of himself. Abbott seems like a good fit for Doolittle, and furthermore, Lennart works hard to establish that Brady just wants to get Doolittle out of his hair and get on with meeting Lola--it seems that Brady's character should be quickly pawning Doolittle off on any candidate, whether she's a good fit or not. This might seem like a minor detail, but it's actually the hinge for about a third to half of the plot. The story also seems a bit drawn out. Length is a problem. Anchors Aweigh, clocking in at roughly two hours and twenty minutes, should have been cut down by at least a half-hour.The above surely sounds like I'm complaining about the film too much to justify an 8. I just wanted to stress what I see as flaws, because the conventional wisdom on Anchors Aweigh is much closer to the idea that it has no flaws.Sinatra, Kelly and Grayson are certainly charismatic, separately and together. They turn in good, interesting performances. Sinatra looks and acts much younger than his actual age of 29 &#150; 30 while shooting. He plays an unusually naïve, virginal character--completely different than most of the roles he would take later, and different than his public image as a crooner. For Kelly, this was his breakthrough film, and rightfully so. His choreography is varied and impressive, as is his acting. Grayson is charming, her performance is sophisticatedly understated, and she's simply gorgeous. All of this helps override the flaws with the script and the drawn out pacing.And there's even a very interesting element that probably only arises because Sidney was allowed to sprawl over a large variety of moods--the infamous Kelly dance with Jerry the Mouse (of Tom and Jerry fame) in an extended fantasy sequence. This is one of the earliest examples of combining live action and animation, and it is extremely well done and enjoyable as long as you're a fan of fantasy. The fantasy sequences tend to be the best of the film. Matched in excellence to the dance with Jerry the Mouse is a long song and dance number featuring Kelly and Grayson, where Brady is imagining Abbott in a scene from a period film while he woos her, having to resort to acrobatic stunts to reach her physically as she stands on a high balcony.As uneven and flawed as the film is, it is largely successful and entertaining to watch. Fans of classic musicals certainly shouldn't miss Anchors Aweigh, and neither should Sinatra fans, who'll get quite a kick out of his character. "},{"Title":"If you don't like musicals, this isn't the movie for you!","Date":"11 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" There is a lot of music in this movie which is to be expected for a musical. I found the plot structure to be lacking in this film because of all of the music that they were trying to cram in to the film. Overall, I enjoyed the music although those who have a greater appreciation for music might be able to elaborate more on the positives and negatives of the musical elements of this film. The sound in this film was overall very good and made the film that much more realistic. The cinematography in this film helped to make a little more sense of all the music. The light in some parts of this film was almost overpowering and I think took aweigh (hahaha) from some of the action that was happening on screen. "},{"Title":"Lin Chen-Anchors Aweigh","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Full of fun love comedy story, combined with the right song and dance makes more than two hours of film joy. The middle section of the song and dance show Jean Kelly and the reality of the most impressive and the pool side of the dance with the little girl is perfect. Two people together to sing and dance good passages. Separate part of a bit long, but the movie feature is a long time, why even Hungarian Rhapsody to complete again. When I remember this is the first time to see a real person and the role of the animation show, then feel very fresh. Three happy sailors and three warm, silly girls, this is the most fun I have ever seen. The film also set off the victory of World War ii. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Surprisingly, I loved this movie. I'm not huge on musicals, but this movie was done incredibly well. Clarence and Joe were so lovable and such a great duo together. Donald was adorable and really pulled at my heartstrings. The kindness and silliness of Joe and Clarence as a pair was refreshing and I had a smile on my face the ought the entire movie. The songs were fun and light, and I think that's such a great thing to add to movies filmed during this time period. War was so embedded in the every day lives of people, it must've been a nice relief to enjoy leisure time and see a different side of the war- and how soldiers were real people too, and wanted the war to be over more than anyone. I also especially loved the high angles and panning of all of the pianists playing their piano on the stage towards the end of the film, it was a beautiful touch. "},{"Title":"Kelly and Sinatra anchor this MGM exercise in musical escapism&#x85;","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" In between the musical boom in the '30s, and the resurgence of the Hollywood musical in the early '50s with An American in Paris and Singin' in the Rain, there was Anchors Aweigh. A 1945 MGM musical starring Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and Kathryn Grayson, what we have here is not by any means cinema at its finest; rather, it is simply that wonderful brand of lighthearted escapism that Hollywood was famous for in its golden age.The Hollywood musical didn't by any means die off in the '40s, but it reached a low-point in popularity, by comparison to the cornucopia of musicals from every major studio in the '30s. As we know, the German director Ernst Lubitsch, having migrated to America in '23, brought the musical to life. His 1929 film The Love Parade, starring Maurice Chevalier and Jeannette MacDonald, was the first truly modern musical committed to the big screen. Lubitsch made several other similar musicals during the early '30s (Monte Carlo, The Smiling Lieutenant, and One Hour With Your). These films, made for Paramount, were, like everything Lubitsch, based in charisma, wit, and innuendo. After 1932, however, Lubitsch abandoned the musical, which was in the process of undergoing a vast transformation. The new musical was on the horizon, and it came bursting to life in 1933. RKO brought Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers to the screen with Flying Down to Rio. Warner Bros released three musicals helmed by the great Busby Berkeley 42nd Street, The Gold Diggers of 1933, and Footlight Parade -- all backstage musicals. MGM, who had a habit of, let's say, borrowing from Warner, released their own Berkeley knockoff called Dancing Lady. Extravagance and spectacle were the name of the game now. Large, ornate sets saw the production of grand, elaborate musical numbers. Only Paramount remained relatively low-key, with musicals like International House and College Humor. They were in the process of establishing names like W.C. Fields, George Burns, Gracie Allen, and, of course, Bing Crosby.This trend continued throughout the '30s. MGM released San Francisco and The Great Ziegfeld, along with three followups to their 1929 musical The Broadway Melody The Broadway Melody of 1936, The Broadway Melody of 1938, and The Broadway Melody of 1940. Warner Bros continued releasing Busby Berkeley musicals, like Dames, The Gold Diggers of 1935, and The Gold Diggers of 1937. Paramount had Bing Crosby in full form by 1936 when they released Rhythm on the Range, and two years later gave Bob Hope his feature debut in The Big Broadcast of 1938, followed by Give Me a Sailor, both of which costarred Martha Raye. RKO continued the now ultra-popular run of Astaire and Rogers films &#x97; Roberta, Follow the Fleet, Swing Time, Carefree, and others. And, finally, Fox hopped on the bandwagon with Pigskin Parade in 1936 (I'm sure there were Fox musicals before this, but I'm not familiar with any). Then, something happened. The war. World War II saw the necessity for propagandistic war films surging, which cut into the popularity of the musical. Or maybe musicals simply had run their course. In either case, the early '40s saw a significant drop-off in the production and popularity of Hollywood musicals. The one major exception was Fox. They kept the musical alive through the war years, with lavish Technicolor films starring the likes of Betty Grable, Alice Faye, and Don Ameche (i.e. Down Argentine Way, That Night in Rio, and Moon Over Miami).Interestingly, it is these Fox Technicolor musicals from the early '40s that provided the most obvious inspiration for MGM's Anchors Aweigh. Not only the use of color, but the general style and aesthetic of the film is very similar to Fox's musicals from earlier in the decade. Later, Anchors Aweigh would evolve into MGM's famous musicals from the early '50s &#x97; An American in Paris and Singin' in the Rain &#x97; which also starred Gene Kelly, and triggered the rebirth of the Hollywood musical. Gene Kelly is absolutely the centerpiece of this film. He is wonderful. He's among the most charismatic screen presences I've seen in Hollywood's history, and it never shows more than it does here. Kelly carries this film. Kathryn Grayson is decent in the lead female role, and Sinatra, the film's costar, is solid enough. I've never been that big on Frank Sinatra, but I find his younger self in this film much more amiable than his later roles.Anchors Aweigh is gorgeously shot. Like virtually all Hollywood commercial films, it lacks any artistic ambition, but the technical skills demonstrated by those who collaborated on the film are immense. The set design is extraordinary. The lighting is impeccable. Visually speaking, it's an amazingly attractive film, and at times it even seems to possess a distinctly painterly quality, which we are now bereft of with the digital realism of modern cinema. There is a side role for Dean Stockwell, a child actor who was popular at the time, and has been acting ever since. This was his second role. Also notable is José Iturbi, the Spanish conductor and piano prodigy who plays himself in the film. His presence reminds us of Oscar Levant in An American in Paris. Iturbi has multiple piano performances in the film, and they are truly a pleasure to behold. What a talent.Overall, this is a solid film. In the world of Hollywood musicals, I'd say it's a very good film. It's long, but it never gets tedious. It's good fun from start to finish. The musical numbers aren't astonishing, but they're good, on the whole. At the end of the day, though, Gene Kelly is the reason to show up for the film, and the reason to stay until it's over. His screen personality is very fun and a joy to watch, and that's about how I'd sum up the film itself.RATING 6.67 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Join the Navy!","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Anchors Aweigh is the first film of the Sinatra-Kelly trilogy, such an underrated comedic duo. Gene Kelly is loveably egocentric, constantly lying about his exploits with dames and rubbing the fact that he got leave in his comrades' faces so much that he sings a musical number about it. Frank Sinatra is largely the opposite, girl shy and completely gawky. A stark contrast to what he later became, he sure toughened up over time. The interactions between the two are priceless.Even with the odd background which is clearly two painted backdrops placed side by side with a dividing line clearly visible, creates a world cartoon like world that you wish real life could look like. The only downside to Anchors Aweigh which prevents it from being a potential masterpiece is the run time. After a while you start to get really sick of the amount of time which is spent in that kids' house, especially since the movie takes place in Hollywood and there are places so much more interesting they could be. Thankfully the good outweighs the bad, and the good isn't just good, it's amazingly good. Gene Kelly dancing with Jerry the Mouse, the 'I Begged Her' number or Kelly's dancing in the Spanish part of town, they're all so aching beautiful. "},{"Title":"The navy sings Horray For Hollywood!","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" While Broadway was singing New York, New York with Leonard Berntein's hit musical On the Town, MGM paid tribute to itself with this story of two sailors finding romance in tinsel town rather than the Big Apple. Of course, the same two stars, Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra, would do tribute to Manhattan just four years later with equal success, even if in retrospective, that movie musical is a shell of its Broadway self. In the case of Anchor's Aweigh, shy Sinatra is looking for a girlfriend, assisted by outgoing Kelly, and they both find love with classic aria singer Kathryn Grayson and the more gregarious Pamela Britton. Grayson is hoping for a screen test with orchestra leader Jose Iturbi to work both at Carnagie Hall and to appear in an MGM musical, so this gives the boys of the story an entrance to the Culver City lot where dreams are made.The story is slightly overlong, but simple, and it is presented in the most beautiful and lavish light, typical MGM gloss with high-end production values and an animation sequence that is today considered one of the classic moments of world cinema, let alone the American movie musical. That segment has Gene Kelly in a kingdom ruled by Jerry the Mouse, an unhappy monach who has forbidden singing and dancing because he believes he can't do it himself. Gene bounces Jerry off his ample muscles and they do some moves which are straight out of the much later break dancing. As seen in lush Technicolor, this segment is out of this world and a shear delight.The beautiful Kathryn Grayson sings a lovely rendition of Jealosy, and while her acting would improve in time, it is her singing here that you will remember. Sinatra introduced the standard I Fall in Love Too Easily, and gets to do a duet (I Begged Her) with Gene on a naval base, showing his dancing chops in this, his first MGM musical. A highlight of the film which hasn't gotten its due is a rendition of The Mexican Hat Dance where Gene performs with an adorable little girl, Sharon McManus (obviously not Mexican) in what appears to be set on Olivera Street in downtown L.A. The Freed unit, the leader in MGM musicals, ironically, didn't produce this one; Joseph Pasternak, who produced a series of Deanna Durbin musicals at Universal and later most of Grayson and Jane Powell's operatic films, was responsible, with George Sidney as director. To say they don't make em' like this anymore is a true understatement. "}{"Title":"Jolly, colourful fun","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" A jolly musical featuring a great double act in the pairing of Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly, who don't share quite as many song-and-dance numbers as you'd expect. ANCHORS AWEIGH charts the boisterous misadventures of a pair of sailors (Kelly and Sinatra) on three-day shore leave and the trouble that seems to follow them around.The sole problem with this movie is that it's overlong and, as is so often the case, it gets bogged down in an unnecessary romance around the halfway mark. It needed a little more music, a little more oomph, to make it truly great. Still, there's plenty to enjoy here, not least a wonderful performance from an agile and exuberant Gene Kelly, who outdoes Sinatra at every turn.The highlights of the movie are a couple of fantasy sequences. In one of them, a Spanish-themed interlude, we see Kelly serenading love interest Kathryn Grayson. However, it's the other moment, in which he enters an animated world and dances with Jerry from the TOM AND JERRY cartoons, which is the real highlight and a moment of pure brilliance. I always thought this kind of live action and animation mixing didn't occur until the days of WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT? but it looks like I was wrong; this dance is the icing on a slightly stodgy, but very tasty, cake. "},{"Title":"For the sake of the vaudeville triad","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I will not thumb my nose's at the usually stock Hollywood musicals, not with a combo of Sinatra's mellow show-tunes, Kelly's choreographic moves and Grayson's soprano renditions. Although screenwriter Isobel Lennart does not care a damn of the plausibility in the storytelling, but if you can swallow that, ANCHORS AWEIGH might find its comfy niche in overwhelming its contemporary viewers with its blatantly gaily romance and a cornucopia of vaudevillian assortments.An Oscar BEST PICTURE nominee (5 nominations and 1 win for George Stoll's music score), directed by versatile and prolific Hollywood journeyman George Sidney, my second film from his filmography after SCARAMOUCHE (1952, 6/10), ANCHORS AWEIGH runs approximate 140 minutes, collects an ever-high-octane Gene Kelly (it comes as a big surprise that he had earned only one Oscar nomination through his entire career, which is from this film), third-billed from the opening-credit, who however, splendidly embraces his efflorescence by spearheading as a multifaceted showman in transmitting his vigor and life-force into this otherwise average hedonism burlesque, the highlight surely is Kelly's duo dance with Disney's Jerry Mouse, a technique pioneers the animation-cum-live-action trend, and it is seamlessly dovetailed with utter originality, to which one can barely imagine how audiences could react during its premier over 70 years ago. And what's more relevant to present viewers, now we can realize from where the archetype of Jean Dujardin in THE ARTIST (2011, 8/10) comes and Kelly is much more competent. Sinatra in his incipient thirties, willowy as ever, his character may be flat and dopey, once he sings, one just wonders how miraculous is his slender figure could hone up to a marvelous instrument and produce that voice! Almost the same can be applied for Grayson only if she could veil her obvious contempt every time being addressed as Auntie Susan. Apart from the triad, among the supporting group is a genial Spanish conductor José Iturbi plays himself, his symphony of Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 with a dozen of pianists is a plain grandstanding but also a virtuoso achievement beside the point. And if I haven't perused the credits, I can never suspect that the young boy is Dean Stockwell, his big screen debut, also for Pamela Britton, unfortunately she doesn't even has a name in the film and billed as the girl from Brooklyn. "},{"Title":"Gene and Frank are perfect!","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Date August.25, 2012 -First Time Watch- On Gene Kelly's hundredth birthday, TCM ran a marathon of his movies and no surprise the three movies Gene starred in alongside Frank Sinatra were featured. I recorded all three and this is the first one I watched and boy what a way to start! This movie is just so sweet. The storyline is average but the way it was executed was fantastic! I couldn't but fall in love with both Gene and Frank. Gene's voice is amazing, especially when he first calls his girlfriend. The phone scene just makes you feel like your own boyfriend would talk to you that sweetly. Then there's Frank. Frank was just adorable! I love how he plays a guy who can't talk to girls when in fact he was with just with about everyone in Hollywood during that time. His sweetness throughout the movie makes you just wish you had a boyfriend like him. I definitely think if I was around during this time I would be a huge Sinatra fan. While this movie is just average, I have to give it extra point simply because of Gene and Frank. I can't wait to watch their other two films! 8/10 "},{"Title":"anchors aweigh is a-way better than many musicals","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Sure, Gene Kelly dominates with his Irish charm, dark good looks and, of course, his clever and always exciting choreography. I disagree with the reviewer who found Sinatra struggling. Granted, he was still young on the screen, but in this flick his personality matched his character. That was not the era of a brash Sinatra, but of a young novice sweet, innocent, still married to Nancy (wife and oldest daughter had the same name lest those with dirty minds go amuck)Frankie. Anyone who can keep up with Kelly deserves a medallion. Anyway, he sure can outsing most of today's chirpers.Speaking of singing, Jane Powell and Kathryn Grayson both got by on cutie pie looks and beautiful voices. Today's singers - most of 'em - screech. Those two have what I call talented voices.This is a flick with several highlights, the brightest, of course, being the trio of Kelly, Tom, and Jerry. The dance with little Sharon McManus, who had a fairly decent career after this movie, was pure delight, as was the Kelly pirate dance with its impressive leaps.Once again, Kelly donned a sailor suit as he later did in On the Town, and as he did in real life. He worked mostly at the U. S. Naval Photographic Center which, I assume was in D. C.For a little while he was stationed at a Marine base in Edenton, N. C., about 10 miles from where I live. A local historian, a former Marine, said he was a Lt.j.g. At one point, which old-timers remember, he came to the nearby town of Hertford (home of Jim 'Catfish' Hunter who was one of of my close friends). Kelly visited a carnival with a friend but, too many local yokels begged him for an autograph and asked him to dance. Kelly preferred peace and quiet and returned to the base. Part of that acreage was purchased by me several years ago. Parts of the old Marine hospital are still there.Back to Anchors Aweigh. If you haven't seen this MGM (meaning good movies) gem make it a point to check it out. If you have seen it, you damn well will want to see it again. "},{"Title":"everything but the kitchen sink musical","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I love these old musicals where they seemed to throw in everyone under contract with the studio. I love the classical music, with Iturbi's very old school highly arched fingers doing amazing things on the keyboard while he also conducted. I love bringing in the next generation of performers. I love the silliness. I love Gene Kelly giving the studio insurance agents palpitations in the bandit scene and calling Kathryn Grayson Aunt Susie. I love the whole wonderful mishmash. There's something for everyone and if it runs long, well, you can pick which musical number to miss for your bathroom break. ) I wish all the songs were credited at the end but that wasn't the custom then. This has one of my two favorite on screen renditions of the Hungarian Rhapsody. The other was done by Bugs Bunny being bedeviled by a mouse. These musicals are time capsules of great talents, fashions, musical tastes, and movie techniques. I've seen this many times and I hope to see it many more. "},{"Title":"An Above Average MGM Musical Romp...","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" ANCHORS AWEIGH is an entertaining MGM musical that fans of the genre will enjoy but I wouldn't rate it up there with classics like SINGIN IN THE RAIN or THE BAND WAGON. This was the first of three musicals that Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra appeared in together. Kelly and Sinatra play Joe Brady and Clarence Doolittle, two sailors on leave in Hollywood who befriend a young boy (Dean Stockwell)who introduces them to his attractive young aunt (Kathryn Grayson) a struggling actress who is working as an extra at MGM. Though both guys are initially attracted to Grayson, she eventually voices a preference to Joe but Clarence later hooks up with a waitress (Pamela Britton)who, he learns is from his hometown of Brooklyn. The paper-thin plot leaves room for several great musical numbers including We Hate to Leave, Joe and Clarence's lament to their fellow sailors as they're leaving the ship; Grayson's torrid rendition of Jalousie; Sinatra's dreamy rendition of I Fall in Love Too Easily (a number which is sadly deleted from some prints of this film), and The Worry Song, a fantasy dance that Kelly does with animated Jerry the Mouse from Tom and Jerry fame. Kelly also does a sort of Kissing Bandit fantasy ballet which rivals his Pirate's Ballet in the later THE PIRATE. Kelly is in peak form here, in a robust and energetic performance that earned him his only Oscar nomination for Best Actor and Sinatra's endearingly shy character here is undeniably sexy. An entertaining diversion for fans of the MGM musical factory. "},{"Title":"best scene in the film--at the Hollywood Bowl","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" A recent viewing of THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT has given me the urge to watch many of the classic MGM musicals from the forties and fifties. ANCHORS AWEIGH is certainly a lesser film than ON THE TOWN. The songs aren't as good, nor is the chemistry between the characters. But the film beautifully interweaves classical favorites, such as Tchaikovsky. And the scene at the Hollywood Bowl, with Sinatra and Kelly emerging from the woods above it at the top, and then running down the steps, while dozens of pianists play on the piano, is the best scene in the film, even though the scene in which Kelly dances with Jerry Mouse is more famous. Classical music enthusiasts will no doubt identify the music the pianists are playing. Sinatra then croons, I Fall in Love Too Easily, before having his epiphany about whom he loves. The color is beautiful, Hollywood looks pretty with its mountains and pollution-free air (Can you imagine Hollywood in the twenties, let alone the mid-1940s?!), and the piano music is absolutely glorious. MGM certainly had a flair for creating lyrical moments like these. "},{"Title":"One of the first of the Technicolor big productions, entertaining.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" One of the first of the best musicals, Anchors Aweigh features several memorable musical sequences, such as Kelly dancing with Jerry the mouse, Kelly dancing with 7-year-old Sharon McManus, Sinatra singing with Jose Iturbi playing piano, Kathryn Grayson singing with Iturbi conducting, and much more. The Technicolor is perfect, with some innovative camera work such as seeing a piano played from beneath, through transparent keys, and Grayson singing, seen through the finder of another camera. The plot is thin, but you get involved from Kelly's & Sinatra's enthusiasm. Sailor's on leave, they have to take home a runaway boy (Dean Stockwell) and Sinatra falls for his aunt. To set him up with the aunt (Grayson), Kelly suggests that Sinatra can get her an audition with Jose Iturbi. But Sinatra's young and naive in this one, and in his own sung words falls in love too fast. While they're trying to contact Iturbi, who's never available, he starts to fall for another girl (Barbara Britton); but Kelly's now falling love with Grayson. Anchors Aweigh is most often remembered for the combination live-action / cartoon sequence with Tom and Jerry, but there's a lot more here that's worth a look. I'm giving it nine stars because, while it's not quite as good as the best musicals - Singin' In The Rain, The Music Man, Oklahoma - it is one of the first of their class of Technicolor big productions (perhaps Meet Me In St. Louis was the first), and better than most others. "},{"Title":"Before They Went On The Town...","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Ah, a Kelly/Sinatra sailor-suit musical. So familiar, right? Yes, but this isn't the one you usually hear about. On The Town's that-a-way. But if you stick around, you might learn something. Okay, probably not. Anyway, Anchors Aweigh tells the story of two sailors on a three- or four-day leave. Joe is the Sea Wolf and Clarence, the bookish type, begs Joe to get him a dame. Now, after they're picked up by the coppers they get little Donald home. That's where they meet Susie, that temptress, that jezebel. Just kidding! Clarence falls in love with her. At least he thinks he does. Is he right? Or is he a moron? Or is he just misguided by society? Find out all this and more when you watch trumpet fanfare ANCHORS AWEIGH!P.S. If you want to see Kathryn Grayson be anything but sickeningly sweet, try Kiss Me Kate (1953).  "},{"Title":"Dated with a silly story but worth catching","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Two sailors are on leave--ladies man Joseph Brady (Gene Kelly) and shy innocent Clarence Doolittle (Frank Sinatra). They meet beautiful Susan Abbott (Kathryn Grayson) and both fall in love with her. There's more but you've probably guessed it.The story (even for a 1940s musical) is ridiculous and everything is so nice and wholesome--gets annoying pretty quick. Also this movie is far too long. It's 140 minutes and that's way too much for such a silly story. There are also some boring numbers by Jose Iturbi and his orchestra. Still this is worth catching.When Kelly is dancing or Sinatra or Grayson are singing this becomes magical. None of the songs are particularly memorable but Sinatra had such a beautiful voice you won't care. It's shot in rich Technicolor with all the gloss MGM had. The acting is OK--Kelly is fine (although seeing him as a ladies man is pushing it) and Sinatra is just great (although seeing HIM as a shy guy was pushing it too!). Grayson is given nothing to do but she's incredibly beautiful to look at. Some shots of her literally took my breath away! There are plenty of highlights here Sinatra and Kelly's big dancing and singing number; Sinatra singing anything; Grayson's two songs and the justly famous animated sequence in which Kelly dances with Jerry--an animated mouse! Tom does a funny cameo too. Also there's little Dean Stockwell who steals every scene he's in.So it's too long and the plot just doesn't hold up but it's still worth catching. This was a huge hit in its day. "}{"Title":"I fall in love too easily, I fall in love too fast.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Absolutely enjoyable singing and dancing movie starring Frank Sinatra and gen Kelly, as well as Kathryn Grayson.The film won and Oscar for George E. Stoll's score, and it garnered nominations for Best Picture, Best Actor for Kelly, and Best Cinematography, as well as a Best Son nomination for I Fall in Love Too Easily sung by Sinatra.It was a cute story about Kelly helping his pal Sinatra get a girl and falling in love with her himself. The lovely Grayson (The Toast of New Orleans) dazzled us with her singing, and we had a lot of great songs and dance routines by Kelly and Sinatra, as well as the artistry of pianist-conductor José Iturbi.A classic Hollywood music from an era gone by. "},{"Title":"The Greatest!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Incredibly ARTISTIC NOBODY COULD MAKE THEM NOW I THINK.It seem to be perfect the biggest and the greatest musical ever made listen to the beautiful songs the are quite poetry.I'M Italian AND ADMIRED BY American MUSICAL. why can't you do something like that now?American were the best and for that i absolutely show my devotion to you with this movie.there are words to describes the perfection of this movie. all of a sudden my heart sings, what makes the sunset? i fall in love to easily,jealousy...and the scene with Tom and Jerry. the greatest without reserve. if you you doesn't know your eyes are not open my friends you must see it and appreciate...wake up! "},{"Title":"Anchors Aweigh Too Long","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" At a bloated 143 minutes, there's no way this ambitious musical from MGM can hold together. Gorgeous color photography only shows up the cheap sets and rear projection used for this sound stage-bound film.Frank Sinatra (playing the dope again) and Gene Kelly (he can't act) play two sailors on leave who get saddled with a runaway kid (Dean Stockwell) and his Aunt Susie (Kathryn Grayson in a cloying performance). They get suckered into trying to get her an audition with Jose Iturbi at MGM. Along the way Kelly falls for Grayson and Sinatra gets stuck with a stiff from Brooklyn (Pamela Britton is a lousy performance).Maybe an OK story for the time, but the film is way too long and wanders all over the place, including several dance solos for Kelly and the famous cartoon sequence. Sinatra sings a few songs, Grayson squeals a few more, and Iturbi play piano. Co-stars in small roles include Billy Gilbert, Henry O'Neill, Henry Armetta, Edgar Kennedy, Rags Ragland, Renie Riano, Sharon McManus, and the always annoying Grady Sutton.The boys are such jerks, it's hard to warm up to them, and Grayson is all sugar and light to the point of nausea, and then she sings and sings and sings. Iturbi probably comes off best, and his Hollywood Bowl sequence is indeed excellent. Most annoying of all is Pamela Britton with her hideous attempt at a Brooklyn accent. MGM couldn't find an actress who could do the accent? Moider! At one point, Grayson is sitting in a theater next to 2 old ladies. In the next cut the second old lady (who looks like Mae Marsh) is a completely different woman.This one ridiculously won Oscar nominations for best film and for Gene Kelly as best actors. Moider! "},{"Title":"Some good moments, but sort of dull","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  After seeing the wonderful Jerry/Gene Kelly dance sequence in THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT, I decided to check out ANCHORS AWEIGH.  I was a little bit disappointed.  Except for the title song and We Hate to Leave, none of the songs are very memorable.  Frank Sinatra isn't used very well.  Whoever thought he should play a nerd who's shy around dames really miscalculated.As for Gene Kelly, the Jerry sequence and the sequence where he jumps on the beds stand out, but not much else is going on here.  The story and characters are dumb and that's not good for a movie that's 2 hours and 20 minutes.  For a really nice, sweet, and funny movie with some good music, I recommend TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME which also stars Kelly and Sinatra together.  At Sinatra's Friar's Club Roast, Kelly called TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME the best picture they worked on together and I think he was right. Also, if you're a Gene Kelly fan, I would recommend THE PIRATE where he co-stars with Judy Garland and, of course, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN.My rating for ANCHORS AWEIGH5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"correction","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I noticed one of the reviews stated that Kathryn Grayson was the mother of Dean Stockwell. In fact, she was his Aunt, in the movie. It has been interesting watching Dean Stockwell's career, and his various roles, as he grew up. It is always fun watching Jose' Iturbi, and seeing him, at the piano. His sister, Ampara, seems to be in quite a few of his movies, as well. I have a CD of old radio shows, which feature stars, such as Frank Sinatra. On one of his shows, Gene Kelly made an appearance and they presented several spots, from the movie Anchors Aweigh. It was funny listening to them, trying to recreate one of the dance sequences, from the movie. "},{"Title":"A very nice little movie...","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Sinatra knows nothing about girls--much like in On the Town best when NOT doing the fantasy sequencesAnchors Away is the movie made famous by Gene Kelly's very famous dance number with Jerry Mouse (from Tom & Jerry fame). However, to me this and other fantasy sequences in the film are among the least entertaining aspects of the film. Why? Because although well done, they really have nothing to do with the plot and seem out of place. Perhaps these numbers should have been released as shorts on their own--of course, what do I know? The film begins with a ship coming into port and a couple sailors, Clarence (Frank Sinatra) and Joe (Gene Kelly), are out on the prowl for some 'dames'. Just like in On the Town (another musical from MGM where the two are sailors on the prowl), Kelly plays the ladies' man and Sinatra plays the very shy guy--and you almost wonder if On the Town was meant to be a sequel. Joe is so sure of himself that he promises to get Clarence a girl. Unfortunately, on the way to find women, they meet a cute runaway kid (Dean Stockwell) and they take him home. Soon, his guardian, Susan (Kathryn Grayson) arrives and Joe wants to leave. But Clarence is infatuated with her--and Joe decides, reluctantly, to stick around and help Clarence with Susan. However, to impress her, Kelly makes up a HUGE lie involving her getting an audition with the famous pianist, José Iturbi. Much of the rest of the film is spent trying to get her the interview as well as seeing both men (naturally) fall in love--just not the way they planned.I really like this film. The characters were good but I particularly liked the screwy plot. Plus, the film had a bit more plot than many musicals. As I mentioned above, there were two fantasy sequences, however, that were great but had nothing to do with the film. Without them, the film would have been tighter and more to the point. It also helped that the ending with Iturbi was quite funny--and worth the wait. All in all, a very nice musical--full of lovely songs (particularly Sinatra's wonder numbers and Iturbi's amazing piano pieces). It has all the glitz, sparkle and color you can expect from MGM--and then some. "},{"Title":"Great Musical.  Fun to watch.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I have seen several Gene Kelly flicks and this is one of his best.  I would actually put it above his more famous American in Paris.  Sometimes it seems the story gets lost in Gene Kelly movies to the wonderful dance and song numbers, but not in this movie.  It is definitely worth renting. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but slight","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  An enjoyable MGM romp, with Gene Kelly as good as ever. However the thin plot doesn't support the long running time and some of the set pieces and songs are just showboats for the stars and are nothing to do with the film!Although probably best remembered now for the the famous sequence where Gene dances with Jerry Mouse, this is still an enjoyable, winter's afternoon sort of film. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Not as good as On the Town but still ok","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I love Gene Kelly so this review will be biased. It wasn't as good as the WONDERFUL On the Town but still memorable. The DVD version is a little grainy or is that my imagination? Gene Kelly is just as scandalous as ever! Frankie is a joy!!!  "},{"Title":"Why is it called Anchors Aweigh? Hmmmm??","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Anchors Aweigh is probably one of the best musicals ever written, and it has all the ingredients needed to be so. Being, a large amount of plot, a lot of singing, good singing, not the cheap off the street kind, a dash of love, also, not the cheap off the street kind, plenty of comic relief, and a name that has absolutely nothing to do with the movie. i.e.The Sound of Music???? Oh, I almost forgot, and a happy ending. If you haven't seen it you've probably heard of it, this is the one were Gene Kelly dances with a mouse, and not just any mouse, Jerry the Mouse.   "}{"Title":"terrific!!!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Kathryn Grayson, was terrific in this movie, wished she could have song more than 2 songs.  Gene Kelly did a great job dancing, expecially to that tango (when he was trying to express his love to Kathryn).I enjoyed the classical music being played by Jose Iturbi. overall I think this movie will go down in history as a CLASSIC "},{"Title":"Anchors Aweigh","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I will be honest the only reason I wanted to see this film was because of the piece of animation, and this sequence also featured reanimated in an episode of Family Guy. Basically navy sailors Joseph 'Joe' Brady (Oscar nominated Gene Kelly) and Clarence Doolittle (Frank Sinatra) are on leave for a few days and hanging out in Hollywood. Joe wants to spend the time having fun and with the unseen Lola, and Clarence just wants to find a girl, but they instead end up meeting a little boy ran away from home to be in the navy. They take the tyke home, and there they meet the boy's pretty young wannabe singer aunt Susan Abbott (Kathryn Grayson), Clarence is instantly smitten and wants Joe to help make her like him. The only big snag is that Joe manages to convince Susan that she is going to audition in front of big time music producer José Iturbi which she is really excited about. The other problem, besides not knowing Iturbi, is that Joe has fallen in love with Susan himself, while Clarence has met the Girl from Brooklyn (Pamela Britton). In the end, after all the fuss trying to find Iturbi, the man himself eventually meets Susan and she auditions for him with success, and she with Joe, and Clarence and Brooklyn live happily ever after. Also starring Dean Stockwell as Donald Martin, Rags Ragland as Police Sergeant, Billy Gilbert as Cafe Manager and Henry O'Neill as Admiral Hammond. My Fair Lady is a pretty long musical movie, but whereas that is a bit more bearable, this classic made before On the Town (with the same two lead stars) isn't quite. The highlight of the film is of course the little story (like the ballets of An American in Paris and Singin' in the Rain) with Kelly meeting the king of an animated land, Jerry mouse from Tom and Jerry, getting his medal after a dancing lesson, the rest is alright musical too. It won the Oscar for Best Music for George Stoll, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Song for I Fall in Love Too Easily and Best Picture. Gene Kelly was number 66 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 15 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Very pleasant but too long","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This has some excellent spots but the length of the film can not sustain the wafer thin plot. It is another sailors on leave film, zippier than Astaire's 'Follow the Fleet' but not as good as 'On The Town'. Kathryn Grayson is bland but Kelly and Sinatra work well together. Their 'If you Knew Susie' number is hilarious as they make up the song as they sing it. 'I Begged Her' is also fun with Sinatra showing how adept he was at hoofing. Sinatra's solo songs are dull and seem to be inserted to show off his singing rather than as part of the story. Fortunately there are accomplished supporting actors like Grady Sutton, Rags Ragland, Carlos Ramirez and Pamela Britton and an unlikely but impertubable Jose Iturbi as himself, to keep one watching.Kelly is the star of the film, although third billed and it is interesting to see him interact with children, which Astaire never did. Dean Stockwell plays a child who wants to be in the navy and latches on to the Kelly character. He also visit a school resulting in him telling the children a fictitious story of his life in the Pomeranian (!)navy which leads to his wonderful dance with an animated Jerry Mouse. In another scene he dances a charming Mexican Hat Dance with a sublimely grave faced little girl, Sharon McManus, that is entrancing and sweet. Very pleasant then but a bit too long. A taster of better musicals to come.  "},{"Title":"ON THE TOWN'S HOLLYWOOD PREDECESSOR!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  For such films like `Anchors Aweigh', few have been bestowed with as many Academy Award accolades in a warm up for happy hour. Either 1945 was a beleaguered year for good film or they were still suffering advance shock by Billy Wilder's `The Lost Weekend' that they wrote anything starting with A on the ballot for best picture to please the still musical picture faithful public. Since Gene Kelly was nominated for this performance instead of his role in `Singin' in the Rain', then there had to be something wrong with the behind the scenes rigging systems at MGM. Of course, the studio is on its best behaviour during this much lauded tour of the great studios and of Hollywood itself, handy for those stuck on the other side of the world.Yet a sailor suit musical with the brilliant talents of Gene and Frank Sinatra is certainly an enjoyable farce, despite the need for more people to yawn at the previews for the musical so today's audiences wouldn't be slapped with an unnecessary runtime. There have been many longer pieces before and since, but in this case all of the charming Kathryn Grayson's scenes could have been eliminated. Until the viewing of `Kiss Me Kate' it may have been necessary non-opera enthusiasts to watch any of her films with remote control in hand. If there was a need to practice picking up women for 1949's `On the Town', then perhaps the shore leave lucky sailors did not have to promise an audition with Jose Iturbi and strike up the piano for a whole hearted `Susie' rendition. Few are lucky to get a screen test at the golden studios of MGM. Then few are even luckier to be attended to. There are no regrets to be had about the successful screen tests of Susan Abbot or Kathryn Grayson, but it makes the continual non-opera enthusiast hope for the eventual pink slip to be handed out to both.  But for all, the star talents are good shape and an above average score thrown in with a slight, but fun great navy story intertwined with young ambitious navy boys good for late bursts of wartime morale, makes `Anchors' at least doesn't question picking the wrong MGM film. The direction holds up as the cast carries the story in lovely colour cinematography. Whenever anyone bursts into music or song, the film makes for a joyous occasion.The natural highlight of the film is Gene Kelly's cartoon adventures in a fantasyland, climaxing in a brilliant dance with Jerry the mouse. This is a well-deserved masterpiece number of Kelly's career, and it's nice to know he thought of it before Fred Astaire started taking to dancing on walls and ceilings.It's not exactly sitting down to a triple flavour, rainbow sprinkled, chocolate wafer, cream and cherry and banana split sundae, but it is a square solid lump of sugar that somehow eventually melts in your mouth and despite the guilt, is still a pleasant feeling.Rating 7/10  "},{"Title":"The Stalking of Jose Iturbi","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This film (like Astaire's ROYAL WEDDING - which was shown after it on Turner Classic Network last night) is famous for a single musical sequence that has gained a place in Gene Kelly's record Like Fred Astaire dancing with a clothing rack and later dancing around a room's walls and ceiling, this film had Gene Kelly dancing in a cartoon sequence with Jerry Mouse. The sequence is nicely done. What is forgotten is that Kelly is telling the story behind the cartoon sequence to Dean Stockwell and his fellow child students at school during a break in the day, and sets the stage for the sequence by having Stockwell and the others shut their eyes and imagine a pastoral type of background. Kelly even changes the navy blues he actually wears into a white Pomeranian navy uniform with blue stripes on it. Jerry Mouse does more than dance with Gene. He actually talks - a first that he did not repeat for many decades. He also finally puts Tom Cat into his proper place - Tom briefly appears as King Jerry's butler, trying to cheer him with a platter of cheeses.But the sequence of the cartoon with Kelly took about seven minutes of the movie. Far more of this peculiar film is taken up with Kelly's story of the lost four day furlough in Hollywood, and how Kelly ends up meeting Katherine Grayson and (with Frank Sinatra) stalking Jose Iturbi at the MGM film studio, the Hollywood Bowl, and Iturbi's own home. Except that the two sailors mean no harm this film could have been quite disturbing.Kelly has saved Sinatra's life in the Pacific, and is getting a medal as a result. They are both among the crewmen back in California who are getting a four day leave. But the script writers (to propel what would be a short film - Kelly has plans to spend four days having sex with one Lola, an unseen good time girl in Hollywood) saddle Gene with Frank. It seems Frank is one of those idiots that appear in film after film of the movie factories (particularly musical comedies) who are socially underdeveloped and in need of instruction about meeting girls (or guys if the characters are women). Frank insists that Gene help teach him how to get a girl. Just then a policeman takes them to headquarters to help the cops with a little boy (Stockwell) who insists on joining the navy (and won't give the cops his real name and address). When a protesting Kelly is able to get this information out of Stockwell by asking him some straight questions (which the cops could not ask), they insist Kelly take the boy home to his aunt (Grayson). Still protesting, Kelly gets saddled with increasingly complicated problems (mostly due to Sinatra's simplistic soul view of things). He misses seeing Lola the next day by sleeping late - Sinatra felt he looked so peaceful sleeping he did not wake him up. He keeps getting dragged back to Grayson's house, as Sinatra feels she is the right woman for himself, but needs Kelly to train him in love making.I suppose my presentation of the plot may annoy fans of ANCHORS AWEIGH, but I find this kind of story irritating. While the singing and dancing and concert music of Kelly, Sinatra, Grayson, and Iturbi are first rate, it is annoying to have to take the idiocies of someone like Sinatra's character seriously. In the real world Kelly would have beaten the hell out of him at the start for following him at the beginning of the four day furlough - what right has he to insist (as Sinatra does) that someone who saves their life should assist him on learning how to date? That kind of crap always ruins the total affects of a musical for me - unless the musical numbers are so superior as to make me forget this type of nonsense.The stalking of Iturbi is likewise annoying. Kelly tries to get Grayson to like Sinatra when he says Sinatra can get her a meeting with Jose Iturbi to audition her singing ability. For much of the rest of the picture Sinatra and Kelly try to do that, and keep floundering (at one point - for no really good reason - Grayson herself ruins Kelly's attempt to get an interview at MGM with Iturbi). It is only sheer luck (that Iturbi feels sorry for an embarrassed Grayson) that she does give him an audition of her talent. Kelly, by the way, ends up with Grayson. Sinatra's conscience at not being able to help her see Iturbi makes him ashamed of his bothering her (but not pulling Kelly into it, oddly enough) and he meanwhile accidentally stumbles into meeting a waitress (Pamela Britton) from his native Brooklyn. And naturally, without any assistance from Kelly, Sinatra and Britton fall in love. Ah,consistency! Thy name is not screenwriting necessarily! "},{"Title":"Simply hilarious!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Right from the start you see that Anchors Aweigh is a great comedy. Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra make such a funny team! The songs they sing together are pure entertainment. Kathryn Grayson is gorgeous and really sweet. Dean Stockwell is the cutiest child actor I've never seen. If you are fond of piano, you'll be amazed by José Iturbi. This movie was the first one to combine animation with real actors and it did that wonderfully in an unforgettable dance number. Undoubtedly one of Kelly's funniest movies.  "},{"Title":"The Fleet's Out","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This one has a lot going for it - Sinatra, Styne, Cahn, Pamela Britten -and a lesser amount of dross - Iturbi, Grayson - plus a little ho hum - Kelly. It was Sinatra's first real movie where the producer's spent a buck and you could see it on screen (previously he'd appeared in two low-budgeters, Higher And Higher and Step Lively) but if they'd only relied on the Sinatra pipes and deep sixed Grayson's plus Iturbi's ego-tripping piano spots we'd have been left with a much tighter movie and a better showcase for Sinatra. As it is he scores heavily in all his songs from the two duets with Kelly - We Hate To Leave, I Begged Her - to his own solos, What Makes The Sunset, The Charm Of You and I Fall In Love Too Easily. Despite this Step Lively remains the best Sinatra musical of the forties on one tenth the budget. "},{"Title":"The Collection Musicals (4/6)","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" With this movie, I stay in Hollywood and I begin the duo of movies about military leave.This one shot in 1945 becomes now the oldest movie I have seen, thus 65 years old (=the age of my father)! Therefore, it has a real historic value Overall, American society doesn't change very much if you watch in comparison a french movie of 1945. People costumes, house furniture, streets look a bit the same. The biggest change I would say is the invasion of technology here, no cells, no computers, no TV, no digital music, big cars. You can also add that today clothes are maybe more cool with the sneakers and jeans that are not seen here. Speaking filmmaking, the Technicolor gives a great vivid mood that is today destroyed by the colorized filter (see Matrix) or the blemish effect of 3D. For those who like this evolution, I recommend the reading of American Ads by Taschen, nearly 1000 pages of advertising for everything (car, movies, beauty,) decade after decade.I would have thought it would have been a weak movie with a lot of songs and a stamp-script and the boring inside view of Hollywood. But I was surprised.First, the songs are not really heavy (the movie is 2 hours!) and flow with the action. I really appreciate the Hollywood bowl segment because it's appears to be shot in locations and it's really beautiful.Second, Sinatra is a fine actor. I can't say that his voice was memorable but as a shy, in need buddy, he was good. Surely, Kelly is extraordinary as usual charming with the ladies, cool with kids, helpful with his friends! Third, there is really a story for their leave it's not discovery land and there's a progression in the story.However, two hours for a musical /comedy, it's long. Some scenes aren't really necessary and could have been cut to have more dynamic! Above all, the actress who is supposed to turn their two navy hearts is not shining. After Kendall, Caron, this one seems really cheap. As she fails, a lot of the romance disappears also.Maybe the call in at New York would be better ! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Though I liked On the Town better I really liked it. I'm a new comer when it comes to Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly. Though I had heard of them I had never seen anything with them in it until recently. The first one I saw was Singin in the Rain that made me a fan of Gene's. I think that is better too. But I thought that this movie was good and like all movies there are some parts that are better than others but in my book it's an awesome movie and I love it. Frank and Gene make a good team. I have yet to see them together in Take me out to the Ballgame. But I'm sticking to my guns bu saying that I really enjoyed it, and that I love it! "},{"Title":"One classic number, the rest is trite.  A waste of talent.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Gene Kelly's dance with the mouse is one of the great moments in the history of musical cinema, but the rest of the movie wastes the talents of Sinatra, as well as Grayson.  The music and lyrics are sophomoric.  It would appear that Jule Styne and Georgie Stoll just mailed this one in.  Not Styne at his best. "}{"Title":"Growing Up With Great Stars","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Yes, this is one of the great musical movies I grew up with with such great entertainers as Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly, not to mention the petite and glorious voice of Kathryn Grayson.  The music and dancing is superb.  I understand Frank took lessons from Kelly; and there is Kelly dancing with Jerry Mouse, which is quite unique for the time.  Betty Garrett plays the waitress who falls in love with Sinatra.  She is one of Hollywood's great underrated stars.  I saw this again on A&E TV and as well have it in my old VCR tapes.  Never get tired of these old musicals.  Whatever happened to Hollywood?? "},{"Title":"Tom and Jerry scene was cute and original, plot wasn't.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Wasn't Betty Garret in this as the waitress Sinatra falls for or was that another movie? It always amazed me how Sinatra who as a crooner made girls swoon, was cast as someone who couldn't get a girl since he had no sex appeal. The singing and dancing were nice but except for Tom and Jerry not exceptional. "},{"Title":"2 sailors sing and dance their liberty away","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Lots of singing and dancing in this one, especially by Gene Kelly. Two sailors go on liberty to see if they can find love and romance. They meet up with a woman who is trying to break into show business. Musical lovers only. "},{"Title":"Marginally entertaining","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I watched this film because I really enjoy the talents of Sinatra and Kelly. They don't don't disappoint in Anchors Aweigh, though the story, already a bit thin, is stretched out and very predictable. I know I'm probably in the vast minority here but I find Ms. Grayson's voice a bit warbly. I think she was also in the version of Show Boat that featured Ava Gardner. Despite my criticisms, this movie is still enjoyable especially for those who enjoy musicals and are fans of Sinatra and Kelly. 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Sing Sailor Sing!","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Gene Kelly was sure one interesting fellow. I say that because all his musicals seem to follow different nationalities. EG, Brigadoon follows the Scottish, An American in Paris, and Anchors Aweigh is awash in a somewhat needless Spanish side story. (The lead actress works in a Spanish restaurant til she gets that audition with that Spanish entertainer that could Make Her Big. Was he the only one in Hollywood? Anyways, I'm getting sidetracked, what this film is mainly about, is Gene Autry and Frank Sinatra as lovestruck sailors bay-BEE! Frank Sinatra laughably plays someone who doesn't know how to get a girl. I mean, if you're wandering around looking like a 1950's Frank Sinatra, how hard can it be? Sinatra follows closely after Kelly, who knows how to pick up girls.. And soon are fighting over one, Kathryn Grayson, who plays, get this, a woman who works as an extra in movies! In one scene, we get to see her as an extra in a crowd scene. All the other extras then, are playing extras! Rather interesting combo thereExtra playing extra in a scene in a movie about a scene in a movie! Oh. As well. She's the aunt to, yes, Dean Stockwell, who was just about the cutest kid actor you ever did see.The plot is somewhat preposterous, Sinatra's acting is sometimes off, but that's OBVIOUSLY why you're not here! The singing (Especially Sinatra's) is magical, and the dancing (Especially Kelly, though, Surprise! Sinatra is not half bad either).The only problem I have with this movie actually, is it's gargantuan length. Running at 2 hours, 21 minutes, this movie could have easily have shaved a half hour off. Maybe one or two of the musical numbers (Like, oh, the shame! The needless Gene Kelly / Jerry dancing number or one of the three piano solos happening). "}]