[{"Title":"Powell and Pressburger at their finest","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"78 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This wonderfully charming film from the Powell and Pressburger team is probably their most underrated great work the most recent Sight and Sound Critics Poll of British films didn't even include this gem in the top 100. If it means anything, Trainspotting was in the top 10.What elevates the film beyond other light-hearted romances is chiefly the impeccable acting and tight screenplay by Emeric Pressburger, probably the greatest English screenwriter to have ever lived. This might be generic laudation to any film, but by no means is Wendy Hiller's performance generic. As the young gold-digger-type woman, Hiller is slightly bewildered at being sidetracked to the Scottish natives, but she is much more fluxed when she realizes she is falling for a common Scotsman, and not the rich lord she envisioned. So what is the reaction to this bafflement? A fierce sense of panic that is very honest in its depiction of desperation. It might be puzzling to the viewer why our heroine should seek royalty so vehemently, but because of Hiller's expert frenzied facial tics, we see her slowly realize her ridiculousness herself. In an age where critics desire constant plausibility and believability in romances, Pressburger reminds us that attraction is something that can largely be out of our control. Hiller's character, an obsessive control freak, is the perfect example of one who cannot comprehend this fact.The perfect foil for Hiller's hysteria, of course, is Rover Livesey's soft-spoken Torquil Macneil. Before Ashton Kucher-like effete twigs came to dominate on-screen masculinity (or Vin Diesel-like muscle-studded goons on the other extreme), the quiet dignity and charisma of a man like Livesey could light up a screen without any histrionics or wrestling moves. Those still looking for romantic realism will recognize that like Hiller's character, Livesey is just as strong-willed, and more importantly, is a match in wits and a counterbalance in earnest, world-weary personality. Their mutual attraction is perfectly played out in the strangely electric silences as much as the dialogue.But the performances enhance what is already a remarkable script. The very basic premise of the love story can be read by many other astute reviewers on this website who also see the merits of this film. Powell and Pressburger have always been smart enough to embed their love stories with some heavy ideas in The Red Shoes, it was love vs. art; in I Know Where I'm Going! it is love vs. money. Sounds simple enough, but unlike other romances, these filmmakers can glean insights on the definition of poverty. While primitive (the one phone in town is at the post office) and poor (the staff in charge there can't break change for a pound), the villagers are portrayed affectionately with class, dignity, and culture, especially in a wonderful dance scene that seems to affectionately embody both a small community's close familiarity with one another, as well as the drunken festival spirit. Like Livesey's character says at one point in the film, They aren't poor, they just haven't got any money. It's a succinct but revealing statement about the human condition in a time where money did not necessarily determine one's social class because of many other admirable factors. Contrast this cultural milieu with a film like 8 Mile, in which the characters are real if they are from the streets or living with trailer trash parents, and phony if they have an education from a private school, and you can see how our self-important attitudes are progressing.Lastly, I must mention that this is one of the most exquisitely photographed black and white films I have ever seen, and the Criterion remastering does the film ample justice. I have been harping on the merits of the high-mindedness of Pressburger, but the appropriate plaudits must be dealt for Powell's emotionally expressive vistas that equal his achievements in The Edge of the World. From the craggy peaks of the highest cliffs or the frothy waves of every bank, the film's mystic sense of ambiance is drawn by a foggy mist that pervades most scenes. For once, grand scenery doesn't dwarf the characters; every picturesque shot either captures the characters in the beauty of the element, or is intended as a complement to the characters' emotions. It's a great film. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"71 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's really It Happened One Night -- spoiled girl, on the way to wed  her rich fiance, is escorted by a younger man and falls in love with him -- but it's so much more. Powell's and Pressburger's imaginations are boundless. They create characters who are lovable eccentrics, but believable. They shift tone effortlessly from comedy to thriller to travelogue to romance and back again. They employ every resource of cinema, without being showy about it watch the camera tricks in the first ten minutes alone. They fill the movie with diversions that have little to do with the plot but create a beautifully picaresque atmosphere. I don't know of any other movie that is so inconsequential on the face of it, yet packs such an enormous emotional wallop. Ostensibly an assembly-line romantic comedy, it's really about spiritual growth, opening yourself to all sorts of new experiences and learning to see things from others' points of view. It's whimsical, but not thin. With its moody photography, wonderful musical score, and numerous coups de cinema, it lingers in your memory months after you've seen it. And the ending is one of the most satisfying in all the movies.One minor complaint Hiller is a tad too steely in the beginning, too crisp, too calculating-actress-playing-calculating-character. As she succumbs to the charms of her surroundings and her leading man, though, she's bewitching. And Livesey has one of the most beautiful speaking voices you'll ever hear. Their chemistry is terrific. And when he recites a Celtic poem ending in, you're the one for me, and looks right at her, it's quite sexy.There's no other movie quite like it. And I defy anyone to see it on a date and not fall in love with his/her vis-a-vis. "},{"Title":"Slip into Flannel Jammies, Pop Corn, Brew Tea, & Enjoy","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"65 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love it that this page is as full as a cornucopia with praise from fans of I Know Where I'm Going. In the same way that it is delightful for a movie fan to discover this little-known, black-and-white, Powell and Pressburger romance, it is also delightful to encounter other fans of the movie here.I Know Where I'm Going is a quiet and adorable movie. It gives you a Scotland that really exists; if you aren't lucky enough to visit someday, you can visit by slipping into your jammies, brewing up some tea, putting out all the lights, and watching this movie.Star Wendy Hiller was memorable, when she was younger, for her Eliza Doolittle, opposite Leslie Howard's Henry Higgins. When she was a bit older, she played Paul Scofield's / St. Thomas More's wife in A Man for All Seasons.Here Hiller plays Joan, a driven golddigger who is given pause for thought by a less-than-wealthy but highly noble Scottish Laird, Roger Livesy, whom she can't escape from when a gale postpones her marriage, which was scheduled to occur on an isolated island. Joan's groom was to be a nouveau riche industrialist, who is renting the island, and who happens to be old enough to be her father. As Joan's scandalized father himself points out. The DVD notes tell you what this movie had to say about war-time Britain, about Winston Churchill's being kicked out of office, about rationing and the loss of empire. But ... enough of all that. This is a love story, the love story of the characters on the screen, and the love of its fans for this movie. Watching I Know Where I'm Going induces an atmosphere of coziness, tradition, mystery, tartan wool and fierce storms, of both the meteorological *and* cardiac varieties. Enjoy the love story, the Scottish burrs, the rafter folklore, the golden eagle, the lead couple's first kiss, the wolfhounds silhouetted against the mist. My only regret is that this film is so short ... I wish I could recommend another film as a double feature to fill in the afterglow this film induces... but what? Brigadoon, a Hollywood musical about a mystical Scottish village, is too heavy-handed in comparison. Disney's Thomasina is sweet, but maybe too sweet. Let's face it ... they don't make enough movies like I Know Where I'm Going. Sweet but dry as scotch; scratchy as thistle. Mystical as an ancestral curse but clear-eyed as the first clear day after a storm breaks. How many romantic comedies ask you if you know how to skin a rabbit, and then show you a golden eagle eating one, quite graphically, on camera?Sigh. All I can say is, I envy those who haven't seen this movie yet. You have a real pleasure ahead of you. "},{"Title":"There's not much to say about this film, apart from the fact that it's gorgeous and irrestistable","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"61 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two things, though, you should watch for(1)  Our first glimpse of Scotland comes as part of the heroine's queer dream on the train we see a series of friendly rounded hills, all made out of tartan.  It's a lovely image.  It's also our first hint that our heroine has even the tiniest bit of romanticism about her.  It later takes every force of man and nature in the real Scotland to bring it out.(2)  The locals she stays with are a nice bunch.  They're not cloyingly sweet; but Powell and Pressburger don't present us with insularity and narrow-mindedness as if such traits are meant to be endearing, in the way that so many hymns of praise to small communities do.  Anyway watch for the cameo given to Petula Clark, that young girl with glasses.  She only gets a few lines, but it's a great part.This is only the second Powell/Pressburger film I've seen (and only the fourth film of Powell's).  I'm impressed.  Are they all this good? "},{"Title":"A Pure Joy","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a shame that so few people have seen this gem of a movie during the last half century, as it is a little masterpiece, perfectly honed and crafted, without an unnecessary scene or line of dialogue. This is the kind of neglected film you dream about discovering, but so rarely do. Of all the celebrated productions given the world by the multi-talented team of Michael Powell & Emeric Pressburger, this is the one that should stand as their monument.The story, in its very bare bones is this a stubborn & headstrong young woman of Manchester travels to Scotland's Inner Hebrides to marry her very rich fiancé on the remote island he's rented. Foul weather strands her on the Isle of Mull where she meets a rather dashing, if somewhat penniless, laird. Then...you'll have to see the rest for yourself. Suffice it to say that the plot includes a ruined castle, an ancient curse, and the terrifying whirlpool of Corryvreckan...Dame Wendy Hiller & Roger Livesey are perfect as the main characters. The excellent supporting cast includes Walter Hudd as a highly efficient private secretary, Finlay Currie as a craggy old fisherman, Capt. C. W. R. Knight, F.Z.S. as an eccentric English colonel with a passion for raptors, Pamela Brown as a no-nonsense Islander, gentle Jean Cadell as the Tobermory postmistress, Catherine Lacey & Valentine Dyall as a slightly boorish English couple tenanting a large castle, young Petula Clark as their serious little daughter, Nancy Price as an elderly aristocratic Scotswoman with wonderful memories & John Laurie as a boisterous soldier celebrating his parents' Diamond Anniversary.The splendid Glasgow Orpheus Choir appears as performers at the Campbell Céilidh. The production is greatly enhanced by location filming on Mull, and Erwin Hillier's special photographic effects. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourites","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I take this down once a year and watch it as it delights me on so many different levels.I love the character portrayed by Wendy Hiller, an independent woman, confident of the direction of her life, the wealthy husband she has selected, the wedding just around the corner.Then her plans start to unravel as an impoverished laird walks into her life and it is never the same again. Roger Livesey is wonderful in this also and the location shooting in Scotland, even though B & W, is breathtaking. The music, particularly My Nut Brown Maiden is beautifully done along with the old ceilidh dancing.Some wonderful bit parts also. Loved Petula Clark as an eccentric child. Trivia lovers I had read that Roger and Wendy were not physically together throughout the making of this movie. In all of the shots of them together, body doubles and reaction shots were used. I have viewed it in the light of this knowledge and it could be true.Also, for those of you from across the pond and of an older vintage, Roger Livesey played Doctor Dale for years in the BBC's Mrs. Dale's Diary.I gave it a 9 out of 10. Certain movies are just Satisfying and this is one of them. "},{"Title":"My favorite film","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I could take only one movie with me to a desert island, this would be it. Wendy Hiller and Roger Livesey are so vibrant and every scene is a joy to watch.Part of the chemistry is that Hiller is assertive and on top of everything and Livesey is more vulnerable and searching -- she resists him and he reaches out to her -- I think of Virginia Woolf's line about how the sexiest thing is if a woman is man-womanly and a man is woman-manly.My favorite moment comes early on, when Hiller says, about the eccentric colonel, He's an odd one, isn't he, and Livesey responds, Who isn't. There's so much feeling and humanity in how he says this -- so much depth -- I fall in love with his character and this movie every time. "},{"Title":"One of the best pictures of all time","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whenever I am asked what my favorite movie of all time is, I laugh and say it's an impossible question, but if pressed, I usually say it's I KNOW WHERE I'M GOING.  I never, ever tire of watching this movie.  It is a beautiful picture in every way.  On the one hand, it is perfectly crafted with extraordinary visuals (a new visual trick every minute, said Powell), and on the other, the story is a gem of romanticism.  The movie is ultimately about Wendy Hiller's character coming to terms with her emotions, with her romanticism, with the idea that love is something one cannot and should not control, and that the greatest thing about love is allowing it to wash over you and transform you.  Hiller is transformed, and the process is a miraculous sight to behold.  You will be transformed, too.  The movie gets you to experience the process of falling in love, and it does so through a magnificent story and acting, and directing choices which especially use the Hebrides landscape to sort of cast a spell on the characters and on you.  The landscape is one of the most special elements of this picture.  See how carefully Hiller's train journey is presented..... it's like she's being transported to another world, a powerful world of romanticism and emotion.On the surface, there is not much plot to this picture. But underneath, there is so much going on that the movie is tremendously engaging on an emotional level. It also contains what I think is the greatest, most joyous movie wedding of all time! "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites! (some spoilers)","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can only agree with the other fans of IKWIG here in praising this movie.  A few corrections Joan Webster, the heroine, does *not* have a private income, she got to know her fiancé because he's the owner of Consolidated Chemical Industries, where she works.  It's not clear from the film, but apparently Powell and Pressburger said she is supposed to be a chemist (not a receptionist) at CCI.  Also, the money her father gives her is not an allowance from him, but her own savings - she's cleaning out her bank account.  The reason he has the money is because he's a bank manager, and presumably her account is with his bank.Also, her fiancé, Sir Robert Belinger, a rich industrialist, was probably knighted for services to the crown, but I don't think he's a lord, and I don't think that Torquil MacNeil, the hero, is descended from royalty, just the local aristocracy.Somebody mentioned a witch's curse.  A family curse certainly is part of the story, but the woman who started it was not a witch, and no one ever had a better reason for cursing someone than she did (and in the end, of course, it turns out not to be a curse at all)!I read a review saying that the film is great, but Wendy Hiller is too unsympathetic as Joan.  Where???  If I had to decide what I love best about this film (after the whole atmosphere), it would be Wendy Hiller's performance.  She starts out as a sophisticated, slightly brittle city girl, but as the story unfolds, you can just feel the vulnerability and deep emotions under the brittle shell, as if it were happening to you.  Now, that's acting!I always look forward to the scene at Port Erraig, when Joan arrives expecting the boat that will take her to Kiloran, and the islands start to cast their spell on us.  In the fog, all you can see is the mysterious outlines of the people waiting there, and the music fits the scene.  I especially love the seals singing - I wonder if seals really do sing like that?  The Gaelic contributes to the atmosphere, too - I'd love to ask someone who knows Gaelic if they're speaking the real thing, and if the accents of the actors are right!Other favorites Pamela Brown's luminous performance as Catriona MacLean, the eagle-training Colonel, the chemistry between the two leads, the on-location filming, Roger Livesey's voice (especially in the scene at Moy Castle where he begins I'd better introduce myself - I'm a sucker for that one!), and the underlying message of the film.  Others have mentioned Petula Clark's small but notable performance as Cheryl. I think Powell and Pressburger did a fine job of showing Cheryl as a real child here, not as a sickeningly sweet Hollywood child.  Cheryl is different from her affectionate but oblivious parents, and different again from Joan.Has anybody else noticed that the timing is off in this film?  The story works both dramatically and emotionally, but the timing *is* wrong!  The most obvious slip is that Torquil announces at least twice that he has eight days' leave from the navy.  On the second full day (at Achnacroish), he says that he has six more days, which is about right, but the next day they attempt to cross to Kiloran, and the day after that he's headed back to his ship, which leaves at least three days unaccounted for!  A small thing at Catriona's house, Torquil tells Joan that he's known the island of Kiloran for 29 years, and she replies I shouldn't have thought you as old as that.  I'm sorry, Roger Livesey looks good, but he looks his age (late 30s, early 40s - I believe he was 39 when he made the movie), not under 29!Anyway, this is a quiet but wonderful movie.  Watch it, more than once if necessary, and give it a chance to work its magic on you - you'll be glad you did!  "},{"Title":"Excellent, sweet, romantic comedy","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the most charming movie I have ever seen.  So beautifully filmed and mirthfully realized.  Wendy Hiller & Roger Livesey are both brilliant and irrepressible.  The Scot spirit is most beautifully realized. From start to finish, one of the most enjoyable viewings I've ever had. "}{"Title":"Love and Economics in the Highlands","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The title, I Know Where I'm Going, refers to a declaration made by the film's heroine, Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller), a middle-class English girl who's determined to get to the top of the social rung by any means legal. Thus, at the story's outset, we learn she has just become engaged to Sir Robert Bellinger, one of the richest industrialists in Britain. She knows where she's going all right To the Scottish isle of Killoran, by train and by boat, where her future as Lady Bellinger is to be confirmed in matrimony. Yet as far as Joan is concerned, Killoran may as well be a distant planet, for either thick fog or a high wind makes it impossible for her to ferry across to Gretna Green. It's as if the atmosphere, something in the climate, or perhaps the old legends and superstitions that proliferate the Highlands are conspiring to keep her from obtaining everything she's ever wanted from the time she was a child. It's obvious to the Scottish locals that the island of Killoran is highly suspect as the key to Joan's future happiness. Yet she is stubborn, even bribing a boy to pilot a small boat to Killoran in the midst of a huge squall &#x96; a move that proves nearly fatal. She's determined to get where she is going, but she's turned away -- by the elements as well as by a slow realization that she has become emotionally attached to a naval officer on leave (Roger Livesey) who she has just encountered. Michael Powell, the director, keeps things moving at an agreeable pace. There isn't a single wasted motion in this modest little film. The minor characters are memorable Pamela Brown, as Catriona, who is introduced silhouetted against the gray Northern sky, her hand tethered to a leash restraining dogs as they make their way up a brae; Finley Curray, whose weather-beaten face says more about his salty character than the terse, excellent dialogue he is given; and there's a cameo by a pre-teen Petula Clark. "},{"Title":"Superlatives Cannot Suffice","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Superlatives cannot suffice to give justice, or homage, to 'I Know Where I'm Going'. This is, simply, one of the most delightful and enchanting films. Ever. Expect it to remain so.On screen Wendy Hiller is always luminous, and her acting superb. Here, in Roger Livesey's brilliantly understated company - which all of today's leading men (with the exceptions of Tom Hanks, Denzel Washington, and Morgan Freeman) would do well to study and emulate, Hiller devotes an unforgettable performance. But I most loved Pamela Brown's glowing effort as Catroina Potts, whom Emeric Pressburger mistook to think ugly for Brown is one of the loveliest, most entrancing women ever to have graced the screen; in fact, I feel she's in a class by herself, a class never to be entered by another. As radiantly and a sun, a moon, a star, a galaxy, Brown's face and eyes are sheer, transfixing magic.The location filming yielded an exemplar of black & white cinematography, and the editing in 'I Know Where I'm Going' is its happy equal. The supporting cast, the marvleous special effects, and the whimsical inventiveness of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger all conspired congenially to bait and hook me forever when I die I hope the afterlife, if there is one, will be of their black & white splendor. I shall watch again and again this dear, splendid film and always appreciate and enjoy its goodness.Never mind the plot, my dears, just do not miss this cinema jewel. Let 'I Know Where I'm Going' steal your breath away, and then swell your breast with fresh, heady gales of atmosphere. Be enchanted. "},{"Title":"romance in chilly Scotland","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Powell and Pressburger's romance of the Scottish isles has Wendy Hiller as Joan Webster, seeking money and a marriage of advantage to the (unseen) Sir Robert, out on the mysterious isle of Killoran.Of course, the Scottish climate makes sure she breaks her journey, which is where the dashing laird Torquil (Roger Livesey) comes in, with falcons, fog-bound locations, and sinister family curses.Perhaps the best scene of all is at the Campbell's wedding anniversary ceildh, where Torquil translates a Gaelic ballad for Joan.  This is a black and white vision of a heavenly Scotland which probably never existed, but in Powell's expert direction that doesn't matter.  Lovely. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Made while waiting for the Technicolour cameras they needed to make 'A Matter of Life and Death' to become available, this film remains my favourite among Powell and Pressburger's impressive list of accomplishments. There is no nudity (except for Roger Livesey's knees glimpsed beneath the hem of his kilt), no violence except for the implacable hostility of the weather towards Wendy Hiller's plans for getting to the island of Kiloran in order to marry her rich man, no sex scenes. And yet this is a sexy film. The silences and looks exchanged between the patient islander, Torquil MacNeil and the frantic city girl, Joan Webster as she begins to succumb to the charm of the location and the young laird are very potent. Hiller's character is played to perfection, outward sophistication and purpose hiding a loving and romantic heart and Roger Livesey is more than a match, bringing vigour, humour and passion to his performance. This has a simple story line and yet it says a lot about the people who made money from the Second World War and those who did the fighting; about the value of the things money can't buy against the simple acquisition of wealth; and about the joy of being different, eccentric and free. Beautful to look at, it has powerful charm and warms my blood far more than any overtly romantic movie since has ever managed. "},{"Title":"Exquisite Hiller in Top Form","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wendy Hiller is one of the great unsung British actresses of the stage and Cinema, and along with Pygmalion, Major Barbara, and Separate Tables, this is one of her signature performances. A classic Romantic comedy, IKWIG magnificently blends wry wit, terrific chemistry between Livesey and Hiller, breathtaking photography, and the inimitably whimisical and special directorial touches of Powell/Pressburger. A must-see for philanthropes of all ages. "},{"Title":"Celtic Lore and Language","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an enchanting film which stays with you long after viewing.Some of the special effects in this film are outstanding for the time. The scene at Corrievreckan by Fingal's Cave is visually convincing.Also the use of Gaelic is an enjoyable addition for any Gaelic speaker. The addition of Gaelic helps to make this film more authentic and roots it in the culture of Gaelic Scotland. "},{"Title":"A absolute gem of entertainment from Powell/Pressburger","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having just watched this film I can only say what a delightful little gem it is. A gentle tale of romance set amid the glorious Scottish scenery. Some wonderful effects (for the time of the making of the film) - see the credits, the train journey, and the Corryvreken Whirpool sequences.Wendy Hillier gives a stunning performance as the girl who knows where she's going - until she meets Torquil, and Roger Livesey (as Torquil) gives a performance which many modern stars would do well to emulate.The film exhudes a delightful and genuine Hebridean atmosphere with all the bit players adding to the authenticity of the whole. The scenery is stunning (even in Black & White!)and shows off the Isle of Mull in all it's glory.Having visited the Isle of Mull I can vouch for the authenticity of the telephone box by the waterfall and the delightful hamlet of Carsaig where much of the filming took place.You can still visit the castle on the headland where Sir Roger's friends lived (and where the steamer passed on the outward journey) It is called Duart Castle.Achnacroish is situated a mile south of Craignure and is called Torosay and is open to the public.The Western Isles Hotel still stands sentinal over Tobermory Harbour.The tower with the curse can be found at Loch Buie (about 18 miles south of Craignure)but is no longer open to the public.   "},{"Title":"Scottish rhapsody showcases radiant talents of Wendy Hiller","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The British Isles are not the first destination to which one might turn in a search for unforgettable movie romances.  But in 1945, with the tide of war at long last turned in their favor, all that native sentiment, generally kept pressed between the pages of a dictionary like faded blossoms, came gushing out exuberantly.  That year saw David Lean's Brief Encounter, the evergreen weeper in which Celia Johnson and Trevor Howard chance to meet in a railway tea room and change their parched lives.  Even finer, because ultimately less guilt-ridden and more affirming, is the Michael Powell/Emeric Pressburger I Know Where I'm Going.Wendy Hiller (later of course to become a Dame of the British Empire) is the lass who, from infancy, knew her destination.  (Or, rather, thought she did.)  A headstrong, modern Englishwoman with a private income, she meets her father in a chic London café for an advance on her allowance and to show off a splashy rock.  In a few hours, she tells him, she'll take the night train to Glasgow and thence to the Outer Hebrides to marry a rich industrialist.  (`Isn't he almost my age?,' he inquires, gently.  There follows a succulent pause of about two beats while this sinks in.  `And what's the matter with you, darling?,' she finally rallies.)In her sleeping compartment on the train, she dreams a whimsical dream of a Scotland where all the braes are clad in tartans.  But a fog so thick that you couldn't see `even with six pairs of spectacles' truncates her journey.  The mystical island of Kiloran, where she's to wed, looms through the mist, or beckons mischievously from wall-hung maps.  But she can't cross over, and must bide her time with an assortment of wry highlanders, chief among them Roger Livesey &#150; who, as fate would ordain it, is truly the Laird of Kiloran (her rich fiancé only rents the ancestral pile). I Know Where I'm Going revives the richly romantic storybook Scotland that made Sir Walter Scott's novels all the rage in early-19th-century Europe. From a castle hung with curses to a trial by devouring whirlpool, the details of Hiller's journey start to resemble a legendary quest.  At a brilliant ceildh, held for the diamond anniversary of a local couple (and where the men `are more splendid than the women'), fate intervenes, reminding Hiller that, while her destiny may indeed be Kiloran, it will not be in quite the manner she so resolutely planned....Under all the pea-soupers and lowering skies, I Know Where I'm Going stands among the sunniest movies ever made.  But it's thoroughly adult in tone, never stooping to mawkishness or sugary cliché.  Every inhabitant of its fantasy world emerges as a credible character, however briefly sketched out (the young Petula Clark plays one of the rare children in the movie).  A radiant performance by Hiller helps make I Know Where I'm Going one of the brilliant highlights of British cinema. "},{"Title":"Wonderful imagery from the Archers.","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film truly displays Powell and Pressberger's mastery of cinematography that was far above their contemporaries in the British film industry. The scenery of the Western Isles is used to full effect. On both the location shots and the indoor scenes, the photography is so wonderful that a still taken from virtually every scene would make a work of art as a photograph. The plot is predictable but still very enjoyable, driven along by fine acting from both the leads and a superb supporting cast. Roger Livesey always gives a fine performance. Wendy Hiller's character is meant to be 25 and I found that hard to believe, so I checked up on her here and discovered that she was 33 when the film was made. All in all a highly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Perfect antidote to loud popcorn movies...","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not that there is anything wrong with popcorn movies..but sometimes you just wanna sit back & watch a quiet, romantic movie, and this one is perfect, a true original.  I first saw this movie as a teenager and never forgot it.  25 years go by, I saw it again the other day.  I fell in love with the movie all over again!  As beautiful as Brief Encounter is but without the heartbreak. The location is unusual and fascinating. The cinematography, for a black & white flick,  is beautiful. Wendy Hiller & Roger Livesey have such chemistry, & I always loved the sound of his velvety voice..Probably the closest a New York City born girl  will ever get to such a remote place..    "}{"Title":"A beautiful, perilous journey.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Know Where I'm Going draws you into what you think is going to be a straightforward city comedy of manners and social climbing. However, you find yourself transported into a wild and warmly ironic drama of understated passion. It tells the story of a seemingly ruthless yet sympathetic heroine who, when striding effortlessly towards her fortune-hunting goal is waylaid by the charm and vivacity of a small community of unpretentious, but colourful group of Scottish Islanders. Inhabiting the same worlds as Whisky Galore and Local Hero,it has surprisingly bleak moments of atmospheric tension combined with a vivacious warmth and humanity seemingly unique to the Scottish scenery it so beautifully evokes.  "},{"Title":"One of the great and quirky Powell and Pressburger films","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film stars two actors with among the greatest voices in cinema history, Roger Livesey and Wendy Hiller.  She is travelling up to the far western isles of Scotland at the end of the second world war to marry a rich man for his money.  The interminable journey takes her out of prosaic reality into a different world where she meets and inevitably falls in love with the impossibly romantic (whether in uniform or kilt) laird of the island which her fiance has rented.This sounds like a fairly standard romance but it has all kinds of touches of fantasy which make it a real Powell and Pressburger triumph, including a surreal dream sequence in which she dreams of being married to her fiance's company rather than to him.A lovely film. "},{"Title":"Strange and Magical","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Underneath its frothy 40's dialogue and old fashioned manners lies a seething mass of sexual tension symbolized by the natural elements within the film. The sea, the wind, animals and magic are all used to turn a traditional romance into something far more intriguing. Animals are regularly seen in human situations, dogs are found in armchairs and an eagle gouges a fox in a sitting room. The weather constantly interferes with communication the whole story is a journey halted by weather, even the one telephone in the village is positioned next to a deafening waterfall. For many reasons its a natural precursor to Black Narcissus and its wild howling wind reflecting female sexual frustration.A really beautiful and individual film. "},{"Title":"A Determined Young Woman Discovers There May Be More To Life","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wendy Hiller's career was a long one, first lucking out by appearing as the heroines in the first two Gabriel Pascal versions of Bernard Shaw's plays Pygmalion and Major Barbara, and then doing regular film and stage work. Along the way she would also get an Oscar for best supporting actress in Separate Tables. She would still be appearing in television and movies up to the end. Never a really pretty woman (her supporting co-star in Major Barbara, Deborah Kerr, actually was far better looking - and would have more romantic roles), Hiller ended in pretty rich character parts. Example her Russian Gramd Duchess in Murder On The Orient Express. The real exception to her lack of a romantic lead role is not 'Liza Doolittle in Pygmalion. It is Joan Webster in the Powell and Pressburger film I Know Where I'M Going. She is a lively and intelligent woman, but fairly ordinary looking. Which may explain why her romantic partner in this film is Roger Livesey (as Torquil Macneil). Livesey is a distinguished actor too, but hardly a handsome man. The two balance very nicely.Joan, we are told, was alway assured about how to manage her life from the age of ten. She intended from her youth to marry well (i.e., a man of wealth and position). And we learn that she is now headed for the Hebrides in northern Scotland. Her fiancé is a wealthy man building a mansion on an island up there. He plans to marry her in the mansion. It seems a reasonable set up, until Joan reaches the one port across the narrow seas (about fifteen miles) from the island. It seems the seas are quite rough, and the weather is not calming down yet. It would be suicidal to take a small row boat across the sea in this weather. Joan is flummoxed by this, as she had no plans to spend much time in the seaport.What follows is the slow re-education of Joan. Firstly she finds her admiration for her rich boyfriend is not universal. Most of the locals think of him as a stranger or a fool (one can't imagine why he wants a swimming pool on his island mansion - he has the entire ocean around him to swim in!). Then she discovers that these common people have lives of interest and intensity of their own. And the person who is awakening her to this slow realization is Torquil. A local Laird, he has much personal interaction with the people, who give him their respect and affection, but he is (like many nobles) land poor (he has some land, but no money). Torquil is capable of lecturing Joan (when she still tries to get to that island if she can get one of the locals risk it), berating her for risking the lives of some others by promises of money they need. But he also keeps showing the small joys of the locals, such as their dances and anniversaries. He also shows her the ruins of the ancient kingdom of Scotland, including a tower where a lovers' tragedy occurred in the far distant past. And slowly Joan begins to realize that perhaps she should look at less pragmatic reasons to marry.I Know Where I'm Going is not as well remembered as later Powell and Pressburger films like A Matter Of Life And Death (Stairway To Heaven), Black Narcissus (in my opinion their masterpiece), or The Red Shoes. But it is the equal of these films as entertainment, and deserves continued viewing by modern audiences. "},{"Title":"glorious, economical masterpiece","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" They don't make them like this any more. This black-and-white film has an economy of means that brilliantly conceals consummate technique. Set in Scotland, the beautifully handled romance is founded on great chemistry between Wendy Hiller and Roger Livesly and a flawless script. What I especially like about it is the sublime soundtrack, which works on many levels to enhance the interplay of the characters, to make us love the poor but spiritually rich environment, and to evoke the mysteries and familiarities of the rural environment. This is not a long film, and it certainly isn't spectacular in a conventional sense, but it is one of those films that advances the cause of film to be considered a serious art form. The powerful climax and exquisite conclusion set the seal on a rare and wonderful film. Few others come close. "},{"Title":"My favorite Archers film","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I am an avowed lover of all of Powell and Pressburger's films (especially The Red Shoes, which I will defend to the death), I must admit that I have watched this film more than any of the others, by far. It's probably because I enjoy the film so much the characters, the setting, and the simplicity of the basic elements. And I would just like to add my own vote for never remaking this film in the current climate, where films that never needed to be remade are, for reasons beyond my ken (eg The Manchurian Candidate), this one stands entirely on its own, without any of its elements in need of updating, or any of its roles redone by the current crop of Hollywood talent. Roger Livesy in particular, who was also so astonishingly great in The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp (made two years before I Know Where I'm Going!), never fails to delight me here--and I'm a heterosexual man! (I suppose I also had a Joan Webster in my life, for a brief while, which is undoubtedly another reason this film resonates with me so.) "},{"Title":"Poignant and intelligent","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Brigid (wisewebwoman), I, too, found this a most satisfying film on all levels. The location could not have been more romantic, the perfect counter-balance to the heroine's stiffly sensible intentions to marry well. Wendy Hiller is always good to watch, and I found Roger Livesey as dashing as humanly possible. (He was also brilliant in Staircase to Heaven, a David Niven film from 1946.) The charm of the locals, and the excitement of the foolhardy sea voyage juxtaposed well. All in all, a marvelous, little-known gem of a film. Would that Turner Classic Movies would discover such British jewels from the 1940s and 1950s and play them more often. (I think I saw this when living in England in the 1980s.) "},{"Title":"Simply the best Unknown English Language classic","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I discovered this film almost 25 years ago and have seen it at least once a year ever since. A women I know bought a copy when she moved from New York City to San Francisco saying that she > would have new friends see it and if they loved it they could > become good friends with her, else they would be ex- friends.Another friend, when she went to Scotland, called me from the telephone booth near the water "},{"Title":"He shall be chained to a woman till the end of his days, and he shall die in his chains...","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Being perhaps the youngest Archers fan (I'm 18), this remains one of my favorite films of the fabulous two geniuses, next to 49th Parallel (1941).The film has an enchanting, black-and-white Brigadoon-ish quality to it, making the viewer actually want to visit the mystical Scottish island of Mull as represented in the film. It's amazing to know that this obscure gem was filmed on a tight budget, and that all of Roger Livesey's outdoor scenes, due to his London stage commitments at the time, were filmed using a double in the distance! The music score, by Allan Gray, is excellent (I would play the kissing music over and over and over), as well as the cast. You simply can't find better people to play the roles of Joan (Wendy Hiller) and Torquil (Roger Livesey).This movie is perfect for any classic movie-loving Anglophile who's looking for someone to love (like me) or to be in love, watching with the person that they love over a bowl of popcorn and soda (or even a plate of Walker's shortbread and hot tea to set the perfect mood).A true gem of a movie, and definitely a keeper.**** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"A joyous and lively Scottish romance","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The collaborations between Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger represent one of the most respected partnerships in cinema history, the two directors long revered for crafting some of the most enduring pictures ever to come out of the United Kingdom. Pressburger once said of his colleague He knows what I am going to say even before I say it &#151; maybe even before I have thought it &#151; and that is very rare. You are lucky if you meet someone like that once in your life. Though I had previously seen and loved 'Peeping Tom (1960)' Powell's solo effort, a shocking and daring horror/thriller that arguably brought down his career, I remained keenly interested in seeing my first P&P collaboration, and so I was delighted to find the Criterion Collection DVD of 'I Know Where I'm Going! (1945).' Perhaps it's the extensive on-location photography, or the distinctive local accents, but there's something about this film that sets it apart from Hollywood romances of the era, in the same way that the Ealing Studios comedies of the 1940s and 50s are like nothing ever to come out of the United States.The first thing you'll notice about 'I Know Where I'm Going!' is the absolutely exquisite cinematography by Erwin Hillier, who captures the Scottish countryside in glorious, crisp black-and-white, shooting the entire film without a light meter. The pristine landscapes are absolutely breathtaking; you can almost feel the soft breeze blowing against your face, the silent shudder of the trees as a storm rolls overhead. This environment is the perfect stage for the events of the film, as ambitious and independent Englishwoman, Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller) comes to meet an array of lively and free-spirited locals, representing a simpler lifestyle that she could never have imagined falling in love with. 'I Know Where I'm Going!' is also a miracle of clever editing, considering the male co-star, Roger Livesey, never came within 500 miles of the primary shooting location having an unavoidable stage commitment in London. Editor John Seabourne was given the monumental task of seamlessly blending close-up shots of Livesey in the studio with middle-distance shots of the actor's double in Scotland; the result is perfectly deceptive.Powell and Pressburger, as was typical for their pictures, shared a writing credit for the film, which is a celebration of the common man, a popular theme of British cinema, I've found, during that time period. Wendy Hiller's heroine, an independent but somewhat conceited woman, is hampered in her attempts to join her older, wealthier fiancé, Sir Robert Bellinger, on the island of Kiloran. Instead, she is left with Torquil MacNeil (Roger Livesey), a humble naval officer on leave from the military. Despite initially feeling foreign and uncomfortable in the unfamiliar lodgings of the locals, Joan eventually comes to appreciate their unashamed simplicity, most noticeable in the stark contrast between the upper-class residents' dull, stuffy bridge game, and the servants' lively and musical birthday celebration for one of their oldest residents. Despite her insistence that she knows where she's going, Joan also discovers that fate might be nudging her in a completely different direction. Why can't she travel to the island to marry Sir Bellinger? The answer to this question might not have anything to do with the weather at all perhaps, deep down, she knows that she can do a lot better. "}{"Title":"Charming and breezy romantic gem from Powell & Pressburger","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My first attempt at writing a review of this film came out two pages long &#150; that's how much I'm bursting to say about this wonderful gem from the unique and special Powell & Pressburger 40s and 50s film-making partnership. It's a sweet and simple romance, and a hymn to the Hebrides and to its people, living an organic life, bound to the earth in a way which feels very modern today. It's also thoroughly original, eccentric but not merely whimsical.In the closing years of WWII, Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller), a young, ambitious, independent woman from the South of England, travels to a remote Scottish island for her wedding, heedlessly determined to skip the queue and marry into social status and, of course, money. (* * Small spoilers from here on. * *) Before she can reach her destination, she runs into the only things that can stop her in her headlong course the changeable Hebridean weather, and love, in the form of Torquil MacNeil (the excellent Roger Livesey), who she only later finds out is the true Laird of Kiloran, the island on which her husband-to-be, rich old industrialist Sir Robert Bellinger, is living and playing the little king.There's something almost fierce, rather than attractive, in Joan. But despite her wilful certainty that she knows what's best for herself, she has an earnest, intelligent gaze, ready to do and dare anything (thanks, Mrs Gaskell). She meets her match in Torquil, known to all the islanders as Kiloran, reinforcing the actual and metaphysical notion that he IS the land. Livesey's portrayal is inexpressibly charismatic; his kindly nature and those big, speaking eyes full of pathos; his breezy, intelligent delivery. You believe utterly that he's a Laird; he carries his authority and quiet nobility in his voice, his gait, it's part of his sense of self, transcending the war, and the absence of money.Knowing Kiloran, and his friends, gradually alters Joan's perception of the world, addressing her impatience, her inability to understand spiritual wealth. Joan says at one point to Kiloran, of the people of Tobermory they're poor, then? No, they just haven't any money. Isn't it the same thing? Oh no, they're completely different. She doesn't understand, but as he says, Kiloran's a patient man. He's drawn to her he's seen enough to believe that the prize - that this bold, brave young woman has the capacity to understand and appreciate him and his world &#150; is worth waiting for.But if he's like the land he loves so much, then she's the wind or the sea unstoppable. They're a good combination of elements &#150; and this theme is developed expertly throughout the film. She does come to understand that Bellinger's English 'friends' are dreadful people; that the local landowners, Rebecca and Catriona, are the true metal. Had she not, she'd be only a merciless social climber who deserves the pompous Bellinger, the rich man whose fish do not know him.Powell & Pressburger's world can be extraordinarily intense and theatrical &#150; almost like something out of the surreal tradition of Czech cinema (as was). Shots of Catriona looking at Joan, wide-eyed and full of meaning and power, prefigure the tension of Kathleen Byron's mad Sister Ruth in Black Narcissus. I love the daffy and surreal montage sequence in which Joan dreams on the train northwards. Yet the whole flows with great naturalistic ease and a vivid sense of place all the same to me it seems the breathing embodiment of magical realism. This marvellous film is like a fine cheese or wine; it just keeps on getting better and better. Romantic films being made today seem pale and shallow by contrast. "},{"Title":"a hidden treasure","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently discovered this gem in my public library and it has made me want to travel to the Hebrides.  It is an innocent tale of love, that unexpected moment when the one comes along quite unexpectedly.  It has that proper English composure quite unlike the impulsiveness of our day.  A retrospective walk through the glen with images of fascinating legends and curses while the Gaelic lingers in your mind. "},{"Title":"A truly great romantic comedy","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No elaborate plot twists, marathon casts, over-emotive tear ducts, or special effects were needed to produce the most brilliant, moving, and whimsical romantic comedy of the twentieth century.  56 years after its making, I Know Where I'm Going Stands Alone as the best cinematic effort in explaining the foibles of the human dichotomy between brains and desires.  Wendy Hiller, the most remarkable actress in our country's history (although she made far too few films), is magnificent as Joan Webster.  She takes us into her character's heart and mind and pulse as if we lived there with her -- the highest achievement possible for an actress.  She is miraculous.  Roger Livesey is incredibly natural and whimsical in the male lead.  The supporting ensemble is impeccable.  Powell/Pressburger show once more why they were the best directorial tandem of all time. "},{"Title":"Powerful, inspiring satirical comedic film; Wendy Hiller is magnificent","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Long before Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day, the creators of the movie I Know Where I'm Going, Directors-scenarists Michael Powell and Emmerich Pressburger had mined the same vein. The character of the heroine here is supportable only because she is young; she has grown up during the Depression, lived in an empire, Great Britain, and now she has endured the privations and dangers of WWII as well. The year is early 1945 and she surprises her father, a bank supervisor but not a rich man, by saying she has agreed to marry an older man--one who is immensely wealthy. She has always been strong-willed, intelligent, not versed in people and proper'--in her case moral toward the real, ethical toward others but lacking in experience of many things--friendship, a societal order of normatives--and love. She finds herself on the far edge of Scotland staring through storm-roiled skies and across dangerous waters at the island rented by her fiancée from one Torquil MacNeil. And by chance it is MacNeil, striving to get home for a leave from the War, who is there to help her when she cannot get to his isle to marry her fiancée, his tenant. Against her inclinations, the heroine, Joan Webster, then has to interact with a wide spectrum of persons, animals and situations as she grows more and more frantic in her attempts to complete her original plan. In fact, she fights an epic battle for the major portion of the film against the idea that she has made an error in her thinking. The film's makers cunningly pit her commoner status against the stuck- up and silly upper-crust ways of the rich; we see her being kind to dogs, walking about outdoors, showing interest in an old curse and in old tales, and being charmed more than she will admit by the poor but proud Scottish folk who are kind and considerate to her. The key point in the film, for me as a writer, comes when Torquil explains to her that the people thereabouts aren't poor--they just don't have much money. After she compels Toquil to risk his life so she and a young man bribed by her 20 pounds to try to get her to the Isle through hazardous seas can be saved, and he barely saves them all, everyone is angry with her--but he still says, She's just young, she doesn't understand. At the last, as the adverse wind that has blown for days finally drops and she can sail to the island to be married, and because she has been running from him for days, Joan asks Torquil to kiss her. He does so, then goes into his ruined castle to read the curse on his line, which he's told her he would never do for fear of incurring it; and she marches off to the dock. The ending if the film is then fleshed out appropriately; I find the characters fascinating then and throughout, and the directing flawless by my judgment. A loch, waterfalls, eagles, whirlpools, roads, shorelines, skies and seas, interiors and the characters all contribute to the overall power and beauty of this exceptionally-memorable production. George Busby is credited as producer along with the writers, and there is clever music and sometimes authentic Scottish music also by Allan Gray and award-level cinematography by Erwin Hiller. The very fine production design and art direction are by Alfred Junge. Few of the large supporting cast have more than a single scene, but they are all uncommonly sincere in the parts they are asked to play. Murdo Morrison and Margot Fitzsimmons play a young affianced pair, Bridie and Kenny, he being bribed by Joan's money; his father is veteran character actor Finlay Currie. As the excitable falconer, Colonel Barnstaple does well, as do George Carney as Joan's father., Norman Shelley, only heard as her fiancée's voice over the radio, the Postmistress who operates the radio to the island, Jean Cadell; and Nancy Price is especially effective as Mrs. Crozier, while Valentine Dyall and Catherine Lacy are properly upper class as the Robinsons. Catriona, in whose house Joan learns so much, is skillfully played by Pamela Brown. But the two young people at the center of the film are Wendy Hiller as Joan Webster and Roger Livesey as Torquil MacNeil, Laird of Killorren. The script requires Joan to be a magnificent, since she is given little chance to be anything at all during the first half of the script except surprised, disappointed, stubborn or resentful. Wendy Hiller as Joan is at least as good in this work as she was in Pygmalion and Separate Tables. So we see what MacNeil sees in her mostly through Hiller's stellar qualities, and so we fall in love with her even as he does. As MacNeil, Roger Livesey is a bit too old but otherwise a consummate professional as always. His rather breathy tenor voice is used beautifully here; we owe to the war his being allowed to play splendid leads in The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp and I Know Where I'm Going, very accurately and with memorable effect. The famous whirlpool effect is splendidly done, especially for 1945; the sound recording is good. But the air of Scotland and the seriousness with which social satire is used to reveal to Joan, and to the audience, the shallowness of those who hunt for sport rather than in order to eat and build swimming pools when they have a grand bay are strong indeed. They help to make this one of the great films of all time; and, I suggest, a proof why great actors like Hiller deserve to play all parts requiring classical accent training, unusual professional capabilities and idea-level- motivated characterizations in dramatic and satirical roles--and not the merely attractive whose charm palls after a few minutes. A true classic. "},{"Title":"Cinema Magic - One of the great films!","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Archers (Powell + Pressberger name for all their joint productions) made unique films. Extraordinary films, films that seriously stand out from the crowd.I Know Where I'm Going! should be just another 40s precursor to 50s British comedies - a lightweight social romantic comedy that like so many would be chiefly forgotten.So what makes this exceptional? Firstly, it is the use of film -Serious camera angles and the great Erwin Hillier as cinematographer. Hillier had already shot The Silver Fleet and A Canterbury Tale (Both are tremendous examples of the Archer's work) and was to go on to shoot The Dam Busters. He had worked with Lang in Germany before leaving in the 30s and was very influenced by Lang's idea of shooting, against all rules of film, into the light so creating figures in black and shadow, and so create memorable images. There are several instances, particularly when boats arrive and leave, or people are near water, that this technique is very powerfully present.In IKWIG! itself the camera work is not just set the scene, close-up, extra close-up, cut - there are some very good ideas at work here. Secondly, a superb cast Wendy Hiller has just had two enormous hits and couldn't believe her luck hitting her hat-trick, and Roger Livesey is as always immensely charming, solid, and modest.It was released just as the post-war idealism of Rab Butler and Clement Attlee's social state had been launched and it is in the vein of a new type of post-war optimism.Thirdly, the scenery, setting, and people are an integral part of the film. If the message is quality if life is more important than quantity then the simple Scots some dour, some lively; all honest and straight-forward and decent, then the Archers triumph with the use of landscape and character.Above all this is simply a lovely film, a film about true love and real values that transcend the list of why we get married to something deeper more soulful. Finally it has what all films wish they had it is magical; it has that indefinable magic that makes cinema such an amazing experience every now and then. This is a brilliant slice of romantic cinema that everyone who claims to be a film-buff should see. "},{"Title":"I know who I love, but the dear knows who I'll marry","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It may have been a time-filler project for Powell and Pressburger, who were waiting for access to Technicolor cameras they needed for A Matter of Life and Death, but I Know Where I'm Going! is no throwaway quickie. In fact, it's an important step in their evolution from crafters of taut wartime thrillers to creators of fantastical dream worlds. Here, they broaden their horizons by actually inventing their own legends as a backdrop for a standard, yet very tender romance.One of the reasons the Archers made such consistently strong pictures was that both Powell and Pressburger absolutely understood each other's roles. Although Pressburger was the writer and Powell the director, they dabbled enough in each other's work to give themselves joint credit. Powell understood, in ways some other directors fail to, that his job was to serve the screenplay and bring out the essence of the story without overshadowing the material with director's ego. Powell was by his nature a showy director, and this actually spoils some of his pre-Archers material. By now he had learnt to rein in his visual razzmatazz in a little, and employ it where it would be most effective.In this film, the more obtrusive end of Powell's directorial style is mostly confined to the introductory scenes. As the script calls for a voice-over to introduce the heroine of the story, Powell's camera also speaks directly to the audience with some attention-grabbing whip-pans, drawing us towards the subject. Later, once the story proper begins in Scotland, the simplicity of the natural beauty and subtle love story are allowed to takeover. Once or twice Powell does go too far however, for example surrounding Wendy Hiller with a whirlpool of superimposed images &#150; portraying her turmoil in a far too literal way. Powell was quite capable of getting the same effect from framing and staging, not to mention the abilities of the actors.When Powell relies upon more straightforward constructions he is superb. After the introduction has bluntly revealed to us that Hiller's character is confident and headstrong &#150; the story then proceeds to reverse that image and show her a fish out of water amongst the earthy highland folk. This is not directly conveyed in the script, but Powell shows it by framing her separately in group scenes, or sometimes dwarfed amongst them. He deftly shows the blossoming romance between Hiller and Livesy by first showing them in mid-shot, then gradually introducing a few well-timed close-ups and expressive lighting as their feelings grow. Pressburger's characters tend to speak the bare facts without revealing their thoughts. It is up to Powell and the cast to supply the true emotional content.Speaking of cast, another strength of the Archers partnership was that in virtually all their pictures there is no a weak link among the performers. They seem to have selected actors for what they could uniquely bring to a role, often casting against type to give a fresh feel to what were very often stock characters. The players, perhaps grateful for the change, tended to turn in good performances as a result. Powell also had a talent for spotting the lead actor in the bit player, and the supporting actor in the non-professional &#150; an example of that here being Esmond Knight's uncle and real-life falconer as Colonel Barnstaple. The real standout however is Pamela Brown who brings the necessary depth to her small yet pivotal role.Somewhere along the line the script for I Know Where I'm Going! ended up at Paramount studios where it was used as an example to struggling writers of a perfect screenplay. And it really is that rare thing. By creating its own mythology &#150; the Corryvreckan legend and the Curse of the MacNeils &#150; it enhances the fairytale aspect of the romance, without totally divorcing it from reality. It's a fairly short film because there is no unnecessary material, and the structure is expertly balanced. Furthermore it allows for directorial interpretation without being too vague. A smaller, less colourful entry in the Archers' canon, yet nevertheless one of their best. "},{"Title":"Powell and Pressburger's Unique Tale of a Strong-Willed Woman's Journey of Self-Discovery","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The legendary British film-making duo of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger created a series of sparkling films in the 1940's and 50's, and they worked in such synchronicity that their seamless collaboration has not been replicated until the Coen brothers came along. Their most famous works are probably 1947's Black Narcissus and 1948's The Red Shoes, both dominated by Jack Cardiff's luscious color cinematography. Far lesser known and filmed in a vivid palette of just black and white and shades in between, this lush 1945 romance carries the fresh visual inventiveness (thanks mainly to Erwin Hillier's expert camera-work) and rich dramatic texture of their later works. Written by Pressburger in less than a week, the rather slight story centers on headstrong Joan Webster, a middle-class Englishwoman with a clear-eyed ambition to marry Sir Robert Bellinger, a much older, wealthy industrialist, on the fictional Isle of Kiloran in the Scottish Inner Hebrides.The film's title refers to her singular determination to get to the remote island, but a gale prevents her taking a boat to Kiloran. Forced to stay put on the Isle of Mull, Joan gets to know a small community whose inhabitants hold values that are quite foreign to her. There she meets Torquil MacNeil, a strapping naval officer trying to go home for some shore leave. It turns out that he is the laird of Kiloran who has leased his island to Bellinger. Gradually, Joan gets immersed into the local populace, especially feeling drawn to MacNeil, but her innate restlessness leads to a hazardous act. It seems a shame that Wendy Hiller made so few films before turning forty as she possessed a youthful Hepburnesque vigor that could have accommodated a number of roles. Her multi-faceted turn as Joan is a strong reminder of her talent. Roger Livesey is a solid match for Hiller as MacNeill, and you can't tell that all his scenes were filmed in London since he was appearing in a West End play at the time. Pamela Brown makes a vivid impression as dog-loving Catriona Potts, a free spirit who owns the lodge in which Joan stays.The 2001 Criterion Collection DVD is a classy packaging of this old chestnut. It begins with a thoughtful commentary track by film historian Ian Christie. The centerpiece is a 1994 retrospective documentary, I Know Where I'm Going! Revisited, which follows New York writer Nancy Franklin's journey to visit the actual locations of the film a half-century later. Surviving locals are interviewed, as is 1960's pop songstress Petula Clark, who played a precocious, twelve-year-old girl in one scene. This disc also houses some of Michael Powell's home movies, which were taken during his treks through Scotland and here, Powell's widow Thelma Schoonmaker, Martin Scorsese's favorite film editor, narrates over the visuals. A final extra is an excerpt from Powell's early documentary, The Edge of the World, about the inhabitants of a similar island faced with the prospect of being relocated away from their home roots. "},{"Title":"Another Magical, Excellent Powell-Pressburger Masterpiece...Gorgeously Romantic...","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah, Powell-Pressburger. How I do love thee. They brought me one of my absolute favourite films in A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEATH. BLACK NARCISSUS, THE RED SHOES and THE LIFE AND DEATH OF COLONEL BLIMP are all unassailable, amazing masterpieces. So could I expect anything less from the British masters with this film? Nope, and it ranks alongside both of the above as a great classic. Filled with stunning black-and-white cinematography, gorgeous supporting characters that colour the Scottish landscape (Pamela Brown as Catriona Potts is just wonderful!), intriguing Scottish mysticism and legends, it's a lovely film even without our two stars, Wendy Hiller and Roger Livesey. Yet it's Hiller and Livesey that make IKWIG a GREAT film.On the surface, Hiller's Joan may seem too remote, cold, bossy and forthright for Livesey to fall in love with. Yet I feel under the surface Hiller is a different creature indeed- practical, yes, abrupt, certainly, yet she has a heart. And Livesey's Torquil (who I just fell totally in love- he's the man you'd want to live out the rest of our days with!), perceptive, kind and human as he is, sees that. There are two moments that I think hold the answer to Torquil's love for Joan- near the beginning, where she remarks the Colonel is an odd one, isn't he. Livesey replies who isn't. Near the end, Livesey tells Hiller that she's always proper. Hiller replies along the lines of I can't help it it's just the way I am. And Livesey answers that she's fine by him. He recognises and accepts her flaws, is frustrated by her, yet admires her determination and guts. She starts out materialistic, but Livesey and the Scots will win her over in the end.And the film won me over. "},{"Title":"Transported to a pore-Trainspotters Scotland","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie I would recommend to my kids. Real people with real lives in a real place- you hardly can find that any more.The Scotland of the Isles is the real star of this movie- what a beautiful place, moody, misty, and genuine.I don't know of any other movie the leading lady was in, but she is wonderful in this- headstrong (see previous comment) barely covers it. Yet, she is not so self-involved (despite her self-assurance) that she fails to see the honor and courage and innate goodness of the island folk around her. Eccentric, yes, but the proverbial Salt of the Earth.And, the whirlpool has to be seen to be appreciated. Filmed at the sight of one of only five actual Maelstroms on earth, it is magnificent to see.If you enjoy movies about real people- no glamor, no special effects, no CG, no exploding cars- I think you will enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"LET GO AND JUST BE, OR, TAKE A CHANCE ON FATE","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I KNOW WHERE I'M GOINGWhat a marvelous thing to discover a great movie. This wondrous andcharming 1945 film, also by Powell and Pressburger, was totally unknownto me until I saw it last week.  This stunning Criterion transfer is aDVD worth owning.  You will watch it again and again.   Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller), who, even as a child, new where she wasgoing, is now a proper, independent -- and spoiled -- young Englishwoman who travels north to the New Hebrides (remote islands off the westcoast of Scotland), to marry Sir Robert Bellinger, her millionaire bossof Consolidated Chemical Industries, on an island called Kiloran.Unfortunately, first thick fog and then a fierce gale, prevent her fromcrossing to the island. Meanwhile, Joan finds herself the object of theattentions of an on-leave naval officer, also heading to Kiloran, by thename of Torquil MacNiel (Roger Livesy).     After staying the night with Torquil's friend Catriona Potts, thestranded couple moves to Tobermory Hotel.  On the way, Torquil and Joanpass the ruins of Castle Mull.  Torquil says the Lairds of Kilorhan areforbidden to enter the castle because of an ancient curse.Later, Joan and Torquil attend a rousing wedding anniversary ceilidhwhere it becomes clear (to us) that Torquil is in love with Joan.Torquil admits he is the owner, the Laird of Kiloran, but rents it outto pay the bills.Joan realizes she no longer knows where she's going, but even so, shestubbornly bribes a young man to get her to Kiloran to be married.  Thesea is more treacherous then ever.  The little boat Joan has hired isabout to go under when Torquin takes the helm and rescues her from thedreaded and deadly Corryvreckan whirlpool.The next day, the weather and sea are calm and Joan finally sets off forKiloran.  Torquil sees her off. She asks that he kiss her good bye. Hedoes and she leaves.  On his way back, he enters the forbidden castletower and for the first time reads the engraved curse Any MacNeil whoenters shall not leave there a free man, but be chained to a woman forthe rest of his days.  As he reads, the prophesy is fulfilled.   See this life-changing romantic comedy-drama and surender to its fragiletruth. The evocative cinematography by Irwin Hillier always shimmers with amagical, supernatural sense. Watch for the great Finlay Curie and ayoung Petula Clark, whose character dismisses Joan as a fortunehunter. This state of the art disc features a huge trove of bonusmaterial that includes home movies, photo essays, and the documentaryIKWIG Revisited. (UK, 92 minutes, Full Fr "}{"Title":"Richly layered, atmospheric, poignant taste of Scotland","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Other commentators have commented on the way this movie moves from comedy to surrealism to adventure to romance, all the while weaving a spell-binding atmosphere. What they have failed to do (for the most part) is point out that this movie is also a bit of a mystery.The curse is a critical element of the film that is really the McGuffin (in Hitchcock terms) that transforms - through an unexpected, ironic twist - an otherwise rather predictable story into a classic. Mind you I don't mind predictable stories in the least, especially when they are as rich as this one.The atmosphere is the true star of this film - the fog, the sea, the storm, the Gaelic, the supporting characters all contribute. Roger Livesey (best known in the States for his portrayal of Colonel Blimp), with his unique, warmly expressive voice is the human star of the film, though, and not Wendy Hiller. I think her acting is good, but like other commentators, I found her character, Joan, so chilly to Torquil that it was a little difficult for me to see why he was so smitten with her. I understand her internal conflict, and therefore, her character. And I think she does a fine job of portraying Joan in her turmoil. So, although I actually liked Torquil better, I paradoxically did not quite understand him. Hmm - odd paradox. Perhaps it is Ms Hiller who delivers the better performance, after all... Anyhow, I obviously really liked BOTH Hiller and LIvesey.However, Torquil has his own internal challenge - crossing the threshold of the castle. That is the real triumph of the film. For once he does, the entire story of the curse is told via voice-over. I was riveted to the screen, watching his movement through the tower and listening to the tale of the curse unfold. When he ascends to the top of the tower, and the curse is finally divulged, the audience gets to bask in its ironic, cathartic fulfillment. What a fabulous twist of an ending to this beautiful tale.My favorite scene, however, remains the scene on the bus with the local hunters. Torquil's camaraderie with them, and his clear contrast to Joan's stuffy fiancé represents one of the big moments in her emotional struggle, while providing a wonderful glimpse of the local Scots. TCM is quite remiss in not broadcasting this fabulous film more frequently. My wife and I saw it this very day for the first time, and it has become an instant favorite. Incidentally, I am 53 years old - and male. "},{"Title":"Watch it with a cup of cocoa","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first heard about the film, the title put me off. To me, it sounded like one of those cheesy titles you hear and the movie turns out to be exactly the same. But, with much prodding from my mother, who happens to be my Movie Buddy, I agreed to sit down and watch it with her.I was pleasantly surprised by the whole outcome of the film. I really enjoyed watching it and was a little miffed when it ended. I wanted it to go on forever, but alas, things have to end somewhere. I liked the cinematography, even though it was in B/W film. I also find it amazing, as the DVD states, that no light meters were used in this film. A feat like that takes an incredibly knowledgeable person to accomplish something of that nature. I enjoyed the acting and the script, but sometimes I felt that Roger Livesley was a bit too robotic. For example, when he is telling Wendy Hiller's character a story at the ceilidh and his head just literally pops towards her face. Timing was a bit off on some bits, but the storyline is so good that, unless if you are very particular about these things, the timing shouldn't really matter.I liked the way the director put in bits of Gaelic here and there throughout the movie as well as the natural Scottish accents. Some movies that were made long ago and that are made today use actors who think they have talent when it comes to using accents, but most of the time, the actors sound like fops. This movie is a pleasant story to watch with some funny bits as well as tense moments when the audience can see how Livesley's and Hiller's characters are falling for one another. They both of course are trying to hide it unsuccessfully. She is always trying to get away and something is always getting in her way to keep her there. This is a movie that should definitely be saved for a winter night, a comforter and cup of hot chocolate. Makes the feeling a little fuzzier.I give this movie an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worth a Closer Look","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rarely does a 60 year-old b&w unheralded movie get the number of raves from the grassroots this one does. And it's deserved. The Powell-Pressburger film is more than a cult favorite. The producer-director-writers have raised a rather unexceptional premise to artistic levels, through superior acting, location, screenplay, and cinematography. If there's a questionable side, it may be the abrupt shift in technique once Joan (Hiller) reaches the island. Her journey from the city is rapid and occasionally cartoonish in contrast to the slowly paced naturalism of the island. Perhaps, the shift intends to contrast competing life styles.Speaking of photographic values, in my book, the visuals are a clear object lesson in the power of b&w to capture moods beyond the reach of color photography. Consider the stark poetry of those spectral images projected against the rugged island coastline. These are dream-like textures that the literalism of color simply cannot reproduce. Moreover, the power of these images to call forth a shadow world beneath the sweeping natural vistas remains a memorably artistic feature. Done in color, the film would have lacked that distinctive extra dimension.It's hard too, to say enough about how casually and effectively local color is blended into the narrative. From the folksy bus ride where we learn a lot about the two romantic rivals, to the monolithic castles of a distant past still stubbornly present, to an untamed countryside where eagles still roam and pillage, the settings remain indelibly unique. But most of all, there's the community dance. It's like a boisterous celebration of life and the common folk where past and present meet in joyous abandon. And it's to those compelling bonds of community and good feeling, of which Thorquil (Livesey) is a part, that Joan is drawn despite her mercenary ambitions. Thus, the two islands become not just two spots on the map, but two poles of competing values, magnetic attractions between which the city girl is torn. All in all, the movie's screenplay underscores an intensely human theme.I agree with those reviewers who have trouble with Hiller's bewitching allure. She's one heck of a capable actress. Still, she reminds me of a British Katherine Hepburn with the same sort of sharp edges. The question here is not whether she's attractive or not. She is. Rather the problem is whether she has the kind of allure that would immediately enchant a confirmed bachelor like Thorquil as apparently happens in the movie. Seems a stretch to me, unless the unassuming Thorquil's dislike for the upstart rich man Bellinger is factored in. Then we might consider Thorquil's initial courting as a way of proving his superiority to the obnoxious newcomer. The irony, of course, is that as he comes to experience Joan's sterling potential, he falls genuinely for her, and in the process helps overcome not only her limitations (false values), but his own (the family curse).Something should also be said of Pamela Brown's exotic Catriona. In a crafty and purposeful screenplay, she remains something of a wild card, always alone with her hounds and in the end unresolved. She clearly has designs on Thorquil and thus should resent his interest in Joan. But she demonstrates a noble nature by taking Joan under wing when Joan is in need. Thus she comes to represent the noble and untamed dimension of a land still uncorrupted by mercenary values. It's therefore well and good that she remains unattached, an enigmatic personality that defies the usual movie resolution. The well-timed choral accompaniment is another flavorful touch. It lends a splendidly lyrical quality to what we would probably now call the simple life. And it's to that lyrical call that Joan is being drawn in spite of her headstrong nature. In fact it's a neat touch of irony how the story itself comes to contradict the confidently resolute title. Then, of course, there's the movie's dramatic centerpiece, the whirlpool that looks so real, it probably is, and the only one I've seen in a film. No doubt the effect now would be digitally done and likely overdone. Still, the real thing remains an unusual feature of an unusual movie.It seems many professional critics downgraded the film because of its soap-sudsy plot. Nonetheless, in my book, the film amounts to a masterpiece, and a masterpiece of slyly wrought design. For like Joan, we're gradually drawn into the charmed circle of the island and people, but it's done in a cleverly understated way, rather like Livesey's low-key courting of the city girl. In fact, Livesey's performance is itself a masterpiece of slyly conveyed purpose. So, if you're like me, the film's cumulative impact sort of creeps up, until the end when I was rather surprised to note that, yes, I had just seen something really special. "},{"Title":"beautiful film get's better with every viewing","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this masterpiece on BBC4 yesterday evening (see IMDb message board BBC are showing this). I first saw it on terrestrial TV some years ago.I purchased a box-set of Powell and Pressburger films about twelve months ago which included this film, A Matter Of Life And Death and The Life And Death Of Colonel Blimp. I remember wishing at the time that Black Narcissus or The Red Shoes had been included instead of IKWIG. Nevertheless I have watched the film on DVD twice and again on British TV last evening. I cannot add anything more to the positive comments from other contributors but can only say how glad I am now that my DVD set contained this film and not the others I mentioned. Not that they are not also great Powell and Pressburger films but IKWIG is a film that gets better every time it is seen. There is just something magical about it. I have visited Scotland many times including the inner hebrides isles, and this film is so good I think in many respects I prefer it to the real thing. Absolutely superb 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Falling in love with a movie","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Have you ever fallen in love with a movie? In love with a film that speaks to your heart and your sense of whimsy? I have tried to recall what led me to this movie, to no avail. But, ohhh, I am so glad this movie came into my life. Because I have waited for such a movie all my life. It's a simple story A youngish woman travels far from home to marry a rich man. But choppy waters delay her trip from the mainland to her intended's island. It's the atmosphere that makes it somewhat like a fairytale. Gaelic is spoken here and there. The fog moves in and out. The winds stir up the water and the grasses and trees. You can here the seels baying nearby. At a ceilidh, folk music is sung and two young lovers reconnect. In a mansion nearby, new money meets old money and the new money is looked down upon in subtle ways. I guess it was the fog that shrouds the landscape. It obscures the romantic tendencies in almost every character. Sometimes emotions erupt, as when a young girl pleads for a boat journey to be aborted so her lover won't die. So many things to watch for in this movie. Roger Livesey is at his best as the correct and courteous Torquil MacNeil, the master of the island he is renting out to Wendy Hiller's rich man. As Joan Webster, Hiller, is an upward climber. The old money knows this and she resents it. The class undercurrents are numerous. I fell in love with this movie, perhaps, as the dock. When somber music wafts and fog shrouds the bay and the seafarers retreat to their homes, leaving Joan alone on the dock. When the wind snatches her itinerary into the water, its symbolism is not overdone. Perhaps that is what I like about this movie. Nothing much is overdone. People speak like people. Well, Gaelic people. And the upper crust is as much at home with the lower crust. And outsiders have to earn their way into that society. Poor Joan, she can't see that right away. I fell in love with this movie. I think, if you give it a chance, you will too. "},{"Title":"Man Proposes, God Disposes","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of I Know Where I'm Going! was not a particularly original one even in 1945; it owes something to the earlier American screwball comedy It Happened One Night. It is essentially that old romantic comedy standby The Girl is engaged to/married to/in love with Mr Wrong, but meets and ends up with Mr Right. (This plot has also been used in some modern rom-coms such as Home Sweet Alabama).The Girl in this case is Joan Webster, a young middle-class Englishwoman with ambitions to rise in the world. Mr Wrong is her fiancé Sir Robert Bellinger, a wealthy industrialist who lives on the Isle of Kiloran in the Scottish Hebrides. Joan travels from her home in Manchester to Kiloran in order to marry him, but owing to bad weather is unable to complete the final leg of her journey, a boat trip to the island. She is therefore forced to wait on the Isle of Mull for the weather to change, and while waiting she meets Torquil MacNeil, a naval officer who turns out to be the Laird of Kiloran. (Sir Robert is only his tenant).The film has two morals. The first could be summed up as Man Proposes, God Disposes, or perhaps (given the Scottish setting) as The best-laid plans o' mice an' men gang aft agley. Joan knows where she's going, or thinks she does, both literally and figuratively. Literally, she knows that she is going to Kiloran. Figuratively, she is an independent young women who knows what she wants from life- to become Lady Bellinger- and is determined to get it. That exclamation mark in the title is perhaps intended to symbolise her determination and her impatience with anyone who might get in her way.Yet in the end Joan never becomes Lady Bellinger- anyone with a knowledge of cinematic conventions could spot a mile off that Torquil would turn out to be Mr Right- and, indeed, never even gets to Kiloran, although she makes desperate efforts to do so, sensing that the growing mutual attraction between herself and in her Torquil is putting her well-laid plans in jeopardy.The film's second moral is money doesn't bring you happiness. Joan is initially portrayed as a selfishly materialistic girl whose only interest in the man she wants to marry lies in the size of his bank account. In her desperation to get to the island she bribes a young boatman to risk his life by putting to sea in bad weather. Her values are contrasted with those of the people of Mull, who are depicted as being poor in terms of material possessions but richer in spirit. Joan's abandonment of Sir Robert in favour of Torquil, who despite his long aristocratic pedigree is far from wealthy, can be seen symbolic of the triumph of traditional spiritual values over modern materialistic ones.Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, who worked together under the name The Archers (little suspecting that that title would later be appropriated by the BBC for their radio soap opera about a farming community), have today become revered figures in the history of the British cinema. Although they shared production, writing and directing credits, it was normally Powell who acted as director and Pressburger who acted as scriptwriter. Some have seen I Know Where I'm Going! as one of their best films- Barry Norman, for example, numbered it among his hundred greatest films of all time. I have never, however, regarded it as the equal of films like The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp, A Matter of Life and Death and The Red Shoes, and I think there is a reason for this.There have been directors- Stanley Kubrick and Peter Weir are good examples- who have been able to work equally well within the confines of established genres and outside them. Powell and Pressburger, however, strike me as film-makers who were at their best when trying something completely original in films like the three mentioned above. They were, in my view, never quite as good when working within an established genre. Some might think that Forty-Ninth Parallel is an exception, but to my mind that film is much wider in its scope than a traditional wartime thriller. One of Our Aircraft is Missing and The Battle of the River Plate, by contrast, are traditional war films and although they are reasonably good films, especially the first, neither of them display the spark of originality which characterises the work of the Archers at their best.Similarly, I Know Where I'm Going! falls firmly within the established conventions of the romantic comedy and never quite strives for the heights of originality. As a rom-com it has its strengths but also its weaknesses. As with a number of British films from this period dealing with romantic love the overall emotional temperature seems too cool. Roger Livesey and Wendy Hiller were both rather older than the supposed ages of the characters they are portraying, and are too emotionally reticent to convince us that they are falling passionately in love, a love so strong that Joan will happily renounce a fortune for its sake. Joan also comes across as rather too impatient and forthright to be entirely sympathetic.On the plus side there is some striking photography of the Highland scenery- unusually shot on location at a time when most British films were made entirely within the walls of a studio- and a vivid portrait of life in a remote part of Britain which in 1945 would not have been familiar to most English people or, indeed, to many lowland Scots. There are some good performances from the likes of Finlay Currie and Pamela Brown. (I previously knew her best as the elderly mother in The Road Mender, so I was surprised how attractive she was in her youth). Overall, this is an enjoyable romantic comedy but not, in my view, the masterpiece it is sometimes hailed as. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Proof that the human heart is not always predictable","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I Know Where I'm Going is directed and written by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger and stars Wendy Hiller, Roger Livesey and Pamela Brown.This film reminds us how our hearts like the sea,or the weather are not always predictable and our feelings can't always be controlled.We don't always know who we are going to meet or where our journey through life will lead us, we must accept that our destiny will reveal itself to us in it's own good time.Rich,spoilt and fiercely independent young woman Joan Webster(Wendy Hiller)informs her father(George Carney)that she is off to the Hebrides to marry the wealthy love of her life Sir Robert Bellinger(Norman Shelley).When Joan arrives there she is met by local landowner Torquil MacNeill(Roger Livesey), he informs her the tide is too rough to take her over to the island where she'll be living.Torquil arranges for her to stay with a close friend of his,the quirky Catriona Potts(Pamela Brown)and after spending a few days together cut off by the bad weather Torquil and Joan discover they are falling in love with each other.How will Joan cope with this considering how it messes up her plans and interrupts her way of doing things?.Well watch this brilliant love story from the men who brought us classics like Black Narcissus and The Red Shoes. In addition to being a wonderful romance the film is a fascinating look at Gaelic customs and features beautiful location work up in Scotland.There's also a memorable sequence involving an out of control boat and a massive whirlpool that has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Braw bricht moonlicht nicht","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's interesting, the conscious nurturing of British eccentricity we see in old films. This has a strange mix heavy drama in the landscape (including a fairly impressive storm at sea) as a backdrop for a romantic comedy. Headstrong Englishwoman (Wendy Hiller, looking disconcertingly like my mother in old photos) heads to a remote Scottish isle to marry a rich businessman, only to be waylaid by fate in the form of the weather and the local Laird. She's supposed to be 26 but looks more like 46 - something of a problem - but hell, it was wartime and maybe 26-year-olds actually looked like that then. Perhaps worse was that she calls her father darling. But the film is really an excuse to show off Scorrtland and everything Scottish. Castles, ceilidhs, pipers, squalls, eagles, people saying och aye, and even a touch of nordic mythology. Shot impressively and artistically - no wartime rationing on the visuals - it's a minor classic that the passage of time has only made all the more quaint and interesting. "},{"Title":"Ceilidh?!?!?!?!","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had wanted to see this film for many years; ever since hearing Martin Scorsese say words to the effect that he'd thought he'd seen every great film in existence, until he saw Powell and Pressburger's I Know Where I'm Going (1945). A classic of English cinema and a longtime critics' darling, this tale of an English lass who is trapped on the isle of Mull by bad weather whilst en route to be married on another Hebrides isle certainly does have much to offer, but still, I had a major problem with it; namely, the superthick Scotch burrs being sported by most of the characters. To these NYC ears, much of the dialogue in IKWIG was extremely hard to decipher, although I was able to acclimate a bit as the film wore on. But when the characters would lapse into the pure Gaelic on occasion...fuggedaboudit! As mentioned, though, there IS much to enjoy here. The b&w photography is extremely beautiful (and nicely captured on this crisp Criterion DVD); Wendy Hiller and Roger Livesey make charming leads; there is much Scotch mysticism in the film (not to mention Scotch mist); and we are also treated to one thrilling action sequence, as Hiller and Livesey attempt an escape from the island in the midst of a raging gale and come close to having their small craft wrecked in a whirlpool. For me, this is a film that will most likely improve with repeated viewings. And next time, I'll have looked up the word ceilidh before watching this offbeat charmer. "},{"Title":"Never Shall Be Leave It a Free Man","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller) is an ambitious and stubborn middle-class English woman determined to move forward since her childhood. She meets her father in a fancy restaurant to tell him that she will marry the wealthy middle-aged industrial Robert Bellinger in Kiloran island, in Hebricles, Scotland. She travels from Manchester to the island of Mull, where she stays trapped due to the windy weather. While in the island, she meets Torquil McNeil (Roger Livesey) and along the days they fall in love for each other.I Know Where I'm Going is one of the most romantic movies I have ever seen. I followed the recommendation of a friend of mine and decided to see this film. The first highlight is certainly the magnificent cinematography, with wonderful scenarios and landscapes in Scotland. The screenplay is supported in the local traditions and the words and the explanation of the curse of the Mull Castle, disclosed in the very end of the film, will certainly bring tears to the eyes of the most romantic viewers. Wendy Hiller and Roger Livesey show a perfect chemistry in this beautiful love story. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Sei Onde Fica o Paraíso (I Know Where the Paradise Is) "}{"Title":"Fun Powell and Pressburger Film","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a lot of fun. Made in 1945 it concerns a young woman who decides to marry a very wealthy man, who is also a lot older than her, on a remote island in the Western Isles of Scotland. However on the way she is stranded by bad weather in a remote Scottish village.It's a film which you kind of know already how it's going to end, but is made with such charm that it doesn't matter. The Scottish scenery is beautiful and the whole thing is directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger with a brilliantly light touch. Some of the actors don't really convince as Scots, but that's a small gripe. There are also a few too many Scottish stereotypes, but again that doesn't really matter. The film is fun and charming and has some great scenes, especially the whirlpool sequences. "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A quirky opening sequence that put a smile on my face..The young child, we are told in a voice-over, always knew where she was going.She makes plans, and she acts on her plans to realize them.Then, during a period of time when the country is at war, she has gotten herself engaged to a very rich man (who is by all accounts not a bad chap, however we never see him).There is a trip, with some great visuals of a train voyage as she races out to a small island off Scotland to tie the knot.Alas, the seas are too rough, and for a few days she spends time with a Naval officer who is off for 8 days. The naval officer is played by Roger Livesey who I've enjoyed in every movie I've seen him in. The naval officer is more than he seems..The seas are rough.A young woman torn between what her brain tells her she wants and something else that her heart is starting to tell her is closer to her soul.Great movie, great whirlpool of lovely scenes and even though you know the ending already, it's gentle execution will still move anyone who can be swept away by cinema. "},{"Title":"Superb classic British film that brings out the flavor of historical Scotland","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not a fan of most British film making, although modern British films are quite good. But back in the 1930s until at least the 1960s...well, it's a rare British film I'm impressed with. This is one of those rare British films.I watched it primarily because I wanted to see Wendy Hiller. I'm always impressed with her, although I've only seen her in films when she was much older (such as Toys In The Attic). She was a gem...and that is certainly true here. Being that I usually don't watch British films, I was not familiar with Roger Livesey, the male romantic lead. To Americans I guess he seems like an odd romantic lead, but I rather liked him once I adjusted my thinking. The other performances are (sometimes) a bit odd, but interesting. And I was particularly interested in seeing Finlay Currie as the old man. I found his fascinating as a follower of Christ in Ben-Hur, and as Cary Grant's odd friend in People Will Talk. Of course, as a Scotsman, he was probably more at home here in this movie filmed mostly in Scotland! Along with an interesting cast, I was also impressed with the dramatic scenery and vivid black and white photography...although there were a few places where the photography seemed a tad amateurish (such as one scene where vignetting is clearly evident). Both in terms of the natural photography, and in terms of the culture, this film probably gives one a better sense of what Scotland is really like...or at least was really like. Stunning and interesting. The whirlpool in the boat segment...a bit amateurish compared to today's special effects, but quite impressive for 1945. And by the way, that whirlpool really does exist in Scotland to this day.The story is not particularly unique -- girl on her way to marry a rich man living in Scotland meets a poor man and falls in love. Will she follow love or money? While the plot may be rather traditional, the characters and settings and some of the situations are unique, and that makes the film very interesting.Is it a great film? Well, in my mind it's an extraordinarily good film. But Martin Scorsese once wrote that, I reached the point of thinking there were no more masterpieces to discover, until I saw I Know Where I'm Going! Highly recommended, especially for the performance by Wendy Hiller, who -- in a review here on IMDb for another of her films -- one of our reviewers wrote, she can do no wrong! I second that opinion. "},{"Title":"The only way is off the Island....","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wendy Hiller plays a character who is swirling around in her own whirlpool, who, like Molly Brown, is determined not to let anybody pull her down. She's engaged to marry a Scottish nobleman, but when she shows up in the sea-side village to catch a boat to the island where this unseen character lives, she must face some facts about herself when blowing gales (gusty sea winds) prevent her from getting to that island which spookily looms way out in the middle of the sea. She falls in love with Roger Livesey, a resident of the village she is stuck in, but his brooding nature (like the Moorish Heathcliff of Wuthering Heights) haunts both of them. Determined not to betray her promise, she makes an attempt to get to the island but a force of nature greater than themselves threatens to take them both down when he tries to take her to the island himself.This moody darkly filmed atmospheric drama with slight comic overtones is a testament to the creative visions of the production team who take a rather ordinary story and make it unique. Hiller is an interesting actress in the cannon of cinematic history in their fact that in America, her somewhat plain appearance could never have made her a star, but she was a favorite of British filmmakers. Her plucky heroine is possessed with inner beauty that makes her seem much more physically attractive than she actually is and as an actress, she is magic. Many stage performers of less than movie goddess like appearance became stars in the theater but character actresses on screen. Actresses like Hiller were appreciated by serious film viewers because they truly looked real and represented who the world really was dominated by. "},{"Title":"I love this film - and","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I was putting it in a double bill, it would be, not with another Scottish film, but with 'The Peaceful Man', set in Ireland, or 'Gone to Earth', set on the English/ Welsh border country.Heck, let's call it a triple bill!The essential qualities are beautiful countryside real people, albeit some a little unusual excellent acting from fine actors - and, most importantly, a story that may not be new but is neither hackneyed nor trite.If you want a period film that's not a 'just-so' story - where there aren't necessarily good guys who always do the right thing, and bad guys who are obvious villains, and macguffins round every corner - well, here it is. "},{"Title":"I know that I love this!","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love the best work of Powell & Pressburger from 1943 to 1949, but IKWIG is probably the weakest of the lot. That means it's a wondrous film and I love it enough to have watched it over the years about a dozen times now. Again, they managed to convey a rural setting and its inhabitants seemingly so perfectly, a pastoral atmosphere conjured up through the nitrate film stock so effortlessly.Independent London lass Wendy Hillier's off to a Scottish island to marry Consolidated Chemical Industries (or its CEO) but bad weather holds her up long enough to have handsome kilted Laird Roger Livesey fall for her. It's debatable whether she actually knew she was praying for the bad weather to continue at the beginning, but when she started having feelings for him it was getting too serious and she began to get desperate to reach the island. Favourite bits The beautiful countryside and interesting inhabitants of a vanished world; Bridie mushing the long-haired cattle past the mist-wrapped houses; Torquil (was he a greedy swine too?) surprising Joan at her bedroom window - may your pulse beat as your heart would wish; Kenny proving to his Dad what a big strong man he wasn't; the Captain's eagle in Catriona's living room; the celidh. Many many more, all inconsequential and impossible to explain why they're so enjoyable. It's only a pity they couldn't have found a wee bit more room for the full Glasgow Orpheus Choir, a marvellous outfit that was unrivalled between 1906 and 1951 (the evidence is on CD).To me, it looked like the cast and crew thoroughly enjoyed themselves making this little gem, no more so than me in watching it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, perilous journey.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Know Where I'm Going draws you into what you think is going to be a straightforward city comedy of manners and social climbing. However, you find yourself transported into a wild and warmly ironic drama of understated passion. It tells the story of a seemingly ruthless yet sympathetic heroine who, when striding effortlessly towards her fortune-hunting goal is waylaid by the charm and vivacity of a small community of unpretentious, but colourful group of Scottish Islanders. Inhabiting the same worlds as Whisky Galore and Local Hero,it has surprisingly bleak moments of atmospheric tension combined with a vivacious warmth and humanity seemingly unique to the Scottish scenery it so beautifully evokes.  "},{"Title":"Everyone knows where this is going.","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot synopsis of this film would make it seem like the type of romantic comedy favorable in the era that later became unbearable cliché, but Powell and Pressburger have this amazing ability to make their own movies transcend their narrative space to maintain an intriguing and quirky tale of any type. They return to their concepts of kindness, fate, and environment (such as they used with Life and Death of Colonel Blimp and Black Narcissus) to provide a tale of a gold-digger woman who, what a surprise!, finds out that there's more to life than money.Best to start at the beginning the script. Powell and Pressburger have an eye for dialog and character that allows even the most obnoxious of characters inevitably lovable, as is the case of Joan Webster who goes to the most absurd lengths to ignore the obvious (and how!) love developing between her and Torquil.However, the two grand filmmakers are not just subtle but amazingly flashy, as shown in the dream sequence and the way Gallic mythology conglomerates into an exciting whirlpool adventure. This film is just as entertaining visually as it is narratively, and never does it let the audience down with any typical shot or a misplaced scene... everything matters, but it matters for fun, and there's not a moment hesitation between suspending disbelief and feeling real and THERE with the characters at all time.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A completely satisfying movie!","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reading these comments has made me want to take out my Powell-Pressburger DVD pack and see this once again. There is just so much to enjoy the magic of the Highlands, the quest, confident woman being undermined by romance, the interplay between Hiller and Livesey. Above all the dialogue and the way its said is just so satisfying Wendy Hiller saying I can't do a thing with my hair after the storm, and Roger Livesey replying about the missing wedding dress A mermaid will get married in it.... Then there is the wonderful way Pamela Brown (a great English eccentric actress) says Yes but money isn't everything. The whole sequence at Ardnocroish is also magical ..... yes its time to go back to the magic of the highlands and Powell and Pressburger one more time. It is in fact a timeless classic up there with Casablanca, The African Queen and The Quiet Man. "},{"Title":"Great Visuals","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a surprising film with beautiful scenery and special effects that are ahead of its time. This movie will have you longing for a visit to Scotland and its charming people. The only draw back is that the film can be a bit preachy at times but it still works overall. "}{"Title":"Beautiful. One of the best romances ever filmed","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSMichael Powell and Emeric Pressburger are master filmmakers, and I Know Where I'm Going is one of their greatest films. The only one that I've seen that I think is better is A Matter of Life in Death (in America called Stairway to Heaven), but this film is very close. It concerns a woman who knows where she's going to an island of the Hebrides, Kiloran, to marry a rich man, her boss. She arrives at the seashore where she can see Kiloran, but its late and very foggy. They can't cross today. She meets a man, Torquil, who lives there and is also stuck, a descendant of royalty, but now having not much money. He tells her that, if she counts the wooden beams on her ceiling and then makes a wish, it will come true as long as she believes in it. She wishes for the wind, which has gotten strong, to keep blowing and blow the fog and clouds away. For the next several days, she is stuck where she is and she cannot stop herself from falling in love with Torquil.What results is a film of subtle beauty and intelligence. The locales of Scotland are used extraordinarily well. The film has perhaps some of the most beautiful black and white photography ever captured (you'll really want to go to Soctland after you see it!). How can the Archers be so good? I've seen four of their films, this, A Matter of Life and Death, The Red Shoes, and Black Narcissus. The latter two I have some problems with, but they are great films (I bought Black Narcissus sight unseen, and, although I was a bit disappointed in it the first time I watched it, I have seen it four times in six months; it grows on me, that's for sure). But I just don't know these films seem so simple. I mean, they aren't abstruse art films or anything. The level of invention is staggering, but mostly because their techniques are not overly complex. Why can't these be made anymore? I think I Know Where I'm Going may be too old fashioned for today's audiences (which is truly sad, however sadly true). I guess it's the same for those other three films. It's cynicism the bane of modernity. PS It is a well known fact that the inspiration for the final ballet in the 1951 film An American in Paris was The Red Shoes. Gene Kelly convinced his producers to allow him to do that ballet by showing them the 13 minute ballet sequence from The Red Shoes. The ending of I Know Where I'm Going resembles the ending of An American in Paris. I wonder if Kelly and Vincente Minnelli were fans of this film, also. Anyone know?  "},{"Title":"An excellent romantic drama which reminds us that you cannot put a price tag on the most important things in life and, more to the point, you shouldn't try","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set against the backdrop of a very distant seeming World War II, this is an excellent romantic drama. The plot is relatively simple but the script by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger is very well written and extremely engaging. It presents us with a charming, almost mystical story of the relaxed pace of life on the Hebrides through the eyes of a stubborn Englishwoman who sees little value in it. The direction is as excellent as I have to come to expect from the duo and the film makes great use of the beautiful scenery of the Isle of Mull. The fantastic cinematography, another Powell and Pressburger trademark, is provided by Erwin Hillier on this occasion and adds a great deal to the film.The film stars Wendy Hiller in a first rate performance as the upwardly mobile Joan Webster, a headstrong, independent 25-year-old woman from Manchester who is to be married the exceedingly wealthy and considerably older industrialist Sir Robert Bellenger on the Hebridean island of Kiloran. However, her marriage plan hits a bit of a snag when she is essentially stranded on the neighbouring Isle of Mull for days on end due to a severe gale. She finds it particularly frustrating since she can easily see Kiloran and she could get there in half an hour. Weather permitting. Joan is rather unimpressed by Mull, considering it a bleak and desolate place and an obstacle to her plan. She is incredibly stubborn and does not accept that it is simply not possible to get to Kiloran. At times, she is not a very likable character as she is perfectly willing to put the lives of others at risk to suit herself, even going so far as to compare her desire to reach Kiloran to a rescue operation during a terrible storm. As such, she is extremely selfish person. She always seems to get what she wants and cannot abide it when things do not go her way. It is so heavily implied that Sir Robert's charm and scintillating personality were not the things that first attracted her to him that there might as well have been a ticker tape at the bottom of the screen announcing it every two minutes! However, she softens as the film progresses. There is a great deal of character development in the film, particularly towards the end, as Joan realises that there is more to life than vaulting ambition. For the first time in her life, she recognises that she does always have to plan everything down to the last detail in order to be happy. In fact, this approach can be counterproductive.Roger Livesey gives a typically excellent performance as Torquil MacNeil, the Laird of Kiloran and a Royal Navy officer who seeks to return home for the first time in four years for some shore leave. When they take shelter in the home of his childhood friend Catriona Potts, Torquil becomes attracted to Joan. He takes advantage of the fact that they are cut off from Kiloran to woo her, using all of the charm and wit at his disposal to do so. While Joan is attracted to him as well, she is single-minded to the point of myopia and she sees him as another obstacle in her plan to become Lady Bellenger. In many respects, most particularly his high degree of common sense, Torquil is her opposite number, proving that opposites really do attract. One of the best scenes in the film is their very heated argument in which he attempts to convince her of the dangerous stupidity of taking a boat to Kiloran in such weather and the immorality of putting another person's life at risk for her convenience. It is the more insightful Catriona, however, who points out that Joan is trying to get away from him as she has begun to realise that she is in love with him. He cannot prevent Joan from leaving but his sense of honour and responsibility means that he must accompany her. The two of them and the sailor Kenny barely manage to escape with their lives from the Corryvrecken whirlpool. Although all seems lost at one point, there is a heartwarming happy ending of the kind that a war British weary population would have loved and they are certainly not alone in that.The film has a strong supporting cast. The most notable actual Scots are Finlay Currie as the old sailor Ruairidh Mhór and Livesey's The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp co-star John Laurie as John Campbell. Pamela Brown is very good as the wise, sensible Catriona while Catherine Lacey is suitably obnoxious as Mrs. Robinson. The 12-year-old Petula Clark makes a great impression as her rather too precocious daughter Cheril. As a dog lover, I not only loved the customary appearance of Powell's gorgeous Golden Cocker Spaniels Erik and Spangle - one of whom looks just like my dog! - but the beautiful Irish Wolfhounds as well.Overall, this is a great feelgood film which reminds us that you cannot put a price tag on the most important things in life and, more to the point, you shouldn't try. "},{"Title":"Pure cinematic magic...","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't remember the exact quote but Michael Powell once said that with a film all you can do is make it in the hope that something magical will come and nest in it. He certainly did that with 'I know where I am going' and 'A Canterbury Tale.'I am not sure I have much to add with my encomium but re-watching 'I know where I am going' I was struck with what today would be called the sheer emotional intelligence of the film. It is so rare in the cinema today and long gone from the British Broadcasting Corporation or general British film-making which decades ago used to make fine adaptations of good British novels. The plot and characters have already been well rehearsed in previous threads so there is no need to go into that, but I say again how rare these days a film such as this is. In both films, the scenes are not just well shot, the acting so perfect but they are so well-written. The main characters of these films are interesting and intelligent and whom, if they were real, you would love to have as your friends or acquaintances and upon whose continuing story you would always want to be updated. And if they were not, you would eagerly await the next film or novel to continue their tale. The BBC has largely given up drama for one-dimensional soaps and when a 'worthy' English or American film comes along, as they still do occasionally, it is usually a film about manners or just plain sentimentalism. Worthy but dull and lifeless. Not just still life but stiff life.Steven Spielberg can and does occasionally make intelligent films but they are, I think and feel, still left asleep at the post in comparison with Powell and Pressburger.A film which is as stimulating as a good novel is the best of ambitions but with the age of Powell and Pressburger now past so I fear is either the ambition or the ability. Incidentally, also on show in these two films, Powell once complimented his colleague Emeric Pressburger for having a perfect feel for the 'shape of a scene'.If there is such a place as Heaven and I get there I hope they will have made lots more such films for me to enjoy; films which are food for the spirit and mind as well as heart to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Delightful and sweeping journey into the heart of Scotland.","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Taking a side trip to the outer limits of the United Kingdom island, the Archers production team (Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger) provides a wonderfully sweet and gentle story that takes place in a most remote area with very personable and identifiable people who are just the antidote for a sophisticated, headstrong and forthright woman headed to a local island to marry a rich businessman.This is a story arc that today is as clichéd as possible, but despite its rapid aging, Powell and Pressburger's film remains timeless today mostly because of how much else they include in the story. There is wonderful black and white cinematography with gorgeous landscapes shimmering in the pristine photography. The acting is very fine with Wendy Hiller providing many instances requiring her own comeuppance and Roger Livesy being the excellent foil for such a character. These two have very good chemistry together and allow us to enjoy not just their performances but also the rest of the film as they provide for a relaxed atmosphere.Overall, this is not one of the very best Powell and Pressburger products, but it does provide for some nice moments and a tender love story with passions and emotions punctuated by the roaring sea and rocky coastline. A solid, splendid British film. "},{"Title":"I Know Where I'm Going Is A Lovely Story","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie a few months ago for the first time on a streaming website.I had never heard of this movie and I loved it.I Know Where I'm Going is a treat for fans of the early British Rank-The Archers studio movies.For example The Red Shoes and Scott of The Antarctic.Wendy Hiller and Roger Livesey were interesting actors to play the two roles of Torquil and Joan who meet and develop a strong bond of friendship and then love.Wendy Hiller is an actress who has an earthy beauty,not the classic beauty like Vivien Leigh,but a refreshing wind in your face beauty.I believe that fact made her believable in her respective part.I had never heard of Roger Livesey until I saw this movie.I was fascinated with him.He has a classic British face and I thought he was quite handsome in a British sort of way.In the beginning scenes of the movie Joan was on a night train to Scotland and she was dreaming.A Tartan plaid pattern was used to incorporate the scenery of hills and the land in her dream while she was sleeping.I found that scene to be most clever and enjoyable.I had never seen a movie like this one before,and I was delighted with every moment.I liked the way the relationship developed slowly between Torquil and Joan.The way movies were made in earlier times was quite nice because the male and the female in a story don't disrobe and have sex against the wall as soon as they meet.The actress Pamela Brown who played Catriona was drop dead gorgeous!The music and the dance sequences were beautifully done.I loved the part where Joan was on a ladder watching the party and listening to the music and she looks down at Torquil and he translates for her a poem or some such thing,and he says to Joan You're the only maiden for me,and gives Joan a steady intense look.Joan then lowered her eyes because she knew that what Torquil said was true.That is when Joan knew for sure that she was Torquil's girl and his alone.Talk about romance to make you swoon.The dialogue was intelligent and the movie was beautifully filmed partially on location.The whirlpool boat scenes were amazing for 1945.I read that Roger Livesey filmed all of his parts in a studio because he was doing a play in London or something like that.They used a double for some of his shots.If you have not seen this movie and you like romance and beautiful Scotland and its culture,you should see this one! "},{"Title":"Charming little romance","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Headstrong British woman Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller) is set to marry rich, middle-aged man. She's positive this is what she wants. She travels to Scotland for the ceremony but is stranded on the Scottish island of Mull by gale force winds. While waiting for it to clear she meets kind and sweet Torquil McNeil (Roger Kivesey). After a few days with him she wonders if she knows what she's doing.The plot is simplistic to an extreme but it's hard not to be charmed by this. It's subtle and quiet but works beautifully. They actually went to the Western Isles of Scotland to shoot exterior scenes and the scenery is breath-taking. There's also superb acting by Hiller and Livesey. They could have overdone their parts but they downplay them and it works wonderfully. Also there's a beautiful song including the title song. As I said before this is predictable but so charming and beautiful it's hard not to be drawn in. I admit I got a little misty-eyed at the end even though I saw it coming from a mile away! A charming little romance. I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Pure joy","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This wartime comedy has the rare distinction of being literate, daffy AND soulful---sometimes within the same sentence. Petulant golddigger Wendy Hiller leaves Manchester for the Hebrides to reel in her sugar daddy but gets waylaid by dashing Scottish laird Roger Livesey. That's amore, people. Along the way she encounters all manner of eccentricity, and a bit of soft-pedalled danger. Imaginative and beautiful, this movie manages to take you far, far away. Wendy Hiller's impudent sass has never been more lovingly captured, and Roger Livesey is both charming and humble. With Pamela Brown (unforgetable) as the ultimate Highlands housewife, and many other fine comic supporting turns. Highly recommended for Anglophiles, and romantics of any stripe. "},{"Title":"A young woman plans to marry a wealthy industrialist but is distracted by an impoverished Scottish lord.","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This may very well be the most charming movie ever made. It manages to be quite funny, while retaining all the romance one could wish for. Powell & Pressburger really knew what they were doing as one can see in such films as THE RED SHOES & THE LIFE & DEATH OF COLONEL BLIMP, for instance. In this small-scale movie, set primarily in Scotland, the delightful lead actors combine with a group of quirky characters to create a situation into which one willingly submerges oneself. As with the ending of a fine novel, I KNOW WHERE I'M GOING leaves you feeling as if you've lost your best friends; you want to watch the film all over again immediately.One element that distinguishes the movie from so many contemporary films is that the hero & heroine are not at all cardboard figures. Neither actor is astonishingly good-looking, but their personalities are so interesting you easily fall in love with both of them. Livesay's husky voice is especially effective. He conveys masculinity without ostentation, just as Hiller is appealingly female without any silly fripperies.Incidentally, I just learned an interesting bit of trivia, in case you didn't know. Bridie, Finlay Currie's daughter, who's in love with the young fisherman, is played by Margot Fitzsimmons, Maureen O'Hara's real-life sister. "},{"Title":"A simple, elegant and moving piece of work.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Screenwriter Emeric Pressburger told director Michael Powell that he wanted to tell a story about a woman who wanted one thing all her life.  When she got very close to it she decides she doesn't want it anymore.That's basically the entire story but it's the well drawn characters that provide the dramatic flow.  Martin Scorsese once said that before he saw the film he didn't think there were any more classics to be made. "},{"Title":"Classic, Romantic Fare...","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a film I would have never ventured to watch had I not come across it by accident on Turner Classic Movies. This woman, Joan Webster, played by Wendy Hiller, is off to Scotland to marry some guy she obviously doesn't know too well. We know this ourselves because she has dinner with her father the night before she's scheduled to leave for the Hebrides. Her father tries to tell her to slow down and think about it but she KNOWS WHERE SHE'S GOING. (She doesn't scream it, as implied by the caps. But she might as well have. The setup is movie perfection.) Joan has these directions to the island on which this guy has planned to marry her. She has to take the train from London to East Bumshoe, then another train from Bumshoe to Overloafen, a bus from Overloafen to Pudgydubby, a cab from Pudgyduddy to Shaddycrack, the ferry from there to some other weirdly named town, then the water taxi to yet another Scottish backwater, and finally a private skiff to the island. Unfortunately, when she gets there, it's thick of fog. Swirling, smoky, impenetrable fog. Fog like you won't believe, unless you live in Scotland or Great Britain or Maine, like I do. Or you own a Hollywood fog machine, or work in a Russian spa, or live next door to Sherlock Holmes. You get the point. So she can't get to the island. She has to stay at someone's house with a bunch of other people who are similarly stuck. At this point, we're only about five minutes into the film, which is just more of this movie's magic, because it's here she's dealt the classic Call to Adventure of the hero's journey. She meets a man, and not the one she's supposed to marry. The man is Torquil Macneil, played by Roger Livesey; he wears a kilt and speaks in a heavy Scottish brogue, and although he's not exactly the most handsome leading man you ever saw, he does wear a kilt and speak in a heavy Scottish brogue, which makes him, apparently, very hot. Don't get me wrong, he's always the perfect gentleman. It's 1945 for God's sake. Later that day, feeling rather threatened by this charming kilt-wearing Scotsman, she tries once again to get the boat to the island. She's told it's way to foggy but as soon as the wind comes around northwest, the fog will lift and they'll be able to go. That night, Joan, while lying in her bed at the Inn, prays for wind from the northwest. In the morning Joan wakes to find her prayers answered. The fog has cleared. Unfortunately, it's because of a full blown northwest gale, which ends up sticking around for more than a week. She never makes it to the island. This special gem of a movie is the product of one of the most creative collaborations in movie history, that of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger. They had a gift for storytelling that is almost gone. Very often when you see a film today you're struck by inconsistencies, failures of logic, plot holes, gimmicks, etc. Or you're faced with a movie that just doesn't come together. Not the case with Powell and Pressburger films. Their movies have perfect structure; they engage you, keep moving toward a goal and wrap up all neat and tidy. If you ever see this one on the video rental shelf, grab it and take it home. I guarantee you won't be disappointed, especially if you're trying to score some points in the romance game. "}{"Title":"Formalaic but yet unique.","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie basically has the same sort of story and characters in it like any other '40's romantic, dramatic movie with comedy elements in it. Yet this movie is not really like any other formulaic genre movie. Difference is that this movie is so much fun to watch due to its directing style from the directing duo Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, who directed several movies together during the '40's and '50's.The movie is made in a refreshing way. Just like an Hitchcock, the movie experiments with some small effects, that help to provide the movie with an unique style of its own and makes this movie even special and unique to watch this present day.I only wished though that the entire movie would be more like its first halve. The movie began as such a fun and fast paced comical movie, with a fine main character but as the movie progresses it becomes more and more standard and the comedy and fun of the movie gets replaced by a more serious of tone drama and romantic movie, that also is more predictable.The acting is surprisingly great. None of the actors within this movie are any big starts but they give away some great performances, which no doubt is also due to the script, also written by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger and due to the directing qualities of these same two persons, who both deserve way more recognition.What also makes the movie a great watch are its settings. The movie is set in the Scotish highlands, on and around a small island. The movie features some unique and typical Scotish nature environments and habits and culture.Mainly thanks to its fresh approach this is a movie well worth watching, even when you're not really into the genre. A truly charming movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, yet not completely satisfying","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger's romance film follows the story of Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller), a young middle class Englishwoman with ambitions. She thinks that she knows where she's going as she intends to travel to the Hebrides to marry Sir Robert Bellinger, a very wealthy industrialist. She encounters many complications that inhibit her from travelling to Kiloran upon her arrival on the Isle of Mull. This leads to her meeting Torquil MacNeil (Roger Livesey) with whom she makes a strong connection during her stay. The script itself doesn't exactly cause their connection or explicitly suggest the eventuality of a romance between the two. However, the on-screen chemistry between Hiller and Livesey enables the audience to make an allowance for that, and view it as an honest and realistic relationship. Overall, the film is well shot, presenting the audience with an aesthetically pleasing view of Scotland. On the whole, it is an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"fog and sea and celtic ambiance","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You do not even have to pay attention to this film to love it, just soak up the ambiance. My favorite Pressburger/Powell film. I'm surprised it is not better known. Maybe better than Black Narcissus or Red ShoesA modern materialistic woman visits an obscure celtic island with castles and bagpipes where they speak gaelic and wear kilts. Maybe such places do not really exist as depicted in this film but they ought to.This could have been a cheapo celtsploitation film but it is not. Everything is just perfect -- photography, music, acting, script. Not much action or drama, except for a scary boat ride through a storm and ocean whirlpool. I wonder how they found such strange water as appears in this film.The kind of film I could live with in the background forever. "},{"Title":"an engaged headstrong woman goes to headstrong Scotland and meets a man","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie on cable, years ago, in a week of films by the same film makers. I was very impressed with Wendy Hiller - I had only seen Pygmalion of her early stuff - and she was considerably advanced from that; very natural, very beautiful. I remember writing about it to a friend of mine (we used letters in those days,) particularly about the night photography and about a storm scene at sea that didn't seem to be done with miniatures. I would still like to know how it was shot - they didn't seem to have the budget for special effects. Recently the same friend took a train from England to Scotland and I still remembered the film well enough to wonder if she took the same route as the train trip in the movie - alas, no. A thoroughly amazing movie made during wartime, even without a camera obscura. "},{"Title":"Just Didn't Work For Me","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'I Know Where I'm Going!' (1945) ** (out of 4) Michael Powell/Emeric Pressburger film has a middle-class woman (Wendy Hiller) marrying for money and not love but when she gets stuck in a small village she starts to rethink her choices in life. Ho-hum. I'm rather shocked to see how highly respected this film is because I see it as pure hogwash from start to finish. On a technical level the film is quite beautiful with some terrific cinematography but we've seen this story before in countless films. The performances are all good but the story is just too cute for its own good. "},{"Title":"Not really going anywhere","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A headstrong woman (Hiller) on her way to marry her fiancé is stranded at a seaside Scottish village and becomes involved with a naval officer (Livesey). There are fine performances from the two stars and the supporting cast includes a young Petula Clark, who would go on to record the hit song Downtown. It is beautifully filmed on location by Powell and Pressburger, who direct with their usual elegant style, but their script lets them down. The problem is that there isn't much of a plot and the characters are not interesting enough to sustain interest. The drama is not very compelling and there is little humor. A similar setting is mined to better effect in Local Hero. "},{"Title":"Peppy Romantic Whimsy.","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nice job by Pressburger and Powell, by the performers, and by the crew. It's a convincing picture of the western islands off Scotland. The cool wind rushes across the bluffs and the puffy clouds are chased up and down the barren hills by their own shadows. And this is 1945 and in black and white. Special effects provide persuasive gales and rainstorms.In the middle of it all is Wendy Hiller, a young lady who knows where she's going. The introduction tells us that at age one she crawled in one direction across the floor. At age five she wrote a letter to Father Christmas, demanding a pair of silk stocking -- and not that artificial fabric either. At twelve, she had her stockings. By this time my heart was beginning to ship some water because I was reminded of my ex wife.However, this is a fairy tale. Hiller becomes engaged to one of the richest industrialists in England. Says her Dad, Why, he's old enough to be your father, and Hiller replies with dignity, And what's wrong with YOU? Her fiancé is waiting for her on the far-off isle of Kilgoran where they will be married and spend their honeymoon. He's rented a castle there from the Laird of the Manor or whatever his title is. Alas, Hiller reaches the next to the last island in the chain and is stranded there first by fog and then by howling gale.At this point, we're waiting for the romantic stranger to show up in the little town because we don't believe for one minute that Hiller is REALLY going to marry that robber baron. Well, Roger Livesey is a stranger, and an officer in His Majesty's Navy too, AND the owner of the island of Kilgoren who is renting the castle out. I hope I'm not mixing up the geography but I might be, because Livesey seems to own a ruined castle just outside the little village where he and Hiller are stranded by the weather. I don't know. Can you own two castles? No matter. Livesey might not be romantic but he's a good-natured guy with a sense of humor and principle. The gale lasts for days. Hiller and Livesey are increasingly attracted to one another and Hiller prays to get to Kilgoren and her fiancé so she doesn't fall for the wrong man.Meanwhile they enjoy all the amiability and hospitality of the little village. Three pipers -- count 'em, three -- have been imported from the mainland for a Ceilidh celebrating the 60th wedding anniversary of the old Campbell couple. It's a touching moment when the elderly husband is asked to say a few words between jigs and drams, stands up, croaks a bit, shrugs, and gives up, to great applause.In a way, this is a city versus country movie. There are a lot of them about. Murnau's Sunrise may have been one of the earlier examples. The materialistic and driven person comes from the city -- here, it's Manchester -- and discovers the real meaning of life among the happy peasants, given to eating, drinking, singing, and whistling while they work, at ease with themselves and with nature. More sophisticated examples put a blemish or two on peasant life, like The Quiet Man and Zorba the Greek. At any rate, Hiller insists on being taken by boat to Kilgoran despite the turbulent sea and there's considerable adventure in their attempt. The attempt, though, fails, as it must, if Hiller and Livesey are to be together at the end.An altogether pleasant, if minor, viewing experience. No breakthroughs. Nothing more than a fairy tale, but nicely done. "},{"Title":"A lovely example of excellent writing and all-around good film making","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wendy Hiller plays a woman who knows exactly what she wants in life--money and a place in society. So, when she becomes engaged to a very wealthy man, her goal appears assured--despite her father's misgivings (probably because she doesn't sound as if she's in love). Oddly, instead of her fiancé coming to get her, he arranges to have trains and boats convey her to the middle of nowhere (figuratively speaking)--to the Hebrides Islands where he's vacationing. Considering that Hiller is in London, this is indeed quite a trek and after completing most of the journey, she is stuck waiting for the weather to clear so she can take a short boat ride to finish her journey and marry her fiancé. However, this brief wait becomes longer and longer and she finds herself attracted to an officer instead of her older fiancé. You can really see how and why this occurs, as the film did a dandy job of setting the mood for romance and adventure.This is a very simple film that stars many actors and actresses that aren't terribly familiar to American audiences. And while the plot is relatively simple and, at times, easy to predict, the overall effort is just charming and a great example to film makers that writing IS important! In addition, the director, actors, cameramen and all the others working on this project do a wonderful job conveying a lovely and romantic mood. In many ways, this film reminds me of THE QUIET MAN because of how it conveys local charm, though this is, of course, set in the Hebrides Islands in Northwest Scotland. While not exactly a must-see film, it is excellent and is well worth your time--though any idiot watching it knows where the film is going very quickly after it begins!PS--Although the way they filmed the scenes with Mr. Livesey is interesting (and you can read about it on IMDb), what I found really interesting is that this is the only film I can think of where a bird gets billing. 'Mr. Ramshaw' is a golden eagle and he appears last in the film's credits--and, oddly, the spaniels in the film do NOT get billing!! That must a first. Maybe the bird just had a better agent. "},{"Title":"I Know Where I'm Going!","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From directors Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger (A Matter of Life and Death, The Red Shoes), I only really wanted to see this because it featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I can't completely see why. Basically middle-class, ambitious and stubborn Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller) wants the finer things in life, and is planning to marry wealthy middle-aged industrialist (who you never see) Sir Robert Bellinger (Norman Shelley), who she does not love. En route to the Island of Killoran, where the fiancée is waiting, she is stranded on the nearby Scottish island, Mull. The bad weather is keeping her grounded, and while she waits, she gets acquainted, and slowly falls for naval officer Torquil MacNeil (Roger Livesey). After trying to get to her fiancée, Mother Nature finally convinces her to stay on Mull, and maybe also that Torquil is the man she should be with. Also starring Pamela Brown as Catriona, Nancy Price as Mrs. Crozier, John Laurie as John Campbell, George Carney as Mr. Webster, Walter Hudd as Hunter, Captain Duncan MacKechnie as Captain 'Lochinvar', Ian Sadler as Iain, Finlay Currie as Ruairidh Mhór, Murdo Morrison as Kenny, Margot Fitzsimons as Bridie and Petula Clark as Cheril. Moments of the romantic element were good, there were one or two amusing giggles, and Hiller and Livesey are good performers, I just don't see why this film is five stars out of five myself, but it's not bad at all. Good! "},{"Title":"I Know Where I'm Going Loses Direction Quickly **","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot and entire story can be summed up in about 10 minutes. This is so highly predictable. As Joan, the future Dame Wendy Hiller, appeared too old in 1945 to tackle the part of a young adventuress, who from early childhood knew where she was going, or at least she thought so. Her screen companion in this unbelievably dull film is Roger Livesey. He sounds like he has hot potatoes in his mouth, and his voice resembles Nigel Bruce, foil to Basil Rathbone in the Sherlock Holmes films.You know that the constant rough winds will not allow Joan and her fiancée to meet, and you know where this is going. Livesey, as a lieutenant, falling for her.Everyone keeps mentioning Kilcoran. You have no idea where this is and what they're talking about. True love is discovered on the high seas.The supporting characters in this disappointing film are very boring as well. While it is true that money isn't everything, neither is this picture worth the money or anything. "}{"Title":"Some charm, some whimsy, but something missing...","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I KNOW WHERE I'M GOING has lots of Scottish atmosphere so that you can almost feel the cold dampness of the highlands, the mists, the wind, the raging surf, the cosy inns before the fire--yes, all that is present but the plot is a slight thread of a romance between a headstrong girl (WENDY HILLER) and a handsome sea captain (ROGER LIVESEY). Their romance is kindled when she's unable to cross the sea to an island where she's supposed to meet her fiancé, a wealthy older man whom she's arranged to wed.Unfortunately, Hiller's character is rather prim, proper and headstrong, trying hard not to be conflicted about her marriage plans when she realizes she's attracted the eye of Livesey, a genial man who obviously enjoys her company and doesn't mind being stranded during what appears to be a squall that never ends. I kept thinking how much more enjoyable the film would have been with someone like DEBORAH KERR in Hiller's role, for although Hiller is a good character actress she lacks the warmth one would expect to come through at least midway through the story.Livesey is charming enough in a romantic role but Hiller's character makes it unlikely that such a man is going to fall instantly in love with the dour girl who seems to be rebuffing all his advances until the very end.I have to confess I missed much of the dialog, what with the Scottish or Gaelic accents being on the heavy side. I was hoping TCM would show it with subtitles so I could catch every word, but this was not the case for a film that really needed some captioning.At any rate, having heard so much advance word about this one I was expecting a bit more in the way of satisfying romance or comedy/drama. Instead, I was annoyed by the male supporting characters (among them, FINLAY CURRIE) who added ethnic atmosphere but seemed to have no actual bearing on what little plot there was. PAMELA BROWN does a nice understated job as an inn owner and PETULA CLARK can be seen briefly as the rather precocious young girl with the glasses. All in all, a disappointment, considering that it comes from Powell and Pressburger.If atmosphere is all it takes for you to enjoy a slender romance, this has it in spades. "},{"Title":"High expectations dashed","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A friend of mine put I Know Where I'm Going on his DV-R because of the presence of Petula Clark and also because Turner Classic Movies gave it four stars. Although I see many raves here on the board, I must be honest and say that while the performances were marvelous, the Scottish scenery glorious, and the ocean storm the characters suffer through brilliantly done, the story did not grab me. It was very interesting to see Wendy Hiller so young, and she is excellent as a young woman determined to get the best of what life has to offer, i.e., move up in class. She is engaged to a wealthy man and is en route to the island he's rented when she's delayed by bad weather in Scotland's Inner Hebrides. She meets a community of delightful people, including a laird (Roger Livesey) who is very attracted to her. She realizes that she's becoming attracted to him and decides that no matter how nasty the weather, she's got to get to her fiancé. She offers one of the young men a nice amount of money if he'll take her there, but the travel is absolutely treacherous, and they must turn back. She is therefore stuck with a dream she refuses to give up and what's right in front of her.Some really fine actors make up the supporting roles - Walter Hudd as Finlay Currie as a craggy old fisherman, Capt. C. W. R. Knight, Pamela Brown, Jean Cadell, Catherine Lacey, Valentine Dyall, Petula Clark (as a child), Nancy Price, and John Laurie.Written and directed by the illustrious team of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, this is a well-done film, though there isn't much of a plot. I liked it; I didn't love it, sorry to say. I recommend it because you just might. "},{"Title":"Visually striking, but irrevocably hampered by its story and heroine...","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" British film by the estimable team of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger has sharp, straight-forward young woman (stylish yet tomboyish Wendy Hiller) about to marry the wealthiest man in London, traveling from England to the Western Isles for the ceremony, but held back on a neighboring Scottish isle by the bad weather (first fog, then wind, then rain). Since we never meet the woman's intended, there isn't much at stake when Hiller is befriended by a gregarious Lieutenant; the Scotsman introduces her to all the locals and slowly she finds herself having feelings for him. The cinematography is lovely (and the trick photography during a boat-crossing is especially well accomplished), but the film is really all externals. Hiller, curt and clipped, has inquisitive, old-lady eyes and a smile I didn't trust. There's a cursed castle in the hillside which is a dandy, and the local chit-chat and music is fun for awhile, but there isn't enough steam in this story to make for engrossing dramatic fare. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to reputation","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love old movies, old British movies, movies with Wendy Hiller...but this one isn't all it's cracked up to be. The set-up is fun and the direction is good, but Wendy Hiller is charmless and shrill. She also seems about ten years too old for her role, which is a problem since other characters are supposedly looking askance at her marrying an older man. I didn't sense any chemistry between her and the leading man, who was charming, which made the whole romance rather mystifying. It seems taken for granted that he's supposed to fall in love with her, because...why? There are other more fetching female characters in the story--ones that aren't materialistic, arrogant, selfish... "},{"Title":"Special effects early in movie are what makes this movie.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this movie if only for the special effects early on.  It's not that they're technically wonderful, it's that they are artistically wonderful. The train journey is the best.  The love story is competent, mid-40s English.  "},{"Title":"Scotch Mistral","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, dear, here we go again; where everyone else apparently sees a monarch attired in velvet and ermine I see a gent naked as a jaybird but try saying the king has no clothes on here. On the other hand this one is easier to take than most of the Powell/Pressburger stuff that's been surfacing lately but perhaps perversely I note only sloppy writing. In the gimmicky opening sequence which illustrates the single-mindedness of the heroine she is shown emerging from school (in 1945 that would have been around 3.30/4.00 pm) and instead of waiting for a bus like the other kids, charming a passing milkman into giving her a lift on his float, a float that is about two-thirds full of undelivered milk a good four hours or so after the average milk round is long finished. A tad later she is shown asking an elderly man for money in an inept attempt to establish her gold-digging credentials; after a moment or so of deception it is revealed that the man is 1) her father and 2) a bank manager and 3) she is clearing her account at his bank. She then announces blithely that she is getting married the next day which is total news to her father, who is not invited to the wedding anymore than his wife and her mother, assuming this person is still living, we don't know as no mention is made of wife/mother and how distressed/angry she might be at missing a daughter's wedding. Once on the sleeper - the wedding is scheduled to take place on an island off the coast of Scotland - she unpacks a very expensive-looking wedding dress in silk/satin, fabrics almost unobtainable in 1945. I'm sure that fans of the film will defend all of these charges but the point is I shouldn't be noticing things like this if the movie was even a fifth as enchanting/beguiling as the rave reviews would have it. I detected nil chemistry between Wendy Hiller as the social climber and Roger Livesy who causes her to settle for less. The location shooting was fine, especially for 1945 and the supporting cast was up to snuff but it's definitely over-hyped. "},{"Title":"Good Luck Getting the Theme Song Out of Your Head","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I Know Where I'm Going! is like other Powell and Pressburger films thematically forces beyond the control of humans intervene and determine to a large extent the destiny of the heroine. But if you're expecting a dazzling, vivid and energetic film like The Red Shoes or Black Narcissus, you're bound to be disappointed by this one.I couldn't get into this movie at all. The filmmakers seemed unable to settle on a tone or mood, so I wasn't ever sure if I was watching a romantic comedy or a darker, more psychologically complex character study. Wendy Hiller is good in her role, but her character drove me over the edge. I couldn't stand her--bad news for a movie in which she's in virtually every scene. And that theme song.....UGH! To this day I have moments where that awful song plays on a constant loop through my mind, over and over and over.I really like Powell and Pressburger over all, so I choose to see this movie as an anomaly in their body of work rather than representative of it.Grade C "},{"Title":"Disappointing Gaellic travelogue","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just saw I Know Where I'm Going at a Michael Powell film festival at Lincoln Center. My feeling about this film is that it's very much overrated. For the most part it feels like a travelogue. There are a lot of nice shots of the Gaellic countryside but it just seemed that all the local characters were too lovable and eccentric. I don't think there was a bad one among the locals and none of these secondary characters had any depth at all. In real life, there are always shades of grade and since the director was so enamored with presenting his 'picture postcard', he lost sight of developing much of a story using the supporting cast. The film is incredibly slow paced and very little happens until the 'storm sequence.' It's very frustrating never to get to meet Wendy Hiller's character's fiancé. I expected a whole story when she gets to the island and ultimately gives up on the fiancé but we're cheated of any real dramatic resolution here. Most of this film borders of being boring. There's little back story to the personalities of the two leads so we find out little about them. Do they have a life beyond the silly corny romance depicted in this film? It's all so utterly predictable as the two lovers fall for each other at the end. For most of the film, Wendy Hiller plays a real goody-two-shoes but (and suddenly quite inexplicably) morphs into a neurotic narcissistic materialist while she gets upset listening to the locals diss her fiancé on a train. Of course this is a set-up where she will soon learn 'the error of her ways' and realize that she must re-discover her 'real' self and fall in love with the 'right' man. One should not reject this film just because it's a piece of fluff. One must reject it because it's predictable with a plot that contains few surprises and has no discernible dramatic arc. "}]