[{"Title":"An off-beat Mummy film","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This entry in the Mummy series is unlike all the others, but that's what makes it interesting!One of THE most interesting sequences in this film is when the Princess awakens in the bog (due to the sunlight), and slowly rises to her feet, totally covered with mud, and staggers to town.   A very dramatic scene! "},{"Title":"On the night when the moon is high in the heavens, the mummy and his princess, they walk.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With Lon Chaney portraying The Mummy for the last time, and with no name actors for support, The Mummy's Curse is the least noteworthy of the Mummy sequels, but you know what - it's a blast! Let's start with the chronology; originally The Mummy starring Boris Karloff was set in 1932, the year of it's release, reinforced by the second expedition to Egypt by the Whemple's at which time they discovered the tomb of Anck-Es-En-Amon, Imhoteps' lost love of 3700 years prior. The first sequel, The Mummy's Hand is also chronologically coherent, set in 1940. But then it gets interesting; The Mummy's Tomb takes place some thirty years following the events of Hand, with The Mummy's Ghost somewhat after. Now we learn that The Mummy's Curse occurs an additional twenty five years after Ghost. If you're doing the math, we're now into 1995!Now we're into the locale; Ghost ended with Kharis and Ananka lost in a Massachusetts swamp, Ananka's beauty having withered into an ages old hag before the waters of the swamp claimed the two lovebirds. Now we've shifted to the Louisiana bayou country and the site of an industrial project - The devil's on the loose and he's dancin' with the mummy! We're signaled to the emergence of the Kharis legend by the first appearance of a dead body, but has anyone noticed that the laborer Antoine died with a knife in his back? Kharis always did his dirty work with his left hand, leaving bandage mold behind on the neck of his victims.I must say though, the resurrection of Princess Ananka was inspired and a classic piece of work, as she slowly and gradually crawls out of the dirt of the swamp, her twenty five year old mud pack having worked wonders for her complexion - and all without benefit of a tana leaf brew! Speaking of which, the tana leaf legacy gets a slight reworking in this film as well, it takes three leaves to keep Kharis' heart beating and nine to give him life and movement.As Ananka, Virginia Christine is a quick study, note that in all the Mummy films, none of the victims ever figured it out like Ananka - RUN AWAY FROM THE MONSTER! Hey, how great would it have been though, when Dr. Halsey (Dennis Moore) and Betty Walsh (Kay Harding), discover the collapsed Ananka on the side of a swamp road(?) and the creature not far behind in pursuit, if The Mummy had actually overcome the scientist, picked up Ananka and drove away in the car? It would not have been any zanier than the actual outcome.Finally, is it possible that Egyptian high priests just have no self discipline? George Zucco's Andoheb, Turhan Bey's Mehemet, John Carradine's Yousef, and now Martin Kosleck's Ragheb falls under the spell of a pretty woman, all breaking their vows to deliver Kharis and Ananka to their final resting place.Eventually, Lon Chaney's Kharis creates his own undoing, destroying the monastery where Ananka's sarcophagus is held, with the rubble of the building crashing down on top of him. But it was with a sense of It's not too late to do this at least one more time that I viewed the ending, Kharis has gotten out of a lot tougher scrapes than this one.If you can't tell by now, my sarcasm for the Mummy series is done tongue in cheek, because the films are a blast and a sheer joy for lovers of old classic horror. While the original Mummy deserves it's place in the Universal pantheon of terrific characters along with Frankenstein, Dracula, and the Wolfman, the sequel Mummy's are best enjoyed on a somewhat different level, one that requires a stronger disengagement from reality and definitely allowing a chuckle or two. "},{"Title":"The Mummy Fades Out!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Mummy's Curse was the fifth and final installment of Universal's mummy series and the third to star Lon Chaney as Kharis.At the close of the previous film, The Mummy's Ghost Kharis and the reincarnated Princess Ananka are seen descending into a swamp located in New England. As this film opens we find out that they have magically been transported to the Louisiana bayous. Anyway, it seems that a certain swamp is about to be drained and the locals fear that the ancient mummy will be dredged up. As luck would have it, he is.Dr. James Halsey (Dennis Moore) along with colleague Dr. Ilzer Zandaab (Peter Coe) have come to the area to recover the two mummies for a museum. Dr. Zandaab turns out to be the latest in along line of Egyptian High Priests charged with returning Kharis and Ananka to Egypt. Zandaab along with assistant Raghab (Martin Kosleck) revives Kharis (Chaney) in an old abandoned church and instructs him to find the Princess Ananka and to kill anyone who gets in his way. This he does.Meanwhile Ananka (Virginia Christine) climbs out of the bayou and wanders aimlessly through the countryside. She is befriended and taken in by the locals. Eventually Kharis finds her and takes her back to Zantaab and.......The film features a flashback sequence lifted in tact from The Mummy's Hand (1940) which itself was largely made up from footage taken from The Mummy (1932). In this sequence we see Tom Tyler as the unbandaged Kharis. The slim and muscular Tyler bore little resemblance to the heavier Chaney.Watch for two veterans of the silent screen, William Farnum and Charlie Stevens in minor roles.The Mummy was resurrected briefly for 1955's Abbott & Costello Meet The Mummy. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Curse (1944) **","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This may be the most repetitious of all the Kharis films and it's kind of gratifying that Universal finally stopped the cookie cutter after this last entry. It's by no means unenjoyable, but by now there's a severe case of been here, done that festering about and there isn't much new to help us along. Lon Chaney merely goes through the motions and gives the most listless of his three mummy performances. Peter Coe takes the award as the worst high priest, but Martin Kosleck is a good choice as his treacherous assistant even though he isn't given enough to do. The script is little more than a plodding chase which has the clumsy Kharis always coming within inches of seizing his beloved princess, only to narrowly miss her time and time again as she manages to ecape from his grasp.Redeeming qualities are found in the switching of locations to the Louisiana bayou territory, as well as Virginia Christine's appearance as the reincarnated Princess Ananka. Her resurrection sequence from a muddy swamp is not only the high spot of the picture, but it's one of the best in the entire saga. By the way, what's interesting is that if you recognized from a hotel receipt that THE MUMMY'S HAND took place in 1940, and then added up the 30 years later of THE MUMMY'S TOMB & THE MUMMY'S GHOST, and top it off with the 25 years later of THE MUMMY'S CURSE, you'd see that this entry would take place in 1995! ** out of **** "},{"Title":"There's nothing like a mummy's love.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is still life in this curse, barely. The premise has ran its course. Too many familiar scenes and the thrill is just hanging on. This although is still creepy to watch and fun for a rainy night. The living mummy Kharis(Lon Chaney Jr)now seeks his lost love(Virginia Christine) in the bayous of Louisiana. Also notable are Kurt Katch and Jackie Lou Harding. A mummy fan's must. "},{"Title":"It's a love story.  No, really!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"     You know what you are in for in an early scene when Kharis' coffin slowly opens and you see a 3000 year old sarcophagus has modern hinges on the lid.  Also, Peter Coe as the fanatically devoted priest of Karnak says mummy cases when he should have said sarcophagus.  Oh well.    Will someone, anyone, please tell me how Kharis could sink into a swamp in Massachusetts at the end of THE MUMMY'S GHOST and be dredged out of a Louisiana bayou in this film?  Also, this movie takes place in 1969.  THE MUMMY'S HAND was set in 1912; THE MUMMY'S TOMB (the best of the lot) was set 30 years later and ended with the hero being drafted into WW2; THE MUMMY'S GHOST took place only a short time later and this film is set 25 years later which would make it 1969 at least!  At least after so mush frustration Kharis finally reclaims his lost love (Virginia Christine).  Hopefully they can . . .er . . .live happily ever after.    Performances are good but Martin Kosleck steals the show as Ragheb, the acolyte who betrays his trust when he falls in love (or at least in lust) with the pretty heroine.  Lon Chaney hated Kharis as much as he loved The Wolfman and pretty much just wanders through this role.  he had to have known he was cast for his name value and that anyone could have been inside the gauze.  Watch for 2 silent film performers in cameo roles.  William Farnum, best remembered for the 1914 version of THE SPOILERS as the keeper of the monastery the Egyptian priests have defiled by bringing their equipment there.  Also on hand is Charlie Stevens, real life grandson of the Indian warrior Geronimo, as a workman named Achilles.  Stevens had appeared with Douglas Fairbanks in ROBIN HOOD (1922), THE BLACK PIRATE (1926) among others and was Injun Joe in the first talkie version of HUCKLEBERRY FINN (1930).  On the minus side there is some embarrassing racial humour involving a black worker named Goobie (Napoleon Simpson).  Trust me, he ain't no Mantan Moreland!     Personally I think all the Mummy movies are fun, but it was wise of them to end the series with this one. "},{"Title":"Interesting B Movie","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Workers on an irrigation project in a Louisiana swamp surprisingly awaken the mummy Kharis and his princess Ananka in this final installment of the original Universal Mummy series. I say surprisingly awaken because Kharis and Ananka sank into a Massachusetts swamp at the end of the previous film. Oh well. That's okay. The change of location actually breathes a little life into the film. Granted, although the original Karloff Mummy was an all-time Universal classic, this series of sequels were B-movies at best. The most interesting thing is that I felt the sequels got more interesting as they continued, mainly in regard to the role of women. Women are always saved in old school studio horror pictures, but the Mummy, unlike his monstrous peers like King Kong, managed to snag the girl in the last picture. Once again, Ananka also provides the most interest here. Ananka's resurrection in the swamp is perhaps the best, and creepiest, scene in the film, but her fate is once again out of character for the times. Once Ananka is found by our heroes, she is assigned the traditional Hollywood role of woman in jeopardy. However, once again, that role doesn't afford much protection. The guys don't seem to mind very much when she ends up dead at the end! "},{"Title":"Okay, but Scraping the Bottom of the Barrel","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  out of  ****This fourth and final Mummy film to feature Kharis is the best example of milking a formula to death. It's good enough, but Lon Chaney hated playing the mummy and it shows more here than in the other outings. He sulks through the film with no impact, presumably only interested in a paycheck.There is a dynamite scene featuring the resurrection of Kharis' princess, but that highlight is overshadowed by routine and familiar situations. It's also dull to see the mummy constantly coming within seconds of grabbing his girl, only to lose her again and again and again during the prolonged chase in this feature.It's interesting to note that this film by all rights would be taking place in 1995!!! THE MUMMY'S HAND took place in 1940; THE MUMMY'S TOMB and MUMMY'S GHOST both took place 30 years after, which would be 1970; THE MUMMY'S CURSE occurs still 25 (!!) years after THAT (1995?)You could do a lot worse than watching this movie, but it's really too much of a good thing in the long run.   "},{"Title":"Having a tanna leaf brew with Kharis for the last time.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  By this time the Kharis series was out of ideas. In the last movie Kharis & his princess submerged into a new england swamp. As usual with the Universal programmers that was ignored and we are shifted to Louisiana.Once again Kharis wants to be reunited with his loved one.AGAIN!The acting is decent while Kosleck gives a very slimy performance as a perverted Kharis follower.Chaney isn't given much except to stumble around and do some one armed strangling.The sets are nicely done as well. The scene where the princess breaks out of the ground is excellent.The characters are cardboard and there is some offensive racial stereotyping typical of the 40's.What I want to know is why don't folks run from Kharis? He moves like a tortoise. Dance around the walking ragpile, grab a torch and roast marshmellows with him.He's thousands of years old! He'll go up in a heartbeat.This movie doesn't require or deserve a lot of thought.It clocks in at 59 minutes so if you have an hour to kill it won't hurt you.Average. "},{"Title":"Fun Film","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Mummy's Curse (1944)** 1/2 (out of 4) Twenty-plus years after the events in the previous film, another high priest enters the Louisiana swamps to bring Kharis (Lon Chaney, Jr.) back from the dead. This time out Princess Ananka (Virginia Christine) comes back to life but can't fully remember why she knows so much about Kharis. Soon the mummy is trying to track her down and is willing to kill anyone who stands in his way.THE MUMMY'S CURSE would be the last of the Universal mummy movies until Abbott and Costello would bring him back towards the end of their careers. I think the film is an improvement over the previous entry and thankfully the movie runs at an extremely fast-pace and manages to provide several good moments. There are several fun moments throughout but one of the highlights has to be the Louisiana setting. I thought the swamp setting added a lot of atmosphere to the picture and there's no question that it help the entertainment value. Another great scene happens early on when the priest and his servant brings the mummy back to life.Chaney probably gives his best performance of his three mummy roles here, although that might not be saying too much since he's pretty limited as to what he can actually do. Instead of just stumbling around, at least this time out he appears to be into what he's doing. Peter Coe makes for a good lead and Chrstine certainly fits her role nicely. Another plus is the make-up from Jack Pearce who manages to make the mummy look a lot better than the previous two films.THE MUMMY'S CURSE certainly doesn't have a great story or anything but there are still many good moments that make it worth seeking out. The most famous scene happens to be the one where Princess Ananka rises from her grave and it's still quite chilling to watch after all these years. "}{"Title":"The vultures will pick the flesh off your bones! When Kharis learns of your treachery!","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Long awaited squeal to the film The Mummy's Ghost that was released some six months later has the Mummy Prince Kharis, Lon Chaney Jr, back from the dead looking for his love the beautiful Princess Ananka, Virginia Christine, who he's been estranged from for some 3,000 years! Now with the help of modern Egyptian high priest, masquerading around town as an archaeologist, Dr. Llzor Zandaad, Peter Coe, and his loyal henchman Reheb, Martin Kosleck, Kharis is brought back to life with the fluid of the ancient Egyptian Tana Leaves so he can be reunited with Princess Ananka and finally become Mr & Mrs Mummy.It's been some 20 years since Kharis and the Princess were swallowed up by the Louisiana swamps as they were chased by any angry mob of local Cajuns who just had about enough of them and, on Kharis's part, their murderous antics. Now brought back to life Kharis is, with Dr. Llzor's help, more then ever determined to get his Princess back and together with her get on the first boat back to Cairo Egypt even if it kills him, and anyone who dares to stands in his way, to do it!Incredibly slow moving with his body bandaged up from head to toe it's amazing that Kharis could catch anyone in the movie even if they were just standing still! In fact Kharis' first victim Michael, William Farnm, the self-appointed caretaker of the monastery that Kharis, with the help of Dr. Llzor & Reheb, made his home just stood there with him not as much as moving a muscle until Kharis got his hands on him! As Kharis was soon to find out that as much as he wanted Princess Ananka she seemed totally uninterested in him. Having like Khris come back from the dead the Princess got the hang of modern living, with all its conveniences, and had no interest of going back to jolly old Egypt to spent the rest of eternity with Kharis sealed up in an air-tight ancient Egyptian burial chamber!***SPOILER*** It was the sneaky and sex crazed Reheb in him wanting to get it on with Dr. James Halsey's, Dennis Moore, pretty assistant Betty Walsh (Kay Harding), who both discovered the amnesic Princess Anana in the Louisiana swamps, that in the end spoiled everything! Not being able to control his overactive libido Reheb made a mess of everything in defiling, by his uncontrollable lust, the laws of Amon-Ra the ancient Egyptian God and was made to pay the consequences for doing that. But not until Reheb finished off his Master Dr. Llzor and destroyed the Tana Leaves that kept Khris alive. Mad as hell and not going to take it anymore in Rebeb making a monkey out of him Khrais went totally berserk not only doing Rebeb in but himself as well!P.S In the flashbacks in the movie Khris is played by the legendary Boris Karloff in clips from Karloff's original 1932 Mummy classic aptly titled The Mummy. "},{"Title":"Virginia Christine, Scream Screen Queen","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Say that headline fast three times. Hell, say it slowly twice. When talking Mummy movies, first there's The Mummy (1932), which has no real sequels. Then there's the Kharis-Ananka quartet &#150; the Mummy's Hand (40), &#133;Tomb (42), &#133;Ghost (44) and &#133;Curse (44). Other than being about an ancient Egyptian mummy walking the earth, these four have little to do with the original, unless one counts the promiscuous mining of archive footage, forcing Imhotep to stand in for Kharis. In fact, Tomb, Ghost and Curse are sequels to The Mummy's Hand. The Mummy in these four films, played by Tom Tyler and then Lon Chaney Jr., is the weakest of the original Universal monsters, and the films in this series perhaps the least constrained by internal logic. Performance quality and character types run the scale in these four entries, and it's good fun comparing leading men, leading ladies, high priests, George Zucco's hair, and of course, Mummies. Although there are only two of these latter, you get to compare Chaney to himself, and he turns in three rather distinct (for him) performances, a thing that perhaps only Horror Babies like me can appreciate. Which brings us to Virginia Christine.In The Mummy's Curse, Virginia delivers what is unquestionably the best moment in this post-Karloff series, and (aside from One-Take Zucco and his hair) perhaps the best performance in the series overall. Virginia takes a slight script and actually does something with it, something better than the material deserves, and far above anyone else (Martin Kosleck excepted) in the cast of Curse.I don't mind saying that when I first saw this film long ago I fell for Virginia pretty hard. Not because she would have given Rita Hayworth any competition in a beauty contest, but because she's a Real Actress, and brings to Ananka a vulnerability and exotic mystery that is mighty attractive to a ten-year-old. And then, there's that MOMENT &#151; the one that appears on so many Top Ten Moments in Horror lists (Forrest J Ackerman, as I recollect, did not neglect to put it on some sort of list). Any Universal horror fan knows the one I mean when Princess Ananka crawls out of her Bayou grave into the light of the sun and struggles unsteadily to her feet &#151; the weariness of three thousand years in her bones &#151; pulls herself erect in regal mud-caked dignity, walks life back into herself, and then gratefully sinks into the cleansing waters of the Louisiana Nile&#133; THAT moment. In that scene, and the ones that follow, Virginia Christine joins the legendary sub-Pantheon of Scream Queens populated by the likes of Kathleen Burke, Carroll Borland, Elsa Lanchester, Simone Simon, Elena Verdugo, Barbara Steele and Marilyn Burns (match the goddess to the classic, kiddies). Memories of these ladies will bring a smile to the faces of many an aging Horror Baby until&#133; well, until the last of us croaks, which should be any day now.But The Mummy's Curse is Virginia's movie. Everyone else is just lurching around. Dennis Moore can't seem to find a costume that fits, Peter Coe flails painfully for an appropriate reaction and just misses every time, and Chaney&#133; What must he have been thinking about the whole thing? Alas, it is not to be known from his on-screen behavior. But Virginia&#133; you saved it, honey. "},{"Title":"tana leaves revives the mummy once again!","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Leslie Goodwins, Script Leon Abrams, Dwight V.Babcock, Cast Lon Chaney Jr. (Kharis), Dennis Moore (Dr. James Halsey), Virginia Christine (Princess Anaka), Addison Richards (Pat Walsh), Kay Harding (Betty Walsh), Peter Coe (Dr. Ilzor Zandaab) This was the fourth and final mummy movie from universal. The original Mummy film came out in 1932 around the same time as Dracula and Frankenstein right during Universal's heyday. The first sequel was made in 1940 and all the rest were made between 1940 and 1944. Other then the fact that it is about a mummy, the sequels have no resemblance to that original film. The mummy doesn't even have the same name. The four sequels do,more or less,run in a continuum. The story takes place 25 years after the first film in the bayous of Louisiana. Kharis,the mummy, and the mummified Princess Ananka went down in this swamp as we know from the previous film. This film has one exception to the otherwise continuous flow from the previous three films. In the prior film, they went down in a swamp in Massachussetts. Somehow they end up in a swamp in Louisiana! We have men with too different motives here. Mr. Walsh, the head of an excavation company that is draining the swamp and the archaeologist,Dr. Halsey, who wants to use this opportunity to recover the mommy from the swamp. Mister Walsh does not believe in the 'curse of the mummy' mumbo jumbo and doesn't want Dr. Halsey and his crew to interfere with his work. Meanwhile, little does Dr. Halsey know that his assistant,Dr. Ilzor Zandaab, is actually a high priest who revives the mummy with tana leaves. In the process, Princes Ananka also rises from the mud of the swamp. This is actually a rather impressive scene! The curse is lifted from her and she once again becomes a normal women. She does not know where she is or what had happened to her. The mummy kharis goes after her and kills anybody that gets in his way. Dr. Halsey defeats the high priest and falls in love with Mr. Walsh's niece who works as his secretary. The first mummy film was a classic right up there with Frankenstein, and Dracula(I personally like it better than Dracula). The sequels are not a classic like the original but they really were not meant to be. They were 'b' films. That being said, they are still enjoyable to watch. If one takes it literally, it is hard to believe that this took place 25 years after the previous film. If one follows the chronology of the four films, they would be in the 1990's. Probably not too convincing. "},{"Title":"A little flawed, but acceptable","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Mummy's Curse is a rather routine but certainly enjoyable entry in the series.**SPOILERS**Years after the events of before, Pat Walsh, (Addison Richards) the captain of an excavation crew, plans to drain the swamp. The local workers, a group of Cajuns, are superstitious about the mummy legend surrounding the area. When they find Kharis, (Lon Chaney Jr.) at the bottom of a swamp, Dr. Halsey, (Dennis Moore) of the Scripps Museum has plans to locate the bodies and display them in the museum against the wishes of Walsh. Halsey's assistant Illzor, (Peter Coe) is the High Priest of Arkam and secretly uses Tana leaves to resurrect Kharis. Soon, the revived Princess Ananka, (Virginia Christine) rises from the swamp, albeit not as a mummy but as a beautifully rejuvenated young lady suffering from amnesia. Though Ananka finds him repulsive, Kharis stalks her according to the wishes of Illzor, killing the local townspeople who stand in his way. As crew-members begin to drop off with telltale mold on their necks, Halsey intervenes and tries to get to the bottom of this mess before more people are killed.The Good News One of the film's greatest strengths is it's one real stand-out scene when Ananka rises from the mud. Her resurrection from the drained swamp is one of the most impressive, and downright odd, sequences in the entire series. Caked in dried clay, she struggles to break loose from her burial place and then staggers blindly through the woods, her head turned upward to the blazing sun as it glows through her closed eyelids, until finally she descends slowly into the water to cleanse herself. This scene is startlingly effective, and is without a doubt the most memorable thing about it. This is such a strangely beautiful, almost surreal sequence. One thing the movie does get right is that it gets around the problem of having the slow-moving Mummy catch people by having his victims practically stumble into his arms so that he can strangle them without a problem. In one encounter, there's the fact that when one victim first bumps into him where you can see the dust rise from his body, which is a very nice touch, but by having it where the victims come to him it makes it a lot more exciting. The story does have an interesting twist to it, though, that shouldn't lightly be passed over. That is that Princess Ananka really doesn't want to return to the tomb back in her homeland to be Kharis' lover anymore and the fact that she craves the sun puts an interesting spin on things. There's a whole cult of priests exists to make sure her rest is not disturbed, and she's not in the mood to rest. Just as clever is how when she comes to, she seemingly remembers nothing and is still a cognizant human being. She's not some innocent who has been possessed by the spirit of Ananka. For all intents and purposes, she really is Princess Ananka, and for once, not the other way around, which is a real treat. This change is enough to give it a different feel, and is one that really fits in the film. These manage to make the film watchable and quite fun.The Bad News This here is a rather decent entry in the series, and has some overall problems with it. The biggest one is that this is a virtual remake of its predecessor. Like that film, this one concerns an Egyptian priest who travels to America, falls in love with a local girl and attempts to use the secrets of eternal life to secure their future. The girl's fiancée fights against the union, as does Kharis, who, aside from killing local townspeople, is actually a good monster at heart. This is virtually the same as the other entries and offers up nothing new to be seen. As such, this film feels like the product of an assembly line, barely indistinguishable from its predecessors. The mummy slinks around as usual, killing several people with the choke of his hand. Nobody is ever able to outrun Kharis, despite the fact that he can barely walk. Most of them don't even try because they are apparently paralyzed with fear. Another big problem centers around the titular creature. It often seems like the Mummy's curse in this movie is to cloud the peripheral vision of other characters. In the scene where Princess Ananka is rescued from the side of the road and driven away, nobody who rescues her can see Kharis who is only a couple of feet away. They don't even spot him in the rear-view mirror of the car. This is simply ludicrous, as there's hardly any way that a shambling mummy is going to be unnoticed by a large amount of witnesses. It just doesn't make any sense, and is handled so poorly that it only seems to aggravate more than anything. Unfortunately, it seems like a waste of time having the mummy both catch Princess Ananka and kill anyone who gets in his way. Every time he stops to kill someone, it gives Ananka a chance to get away. Significantly, the time the mummy finally does catch Ananka, he doesn't bother to kill the accompanying woman. This problems keep the film down in the series.The Final Verdict This wasn't as bad as it could've been, but it's still got it's problems and in the end is merely respectable. It's nothing new for the series, so if it sounds like fun, give it a shot, but you won't miss anything by skipping it.Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Curse","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The devil's on the loose and he's dancing with the mummy!The mummified one-armed strangler returns as Kharis(Lon Chaney Jr)once again seeks his mate, Princess Ananka(the beautiful Virginia Christine, who rises from the earth in the film's best sequence)who is reincarnated and listless. Somehow, both Kharis and Ananka find themselves in the bayou of Louisiana after having went into a swamp in New England..how this possibly could occur is never established. It's been 25 years, and the village folk..the whole superstitious lot..are scared senseless of the myth of a bandaged killer and his princess bride. Museum curator James Halsey(Dennis Moore)and his assistant Ilzor Zandab(Peter Coe)are searching for the remains of Kharis and Ananka for their new museum which drives Pat Walsh(Addison Richards)crazy. You see Pat is the foreman behind a great excavation project draining the swamp so that citizens can have a much safer environment to live(..and of course opening the door for future businesses to enter in), but the workers are worried sick about being killed by the mummy. It doesn't help matters when one of the workers is found with a knife in his back. Later we find that Ilzor is the new High Priest of Arkham, yet another middle man who commands his servant lackey Ragheb(Martin Kosleck)to feed Tana leave stew to Kharis so that he can find and nab Ananka wherever she may be. A body count escalates as anyone who tries to protect a bewildered Ananka(suffering a case of amnesia, not knowing exactly who she is)suffers the suffocating grasp of Kharis. But, what Ilzor doesn't know is that Ragheb will, of course, betray him desiring to take Pat's niece Betty(Kay Harding), a secretary for her uncle who falls in love with Halsey. Where the Egyptian crypts for Kharis and Ananka reside in the ruins of a monastery, where the climax takes place as Ragheb will face those he betrayed..Ilzor and Kharis as the mummy finally captures Ananka. Will Ragheb be able to control the mummy for himself? Will Ragheb hurt Betty? Will Kharis finally return with his bride to Egypt with Ilzor where they belong?The film has atmosphere to burn and excellent use of shadow as we see the image of the mummy draw near(also, the film uses the sound of Kharis' dragging foot to full effect), but has a lackluster premise that is essentially Kharis killing people in an alarming rate at a slow speed searching for Ananka, who seems to faint a hell of a lot. Peter Coe as Ilzor is yet another dull block-of-wood in a series of wooden villains who command Kharis to kill. Kosleck is a smallish fiend who isn't that imposing. Christine is fine as the unfortunate princess who has a hard time understanding the horrors swirling around her. But, the film's bread-and-butter is Ananka's rising from the earth burying her..it's an eerie scene, perfectly chilling, that the film as a whole couldn't accomplish.The curtain closes on a poor, run-of-the-mill, uninspired series. "},{"Title":"Louisiana Mummy","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  My My, when I hear folks talk about how Universal never made a bad horror film, I hark to this short, rather mundane picture which serves as basically nothing more that a rehash of the former four mummy films.  It is not a bad film really, but it is very far from being good.  Seems that the mummy and his princess are buried in the mud of the Louisiana swamps.  An industrial excavation is going on in the area, and mummy experts come down to give their aid as well.  Well, surprise, surprise.  The mummy is found, people start to die, and we have some short chase sequences, a final scene where mummy does his mummy thing, and of course the flashback scene.  A mummy film would not be complete without going back to former films and explaining who the princess and Kharis were, and, in the process, chewing up the running time and saving on film and actors.  Lon Chaney plays the bandaged one with what seems a total lack of interest.  He stumbles from here and there, but has little to do and little motivation.  The rest of the cast is okay.  Peter Coe as the Mummy priest is not too good, but some good character acting does come from his henchmen(particularly Martin Kosleck) and  a great comic performance by Napoleon Simpson as Goobie.  The best scene is the scene where the princess comes out of her boggy grave covered with mud, then walks into the swamp waters and comes out a model for a hair commercial...her hair vibrant, bouncy, and not wet!   Her dress also in great, fantastic shape.  I should look so good after staying in a swamp bog for twenty five years.  Despite the logic of the scene, it is wonderfully photographed.  I also liked the humour, which I think was intentional, of the mummy continually coming close to getting his girl yet failing several attempts. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even in America we're not safe as bulldozers unearth the ancient Egyptian mummy and his favorite obsession, Princess AnankaKharis is on the loose again. Of course, being on the loose for this mummified foot-dragger means he's a danger only to those too dumb to run. Fortunately, these movies are loaded with slow-learners. Actually, this is one of the better of the series, with lots of shadowy atmosphere and a really nubile Mrs. Folger otherwise known as Princess Ananka (Virginia Christine). No wonder Kharis is so anxious to carry her off, especially in that flowing white gown. I'd trade for his bandages and gimpy foot any day. And catch her rising jerkily from the swamp. These moves are enough to make you doubt whether she's human or not.Too bad the rest of the cast seems at times to be sleep walking, except for Addison Richards (Maj. Walsh) and Kay Harding (Betty) who manage some lively personality. Peter Coe is a particularly unfortunate choice as the high priest. He sounds about as scary and exotic as my next-door neighbor. But who cares. It's old tangle foot and the moody gloom that keeps fans like me tuned in. "},{"Title":"Memorable mainly for one remarkable scene","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" And the scene I'm talking about is of course Princess Ananka's awakening from the swamp. Played by the pretty Virginia Christine, this one scene alone stands out from what is a fairly ordinary movie (if still better than the Mummy's Tomb). Ananka's hand slowly rises to the surface of the newly drained swamp, and Ananka herself pushes her way up through the mud and sludge looking like some grotesque manikin. It's a genuinely eerie moment, and one of the best in any Universal 40s horror flick.The rest is basically Lon Chaney's Kharis strangling his way through the cast of characters when they get in the way of his reunion with Ananka. Even if you've seen the previous movies very little of the story makes sense. The swamp into which he sank in The Mummy's Ghost has mysteriously moved from New England to Louisiana; Ananka for some reason is given life and health by the sun (unexplained, though possibly something to do with Amon-Ra being a Sun God), she frequently runs away from her mummified suitor and then calls for him when he's not around (the soul of the princess presumably coming and going at will - or when the script-writers needed it). Chaney lumbers through the part. He publicly stated he hated the role, but in truth there isn't really anything inventive for him to do.This is still an atmospheric little B-movie for all its plot inconsistencies. Some nice moonlit shots of the Mummy lurching down the steps of the abandoned monastery and a good sequence where Kharis almost reaches a car containing Ananka before it speeds away just in time. Universal don't really, er, wrap things up with the end, which seems to suggest another sequel was just around the corner. The Mummy's Curse would prove to be last in the series. At least until Abbott and Costello roughed him up! "},{"Title":"Kharis Has Risen from the Grave","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The mummy's last shuffle, rife with a lot of the conventional trappings we've come to love (loathe?) about this series jumbled continuity, a recap of the mummy's life story aided with generous amounts of file footage, another woman in a white dress who can't help getting swept off her feet by Kharis, another nitwit priest of Karnak/Arkham trying to force himself on some bland American girl (aye carumba).Having been magically transported to a Louisiana bayou, Kharis spends what seems like most of the picture going through the rigmarole of chasing after the apparently scatterbrained Princess Ananka, who's calling his name one minute then running from him the next (just like any normal bride I imagine). The scene that left me in awe during all of this is when Dr. Halsey and Betty Walsh--the typically dull romantic leads--spot Ananka passed out in the woods and carry her to the doc's car. Kharis is creeping up right behind them during this entire scene but somehow the two drips never happen to glance up & spot the over 6 foot tall, hulking lurch in the bandages. Those mummy wrappings must make for some darn good camouflage.I've always felt that as far as classic Universal monsters went, there was the big three--Dracula, Wolf Man, The Monster--and then there was the rest, particularly the mummy. The Universal Studios of the 1940s apparently had the same opinion of Kharis, content to just churn out second-rate features to tack on at the bottom of a double-bill. But, taken for what they are, the Kharis films can be enjoyable B-movie fodder.Besides, any film that contains such immortal dialogue as The Devil's on the loose and he's dancin' with the Mummy can't be all bad. - "},{"Title":"the final, and worst, of the Universal mummy films","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Universal made the original Boris Karloff film, THE MUMMY in the early 1930s. To date, I think it's by far the best of all the mummy films. The, starting in 1940, they made a series of four mummy films. While they were not as good as the Karloff one, they provided a lot of fun and entertainment. They were not designed to be cerebral or for snobs but to appeal to kids and adults alike as the B-picture in the Saturday afternoon lineup at the cinema. And, in this role, they did exactly what they were intended to do.This movie is the weakest and last of these films. Part of this is because of repetition--most of what occurs seems pretty old hat. Plus, the only real innovation was pretty silly--this Egyptian menace somehow made it to the bayous of Louisiana!! Yep, a decent film but it probably was time to stop making them when you had to resort to such plot devices because you ran out of ideas! "}{"Title":"Kharis IV Born on the Bayou","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The final entry in the Kharis the mummy series is also the weakest, although still a good watch. At the end of the last film, Kharis and Ananka disappeared into the swamp. Decades later, the swamp is drained. For some reason, this film moves the location of the swamp from New England to Louisiana! So obviously somebody didn't think continuity was that big of an issue. Anyway, Kharis is revived by yet another Egyptian high priest (Peter Coe). Meanwhile, Ananka resurfaces from the mud and we discover she is played by Virginia Christine. Why Ramsay Ames didn't return to the role I'm not sure, but Christine does fine. Needless to say, Kharis is once again anxious to find his lost love. This was Lon Chaney Jr.'s last turn as the mummy. This one's got some marks against it but it's a fun movie. Nice atmosphere and some creepy moments. Universal horror fans like myself will like it most. "},{"Title":"The Return of Kharis and Ananka","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" THE MUMMY'S CURSE (Universal, 1944), directed by Leslie Goodwins, an immediate sequel to THE MUMMY'S GHOST (1944), offers more of the same with few alterations and changes. For the first time in the series, Lon Chaney Jr. (billed simply as Lon Chaney) has his name placed above the title instead of the bottom of the supporting players reading ... and Lon Chaney as the Mummy. Another first (and only) is the absence of George Zucco as The High Priest Andoheb swearing in a new guide in Egypt to assist Kharis, with the movie starting off instead with a song, Hey, You (by Oliver Drake and Frank Orth) performed by Tante Merthe (Ann Codee) to her customers at her café before the story really gets underway. Traditionally, the fate of Kharis is retold via flashback (with stock footage of Tom Tyler from THE MUMMY'S HAND instead of Lon Chaney himself) on how he came to be sentenced, wrapped up as a mummy, buried alive and cursed for all eternity for performing an unholy ritual against the gods by taking the forbidden Tana leaves to resurrect his beloved Princess Ananka, before moving on with a new story resuming its locale on American soil. Instead of a town in New England, where THE MUMMY'S TOMB (1942) and THE MUMMY'S GHOST (1944), took place, it's now somewhere in Louisiana a quarter of a century after the fact instead of the logical year or two, showing the inconsistency from one movie to the next.In this fourth Kharis outing, an excavation of the dried-up swamp is underway with Pat Walsh (Addison Richards) as head of the Southern Engineering Company. Dr. James Halsey (Dennis Moore) of the Scripps Museum hopes this will lead him to Kharis, who had walked into the swamp carrying the reincarnation of Princess Ananka 25 years ago, to carry on his mission to return these centuries old bodies to their actual burial grounds in Egypt. After the swamp is cleared, Kharis (Lon Chaney) has resurrected on his own accord, leaving his body imprint in the mud, having already murdered a construction worker named Antoine along the way. As for Ananka (Virginia Christine), she comes out of the swamps in white gown, roaming the countryside in a dazed state, calling out for Kharis. Also tending to Kharis besides Halsey are Dr. Ilzor Zandaab (Peter Coe) and Ragab (Martin Kosleck), two high priests with Ragab acting as one of the construction workers. After Ananka is picked up along the road by Halsey and Betty (Kay Harding), Walsh's assistant and niece, Ananka forgets her past and living for the present, becoming a new and happier woman until Kharis comes to reclaim her again.Not as good as THE MUMMY'S GHOST, but regardless of its reputation as being the least distinguished, this entry does have some fine moments of horror worth mentioning Ananka reviving from the dead through the sun's rays with her hand slowing rising out of the swamp, appearing in withered form roaming the countryside in a confused manner. Not exactly a monster in a sense but physically appearing like a female vampire coming back to life after many centuries of being dead. Of course there's the traditional stalking of Kharis as he reaches out to strangle his victims to the sound of Universal's stock musical score heard many times in other horror films of the 1940s. On the plus side, all the characters play their roles straight, and not for laughs as in THE MUMMY'S HAND. On the negative side is how each movie, released one or two years apart, to take place ranging from 20 to 30 years after the latest incident, leading one to assume that when all this began with THE MUMMY'S HAND in 1940, the story should now be taking place around 1980s, with the characters and settings looking very much like modern day 1940s, as well as the aforementioned lack of consistency.In the last chapter, THE MUMMY'S GHOST, Ananka ages thousands of years before being carried to the swamps by Kharis. Back from the dead after the swamp has been cleared, she resumes her original appearance as a young woman. Are these two different women bearing the same name? The last of the Kharis series, thus far, in spite of it leaving an opening for another sequel for something to the nature of THE MUMMY'S BRAIN or FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE MUMMY, titles that are non-existence but would have been interesting prospects just the same. It would be another decade before Kharis returns to the screen playing, this time playing opposite the comedy team for ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET THE MUMMY (1955), without the presence of Lon Chaney, who by that time has called it a wrap. Overall THE MUMMY'S CURSE is a standard entry to this short-lived but still watchable series with familiar overtones, plus its supporting players consisting of Kurt Katch (Cajun Joe); Holmes Herbert (Doctor Cooper); William Farnum (Michael, the monastery caretaker); and Napoleon Simpson (Goobe).Another popular one from the Chriller Theater era of Saturday night TV viewing from the 1960s and 70s, this and other Mummy movies, formerly presented on the Sci-Fi Channel during the early 1990s, American Movie Classics (2000-2002) and distribution on video cassette by MCA Home Video, are all available for chills and thrills on DVD.(**) "},{"Title":"There's a foreign substance on his neck...it looks like mold....from a mummy!","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here we have the final movie in Universal's Mummy series. You don't really need to describe the plot because I think it is pretty much the same in every one of these Mummy films. Mummy meets girl. Mummy and girl fall in love, violating the laws of Amon-Ra in the process. Mummy and girl are cursed and buried for thousands of years. Mummy is woken up by rude explorers. Mummy kills explorers. Mummy tries to reunite with girl, who is now a pile of moldy rags.MUMMY'S CURSE finds our happy mummy couple mysteriously unearthed in the bayous of Louisiana. Ananka, in a pretty effective scene, rises from the mud and stumbles to a small town, where she is befriended by the locals. Kharis finally drags himself free of the mud but he's still in moldy Mummy form. When he eventually catches up with Ananka, she realizes that a future with Kharis, sealed in a dusty Egyptian tomb, chasing around his little mummy brats, just isn't for her anymore. There are some problems with another meddling high priest and yadda yadda yadda Kharis ends up bringing down the house...right on his own head.Lon Chaney does a great job as Kharis. He actually manages to convey some emotion through the make-up, and there are a few times when the mummy is portrayed as a relentless, unstoppable juggernaut of destruction. There is a tiny bit of humor and more suspense than I was expecting .There is nothing classic about these movies, they were made quickly and cheaply and it shows. But they give you what all b movies should an hour or so of decent, escapist entertainment. "},{"Title":"The last of the Kharis Mummy films","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Mummy's Curse is the last in the series of the Kharis mummy films, and it seems that creativity had run somewhat dry by the time they made this one. Kharis and his mate Ananka both end up in the bayous of Louisiana, and on his resurrection, he searches out his beloved princess. How they end up in Louisiana isn't made entirely clear, but with various people trying to find them, the viewer can be assured of some mummy murders.The Mummy's Curse was watchable, but it really wasn't anything special. I had the feeling throughout the movie that I'd seen this before. Quite frankly, apart from the original The Mummy with Boris Karloff, the Mummy movies are not my favorites among the old Universal horrors. They're not bad, but they do get a bit repetitive.There are some great scenes in the movie (the scene with Ananka coming to life in the swamp for instance) but overall this didn't do much for me.It's worth seeing if you want to be completest and see all of the mummy movies, but otherwise you might want to pass on this one. "},{"Title":"More of the same.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one is hardly memorable save for it's Bayou setting(??) as the last were in Mass...well you get the idea. Same old same old-the mummy is around, shambles after the victims, chases his lady love, she comes outta the muck, etc. dies at the end of old age etc. while he winds up being slammed by an avalanche of stone.There's a typical Mantan Moreland sort there, scared of his shadow black character, just in keeping with the other 'highlights' of this late entry in the series.You don't even get Turhan Bey or Carradine as the priest in this, just some guy you never heard of. If you don't need to watch it, then don't. The first in the run are more than enough.** outta **** "},{"Title":"What the Tanna Leaf is Going on Here?","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a sucker for Universal monsters and generally love all of the sequels, but this is probably one of my least favorites as the quality had just really dropped at this point in the Mummy series.Somehow Kharis and Ananka walk into a swamp in Middleton, MA and are resurrected 30 years later in the Louisiana bayou. The make this even worse, there's not any logical explanation given, in fact they act like the events of the previous movie happened right here. They even, somehow, find an abandoned monastery in what has to be the only hill in the bayou, if for no other reason than because every other Kharis sequel had a temple on a hill and sequences on the steps (or in the case of MUMMY'S GHOST a shack on stilts with a mine car ramp).The movie is a mess of stereotypical characters who are given very little depth. An archaeologist rolls into town (you know he's an archaeologist because he wears a Pith helmet) along with his assistant (you know he's Egyptian because he wears a Fez). Secretly, the assistant is the latest in a long line of high priests sworn to protect Kharis and Ananka and he set the events in motion. Along the way we meet a stereotypical swamp resident who's named Cajun Joe just in case we didn't get that we was Cajun and an awful caricature of a black man named Goobie, who's given lots of Hey massa lines. All of the movies in the series proceeding this were of some diminishing quality but at least all had some positives to them. There's just nothing in the tank by this point. Even the few violent scenes that we get are pretty lame. I should have known when the movie opens with a song what I was getting myself into. "},{"Title":"Seen on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater in 1965","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1944's The Mummy's Curse was the fourth and last of the Kharis series, third to star Lon Chaney in the title role, and the only one not included in Universal's popular SHOCK! television package, having to wait for 1958's SON Of SHOCK, the same fate that befell beloved classics like Bride of Frankenstein, The Ghost of Frankenstein, and House of Dracula. Going from a Massachusetts swamp to the Louisiana bayou is certainly a stretch, but not as much as setting the date an incredible 25 years later. The unexceptional Peter Coe (House of Frankenstein) is this film's bland High Priest of Arkham, Ilzor Zandaab (his screen time quite limited), his recent disciple, the lascivious Ragheb (Martin Kosleck), providing all the knife wielding villainy to spice up the proceedings. An excavation of the swamp leaves one man dead, the knife still in his back, and a space just large enough for a mummy; shortly afterwards, another finds a hand emerging from its burial place, revealing the now revived Princess Ananka (Virginia Christine), who had gone down with Kharis at the conclusion of The Mummy's Ghost. Making her way to a nearby lake, the Princess emerges perfectly coiffured (every hair in place!), if a bit wet and amnesiac, spelling death for all those who take her in. There are solid roles for veterans Addison Richards, Holmes Herbert, Kurt Katch, Charles Stevens, William Farnum, and Ann Codee, criminally unbilled as Tante Berthe. Popular years later playing Mrs. Olsen in the Folgers commercials, Virginia Christine scores impressively as Ananka (her natural blonde locks hidden under a jet black wig), light years better than the insipid Ramsay Ames in The Mummy's Ghost (her other Universal horror was the doomed prostitute who encounters Rondo Hatton's Creeper in 1946's House of Horrors). This marked the end of Kay Harding's brief stardom at Universal (Weird Woman, The Scarlet Claw), while Martin Kosleck, previously seen in the still unissued The Frozen Ghost, continued his scene stealing ways in Pursuit to Algiers, House of Horrors, and She-Wolf of London. For a role he so fervently despised, Lon Chaney's Mummy again fares well, his frustration palpable, continuously (even comically) one step behind his beloved Princess (the climax finds them both headed permanently to Manhattan's Scripps Museum). This appears to have been the most popular of his three outings, reprising the role in 1959's Mexican La Casa del Terror and on television's ROUTE 66 (the 1962 Halloween broadcast Lizard's Leg and Owlet's Wing, opposite Boris Karloff and Peter Lorre). The Mummy's Curse made a total of six appearances on Pittsburgh's Chiller Theater- Sept 25 1965 (following 1963's Battle Beyond the Sun), Feb 10 1968 (following 1933's The Invisible Man), Sept 30 1972 (following 1944's House of Frankenstein), Jan 25 1975 (following 1960's The Lost World), Sept 20 1975 (following 1969's Godzilla's Revenge), and Apr 23 1977 (following 1935's Bride of Frankenstein). "},{"Title":"They weren't even trying at this point...","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a sequel to the Mummy's Ghost, which didn't even try to be accurate in the continuity area.Mummy's Ghost and Mummy's Tomb took place in Massachusetts, but inexplicably, we are now in Louisiana. Unless the Mummy got tired of chowder and wanted some gumbo, this doesn't make sense. Can you make Gumbo with Tana leaves?Nor would the Scripp Museum's interest in the Princess's mummy. That was destroyed. The only think in this swamp should be the corpse of the poor girl who died in Mummy's Ghost, who was played by a totally different actress. (they couldn't get the sameactress again? The movies were only made a few months apart.) So this is 25 years after the Mummy's Ghost, even though technology hasn't changed much. While draining the swamp, they uncover the mummies, which the cult of Arkham is looking for, too.You just can't watch these things without feeling pity for Lon Chaney, Jr., who saw himself as a dramatic leading actor, and got typecast into this kind of horror schock.You know, I'm noticing a pattern in these movies is that all the middle eastern characters are not only portrayed as bad guys but almost always as potential rapists. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Curse (1944) **","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to the above - and the final entry in the Kharis series - is slightly more enjoyable on the whole but it's also more contrived (hell, we even get a singing barmaid/hostess!) Peter Coe is easily the least charismatic of the various Egyptian high priests we've seen during the course of these films, and Martin Kosleck as his henchman seems uninterested in the proceedings; Kurt Katch, then, is saddled with a ridiculous accent as the man who discovers the newly reincarnated Princess Ananka the latter, in the form of Virginia Christine (later a much-used character actress) gets her most substantial 'role' and, indeed, the sequence of her resurrection from the swamps is a highlight not only of this film but the entire series. Unfortunately, here too, Chaney has precious little to do as once again the emphasis is on Ananka, as I've said; his Mummy (to which he returned most often at Universal - apart, naturally, from his signature role of The Wolf Man!) remains, without a doubt, his least memorable monster for the studio. "},{"Title":"Cajun Joe","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Once the pattern gets established with these films, certain things must stay constant while only a few others vary.What must stay constant is the creature of course, some elaborate story to support the magic, a scheming Oriental (not Egyptian exactly), usually a local dupe, an investigator usually archeological, and of course the `girl.' Usually, frequent silhouette shots.In addition to skill in filmmaking and effects, it is what varies that is interesting. Tone, location, reference to others films. Here, we are again in the US. But here we have a really interesting portrayal of the rabble that are draining the swamp. Check it out. It has immigrants and blacks and New Orleans voodoo, in a snapshot of how we thought we were.The princess here is the prettiest of the mummy's girls in the several films.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"The Final Kharis Film","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" From 'The Mummy's Hand (1940) through 'The Mummy's Curse (1944)' some interesting things but none more bizarre than the fact Kharis and Ananka sank into the Massachusetts swamps in the 'The Mummy's Ghost (1944) but end up rising in the Louisiana swamps in 'The Mummy's Curse (1944)'.How did they end up in Louisiana? All we know is the townspeople and the sheriff's office (supposedly) chased Kharis and Ananka to Louisiana but the last film was set in Massachusetts... they chased them that far??? LOL The one major flaw with The Mummy's Curse but the film is fine otherwise.If can go with or overlook the strange explanation given and can get into the idea of The Mummy ending up in Louisiana then you will find the film is is really just about as good of a B-Film as rest of the films in this series. Kharis can finally rest in peace.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The last and weakest of the Universal Kharis Mummy series","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Of the Universal Kharis Mummy films, the only one for me that came close to good was The Mummy's Hand, though that also had its uneven spots. The Mummy's Tomb, The Mummy's Ghost and The Mummy's Curse are watchable at least but also heavily flawed and uninspired, of which The Mummy's Curse fares the worst.The Mummy's Curse highlight is, agreed, the resurrection of Princess Ananka. It is a splendid, atmospheric scene that provides goose-bumps, and along with the ending of Ghost is the best scene of all the Universal Kharis Mummy films. It is sadly though the only great scene in the film, the only one to show any sense of care or directorial flair. Anne Codee makes a memorable appearance, and her Hey You number provided the film with a brief flicker of charm that the rest of the film was sorely lacking in. Of the cast(of which most of the cast were not very good), Virginia Christine comes out on top, she has an alluring appearance, and as well as making one's hairs stand up on their neck she is poignant too. Martin Kosleck is fun and menacing in his role, while Holmes Herbert is appropriately silky voiced. The sets are very atmospheric and there is some nice shadowy lighting, the camera work is the resurrection is most effective. And there is one amusing line, Goobie's 'The devil's alive and he's dancing with the mummy'.Lon Chaney Jnr sadly completely goes through the motions here, he at least had some intimidating moments in Tomb and Ghost but here it seemed as if he didn't care. He is disadvantaged by that Kharis here has very little screen time and whenever he does appear he has nothing to do, nothing that wasn't done before in the previous Kharis films anyhow. Peter Coe is also by far the worst high priest of all four films put together, he brings very little authority or sense of threat to the role and instead he's wooden. Napoleon Simpson provides some mostly unfunny and often embarrassing comic relief(apart from that one line) as the film's most stereotypical character, in a film where all the characters are stock and uncompelling, and Dennis Moore and Kay Harding, while an improvement on the leads from Ghost, are a little dull. The script on the most part is as lumbering as Kharis himself and all the humour falls flat. As with the previous three Kharis films the romance elements don't come off strongly either, feeling saccharine and underdeveloped.Princess Ananka's resurrection sequence and the Hey You number aside, The Mummy's Curse is slow-moving and dull with a lot of the storytelling feeling like an even blander retread of Ghost, the attacks and chases being especially repetitive. Unlike the previous three films, there is very little attempt at trying to do something different to before. The previous three films for all their problems had some campy fun and a little suspenseful atmosphere, plus Kharis also showed signs of being intimidating before, but again with the resurrection scene aside none of those can be found in Curse. The music doesn't sound bad at all by itself, it sounds quite haunting, but is very stock and doesn't always fit, a couple of placements sounded random. While the production values have their moments, some close-ups of Kharis don't look particularly good and the editing is shoddy, it was made virtually straight after Ghost(which was also made quickly, and looked it) and it really does show.In conclusion, the last of the Universal Kharis Mummy films and sadly it is also the weakest. Pretty weak a lot of the time, but thanks to the song, that one great sequence and a few performances it's watchable. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The last Universal mummy movie. This one transports Kharis and Ananka from Massachusetts to Louisiana! When last seen they sank in a swamp together. Here they're unearthed by yet another high priest from Egypt. He plans to bring them back to Egypt and will kill anyone who tries to stop them. However (in a genuinely eerie sequence) Ananka (Virginia Christie) claws her way out of the swamp and wanders around with no knowledge of who she is.It's silly but it works. The setting is atmospheric, the acting isn't bad (Christie is excellent) and her resurrection is more than a little spooky. It also has an ending that left the room for no more sequels. Not a great movie but much better than The Mummy's Ghost which preceded it. "},{"Title":"The Mummy's Final Curtain","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" That is, final if you don't count Abbott and Costello. I have a new found respect for this movie after watching it again recently from the Mummy's Ghost/Mummy's Curse double feature DVD.Yes, I'm aware of all its inherit problems; the wildly outrageous continuity issues, the embarrassing ethnic stereotypes (particularly Goobie), Lon Chaney's apathetic performance as Kharis. Yet, in spite of or maybe because of those issues, I still find CURSE to be extremely enjoyable (even moreso than the previous installment).If you're willing to suspend your disbelief just a tad & accept the new Louisiana setting for this film, I think you may enjoy it that much more. I know it's not high art, but it's fun nonetheless and 60 minutes of your life you won't regret spending to watch this movie. Just my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"The last Tana Leaf on the Tree","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If Bride Of Frankenstein was the crown jewel in Universal Horror, the Mummy sequels were the ankle bracelets from a Cracker Jack's box. Oddly, many kids probably loved these more than the strange and wonderful Karloff Mummy where you only got to see him fully wrapped at the beginning. There must have been some Barton Finks who passed these silly stories around as if they were wresting movies. The idiotic plot is basically retold from the first film. Still, the striking form of the Mummy, oddly invisible to the world beyond the stock characters (didn't anybody EVER notice him?) was oddly effective, as he ever so slowly, inch by inch, approached his prey. That's about all Curse has going for it. The unintentional laughs of the more fun The Mummy's Ghost are mostly gone. Thank goodness Boris quit after one. "},{"Title":"Paint-by-Numbers","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" At the end of the previous movie The Mummy's Ghost the mummy known as Kharis (Lon Chaney) carried the beautiful Amina Mansouri (Ramsay Ames) into the Louisiana swamp and while they were sinking into quicksand she had morphed into the Princess Ananka. This movie essentially picks up where the previous movie ended with some workers for the Southern Engineering Company trying to drain the Louisiana swamp where Kharis and Ananka sank some 25 years earlier. While work is progressing two people from the Scripps Museum, who go by the names of Dr. James Halsey (Dennis Moore) and Dr. Ilzor Zandaab (Peter Coe), come to see the owner of the company Pat Walsh (Addison Richards) to tell him that they want to dig up Kharis for their museum. Unfortunately, while they are talking the dead body of one of the workers is found near that site. Also found is a bandage which could have only come from Kharis. Not long after that Princess Ananka (now played by Virginia Christine) is also freed from her underground resting place and as she wanders in the swamp she gradually changes back into her old identity of Amina Mansouri. Naturally, Kharis wants her back and he will stop at nothing to get her. Anyway, rather than detail the rest of the movie and possibly ruin the film for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this is the 4th sequel to the original movie The Mummy which was filmed back in 1932. As such it follows the same standard plot which admittedly gets a bit old in subsequent re-tellings. And while there are a couple of twists thrown in which have a certain appeal the fact that this movie only lasted 62 minutes doesn't allow for any depth to the characters or the plot. That said, in my opinion this paint-by-numbers approach doesn't lend any quality to the movie and as a result I rate it as slightly below average. "},{"Title":"Fourth & Final Kharis Film.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lon Chaney Jr. returned for the last time as Kharis the living mummy, who is unearthed(along with his beloved Princess Ananka) from their swampy grave by builders excavating the area for re-development. Once again, a high priest(played by Peter Coe) and his native assistant(played by Martin Koslek) are after them as well, and want to return them to their native Egypt, but local Scripps Museum representatives have other ideas, leading to a final climax to the saga... Bizarre film is set 25 years after Ghost, placing this in the year 1995!(Or so)Huh? It still looks like the 1940's to me! Even worse, the previous two pictures were set in Mapleton Massachusetts, now they are located in Louisiana! Huh? It makes no sense, and poor continuity only makes this tired, dated and redundant film worse. "},{"Title":"The Final Mummy Film... a Comedy?","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" An irrigation project in the rural bayous of Louisiana unearths Kharis the living mummy (Lon Chaney Jr.), who was buried in quicksand 25 years earlier.Apparently, if you do the math, this film is set in 1997. I have not independently verified this, but presume it to be true. What I find amusing about that is not how wrong they were about 53 years in the future, but how right. Aside from certain minor aspects (the hairstyles and the second-class status of women and minorities) the 1990s were not all that different from the 1940s. If you look at most films set twenty (not even fifty) years in the future, they make such outrageous predictions and are almost always wrong.I liked the humor of this film. Whether intentional or not, the people of Louisiana depicted here were great. Sure, they were caricatures and possibly stereotypes. Maybe that makes me a bad person that I found them amusing, but I did. Universal and the 1940s... such an interesting era, it really makes you miss Universal in the 1930s. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein in Mummy Wrappings","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, this film is typical of the watering down of a good film by numerous sequels.  Universal made several serial monster films in the 1940s, which were pale imitations of the original.  The intelligent Egyptologist Imhotep has been replaced by a leg-dragging Frankenstein in mummy wrappings, who exhibits no signs of intelligent life.  This film is entertaining in spots but if you have seen The Mummy (1932), you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Mother Of Mercy, Is This The End Of Kharis And Ananka?","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With The Mummy's Curse Universal Pictures finally put an end to the Kharis the Mummy films which had gotten sillier with each sequel. With this futuristic Mummy film they reached what they thought was the bottom.When we last left Lon Chaney, Jr., as Kharis in The Mummy's Ghost he was taking his reincarnated Princess Ananka into the swamps where he was sinking into the bog as the film ended. Twenty five years later which would put it in 1969 the swamp which was in Massachusetts, but now in Louisiana is being drained.For a film that was set in the future, Universal did absolutely no speculation about what 1969 would look like. People dress the same, have the same rides and television which people knew was on the horizon is not accounted for at all.Anyway the Kharis/Ananka cult hears about the swamp drain in Egypt and once again a pair of handlers is now sent to get Kharis and Ananka back to Egypt. The handlers are Peter Coe and Martin Kosleck. And the usual chaos and mayhem is created by Chaney killing everyone between him and Ananka. The bulldozers draining the swamp have also unearthed Ananka and she's played by Virginia Christine and she's alive, part in the 20th century, part in ancient Egypt. The reunion doesn't quite go as planned for the two lovebirds to say the least.This was the end of the 'serious' Mummy films for Universal. The Mummy would have one more go, but it would be eleven years later and only as a foil for Abbott&Costello which is what happened to all the Universal Gothic horror pantheon. The Mummy's Curse mercifully ended the saga on a low note, but I will say the film had a few good if unintentioned laughs. "}{"Title":"Barely above average WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Barely above average Mummy flick is watchable and fairly enjoyable for most of it's running time and kept me interested still it isn't really anything special at all and is kind of silly like most of the sequels. Still this is much much better then the awful Mummy's Ghost.Lon Chaney Jr. is great as the Mummy again and the performances are much better this time as well. and add to the fact it's almost never boring and the pacing is fine most of the time but the ending is rather abrupt again (although it's better then the one in Mummy's Ghost. There is no gore at all. The Acting is decent. Lon Chaney Jr. is once again excellent as the Mummy again giving another strong show. Peter Coe does okay here but can't match George Zucco or John Carradine still he did a decent job. Virgina Christine gives a strong performance here as Princess Anaka and was quite pretty to boot. Kay Harding does fine here and was pretty likable. Dennis Moore does decent here and was bearable. Overall a barely above average sequel that is worth one watch **1/2 out of 5(just barely) "},{"Title":"A mess but curiously watchable","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a hackneyed, cheap, rushed dog of a production. What in heaven's name are the Mummy and his princess doing wandering around Louisiana? Ridiculous. I am sorry but the fake Cajun accents are such a mismatch with ancient Egyptian stories this is just almost a non-movie. Louisiana and Egypt are both done a disservice here.The script was shoehorned into the Louisiana locale and so is also just a total mess.But the cast is good. Zucco is fantastic in his small role. Holmes Herbert is solid in his role as the doctor, Carradine is perfect and does a good job. Virginia Christine brings off her role in a sincere, fascinating and watchable way, and gives us a new and improved take on the princess. Kay Harding has the sweetest voice and is just right as the darling ingénue daughter of a tough foreman. I love to hear Ms. Harding speak with her unaffected soft voice and kind persona.Ridiculous hack ideas are behind the concept of everything that takes place in this whole film. The lumbering, sad mummy is totally out of place (no tomb, no museum, no Egypt, etc.), as he wanders around the Louisiana countryside. The unwatchable ideas just keep coming so the film becomes curiously watchable to see how bad can it get, and is saved by the effective cast. "},{"Title":"A bit of a drag, even though the movie is just over an hour long.","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm glad this was the last of the '40's Universal Mummy movies. The movies were all of variating qualities and this movie was definitely one of the lesser ones.Problem is that it's a very slow moving movie, in which basically nothing interesting or exciting is ever happening. Perhaps it would had all been better if the mummy had made his entrance earlier on in the movie. Instead now the movie once again spends its first 20 minutes explaining what had all happened in the previous mummy movies, by also once again using archive footage from this time The Mummy from 1932 again, to which this movie is the fourth mummy movie following the 1932 mummy story. The movie just never knows to find the right pace and even though the movie is barely over an hour long, it still feels a bit like a drag.It of course also doesn't help that the movie has a rather simplistic and actually very little interesting story. The movie also feels quite disjointed. The first and second half of the movie don't really connect to each other and they seemed like two separate movies on their own.At least Lon Chaney Jr. is still in it. He once more reprises the role of the mummy Kharis, for the third time. Too bad that he has such limited screen time this time. He gets unfortunately very little interesting to do, which is also a big waste of the mummy character itself. The movie is further more filled with dozens of silly actors who are playing around with silly accents. It seemed so totally unnecessary to me that most of the characters had to speak with such an accent and it actually gets quite distracting and annoying at points.The mummy movies that's least worth seeing.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}]