[{"Title":"The Best of the Versions","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"58 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a dramatization of the consummate Agatha Christie book, the benchmark for the whodunit.  Each of the characters is nicely portrayed by accomplished actors.  The pacing, the subdued dialogue, all make this film work, even though it was felt necessary to doctor the plot and rename characters (this I will never understand).  I won't criticize because I've never felt that we should compare movies to books--they are different media--unless the plot is badly compromised.  This one is not.  I remember being really pleased as a young viewer that Christie is able to bring all issues to a resolution in a believable and realistic way--no hidden doors--no strange interventions.  She is able to do this even in her lesser books.  Sometimes it is preferable to not be open ended, leaving unfinished details.  I relish this author and the movies and movie portrayals of her books.I also need to mention the music.  The score is so carefully tuned to the actions of the characters.  The black and white photography lends itself well to the oppressiveness of the setting where the characters find themselves.  You definitely should see this film. "},{"Title":"This may be the best mystery ever put to film.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"56 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This may be the best mystery ever put to film.  If it isn't totally true to the letter of the Christie book, it is totally true to the spirit of her writing.   Ten unique individuals are lured to an old house on a deserted Channel island.  One by one -  but I'll say no more.  Very good acting, especially Fitzgerald.  If you don't know the plot, you won't figure out whodunnit, despite the fact that it plays fair. There is suspense, good humor that holds up today, fine acting and a wonderful plot.  Grab a cup of hot chocolate, turn the lights down, snuggle in the blanket, and prepare to enjoy a wonderful, cozy mystery which hasn't been equaled since. "},{"Title":"Nothing But the Best","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"45 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After reading all these comments I got the urge, dug out And Then There Were None and watched it the other night. I won't repeat what has been said here so many times, only that it has to be one of the greatest films of all time. What a cast!! The best character actors of the 30's and 40's, many in the twilight of their careers. It's difficult to pick out superior performances. I did, however, take note that Louis Hayward gave a standout performance as Philip Lombard, and he had to be with this competition. He really was a fine actor, who incidentally, moved like a cat, a close match to the Lombard film character as envisioned by Agatha Christie. A couple of his other outstanding films come to mind The Man in the Iron Mask and the seldom if ever shown, Ladies in Retirement. In the credits, he was also listed as one of the three stars of the film BARRY FITZGERALD, WALTER HUSTON and LOUIS HAYWARD. The following screen shows the rest of the distinguished cast as supporting players. The musical score is as good as the cast, alternatively moody and eerie. June Duprez comes off very well against the competition as the vulnerable Miss Claythorne. I cannot forget how exquisitely beautiful she was in color in The Thief of Bagdad (1940). The book itself was excellent (I read it over 60 years ago) however, while I would indeed watch the film repeatedly I would not go out of my way to read the book once more.P.S. (5/20/2007) Still a fan of ATTWN, I have just finished a 2001 audio version, read by Hugh Fraser (Hercule Poirot's TV sidekick). This is a six-hour, complete and unabridged version of the book which includes all the material omitted in the film and with original ending intact. At first blush, six hours might seem rather too long but believe me it just gets better and better right on through to that unique ending which has never been equaled in filmdom, and likely never will. "},{"Title":"The Best Christie Movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  No Agatha Christie story has ever been made into a better movie than this one.  The movie has the altered ending from the book (which I'm told was changed by Christie for the stage version because let's face it.  The book's ending would never *ever* work in a dramatized setting, film or stage) and the character of Tony Marston has become a Russian prince to accomodate the casting of Mischa Auer, but apart from that Christie's book has been flawlessly translated right down to the last detail.  The look, the settings, the characters, all of it is just right.  There are also some wonderfully comedic performances that veer into some delicious black comedy at times (my favorite being Louis Hayward's bemused response to Roland Young's bumbling deductions And then he takes the chopper and splits open his own cranium.  Fact.  I'd like to see you do that yourself.)  About the only casting flaw is June Duprez, who is woefully bland and dull as Vera Claythorne, the lead female character. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece by Rene Clair","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rene Clair weaves the quintessential spider web with brilliant camera work including unusual but effective angles, snappy dialogue, and magnificent performances by ten impeccably cast artists.  The viewer is drawn into the anxiety, claustrophobia, terror, and resignation felt one-by-one by each of the twelve weekend guests of Mr. Owen.  Any mystery, suspense or thriller fan will be incomplete without seeing this work of absolute genius.  My score 10+/10. "},{"Title":"Improves With Each Viewing","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here's another movie that I never felt was anything but fair, but I kept giving it more chances and every time I did, my rating went up. It seems to get better and better with multiple viewings. One of the reasons is that the more films I watch, the more I get familiar with all these actors.If you didn't know any of these actors, the movie would be fair at best. You can bet if the story were re-done today, it would be faster moving. As it stands, its okay but a film in which 10 people are invited to an island and are systematically murdered one by one, should make for a tense thriller. Here, it's more of a study in paranoia, but that's interesting to view, too. I especially enjoy watching Walter Huston and Barry Fitzgerald banter back-and-forth.The ending to this mystery was well-done, too, and not something you're likely to solve. So, if you like the old classic mysteries, this should be appealing. It features an interesting cast of young and old actors, male and female. "},{"Title":"The masterpiece of murder mysteries","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rene Clair's masterful direction takes Christie's classic novel up to a new dimension more suitable for cinema.  Every character is perfectly realized by magnificent acting.  My favorite is C. Aubrey Smith who portrays General Mandrake with a British subtlety that cannot be understood fully by today's American viewers.  But why quibble?Every cast member is perfect.  Roland Young may actually be the most instrumental as Blore in keeping the films wit intact and never allowing it to get too serious.  Barry Fitzgerald is terrific as the Judge, and Huston perfection itself as the charming, albeit alcoholic, doctor.  Dame Judith Anderson, perhaps the best supporting actress of all time, dominates every seen she is in as a sinister spinster.But, of course, there is a lead, and in the hands of a lesser actor, he could have wound up being a feckless straight man to all the great character actors around him.  With Louis Hayward as Mr. Lombard, the character more than holds his own with all challengers, and has an especially nice chemistry with Young.  And although June Duprez is slightly out of her league as a thespian, she is plucky and capable enough, with Hayward's help, to pull off her role just fine.The atmosphere, photography, and soundtrack are all artistic perfection. This movie is a true treat for all the senses. "},{"Title":"Best version of the Christie novel...all of the usual suspects are in fine form...","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why quibble about the ending? I know it's not the same as the book's final scene, but since Agatha Christie herself changed it for the stage version--sensibly (because the book's ending doesn't work dramatically)--there's no reason to feel cheated. It's still one of the cleverest ideas for a mystery--ten people invited to an old house by the sea so that an unknown host can dispose of them one by one. Under Rene Clair's direction, there's a great deal of humor thrown in. Add to that, enjoyable performances from a first-rate cast of character actors--Barry Fitzgerald, Judith Anderson, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward and the always dependable Richard Haydn as Rogers, the butler. June Duprez is the only weakness in the cast members, showing little emotion throughout. The atmosphere is brooding, the chills are delicious, and you can rewind your VHS print to spot Agatha's give-aways. One of the best mysteries of all time, but don't waste your time on the later remakes. This version is the genuine product.  "},{"Title":"Not Just Who Did It, But Who Will Survive?","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten disparate people including a husband and wife butler and maid team have been employed and gathered on an island with a large mansion. During dinner as per instructions a record is played accusing each of the guests of the crime of murder in which they were never punished. Then one by one like the nursery rhyme about the ten little Indians, each dies.And Then There Were None is your typical Agatha Christie murder mystery with a very closed circle of suspects. After concluding that there is no hidden eleventh person on the island, it's got to be one of the guests. Director Rene Claire assembled a fine cast of very stylish players each perfectly fitting their assigned roles.With a group like this it's hard to pick out favorites, but I do have a few here. Walter Huston is a doctor accused of a malpractice murder is my favorite. He was drunk during the operation and he seems always ready for a shot for all occasions. What happens to him is rather fitting. Running a close second is Roland Young who is a seedy two bit gumshoe who committed perjury and sent a man to prison where he died. It's his profession to try and figure it out and he's constantly coming up with a wrong solution. First billed in the cast is Barry Fitzgerald on the strength of his Oscar winning Best Supporting Actor performance in Going My Way the year before. He's a judge who knowingly sent an innocent man to the gallows. His role is about as far from Father Fitzgibbon as you can get. He's got some pet theories of his own and a scheme to catch the killer.What's nice about this production is that there are no big box office names here to distract. Just a great ensemble cast working perfectly together.As in most Agatha Christie murders when all is revealed, the whole thing makes perfectly logical sense. But what's good about this is, it's not just who did it, but who will survive? "},{"Title":"The Perfect Murder Mystery?","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have a theory that all her life Dame Agatha Christie hoped she would plot the perfect murder case mystery. She certainly entertained the world doing so, with way over sixty novels, books of short stories, and plays, most of which actually dealt with homicide in one form or another. Despite the sometimes too perfect clockwork that her plots could degenerate into, she was one of the masters of the form. I don't think any other mystery novelist ever found as many variations on the central theme of a detective story as she did.Of all her plots, that of AND THEN THERE WERE NONE / TEN LITTLE INDIANS was possibly her greatest achievement (the nearest competitor is an inverted form of it, MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS). Yet in every film version of the plot the perfection of the story is short circuited in the interest of justice. Christie's original intention was that the ten people brought together to the ill-fated locale were to be found dead, and without any survivor the mystery would be apparently unsolved (though even Christie hedged her bet by having the perpetrator leave a written confession/explanation). But as the versions are now, the perpetrator is outwitted by two would-be victims at the last moment, thus leaving two survivors.The best version of the novel was this one. It was directed by French director in exile (due to World War II) Rene Clair. Of his American films this one is the most revived. Whether it is better than I MARRIED A WITCH or FLAME OF NEW ORLEANS is another matter, as they are all clever films. Clair was well served by a great cast of character actors, most of whom were victims in the story Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Roland Young, Sir C. Aubrey Smith, Mischa Auer, Judith Anderson, and Richard Haydn did the best with their parts. Louis Hayward and June Duprez were more than adequate as the two lovers in the plot.The secret of this film's success is that Clair treated the subject of murder lightly (to an extent). An example Mischa Auer as a careless playboy explaining how he killed someone while driving drunk, and playing the piano while doing so - thoroughly bored looking while explaining what he did. A moment later he is gasping for breath as poison was added to his highball. He's the first victim.The key is that all the invitees to this island were acquitted of acts of homicide or manslaughter on technicalities. They all were apparently quite guilty, but lucky. So the viewer is somewhat torn after awhile - you don't like people who get away with murder, but as each one is wiped out by the mysterious host/killer we find ourselves sympathizing with their helpless plight. The original ending kept this sympathy up to the conclusion. But the improved (?) conclusion manages to dissipate this sympathy in the search for achieving a degree of justice for the victims. Oddly it still works, and the sense of impish humor is maintained even after the killer is revealed and destroyed. "}{"Title":"Timeless quality","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I find it incredible how a film made 65 years ago can stand up so well, I think with every watch it gets better and better. It was very professionally made, beautifully acted and seems to avoid the brashness and showyness that the later versions were guilty of. I love the fact that every character is so charismatic, perhaps the character of the Russian was dubious casting, but The Judge and Doctor are fabulous in it, Huston and Fitzgerald showing what wonderful actors they both are. June Duprez was very beautiful, quite surprised to read that she retired rather early in her career. I'm unlike most reviewers, I actually love the 70's Oliver Reed/Elke Sommer version. Maybe this is the quintessential version though. Maybe this film is due a proper remake, who knows. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie's finest work","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've read almost all of Agatha Christie's novels, and this one has to be her definitive work, the darkest, the most intelligent, the one that truly keeps you guessing right until the very end. I like both English language versions of the film for different reasons. There is a quality to this production that defies the year it was made, a nice mix of suspense, intrigue and humour. Lombard is a real smoothy, and June Duprez is excellent as the beautiful but sad Vera Claythorne. My only annoyance is the switch in the ending, I wish they'd had the bravery to stick to the original ending, and not use the kop out stage play ending. The house and setting look really effective, it works, so much more so then a desert or even some other awfully imagined setting like a safari! "},{"Title":"Who Might Be the Mysterious Killer?","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Judge Francis J. Quinncannon (Barry Fitzgerald), Dr. Edward G. Armstrong (Walter Huston), Philip Lombard (Louis Hayward), Detective William Henry Blore (Roland Young), the secretary Vera Claythorne (June Duprez), Prince Nikita 'Nikki' Starloff (Mischa Auer), Gen. Sir John Mandrake (Sir C. Aubrey Smith) and Emily Brent (Judith Anderson) are invited by the mysterious Mr U. N. Own to spend the weekend in an island and they are hosted by the newly-hired butler Thomas Rogers (Richard Haydn) and his wife and housekeeper Ethel Rogers (Queenie Leonard). Thomas explains that Mr. Own will arrive later and following the instructions of his master, he plays a record where the host explains that all of them have been accused of murder. Further, they realize that none of them actually knows Mr. Own. Vera plays a song about Ten Little Indians on the piano and they see a decoration on the table with ten Indians. Soon they are killed one-by-one while the each Indian vanishes from the decoration. Who might be the mysterious killer? And Then There Were None is an engaging thriller based on a novel and a stage play by Agatha Christie. René Clair makes an excellent theatrical but never boring film, supported by magnificent performances and a delightful screenplay with tense and humorous situations. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Vingador Invisível (The Invisible Avenger) "},{"Title":"And then there was &#x85; great entertainment!","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Out of the four film versions I watched thus far (the others being 1965, 1974, 1989 and I'm NOT counting the copious amount of rip-offs and imitations), this oldest version of Agatha Christie's monumental novel/stage play Ten Little Indians is inarguably the most memorable, sophisticated and superior! And Then There Were None simply forms the definition of a good old-fashioned and absorbing murder-mystery, complete with dazzling dialogs, exquisite acting performances and sublime plot twists that keep you guessing until the very end of the film. Perhaps it isn't as sinister and intense as I had hoped, but the whodunit-aspect keeps you glued to the screen at all times and there's a surprisingly large amount of unexpected macabre humor to compensate for the lack of thrills. The plot is world famous, but just in case you never heard of Agatha Christie before ten people with no discernible connection are invited by an unknown host to spend the weekend at his/her isolated mansion on a private island off the British coast. Instead of meeting their host &#x96; the peculiar U.N. Owen &#x96; at the dinner table, they have to listen to a record with a strange voice accusing each and every one of them of a crime they didn't get punished for. Shortly after, they're being murdered one by one in imaginative methods that resemble the lyrics of the 10 Little Indians nursery rhyme. After discovering they are the only ones on the island, the continuously shrinking group realizes that the killer must be one of them and becomes extremely suspicious. It's a downright beautiful and enchanting version, massively benefiting from René Clair's surefooted direction and the devoted performances of a terrific ensemble cast; including the almighty Walter Huston, Richard Haydn and C. Aubrey Smith. What I personally love most about 40's films are the intellectual, extended and almost poetic dialogs, and this film naturally features plenty of them. Being a forties' flick, you naturally shouldn't expect the murders to be graphical or even shown on screen. Still, there are a handful of suggestive and brutally playful sequences, including death by falling chimney. Together with the flamboyant 1974 adaptation of Murder on the Orient Express, this is presumably the best Agatha Christie material turned into film. "},{"Title":"I've...GOT IT!","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, it was a famous exit line, so we'll never know if he finally did get it or not. This, the earliest screen version of the classic whodunit novel of the same name, takes some liberties with it, but remains the best version over the countless other versions of this story even after 70 years.Eight guests are invited and two house servants are hired to a secluded island by a man none of them knows. They learn all too late that they are being punished for murders they each got away with, when, one by one, each is being murdered. The murderer further taunts his remaining victims by marking each death with the disappearance of one of ten little Indians statues. He uses the Ten Little Indians poem as a framework for each murder. At first, it appears the murderer is hiding on the island somewhere, but soon it becomes evident he is one of the ten. Once everyone suspects each other, the tension builds well.Great characterizations are done by a wonderful cast, and the story unfolds in just the right manner to keep you guessing. The spooky house environment provides a perfect setting for the action.The original book's ending was stronger, but this movie's alternative works OK.See if you can guess whodunit, but be forewarned if anybody named U.N. Owen, that you've never met, ever invites you to an island, turn down the invitation. "},{"Title":"Possibly Christie's Most Famous Plot","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Agatha Christie, one of the most prolific mystery writers ever, wrote numerous novels, short stories, and plays. Three of her plays have become legends of the theatre WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION (made into a brilliant film by the great Billy Wilder); THE MOUSETRAP (Still playing in the West End after a sixty year run); and TEN LITTLE INDIANS, which may be the most-filmed of all her works; I count eight on IMDb under the original stage title, and this one, the very first film made from this play, that was released with the novel's American title AND THEN THERE WERE NONE.Brilliantly filmed in stark black-and-white, this is a prime example of one of Christie's best formulas a group of people gathered together in a remote location, and murder comes calling.It's very hard to review anything by Christie because one does not want to reveal more than is necessary, but I can safely sketch the basics of the plot Ten people are gathered at a house built on an island about a mile off of England's Devonshire coast. A few minutes of conversation among the guests reveals that their invitations may be questionable and they may have been gathered there under false pretenses. Then a voice is heard (it is later revealed to have been a phonograph record) accusing each member of the cast of murder (It is perhaps a good idea to point out that murder was a capital crime in England at that time). It isn't long before the guests start dying off, and there seems to be a link between the murders and the old English nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians. The English version is slightly different from the American one, and as a visual aid there is a collection of Indian figurines; each time another guest dies, another figurine vanishes.As is usual with Christie, there's more than a touch of humor about the proceedings, and as with WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION, the moments of comic relief only serve to make the more serious and even frightening aspects of the story stand out.This is a great film, certainly one of the best films ever made from a Christie play. I can also reveal this much Christie wrote two endings; one for the novel and one for the play; the film uses the ending from the play. I urge anyone who likes a good mystery to read the novel as well. Of all of Christie's puzzles this one is one of her most complex, and the amazing thing is that she could change the ending without disturbing the integrity of the plot. "},{"Title":"you can't beat Agatha Christie","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Probably most people know about Agatha Christie's story Ten Little Indians, in which a bunch of people are invited to a house and then someone starts murdering them. Rene Clair pulled the movie off perfectly. I quite literally could not have guessed how it was going to end. The whole thing is a pleasant surprise, as was the other movie based on an Agatha Christie novel (Murder on the Orient Express). I can guarantee that this is one movie that will not disappoint you. I don't even know how much I can tell you without giving it away. Obviously the song Ten Little Indians is a little bit cringe-inducing, as we in the 21st century prefer not to use other ethnicities as mere entertainment, but the movie's perfect setting essentially makes up for that.A ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"It settles; that's the problem.","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Itty-bitty SPOILERS. Deal with it.Christie's Ten Little Indians (republished under the stronger title And Then There Were None) was an outstanding book with a precariously well-structured ending. For reasons obvious to anyone who's read the book, that ending cannot be performed on stage....at least not without some OUTSTANDING technical tricks. It makes perfect sense to have a different ending in the play version. But film is not stage. In the movies anything is possible, and through a simple camera maneuver, the novel's brilliant conclusion would become child's play for any competent filmmaker (This includes the final chapter in the police station and Wargrave's letter). The only reason I can think of to tamper with the book's conclusion for the movie is to satisfy Hollywood's requirement of whitewashed images of life back in the time this film was made.Agatha's characters are also precariously well-designed in order to fit the story properly. There is no reason for the perfectly named Judge Wargrave to adopt the laughable moniker of Quinncannon or for the referential McArthur to become the irrelevant Mandrake. NO reason for playboy Anthony Marston to become a foreign prince. And ABSOLUTELY NO reason for Lombard's secret identity. I have no idea what the motive was behind these changes. That's the basic old-school Hollywood playbook in action, I guess.Unfortunately, René Clair was daring in neither technical nor artistic areas, and we are stuck with a film featuring contrived/awkward characters and a cop-out ending. Add in the mediocre performances of most of the cast, and it all combines to form a pathetically weak self-contained film, and an even weaker literary adaptation.It could've been wonderful, but it settled for mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Premier Version of Agatha Christie Classic","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten people are invited to the island home of the mysterious Mr. U.N. Owen (get it?). One by one, they are killed off while they try to figure out who is behind it all. The best adaptation of Agatha Christie's novel Ten Little Indians. Probably the best movie based on any Christie story. The cast is so good that it should easily be included among the best casts of all time. Walter Huston, Barry Fitzgerald, Louis Hayward, Judith Anderson, C. Aubrey Smith, Mischa Auer, Roland Young, and so on. Exceptional cast. Whether you are familiar with Agatha Christie's story or not, you will no doubt recognize this plot as it's been done countless times in film and television since. Heck, it's the backbone of the modern slasher film really. But it's never been done as well or as smart as this. A suspenseful classic everybody should see. "},{"Title":"The Crime Classic","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A small boat chugs tirelessly through choppy seas, delivering its cargo of eight souls to a very remote island. In silence they suffer till they reach their destination. Upon arriving, they introduce themselves and find that their host, a Mr. Owen, is absent. However, a married butler and cook are present to attend to their needs.This is the setting for Agatha Christie's quintessential murder mystery. Soon the guests are advised of Mr. Owen's intentions, and the games begin. Try to figure out who the murderer is before the truth is revealed. The guests, including a judge played by Barry Fitzgerald and a doctor played by Walter Huston, devise strategies to uncover the perpetrator, but he/she is a devious devil.The real star of the film is the story, Christie's ingenious invention that still thrills, though it had more impact when it was first written, before others had purloined her plot (aka Ten Little Indians).The version I watched on TCM was somewhat murky and the musical notes of the score seemed to bleed into one another, but it was sufficient to appreciate this classic whodunit. "}{"Title":"A perfect Agatha Christie isolated mansion mystery","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a very special kind of 'isolated mansion mystery' - the Agatha Christie kind... Based on her novel 'Ten Little Indians' (with only the ending being altered), it perfectly reflects her unique sense of scary, fateful atmosphere - and her sarcastic sense of humor; Rene Clair was a master at that.At a lonely old mansion on an isolated island, ten people who have never met each other, arrive, all having been invited by the mysterious Mr. Owen (U.N. Owen - or 'unknown', as they deduce later...) for the weekend - and so they're cut off completely from the rest of the world, because the next boat will only arrive on Monday morning...In the beginning, it's quite funny to get to know all those queer characters - the cynical Judge Quincannon, the alcoholic doctor Armstrong, the absent-minded General Mandrake, the bigot spinster Miss Brent, the party animal 'prince' Starloff... He's also the one who plays the song on the piano whose notes and lyrics are readily arranged there, and sings - about the 'Ten Little Indians', who die one by one until there were none... And exactly at that moment 'Mr. Owen' addresses them through a record, accusing each one of the guests of various kinds of murder! And then, the song starts to become reality later that evening, the first one of them is poisoned, during the night the next one dies of a 'heart attack' - and the next day, the third one is stabbed in the back (and at the same time, with each death one of the ten 'little Indian' figures on the table is broken...); and that's where the remaining 'guests' understand that there's a murderer at work, a mysterious 'avenger' Mr. 'Unknown'... They search the whole island, but can't find anyone, so they finally come to the frightening conclusion 'Mr. Owen' must be one of THEM! From then on, the movie changes moods most masterfully with strange, gloomy music being heard in the background, we can see, and almost feel, the distrust between the strangers growing more and more - which, on the other hand, leads to the funniest situations, like one following the other and spying through the keyhole, until there's a whole line of 'peeping Toms' in the hall...Entertainment and suspense take turns in this wonderful, unique movie, perfectly directed and performed by a perfect cast of some of the most acknowledged and best-known character actors of the time - one of those rare movies to watch over and over again without ever getting bored or tired of it! "},{"Title":"The best of any Agatha Christie adaption","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember catching this movie early one afternoon on TV, and what I must say that this movie is a delight. This movie is based on the 1939 book Ten Little Indians and I have read the book and seen the movie, and I was so glad that this movie kept exactly in tone with the book, the only change is the ending, which I didn't mind one bit.The plot = Ten strangers travel to a mansion on a secluded island by a mysterious host who they don't know. As they settle in they find out that they all have one thing in common, and the host brought them there to kill them off one by one, to the words of an old nursery rhyme.Many say that this movie is an early fore runner to the slasher genre, and in a way I kinda agree, although this is more of a murder mystery with suspenseful camera work and atmospheric images, and of course all this wouldn't have worked without it's great cast and well thought out and interesting characters Their portrayal of fear, desperation, agony and desolation is what ultimately drives the story home. They are all cold enough to be the killer and yet they are all human enough to sympathise with, while all the while delivering some incredibly well written lines. And what I also liked is that when the killer is revealed by end, I was totally surprised and the nursery rhyme idea is done really well and used effectively.All in all check out both the book and film, as they are both effective and stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"The first slasher film?","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers.I was reviewing Friday the 13th earlier and stating that it couldn't be referred to as the first slasher movie.  So I got to thinking of what film could potentially be the first slasher film.  Immediately I thought of this one.This brilliant adaption of the Agatha Christie classic has several strangers staying at the same isolated mansion and one by one they fall victim to a maniacal killer.  Directed with great style by Réne Clair and well acted by the entire ensamble, this is, in my opinion, the first slasher film, armed with a good story and first rate production design.  Considering the time of it's release, this movie is quite suspenseful and daring.  There's also a moral to the story, which loses a bit of credibility towards the end (when it doesn't follow the ending of the novel) but that's a minor detail is an otherwise expertly crafted film.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"And Then There Were None","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Entertaining whodunit is perhaps the best of the mysteries which uses the Ten Little Indians formula of a group of characters killed one after the other by someone among them. The methods of execution and the visual ideas (the use of knitting string which leads to a dead victim laying on her bed after a hypodermic with poison sent her to the great beyond, a fallen pair of binoculars after a brick pillar is pushed on top of a victim, chopped wood laid out strewn in front of the servant quarters of an ax victim, the clever use of cherubic statuettes representing the victims (each of which is shattered or broken once someone among the group is murdered), etc.) are directed in spirited fashion by an inspired crew under René Clair's guidance. The setting is perfect (a manor on an isolated island where a series of murders could take place without the concern of interference of others beyond the group themselves) for the Agatha Christie mystery. The cast is full of colorful faces and characterizations with particular standouts, Walter Huston (celebrated director, John Huston's, father) as a doctor and the delightful Barry Fitzgerald as a judge, both of whom were selected by an unknown party named Mr. UN Owen (get it, unknown?) to end up on the island as guests to be selectively offed in a variety of ways. Here's the deal ten Indians arrive on the island at the request of a man their friends supposedly know. There's a butler and his cook wife, already at the location, but they are unaware of who Mr. Owen is. They will soon be a part of the killer's masterplan. Each person selected is supposedly responsible for the death of someone. Whether it is their actions causing a suicide (Judith Anderson, completely calm and without distress, just knitting, not a care in the world, responsible for putting away a kid because he was bad; the kid would kill himself as a result), wrongly convicting someone or being a reason for someone being imprisoned (Fitzgerald and cop Roland Young), or a problem with booze (Huston, his doctoring resulted in a patient's death, social drinker and entertainer (and a prince no less) Mischa Auer, who had a DUI resulting in the vehicular homicide of a couple; Mischa's bouts with the drink are obvious, as his obnoxiousness wearies the group almost immediately); this group has a sketchy past that someone among them believes is enough to see them meet poetic justice. Louis Hayward arrives with a medicine case (one a traveling doc would carry) with a different name than what he calls himself which might be a clue as to his reasons for being on the island. The very pretty June Duprez is the innocuous and sweet secretary called to the island by Owen for a job position&#x85;or so she thought. June continues to deny she was involved in any murder while most of the others confess to contributing or directly causing a death. Some do so with little regard for what happened, devoid of guilt, more worried about their own skin that recognizing *why* they are going through this.What makes the film fun for me is seeing them eventually question each other on who among them is the killer, deducing and speculating, looking over each other's shoulder, and forming alliances. Louis and June are both about the same age and share a budding romance blooming, while Fitzgerald and Huston (it seems) are in cahoots together to achieve an unveiling of the identity of the killer. A wonderful C Aubrey Smith (The Four Feathers and Hitchcock's Rebecca) is the elderly, near-deaf General Sir John Mandrake, often speaking aloud about his wife, befriends June; I think out of the cast, he's the least suspect (his bouts of senility, which often has him mentioning his wife, kind of indicate this whole ordeal is speeding up his eventual demise).Clair's À Nous la Liberté, a precursor to Chaplin's Modern Times, came a decade before this, and you can see all that returning visual mastery on display in how the mystery developed itself often by using the camera as a pair of eyes (very Hitchcockian), as it follows (with the remaining survivors) the ensuing plot's unraveling. The murders are sometimes discovered by characters off screen (maid servant Queenie Richards is so overwhelmed at a record played (the one produced by Owen that details each murder committed by those present on the island) by her butler husband (Richard Hayden) that she goes to bed and never awakens, found dead the next day), and through dialogue tell the viewer how they occurred.But I think the movie is at its best when Clair carefully shows crime scenes through stylistic ways that paint a picture of what happened, imaginatively setting out the bodies to be found by the characters with tricks on what his camera does and doesn't see. The really talented directors could often take the limits placed on them by censorship and adopt a different strategy, incorporating a less is more approach. There's no in-your-face in 1945. Still, the cast expertly play along. This is all sweet music, with everything falling into place beautifully. "},{"Title":"A wonderful adaptation(A tribute to Agatha Christie)","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a great fan of Agatha Christie. She says in her autobiography, that 'And then there were none'(it was titled differently) was one of the most difficult and satisfying books to write. I read the book when I was 13 and was blown away by the sheer genius behind it.Now the movie which I watched a couple of minutes earlier offers a fresh view into the story. The direction is simply superb with perfect casting. The story remains as faithful to the book as can be (except for a few changes in names of characters and the ending of course). But all these changes shouldn't bother you. The movie remains as gripping and tense as well as subtly humorous as the book itself.I would suggest reading the book first. However, the movie maintains a stand of its own and deserves all these lovely comments it has garnered.Acting was brilliant especially by Barry Fitzgerald as the judge, Roland Young as Blore and Judith Anderson as Emily Brent.Something I noticed in the movie was that in addition to the 10 characters, there was a 11th one. The cat!! I believe it was a very clever move by the director to add a hint of inhumane air to the whole story with the cat hinting at the turn of events.Overall, it remains to be the best who-dunnit I've ever seen. Watch it with some friends and try to guess who the culprit is for the extra thrill.My vote- 10/10 "},{"Title":"It Doesn't Get Better than This!","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not really much to add to the otherwise dazzling array of praise for this film, Rene Clair, the cast, and Agatha Christie. I just had the opportunity to see the film for the first time and was floored at how good all the components of story, direction, acting, and set mesh together. All of the thespians involved do a more-than-credible job playing their characters. I especially enjoyed Walter Huston as an alcoholic doctor, Barry Fitzgerald as a circumspect judge, the always wonderful Roland Young as a detective, Judith Anderson as an aloof(what else for her?) woman, and the best performance for me was that of Richard Hayden as Rogers the butler giving the film some of its best lines as well as real, classic humour. And it is the humor that Rene Clair infuses throughout the backdrop of these otherwise dreadful murders which makes And Then there were None so much fun. If you have not seen this film, I highly recommend it. If you have not read Christie's book, I recommend that even more highly FIRST. It is one of the greatest mystery novels ever written and this film, which I do not always get a chance to say, measures up quite nicely to that standard. "},{"Title":"Could have been great...","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" All right, I'm not going to bother with the movie's strengths, as they are covered by every other reviewer here. What I want to talk about is the one area where I think director Rene Clair missed the boat mood. The book is absolutely chilling, and manages to have you jumping at noises in the night far better than most any of today's attempts at horror writing. The movie, however, has a campy, needlessly humorous feel which detracted strongly from my enjoyment. An example? Casting Harry Thurston as the boatman. His is one of the first faces we see, and it is twisted into the best version of a Bud Abbott facial expression that he could muster. Mischa Auer's performance was ridiculous to the extreme, and made his character neither believable nor endearing. There are a few other gripes I have, but they're of the same ilk, so I'll just say that this reasonably faithful portrayal could have been one of the greatest mystery thrillers ever if it had been taken a little more seriously. "},{"Title":"Supreme Irony","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As everyone and his Uncle Max knows Hollywood is run by accountants rather than creators so it's ironic to discover that accountants can't count; having changed the title of Agatha Christie's novel from Ten Little Indians (which was itself a subtle change from Christie's original Ten Little N*****s) to And Then There Were None and having changed the title figured why not change the ending as well so that now the correct title should read And Then There Were Two.Christie went to great pains to construct a plot in which all the ten people on a small, uninhabited island, died one by one leaving no one alive and a 'solution' in the form of a suicide note written by the murderer before taking his own life. It was, of course, as improbable as any of the 'locked door' mysteries penned by Christie herself and/or any of her rivals in the genre but improbable is not quite the same as not technically feasible but since when has Hollywood left a novel/play, etc unmolested. If you answered 'never' you're close. So, not content with changing the names of some of the characters they also throw in a happy ending in which the two survivors are not only the two youngest members of the group and one of each sex but are also implicitly bound for the altar. That being said Rene Clair makes a decent enough fist of this, the seventh and last of the films he made outside his native France in a roughly ten-year period. Perhaps wisely he selected his cast from the ranks of 'character' actors rather than stars - or, perhaps more pertinently, no 'star' would be prepared to be killed on screen - but most audiences at the time would be familiar with virtually all of them - Judith Anderson had appeared in Laura, which was possibly still showing, Barry Fitzgerald had copped an Oscar the previous year for Going My Way, Richard Haydn had featured as one of the seven dwarfs/professors in Ball Of Fire, June Duprez was the female lead in The Thief Of Bagdad, etc. Clair did his best to bring a little visual flair to what is essentially a one-set piece, the actors got their lines out without bumping into the furniture (at least not intentionally) and a reasonable time was had by all including the viewer. Not perhaps one to treasure or buy on DVD but certainly worth catching on television. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie's masterpiece wonderfully realized","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the granddaddy (or grandmommy, since it's from Agatha Christie's novel) of all the put-a-bunch-of-people-in-one-isolated-location-and-kill-them-off-one-by-one movies. The isolated location in this case is a small island, and 10 people have been invited to stay the weekend by an unseen guest. The people are always disparate, too, from all walks of life. This time, for example, we have a doctor, a retired general, a judge, a reporter, etc. All of the guests have, in the eyes of the invisible host, caused the deaths of others, whether directly or indirectly. Since they have been judged as murderers by the host, they are all slated to die, one by one, in creative ways.Now, admittedly that in itself doesn't sound all that mysterious. After all, you know who the bad guy is - the host, right? Maybe! Maybe not. Maybe one of the guests is the host. Maybe they're not really dead. As more and more die off, you'll find yourself second-guessing yourself, as in Damn, I thought it was the doctor! or something along those lines. (I'm not saying it's NOT the doctor, though!) There are myriad twists to this tale, you see, and you can either spend your time trying to guess the movie before it unfolds or simply let it be. The formula's been copied a million times, and the original story itself was remade three times as Ten Little Indians. That title refers to a table setting containing ten little Indian figurines. As each person is killed, a figurine mysteriously topples over. Spooky!If you're a fan of mysteries or of tortuous (but not tortured) plot lines, this is your movie! Old, but hardly dated. "},{"Title":"fine and suspenseful adaptation.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Its all here, the isolated house on the island, the suspects,each being murdered one by one to the famous nursery rhyme,and quite simply the best cast ever assembled for a christie film. Dame Judith Anderson takes best of film honors with her portrayal of the fire and brimstone spinster,Emily Brent,but everyone excels,walter huston's charming,alcholic doctor,richard haydn's fidgety and aloof rogers,and of course barry fitzgerald's grandfatherly old judge to name a few. the setting,mood and soundtrack all contributed to this fine film. the adapters also kept the humorous elements in which were one of the high points of the original novel. this is a 10 in my book. "}{"Title":"Movies seen when young don't always hold up years later...","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a kid with my very own 9-1/2inch black and white set. The kind before remotes were commonplace and I would position it at the foot of my bed watching all the great old movies on TV before cable came along and old movies became a thing of the past except for stations like AMC...Anyway, when I was a kid I was VERY impressed with this film. It seemed very atmospheric and even foreboding..Who was the killer? How could they all handle being in that house with a killer loose? I've been counting this film as one of those long lost awesome films for years now....Well, finally after years of missing this Rene Clair classic, I watched it again and I must admit, I was a bit disappointed. The set up is all very mechanical as was the action. Get the group assembled. Announce that they're all nasty folk because....then go about killing em off one by one, and very quickly I might add. Not much suspense really and not terribly effective acting or writing either. The one thing the movie does have is a definite sense of period. It smacks of 1940s. Which really is half the fun. Fun to look at the clothes, the furniture, the hairstyles and it is also fun to see a flick that isn't constantly being played on AMC!! Did I enjoy the flick for old times sake? You bet I did! And there really aren't that many flicks in the same kind of genre from that time period, so for that reason it's certainly a stand out.  "},{"Title":"gem","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" the house. and the performance of Judith Anderson. the memories after first meeting with this film who remains interesting proof of Rene Clair genius.a classic Agatha Christie adaptation, it remains source of a lot of surprises because the atmosphere and its construction, the perfect angles and the nuances of performance, the tension and dialogs are pillars for a solid artistic work. sure, many crime movies are more fascinating but, in this case, the details are key for a special image and the science of director to use each by each the possibilities of novel/script are remarkable. a film for each season/age/artistic taste. short- a kind of gem. and not ordinary one. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and effective who is doing it from the pen of Agatha Christie.","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" And Then There Were None is directed by René Clair and adapted to screenplay by Dudley Nichols from the Agatha Christie novel Ten Little Indians. It stars Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward, June Duprez and Roland Young. Music is by Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco and cinematography by Lucien N. Andriot.Ten strangers are summoned to Indian Island by the mysterious Mr Owen. When he fails to arrive for dinner, the guests continue without him, only to be told by a gramophone record that their past links to murder are known. Unable to leave the remote island for a couple of days, the group soon come to find that there is a chance that none of them will leave the island alive&#x85;..The number of remakes and similar themed films of its ilk that surfaced post René Clair's take on the Christie story, have some what diluted the value and impact of it. Here is a mid 40s movie thriving on the mystery element whilst not shedding an ounce of blood as the murders begin to stack up. In fact it has an air of breeziness that sits alongside the more suspenseful moments that form the core of the plot. However, this is still a superior murder mystery movie, well crafted by the director and nicely played by the ensemble cast of little known character actors. True enough to say the ending, changed from the source material, doesn't carry the dramatic bang that could have been garnered if the era of its making had allowed it to, but the production value is high and the outcome is never easy to predict.A touch overrated in some quarters, but still a thoroughly enjoyable experience. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie novel to motion picture at its finest","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you're a lover of black and white mystery films, this is a must see. From the moment you observe the characters on the boat heading to the mysterious Indian Island, you immediately build feelings towards them, good, bad and otherwise which carry you through the film. The house sets are done well enough to give the impression of remoteness and isolation which the characters are sensing and add to the drama. Each actor provides an excellent interpretation of their printed persona with some passing on a little too soon sadly as you want to see more of them. The story moves at the right pace, developing twists and turns which have you guessing right till the end (especially if you hadn't read the book).Films of this era shouldn't be over analyzed or too critical. They were made for one purpose only and that was to entertain and this movie does that in spades. Great story, first rate acting, wonderful ending, who could ask for more on a dark and stormy night? "},{"Title":"Clever mystery.","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is no doubt the best of several films based on the classic novel by mystery mistress Agatha Cristie. Marked for death are ten people with skeletons in his or her closet. The group, all strangers, is invited to spend a weekend on a remote island off the English coast. The ten guests are murdered one by one with only one clue...the words of a children's nursery rhyme, Ten Little Indians. The pacing of director Rene Clair's movie is deliberate and suspenseful and the cast could not be much better. Featured players are Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward, June Duprez, C. Aubrey Smith, Judith Anderson, Roland Young and Richard Haydn. Worth more than one viewing. "},{"Title":"Intriguing mystery with a unique storyline","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten people are invited to a large house on a small and deserted island by someone they've never met. On their first night in the house, a record is played which accuses each guest of a particular murder or murders. Before long, guests start dying and their deaths are seemingly tied to a mysterious poem and a statuette of 10 Little Indians. The question is, in this small, isolated place, who is responsible for these deaths, and who will be next???This unique plot device by Agatha Christie along with an ensemble cast of character actors and sharp directing make for a viewing experience that will hold your attention throughout as you try to solve the mystery along with the guests.Most everyone in the film gives fine performances, particularly Fitzgerald, Huston, Young, and Anderson. I will say however, that I'm glad that the 1st guest to go was indeed the 1st to go -- he was already annoying. -)This film does something which not many mysteries have done -- it presents the character's reaction to the circumstances in a realistic manner. That is, if you were put in a situation like this, you'd likely do a lot of the same reasoning as the characters in the film. One appreciates that the characters are not able to be killed simply because they behave so stupidly. Each forms his or her own opinion about who the killer is and how to deal with the situation. The characters engage in logical discussions with each other about who might be killing them and how to avoid death, all the while suspecting each other. In the end, if you think about it, the answer is really the only way it could make sense.I suspect that multiple viewings of this film would reveal new and interesting details that slipped by unnoticed upon the first viewing. If you like a mystery, and can appreciate the old-fashioned style -- that is, real mystery, tension and suspense without the blood and guts, then you'll enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"None... ***","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A definite eerie, brooding piece with ten people being invited to a remote British island and then being summarily killed off one by one. Problem was that all had committed some form of transgressions in the form of murder during their respective lifetimes.You would think that the usually sinister Judith Anderson would be up to her evil ways. Instead, she sits and knits in the way of Madame DeFarge and becomes an early victim. Walter Huston proves in his role of a doctor how vulnerable he is when he is easily duped by rascal Barry Fitzgerald, the latter in top form here.A piece proving that justice may be served. "},{"Title":"One By One...","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Rene Clair directed this entertaining adaptation of the classic Agatha Christie novel & play. Ten strangers(played by June Duprez, Louis Hayward, Barry Fitzgerald, Roland Young, Walter Huston, Judith Anderson, C. Aubrey Smith, and Mischa Auer, with servants played by Richard Haydn & Queenie Leonard) are all gathered on an isolated island, where they are informed by a record that they are all guilty of unpunished crimes, so as a consequence, will be killed one by one, according to an old nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians. Can they locate the identity of their killer before it's too late? Atmospherically directed and nicely acted, with imaginative script, clever finale. "},{"Title":"A good thriller","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is about ten individuals who got invited to a remote castle, where they are killed off one by one.And Then There Were None played on the TV yesterday, and I watched it just to kill time. It turns out that it is a very good thriller, the plot is good and fast paced. It keeps you guessing who is the killer, but keeps you from knowing who is the killer. It is suspenseful all the way through. The plot is well written so that everyone could be the killer, so you would not know who the killer is until right to the end. It exceeds my expectations, and I think a modern remake with a more detailed plot and some big stars would become a hit. "},{"Title":"Classic Murder Mystery, Still Great Fun","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Take a great story by a great writer, add a great director and a great cast and what do you get? In this case the arithmetic adds up and you do get a great movie.The twists and turns of the plot are so neat in this locked room murder mystery (or locked island to be more precise) that the novel has been done as a movie four times, and probably stolen ten times in different television series. This first adaptation remains perhaps the best.The important thing in a fun-murder mystery of this kind is that the characters are likable, but shallow and silly enough that you don't feel sorrow if they get bumped off. Barry Fitzgerald, Judith Anderson and Louis Hayward stand out as particularly delightful and aloof from the carnage around them, but everybody contributes nicely in the ensemble cast.The best and funniest shot in the movie has Fitzgerald and Huston in the mid-ground declaring how they are sure about the character who is the murderer, while in the foreground we see just the feet and shoes of that character who is buried upside down. The audience is quite aware that the man cannot be the killer, but has become a victim, long before Fitzgerald and Huston finally see the evidence that is in front of their eyes.The movie is a light comedy murder-mystery, so those critics who wish it to be more suspenseful and gripping are simply in the wrong movie theater. Those who like The Thin Man movie series, gimmicky Hitchcock movies like Life Boat, Rope, and Rear Window and the Columbo television series will find the whole thing delightful. "}{"Title":"Brilliantly Light Touch","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Aces all around-- great cast, superb direction, and brain-cracking mystery. The story of nine people invited to a deserted island along with one mysterious murderer has been told many times, but never better than here. Director Clair's lightly humorous touch entertains as it deepens. Who the devil is knocking off the nine, one by one. We know why, but not who. It can't be youngsters Hayward and DuPrez; they're too cute, but then they have committed crimes-- a fine dashing performance by Hayward. Then there are the servants, Leonard and Haydn whose bibulous butler steals the show, the forlorn old general C. Aubrey Smith, along with comical Bussian count Mischa Auer. Okay, who's left? -- the four likeliest suspects-- sly old Barry Fitzgerald, the crafty doctor Walter Huston, sneaky detective Roland Winters, and ice-cold spinster Judith Anderson. But then again, maybe they didn't search the island hard enough. And, of course, things are not always as they seem. Events lead up to a climax that could not be more brilliantly constructed. Great mood shots of the crashing surf to punctuate developments, and a magnificent cliff house whose bright, airy rooms prove that mystery and daylight can live together. There's also a fine complementary score from a Spanish composer who should have shortened his name for the the rest of us. I've seen hundreds of who-dun-it's from that time period, but none are as stylish and entertaining as this one. A genuine classic. "},{"Title":"Christie with a touch of Vaudeville","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What is a Whodunnit? It's essentially a puzzle; a puzzle that has murder as its theme. Almost invariably it's a requirement of the genre that the intense human emotions that would in reality accompany such a dramatic subject (murder) are, if present at all, subordinated to the needs of the puzzle, and the protagonists must go through their paces behaving like... well, behaving like the characters in a Whodunnit. However, just as good comedy, even at its most surreal, must hold on to a central truth, a good murder mystery must never entirely forget that its dramatis personae are indeed just that, and that their emotions (whilst molded by the needs of the puzzle) make an essential contribution to turning a curious riddle into a gripping Whodunnit.Unfortunately, the script in René Clair's adaptation of Ten Little Indians rather neglects dramatic considerations and plays the story more for laughs than tension. It's almost as though, in recognising that Whodunnits stand aside from real-life (and none more so than the rather cold-blooded British affairs of the 'golden age' of crime novels) the studio decided to make a piece of family entertainment where the puzzle is preeminent and the cast are relegated to playing characters who behave more like they have found themselves on a somewhat disappointing mini-break in Devon than as cornered prey of a crazed murderer. As such it's still an enjoyable piece of cinema, but watching it one can't help but be aware of what is missing. Most glaringly, the characters show little sense of horror or fear at their predicament (with one exception no corpse is shown and one murder is even merely reported). The action does become more urgent towards the end but it never rises above a sort of murder-farce. It's a shame considering the acting talent on display, and the few moments of genuine drama that pop up remind us that a murder mystery, whilst frothy, can still have depths. For example, the moment that the character of Miss Emily Brent describes her cruelty to a child in cold, unrepentant tones is briefly gripping, but it is one of the few moments in the film that one becomes interested in any character. The attempt at adding a romantic thread to the story is so unbelievable and at odds with the situation that it is laughable.Then There Were None does have many fine qualities, not least the sets and the cinematography, and a lot of charm. It's thoroughly enjoyable to watch, but it is a shallow affair. Prepare to be puzzled and charmed but not gripped. "},{"Title":"Good, amusing, if somewhat overestimated","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Clair, a skilled Old School director, gives a peculiar, interesting adaptation of the Mrs. Christie classic&#151;he invests it with notable qualities, and makes it both funny/ quirky and appropriately grim. This version changes very much the script; I have read the novel twice, I couldn't point to all the changes, yet some at least are blatant and will not be divulged here.The alternative solutions found by Clair to this geometrical plot are, at least, imaginative, elegant and not unsatisfying. The cast offers some good performances and the movie obviously attains a style.I enjoyed the best that role which signals itself best for admiration&#151;again, no spoilers here! Adapting Mrs. Christie, Clair, qualified director of superior amusements, achieves ,as I said, style, suspense, even a naughty lightness of the touch; conceived as a suspense&#151;vehicle , AND THEN THERE &#133; thrills and amazes. In an era of a general quality in cinema, it might have passed unnoticed and _unacclaimed. "},{"Title":"Great movie, however book leaves film in the dust","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really enjoyed the film version of the book, however after reading the book, the movie had little effect on me. The book is a must read, and carries much more suspense with it than the movie.Other than a completely different ending, Agatha Christie's style provides a top of the line mystery.I will say however, the characters of the Judge as well ad Lombard are portrayed brilliantly, and provide great lead roles for the movie. The setting for the film also appears to match the book fairly closely.Again, the book is terrific, and if the option presents itself, I encourage reading the book before viewing the movie. If you're not a book person, the movie is a pretty nice thrill, and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"an excellent version of 10 Little Indians","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film had an excellent ensemble cast and lovely direction and cinematography. It stands as an excellent example of the type of film Hollywood could do best during its glory days. It had been so many years since I read the book I couldn't remember who the murderer was and I found myself guessing wrong again and again--and that impresses me. About the only negatives were a couple performances. The old lady just seemed kinda nasty and I was HOPING someone would kill her ASAP. And, despite his having received an Oscar and having been in some terrific movies (such as My Man Godfrey), I've always found Mischa Auer to be annoying as well. The character he ALWAYS plays (the clever and bored party guest) becomes ponder-some when you see it again and again in old films. "},{"Title":"The Best Film Version of the Christie Classic","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Agatha Christie's 1930s novel AND THEN THERE WERE NONE told the story of ten unrelated people who are lured under various pretexts to an island resort. Once assembled, they discover they have been brought to the island by a mysterious homicidal maniac who accuses each of them of having escaped punishment for a past murder--and who then proceeds to pick them off one by one as the ever dwindling party rushes to unmask the hidden killer in their midst.Nothing like the novel had been seen before, and it was a popular sensation. So much so that Christie herself adapted the novel to the stage. In creating the script, Christie discovered that the novel's uncompromising tone and conclusion did not translate well to the stage, and the final script was considerably lighter and had a considerably softer conclusion. When performed, the script was played as much for comedy as for suspense--and proved as popular as the novel. A film version became inevitable.Countless novels, plays, and movies have borrowed the premise Christie presents in AND THEN THERE NONE, and there have been at least four film versions (most often known as TEN LITTLE INDIANS) of the original work. All of these versions rely more upon the play script than the novel, offering a mix of comedy and suspense, and by far and away the best of them is famed French director Rene Clair's 1940s version.Brilliantly played by an ensemble cast of famed character actors including Judith Anderson, Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, C. Aubrey Smith, and Roland Young, Clair creates a stylish, somewhat surrealistic romp that satirizes British stiff upper lip sensibilities with flourishes of black comedy while quietly building a sense of increasing unease. From a modern standpoint, the Clair version seems more comic than suspenseful; few will find it in the least unnerving. This does not, however, change the fact that it is a tremendous amount of fun to watch. The film creates an air of old-fashioned mischief that is compulsively enjoyable, and even if a contemporary director decided to have another go at the material it seems unlikely that any cast to equal this could be assembled. If you're prepared for a witty amusement, AND THEN THERE WERE NONE is recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Superb comedy/mystery","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  And Then There Were None is Agatha Christie done with great panache. The plot  ten strangers (with the exception of married servants) are deposited on an island as the result of fraudulent invitations.  It turns out each of them has a secret crime, and they were brought to the island to pay the ultimate price for their wrongs.The first plus is the superb ensemble of (at the time) respected and well-known actors.  C. Aubrey Smith, the general, is more than ever lost in his own world, but he brings to life the character from the book.  Walter Huston (best known these days as father of director John and grandfather of Angelica) is a delight as the doctor.  Barry Fitzgerald is an unexpectedly effective judge.  Richard Haydn does his nasal character as an increasingly insubordinate butler.  Roland Young, best known for his roles as distracted upper-class Brits (Ruggles of Red Gap), almost steals every scene as a cockney detective;  but he fails in most scene larceny because Huston, Fitzgerald, Young and Haydn are fighting him tooth and claw.  The other actors are uniformly good, including Judith Anderson as the proper spinster and Louis Hayward as the handsome young man who has more than the requisite number of secrets.The second plus is a script that is almost flawless (it breaks down some near the end).  Agatha Christie's murder stories take place in their own world, and this world is understood by the script writers.  And Then There Were None takes a flippant attitude toward murder (of course, these people are strangers).  There's no time for grief or regret when the characters start dying.  The movie zips slickly along at a good pace, even during extended dialogue scenes, and never bogs down, even as the cast dwindles. A third plus is crackling direction that takes unexpected views.  And though, by its very nature, the movie is stage bound in one house, it never grows tiresome.  There's even a cat who livens up slower spots with an Aww! moment.Anyone who has read the Christie book knows who done it.  The ending is different and far less grim than the book's, but the basic murders and clues remain in place.  Yet even for those who have read the book, the movie is a delight just for the performances and in the light-fingered approach to serial murder from all involved. "},{"Title":"Classy","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A polished and classy thriller, in the same vein as Otto Preminger's Laura (1944).  Based on one of Agatha Christie's most celebrated novels of the same name, And Then There Were None is a fun, if rather cold whodunit. The cast reads like a who's-who of character actors.  Names found in the credits include Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Judith Anderson, C. Aubrey Smith, Roland Young, as well as June Duprez (who looks remarkably similar to Gene Tierney, the star of Laura) and Louis Hayward who become romantically involved during the course of the film in a relationship not found in the book.  Rene Clair, the acclaimed French director, directs in a capable, if rather unmemorable manner which neither adds nor subtracts from the film experience itself.  Thankfully Clair manages to make the adaptation from written page to film image smooth and fluid, and while the plot does take some liberties with the original story (especially regarding the ending), the essence of Ms. Christie's writing is not only retained but brilliantly executed. The story unfolds as eight guests (as well as two servants) arrive at a large house on a foggy, isolated island.  The hosts are said to be detained in London, and that evening at dinner a record is played accusing each assembled person of commiting a crime that cost someone else their life. Almost instantly one of the guests fall dead from poisoning.  From then on it's a rip-roaring ride as another, and then another guest falls dead by a completely different manner.  Every person begins to suspect the other, causing obvious tension, and some hilarious comic situations.  They are stranded on an island in this big house, and because a boat only comes to the island twice a week, the guests who manage to evade death attempt to find the murderer before he or she too falls dead. I suppose it would be much more suspensful if one had not read the book before viewing this movie, and did not know the resolution of the story. The end is different then found in the novel, but the surprise element nontheless is diminished.  The DVD put out by VCI Home Video is adequate but not as good as it could be.  Still, And Then There Were None is a respectable, engrossing and enjoyable mystery, and read the book or not, is great fun and marvelous entertainment.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation of a Great Story","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Agatha Christie's original And Then There Were None is one of the greatest of all mystery stories, with a fascinating and complicated plot and a list of interesting characters.  No film version could capture everything in the novel, but René Clair's version is extremely good in most respects.The creative mystery story itself would be enough to make any reasonable adaptation watchable, but this version adds some strengths of its own.  A fine cast gives generally excellent portrayals of the main characters, making the film very enjoyable to watch, and also making the mystery that much more intriguing.  They are all very believable and mostly very interesting characters.  Since the film version does not have the time to develop their backgrounds as the novel did, the ways that the actors bring these characters to life in a short time is an important part of making the movie work.The island setting is also very nicely done, adding to the atmosphere and the tension.While a few things were changed from the book due to cinematic considerations, most readers who enjoyed Christie's original story should enjoy this adaptation very much, as should anyone who likes mystery films. "},{"Title":"Not as great as everyone makes it out to be!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This old school murder mystery written by Dame Agatha Christie was based on her novel Ten Little Niggers (which, of course, had to be re-named to Ten Little Indians, which in turn was changed again to And Then There Were None.)  You have the normal Christie crew; a cast of suspects and victims    with rotten pasts.  These characters are lured to an island where they are picked off one by one.  Closterphobia sets in as the remaining people realizes that the killer could be one of them.  Now, this sounds like the makings of a wonderful movie, full of suspense, drama, horror, and perhaps romance?  Sadly the seriousness of the plot is diminished as the whole thing is played up like a parlor game.  There really is no suspense at all for the whole thing is made into a sort of comedy.  Key elements of the book had been changed in this movie (and almost all others) as well.  Many key characters had their names and character traits changed... for example  In the book, we are introduced to Anthony Marston, a shallow, suave, good looking fellow.  To take his place in the movie is a Russian prince who cannot act for beans...  There is also the gripe about the ending... The ending was supposed to follow the title And Then There Were NONE!  They don't even make the climax exciting... just a bunch of talk and a suggestion of suicide... While this one is the only one (Out of the original 4 successful English/American versions) to get the setting right maybe one of the reasons it has been called the best of the versions.  The only thing that I could find in this movie praise worthy was June Dupres's interpretation of Vera Claythorne whom I thought was wonderful... I am told the Russian version is great, but I have yet to see it.My personal favorite versions areTen Little Indians 1989 ( many consider this the worst, but I enjoyed it... at least it had an exciting ending!)Ten Little Indians 1959  (this is a hard to find one... It stars Nina Foch... I think that's her name.)Ten Little Indians 1975  ( another version the critics condemned, but I found it to be the only one to treat the plot seriously and give it suspense.)And Then There Were None (yes, this version)Ten Little Indians 1965? ( The poorest adaptation in my minds eye... every thing has been changed!) "}{"Title":"Beware, You May Become Victim Of A Island Killing","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a true Agatha Christie classic starring Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston as Judge Quinncannon and Dr. Armstrong respectively. Ten people that are lured to an island by an U. N. Known a mystery man that no one knows. No one suspects that this weekend killing will happen to all 10 of them. There is one clue, a nursery rhyme with Ten Little Indians and how each one dies. Roland Young plays Blore, a detective hired that almost solves the mystery but just as he gets the answer a large statue falls on his head. Who is the murderer? It is not the host because he doesn't exist but one of the ten. This comes down to survival of the smartest. If you love a mystery then this classic is for you.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  after reading the book, i had great expectations for the movie.  Luckily I was not let down, the cast is great, as is the location.  Unfortunately it does have a Hollywood ending.  This is the original movie, and is far and away the best.   "},{"Title":"A JEWEL OF A MOVIE","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This classics mystery story has been filmed many times-mostly under the title-TEN LITTLE INDIANS-but this is the finest verison of it.Directed by RENE CLAIR AND filled with a cast of some of the greatest character actors of the 1930's and 1940's this film is the only one that catches the flavor of a story from the golden age of the British detective story.The tension is great, the comic bits work and for the first viewer the fun is in trying to catch the murderer, before your family or friends do. Match your wits with the great A. C. Not until the film-MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS-was made did Hollywood equal this film. Both these films are a honor to that great mystery writer Dame Agatha Christie.This film is always on my top ten mystery movie list. "},{"Title":"STILL A GREAT STORY (AND MOVIE).....","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Made all those years ago, this is still a film to see.  Done with just the right amount of not knowing, the suspense level and tension level remain high throughout.  To modernize the story would be a disaster (as in the re-make Ten Little Indians with Hugh O'Brien).  The English feel to the movie enhances it greatly, as does the starkness of the 'black and white' shoot.  Films like this CAN'T be made anymore, the world just isn't the same place.....PS--- I just bought the novel for my daughter for a summer reading assignment.  I kept getting reports of boring, boring, boring..... Those reports stopped about page 50 and has her glued to the story now.... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Christie Adaptation","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten people, almost all strangers to one another, are invited to spend a weekend at a house on an isolated island. Shortly after they introduce themselves, the recorded voice of their absent host, U. N. Owen, accuses them each of murder. Each protests his innocence and claims not to ever have met Mr. Owen. They are nevertheless picked off one by one in manners consistent with a childhood jingle -- Ten Little Indians, one chopped himself in half and then there were eight, or whatever.The end of the novel has the police arriving and finding all ten of the guests dead by one or another means, from poisoning to hanging. Now THAT was an ending.But it was a little bitter for the screen, I suppose, and in this movie -- and in later refilmings -- a young man and young woman outsmart Mr. U. N. Owen (Unknown, get it?) and survive.Just as well. If anybody should survive it's June Duprez, a luscious exotic-looking twenty-eight when she made this movie. Her eyes are set so far apart that she looks part alien. I suggest, without intending any disrespect, that if you shook her family tree an extra-terrestrial might fall out of it. I'm not so sure about Louis Hayward as the cocky young hero, but okay -- let's let him survive too.The other performances are quite good, given the restrictions of the genre. Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston, as the judge and the doctor respectively, are outstanding. Fitzgerald -- it's hard to believe he was ever serious about a word he said, on or off screen. When he smiles, his lips curve up from ear to ear, just beneath his nose, and under that smile is a quadruple chin. What a marvelous face and voice.The print I saw was old and scratchy but, well, this is a marvelously enjoyable film, probably the best adaptation of the Christie story. It's one of her best jigsaw puzzles and I was unable to spot any holes in the plot.There are some comic elements too. The butler finds himself under suspicion by the others and gets staggering drunk, not funny in itself, but played well. When the butler says resentfully that he's going to show them the cocktails are not poisoned by drinking all of them, the others protest -- Oh, no need for that, Rogers. But when Rogers adds, And just for that, there will be no supper tonight, the others jump to their feet and run howling after him.The murders all take place off screen and their dramatic content is quickly blown off. Rogers' wife dies in her sleep and informed of this, Rogers tells the others that he will be unable to provide breakfast. The guests pooh pooh his protests, excusing him. End of Mrs. Rogers. In fact, NOBODY who is bumped off is ever mourned or even mentioned again except in a wisecrack or two.Rene Clair directed efficiently with no noticeable flair except that on occasion when a character speaks to the others he faces the camera directly. The ominous mood that ought to be present throughout is strangely absent. The sets look cheap. A heavy rainstorm isn't convincing, but, as I say, this was an old print and perhaps that's partly to blame.You'll probably like this one. It's good enough to watch more than once, even though you already know the ending. The story is up there with Christie's best. "},{"Title":"Lacking the tension it really needed but has plenty of good humour and is well played by the cast","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A group of strangers are all sent letters from close friends inviting them to join them at the house of Mr Owen for a party. However when all ten of them arrive at the house they find themselves without a host or any connections between them. On the first evening the butler puts on a record that has a recording of accusations and allegations against most of the ten &#150; crimes that they all thought were secret. With this, one man dies and it is not long before another passes away. With the numbers dwindling, the race is on to find the elusive Mr Owen and get off the island before another victim is felled &#150; but could the murderer be one of them? This is a classic film because it is based on a famous book as opposed to it being a great film that will stand for all time. With the original title now banished forever, this film is much more of a proposition and generally produces an entertaining little film albeit one that is funnier than it is scary or thrilling. The plot is as the title says &#150; gradually the group are killed off while they all suspect one another of doing it. For the majority it is not very exciting and it isn't until the final twenty minutes where it gets a real sense of tension up and it does produce the goods, even if the ending is a bit of an anticlimax in terms of tone and delivery. What it does better is deliver an enjoyably macabre sense of humour for most of the film &#150; making it much more enjoyable than it would have been without it; without the odd laugh it is just a flat thriller of sorts.The cast are all quite good and you don't really know who is going to be the killer or be killed next. It is very much an ensemble piece although Hayward is clearly the leading man type in it, and Duprez the leading lady. Support is very good from the various actors all playing colourful characters, specifically Huston, Young, Smith and Haydn.Overall this is an enjoyable film although not thrilling or exciting enough to be a great one. It picks up near the end and is pretty exciting for about 15 minutes but mostly it is the slightly dark humour and the good playing that makes it worth watching. Not a classic perhaps, but an enjoyable way to spend 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Old time movie storytelling","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The old craft of creating a movie is on display here, in all of its finery.Setting the location Introducing the characters Announce the plot & set it in motion Build tension, creating anxiety then fear Move the characters into desperate actions, cast accusations & infusing distrust Come to a conclusion, make the answer seem obvious Twist the outcome, giving a surprise in showing off the truth Ending with a back-flip, a trick in the twist of the taleNo aliens popping out of chests here, no robots with a licence to kill, not even a light sabre drawn into a scene, this is a very good movie that is mature enough not to need gimmicks.All done without computers, movie craftsmen showing off all of their talents, giving the public a movie worth seeing, and even more, worth thinking about. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie's Book Was Better","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Really it was.  I thought it wasn't much of a thrilling idea to change one of the character's names (Prince Nikki that is...I forgot his real name from the book), a few of the accusations of the murders that some of the characters have made, and get this -- THE ENDING!!!! I liked the movie a bit, but usually they do say that the books are better, and sometimes I agree and sometimes I disagree.  In this case, the book was a lot better!  So, if you liked the movie, read the book. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted film, like serious book, partially succeeds and partially fails","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Agatha Christie's 1939 story idea captures the imagination.  Ten strangers who each, in his or her own way, have gotten away with murder gather by invitation at an isolated mansion.  Then their unknown host U.N. Owen systematically and mockingly murders them one by one.  The idea was adapted into a film in 1945, 1965, 1974, and 1989.  Each adaptation is worth seeing as an attempt to bring the idea to life.  Unfortunately, neither Christie nor the filmmakers succeed in turning this compelling but at the same time confining plot concept into a truly fulfilling story.The book's premise is clever and fascinating.  Careful attention is paid to plot detail.  Compared to the films, the book's assortment of past crimes and depictions of the characters' attitudes toward them are more varied, subtle, and interesting.  The book gives the highly contrived events a certain plausibility.  It is the least sentimental about the characters, treating them vaguely and suspiciously.  This helps, even if it does not entirely succeed, in making them convincing as people who have killed in the past and could do so again.  The book maintains more of a sense of fear, dread, menace, suspense, and purpose than the film versions.  It explains at some length why and how Owen carried out the scheme.However, once the imaginative premise is established, the story becomes thin and formulaic.  There is little plot or character development.  The storytelling seems flat, frigid, and, at times, slow-paced.  There is no lead character to care about.  The characters and their past crimes are sketched in summary fashion.  Those crimes vary widely in originality, depth, and genuineness.  The best are Claythorne's, the general's, Brent's, and Rogers'.  The past crimes of Blore, the doctor, the judge, and Lombard are trite, unexplored, and ineffective.  There are only two real plot twists.  The second creates a major logical problem, which the book acknowledges and tries to overcome by weakly suggesting that the ploy would trick or rattle the murderer.  The guests' murders are designed to follow the nursery rhyme and little more.  Some cosmetic frills aside, the killings show, in themselves, no special cunning, skill, strategic advantage, or plausibility.  Owen strikes crudely without detection too effortlessly.Worst of all, the book (and each film) has nothing serious to say about the powerful themes of survival, justice, and criminality that are at the heart of the story.  The story is inherently an observation of human nature in a desperate situation.  How do the characters behave?  How do they try to reason?  How do they try to survive?  Also by its very nature -- as the book's last pages acknowledge -- this is a morality play.  How is each character a criminal?  How is each beyond the law?  Does each get justice?  Is justice the point, or simply a lust to torture and kill?  Is the story about breaking the law or enforcing it, about mistakes or abuses in pursuing justice?  None of this is meaningfully explored.Overall, the films are worse in some respects and better in some respects than the book.  The 1945 version develops the plot better in some ways.  While as tightly written as the book, it is richer in deductive theories, in taking stock at each stage of the story, and in survival techniques.  The dialogue seems sharper than in the book and provides some memorable lines.  This adaptation pioneers the technique (repeated in 1965 and 1974 and omitted only from the 1989 version, to its detriment) of playing the Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme on the piano.  This brings it to life and sets the stage for what is to come.  The cast is mostly outstanding.  Many characters -- Lombard, Claythorne, doctor, judge, Blore, Brent -- seem as smart, strong, or distinctive as in the book, or more so.  They are more entertaining.  Generally, the films do a better job of showing characters interact.  Except in 1989, the films make more of an effort than the book to explain the relationship that develops between two characters.However, the 1945 version handles the past crimes even less effectively than the book.  The movie presents the general and his past crime in an obscure, lifeless way; even the weak 1989 adaptation does better.  The 1945 version makes a ludicrous change to the judge's past crime.  It waters down Brent's.  In changing the story to allow characters to survive, it distorts their identities and/or past crimes in fundamental ways.  In the process, it replaces the book's most complex, interesting past crime with one that is bland, superficial, and false.  This confuses the meaning of the host's actions, although it does suggest, but not develop, a new theme of false accusation not present in the book.Generally, the film's attempts to make the characters entertaining (a re-named Marston, Rogers, doctor, judge, Blore) come at the expense of their plausibility as villains and of the story's seriousness.  Characters confess their secrets and treat the horror unfolding around them as if it were a parlor game.  Mischa Auer's farcical, clownish performance is a disaster.  The character was poorly drawn to begin with, and the 1945 film does a particularly poor job of presenting his past crime.  This, and the changed ending, are only the most extreme examples of a general problem with taking such a lighthearted approach to a fundamentally serious story.Worst of all, the climactic scene, which reveals Owen's identity, means, and motives, is short, sedate, droll, unsatisfying, and leaves a lot unexplained.  In 1945, Owen has a weary, rational, amiable armchair chat with the final victim precisely when the character should come alive as someone triumphantly and credibly capable of inflicting such horror.  It is left to the otherwise flawed 1974 version to capture more of the tone and intensity of the book and to the generally inept 1989 film to provide an ending that is dramatic, reflects that a deadly serious killer has been at work, conveys a sense of Owen's menace and lunacy, and most fully explains Owen's behavior. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Version!","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Walter Huston and Barry Fitzgerald are only a few of the doomed characters in Agatha Christie's famous story of And Then There Were None. The premise is about ten people who are mysteriously banded together on an isolated island, actually only eight, but there are two servants who were hired to be there. But no one is safe. All of them received letters from an unseen person with an agenda of his own, U.N. Owen. They never saw this person, but still came, for one reason or another. Once there, they are accused of killing or causing the death of someone. Each one is found guilty in the eyes of U.N. Owen and are one by one killed by this mysterious person, until it is determined that this man, this person is ONE OF THEM! The main difference between this and the book is that Hollywood demanded because of its moral code that good always triumphs over evil and the ending was changed. Other than that, I think its tongue-in-cheek yet simple and straightforward telling of the story is the definitive film of the book. Agatha Christie agreed to the happy ending. This has an oddball, creepy style that fits well with its black and white cinematography. The people are merely pawns in a cat-and-mouse yarn of macabre murders, which I think is truer to the style of Agatha Christie. The 2015 version while embellishing the story was way too long and this film really captures the flair and excitement of a Christie story better in a shorter amount of time. A highlight for me here is the meeting of the minds between Fitzgerald and Huston in the pool room. All the elements of atmosphere and great actors really compliment each other to make a perfect movie. "}{"Title":"The Book Was Far Better","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie basically followed the book, though with a different ending. But the movie fails for a number of reasons.One, the movie is slow-moving and feels more like a parlor game than the fearsome situation that the book managed to present. Second, the first man killed in the movie is repentant over his crime, while in the book the first man to die is a guiltless scumbag that the reader doesn't regret being killed. Others in the book are not all sympathetic either, and the murderer deliberately set things up so that the police who come later couldn't possibly figure out who did the killings-until a written confession is found later, where the murderer justifies their actions. I don't remember a cat in the book either.The movie fails to do what the book does-give a sense of people whose past crimes come back to haunt them. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable  adaptation of Agatha Christie's novel","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" And Then There Were None is directed by Rene Clair, has a screenplay by Dudley Nichols, is based on the novel by Agatha Christie and stars Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Roland Young, Judith Anderson, C. Aubrey Smith, June Duprez, Louis Hayward, Mischa Auer, Richard Haydn and Queenie Leonard.This 1945 adaptation of the novel which is possibly Christie's best is atmospheric and strangely funny considering the dark subject matter. There is plenty of suspense and a good spooky atmosphere. The characters behaviour and interaction is often very humorous, because they are all so different and some have very quirky personalities. You feel like you have actually gotten to know these characters and you are kept guessing until the end (unless you've read the book)as to who the killer is.Ten strangers are invited to spend a weekend in a house on an island as guests of Mr U.N. Owen. Once they arrive they discover their host is absent and that none of them has ever met him. On the first night a gramophone recording starts playing accusing them all of being murderers. One by one they start to be killed and the survivors must try and work out who amongst them is the killer.The films ending is very different to the books and is quite disappointing in comparison. It's odd that such a major change was made but I suppose it was done to make the story less bleak and disturbing.The entire cast are excellent with Judith Anderson, Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston deserving special praise. There's some wonderful camera-work, especially in the scene where Huston's character looks through a keyhole at someone else who is looking through another keyhole. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere yes, Actors - some of the best.","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Humor, Suspense, and even a little Romance. There is not a member of this cast that I feel isn't a finely honed artist. Here is one of those movies that being in black and white does add to the effects, yes, some of the shadows are a little deep, but you see if you think they are too deep. Even the cat is right on cue and does what it is supposed to do. One dead, two dead, hmm . . . who is doing this? The young man has checked out the young girl many times, and is clearly interested. The good Doctor, in my opinion, takes a few too many nips from his flask. What did it say on the phonograph record? The view of the beach is very nice until -. Rent or buy, it will keep you guessing, but worth the price. "},{"Title":"And then there were none??","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The title is a misnomer.You should bear in mind that it's not Christie's novel which was transferred to the screen ,but the play (she wrote herself mind you,but not without changing the ending,probably because it was WW2 and the audience needed a relatively happy end);had Christie transferred her masterpiece to the stage in another time,maybe she would have kept her first conclusion and we would not have that spate of movies -with-two-survivors- (except for the Russian version which goes all the way).René Clair's version is the best of the four English-language versions ;it is the only one which keeps Emily Brent's character,whereas it is ruled out in the other films (Dahlia Lavi and Stephane Audran play both actresses in 1965 and 1974).There's also a good sense of humor -some of which remains in the Pollock version - and an unusually inventive scene not in the novel (and not in the play)where they meet to vote.For those who know René Clair's French career,this whodunit thriller has nothing to do with what he usually makes.Although his version is the best ,I say it again,I can't help but thinking what Alfred Hitchcock would have done with it.NBIn Europa ,the novel is called ten little n.... ;the substantive being a derogatory world in America ,the title had to be changed. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of Agatha Christie","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While not the most glamorous or exciting version, it was the first and has something to offer. The female lead is one that I very closely identify with. She has a very serious, conscientious personality that I can relate to. She is not frivolous and does her role well. You can't help but like the lady. The film gets all the murders done in a respectable 97 minutes. The rain in the background was a very good idea. It would be fun to see all three or four of the movies in one day, but I might be screaming by the end of the day, on second thought. No one character stood out which was just as well, they had a teamwork like approach, unlike the other versions. The camera-work seemed a bit too gloomy. It makes a decent afternoon or evening movie. I was expecting it to be a bit livelier or a bit more engaging, but it does not bore. "},{"Title":"The book was far superior","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After reading the book and liking it very much, I must say I was quite disappointed by the film adaptation. For one thing, the ending was completely different than the book; and it seemed a bit too prettied-up (I won't spoil it by giving away details). Though there were some excellent performances, that is basically the only thing that saves the film, in my opinion. Overall, the book was a superb experience, whereas this film just seemed mediocre. I'd pick the book over the movie anyday. "},{"Title":"Very fine...except for the embarrassing Hollywood ending!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERAn excellent mystery, beautifully filmed and very well acted. It corresponds closely to Agatha Christie's book, one her cleverest...until the embarrassing and deeply regretable ending.Ten people are invited to an island, and then killed off one at a time, by a self- appointed executioner-as a punishment for the crimes they have gotten away with in their outside lives. The interest in the story comes from watching the victims grow more and more suspicious of each other; the irony is that their mistrust is what makes it possible for the murderer to get them alone and kill them. By the end, all ten are dead, no one at all is left on the island, and the authorities are rightly stumped as to who could have been doing the killing.Finally, through the awkward plot-device of a discovered letter, we find out that the murderers was actually one of the islanders (an apparent victim), and a devious misdirection is revealed. The overall story is clever and plausible, and develops out of character rather than from the mechanics of deception. It is written in Christie's typically efficient and uncluttered prose, and is one of her best-a classic of the so-called golden age of mysteries.The film pursues this story up effectively (even brilliantly) until the very end. Unfortunately the producers must have decided (perhaps at the last minute?) that the public wasn't ready for a film in which everyone dies. So at the eleventh hour, we are presented with a bizarre and abrupt about-face; two of the guests (the most attractive male and female actors, naturally) turn out to be, after all, not guilty of any past crimes. (This transformation is especially implausible, since these two are among the MOST guilty, and therefore most interesting, characters in the book....and the story's careful establishment of their guilt is simply dropped, without explanation.) For some bizarre reason, they decide to trust one another (in a film that is all about mistrust!), and conspire to outsmart the murderer-who despite his earlier extraordinary intricate strategizing, seems to have suddenly taken stupid pills, since he is now deceived by the simplest trick in the hack-writer's book. Surprise! the two survivors walk away hand-in-hand under the fade-out, presumably into happily-ever-after land.I'd imagine that Christie was not pleased to have the rug pulled out from under her story like this, but what was she supposed to do? If there was ever a classic mystery that did NOT lend itself to the happily-ever-after treatment, this is it.Until the final minutes, this film is well on its way toward being an excellent and atmospheric mystery. The end is jaw-droppingly stupid. Go figure... "},{"Title":"Intriguing and Witty Adaptation of Agatha Christie's Classic Novel.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Many of Agatha Christie's most famous mysteries have been turned into popular films. However,Rene Clair's And Then There Were None(1945) along with Billy Wilder's Witness for the Prosecution(1957) are her best screen adaptations. And Then There Were None is a taut mystery with a witty and sometimes humorous script. It also has memorable dialog and brilliant cinematography. It stars a cast of impeccable character actors including Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Roland Young, Louis Hayward, Judith Anderson,and C. Aubrey Smith. The ingenious plot goes something like this Ten people are invited to stay at the island estate of Mr. U.N. Own for the weekend. They're all there for various reasons,although,none of them have ever met or spoken to their host. When they arrive, Mr. Own is late, but the butler serves dinner anyway. At 900 p.m., the butler is instructed to play a record for the guests. On the record, Mr. Own accuses all of his guests of murder and says that they will be punished for their crimes. As soon as they know it, the maid falls ill and dies during the night. In the morning,one of the guests notices that one of a set of ten porcelain Indians is broken.  All of the guests read a piece of sheet music called, Ten Little Indians. It describes the maid's death and the following one to perfection. A foolish drunkard dies from poison in his glass. The guests come to the startling realization that one of the them is Mr. Own committing the murders. Who could it be? The film will hold your attention all the way through as one-by-one, characters disappear and then there are only two people left to solve the mystery. The ending is one of the most surprising in film history. The two performers that stand-out are Barry Fitzgerald as Judge Quinncanon and Walter Huston as Doctor Armstrong. These characters both think alike and have the same type of personality. They're both perceptive, intelligent, and somewhat devious. Equally intriguing performances come from Roland Young as bumbling Detective Blore, Judith Anderson as a suspicious and nasty spinster, Richard Haydn as a clumsy and petrified butler, and C. Aubrey Smith as the strange General Mandrake. The film is always kept delightful, thanks to director, Rene Clair making room for humor. For anyone interested in first-rate suspense, this film is highly recommended. I give it an 8 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"fun parlor game","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten people are brought to an isolated island estate by the Owens. They don't know each other and the Owens are not there. At dinner, there is a centerpiece with ten little Indian figurines. A record is played and each one is accused of a murder. Vera Claythorne (June Duprez) is suppose to be Mrs. Owen's new secretary. She murdered her sister's fiancé. General Sir John Mandrake (C. Aubrey Smith) ordered his wife's lover to his death. The new servants Thomas (Richard Haydn) and Ethel Rogers (Queenie Leonard) killed their invalid employer. Emily Brent (Judith Anderson) killed her nephew. A drunk Dr. Edward G. Armstrong (Walter Huston) caused the death of a patient. Prince Nikita Starloff (Mischa Auer) killed a couple in a DUI. Judge Francis J. Quinncannon (Barry Fitzgerald) is responsible for an innocent man's hanging. Philip Lombard (Louis Hayward) killed 21 East African tribesmen. William H. Blore (Roland Young)'s perjury caused an innocent man's death. Soon, they realize that nobody has ever met U.N. Owen or unknown and the boat is not coming back until Monday. The people starts dying one by one and the figurines are lost one by one. It becomes apparent that one of the group is actually the killer.Based on the famous Agatha Christie novel, this is a contrived story but that's Agatha Christie. It is fun that way. It's a parlor game and the audience is there to guess the ending. They are all serious actors giving compelling performances. It has a few sly jokes and keeps the mood from being too dark. It is snappy and the deaths keep coming. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie Plays Dead","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" On a cold and windy afternoon, eight strangers arrive on isolated Indian Island off the southern coast of England. They join two newly hired servants for a dinner hosted by the mysterious couple known only as Mr. and Mrs. U.N. Owen. The ten people settle into Owen's mansion and prepare for dinner. Strangely, they seem to be the only ones on Indian Island. Their host and hostess are discovered to be absent, but Owen leaves a recording which accuses each guest of murder in various degrees. Understandably, most want to leave the island quickly &#x96; but there is no boat. Then, the Ten Little Indian islanders begin to drop dead, one-by-one. Like the nursery rhyme, a figurine on the dining room table features Ten Little Indians. Every time a guest dies, one of the small Indians is broken...The ensemble must discover what is happening before they are all gone, thus ending the rhyme, and then there were none...This is a marvelous adaptation of Agatha Christie's stage play, itself based on her novel. Trying to solve the mystery is nearly impossible, especially if you've read the book. The differences, originally approved by Ms. Christie and brought to a witty screenplay by Dudley Nichols, make the plot perfect for the big screen. One character difference works especially well in the movies &#x96; in fact, this version delivers the story with a keen awareness of the medium (used as the singular of media; in this case, the movies). Giving character actors Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston top-billing, while casting lower case stars Louis Hayward and June Duprez in the romantic roles Director Rene Clair guides the cast and cameras around with elevating intrigue. This is the best of his short Hollywood career.********* And Then There Were None (10/31/45) Rene Clair ~ Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward, June Duprez "}{"Title":"Compared to the remake","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes a viewer can tell if a film has been heavily edited due to the production code. This is especially noticeable with some endings. It looks like the story should conclude one way, then it abruptly goes in another direction at the last minute, so that we have a more morally- correct resolution.This seems acceptable if there is something 'good' about it. But there are times when one wishes the ending to be morally incorrect, because the story should function as a realistic depiction of what happens when people do go bad and life does go wrong. These can be powerful films that teach powerful lessons.Another problem is that after the end of the production code, producers who remake these films with flawed endings often do not seem to fix them correctly. But occasionally, there is a remake that comes along that does return to the original source and lets the story play out the way the writer intended.And Then There Were None, with its remake called Ten Little Indians, is one such example. The updated version was made before the Hollywood production code was abolished, in 1965 in Europe. The cast may seem a bit inferior to the group of actors in the original, but the story is filmed the way Agatha Christie wrote it. A couple of killers are allowed to live happily ever after&#x85;and a mass murderer is allowed to commit suicide to evade justice. "},{"Title":"Everybody pays for their sons in one way or another....","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" That's the theme of the Agatha Christie story, Ten Little Indians, first filmed in 1945 as And Then There Were None. Ten total strangers (with the exception of the butler and maid) are gathered together on an isolated island. All are guilty of being responsible for someone's death. It is obvious that now their own lives are in danger. An unseen host, only identified as U.N. Owen, reveals the truth about the guests via a record, and slowly, the bodies begin to line up. Everybody has to eat dirt some time before they die, quips the effete butler Richard Haydn says after picking up a dropped platter of food off the floor.A large cast of familiar faces meander around the spooky house trying to find clues as to the identity of their host. Among them-Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward, June Duprez, Judith Anderson, and C. Aubrey Smith. Each of the cast has a moment or two to shine before some of them get the ax in the most clever ways, fulfilling the lyrics of the nursery rhyme, sung by one of the guests early in the film. A witty screenplay is the real star of the film, highlighted by Anderson's acerbic line, How silly to kill the only servant in the house. Now we'll never find the marmalade. Of the cast, Fitzgerald and Huston stand out. Eerie photography and music are also highlights. Even with limited sets, the film never seems static, and every moment up until the end will keep you guessing as to who done it, and why. "},{"Title":"Creepy and wonderful mystery","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As the story opens, a boatload of strangers is arriving at a remote island estate. It seems they have all been invited by a Mr. Owens, whom none of them have met. The disparate group includes a retired major, a judge, a doctor, and a detective. The one thing they have in common is that they are all accused of murder, which Mr. Owens seems intent on avenging.This wonderful, old-fashioned mystery is based on a novel by Agatha Christie. One by one, the guests are killed off according to the children's rhyme, Ten Little Indians, and the audience is kept guessing until the ending (which differs from the book, but is still good). The stellar cast includes Barry Fitzgerald as the judge, Walter Huston as the doctor, and Louis Hayward (who looks and sounds like a young Orson Welles) as the enigmatic Hugh Lombard.The eerie old house perched high above the crashing surf is the perfect setting for thrills in the dark and the witty script reflects the clever and worldly characters. It's a great whodunit, done without offensive language or on-screen violence. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of a great mystery thriller","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Agatha Christie's novel Ten Little Indians, or at least the basic idea, has popped up numerous times in cinema. This 1945 version by Rene Clair is, to my knowledge, the first time the story was used; and judging by the other versions I've seen, this one is the best. The main reason the basis for this story has been seen so many times in cinema is because it's so good and I would describe it as 'pure' mystery. What we get is an isolated setting, some murders and a handful of suspects all in one place; making the film very easy to get into. The film takes place in the only house on a big island. Ten people have been invited there by Mr U.N. Own; a man none of them have ever even met. After being played a tape of Mr Own greeting them and accusing them all of murder, one of the ten is killed. His death is followed by another and another; and it becomes clear to the remaining house guests that their host is picking them off one by one - and that the host/murderer is among them.The central location is one of the best things about the film. Director Rene Clair imposes the isolation on the audience and soaks the house in shadows, which helps to increase the mystery. As the film moves on and more characters are killed; it becomes more and more tense. The way that the remaining characters handle unmasking the murderer is really good and the suspicion and paranoia that the characters are feeling takes centre stage. The story cleverly keeps the mystery surrounding Mr Owns' identity open throughout the film and it's easy to find reasons for any of the characters to be the murderer; making everyone a red herring. The murders themselves are thoughtful and dictated by a sinister nursery rhyme about ten Indian boys. As we near the conclusion, the film really builds up the suspense until the viewer is dying to see which of the characters is the murderer. The ending is well done and provides a good surprise. Overall, this film is very well done and will be of interest to anyone who considers themselves a fan of mystery thrillers. "},{"Title":"Amusing Mystery","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten people are invited to a villa on a remote island and start turning into corpses one by one. The Christie novel comes alive in the adept hands of Clair and a fine cast. This is essentially a black comedy, as the murders are taken lightly and much of it is played for laughs. Clair creates a perfectly chilling atmosphere and keeps the action moving at a good pace. The cast, composed of character actors, seems to be having fun jolly judge Fitzgerald, timid gumshoe Young, sinister-looking Anderson, and boozy butler Haydn (did he do it?). Coming off best, however, are Huston as an alcoholic doctor and Hayward as a playboy. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable adaptation of the classic Christie mystery novel...","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...despite the altered ending, and likewise as close to the play as one might expect to get, And Then There Were None sports a great cast of character actors (most notably Dame Judith Cat on a Hot Tin Roof Anderson, Walter The Treasure of the Sierra Madre Huston, and Barry The Quiet Man Fitzgerald), somewhat dodgy production values (forgiveable given the time period and economic circumstances), and decent cinematography from old hand Lucien N. The Fighting Sullivans Andriot.The plot is possibly the most well known murder mystery in literature, with the possible exception of the Sherlock Holmes canon. Though I have no direct evidence, I suspect it was the inspiration for the boardgame Clue. Ten individuals, mostly unknown to each other, are invited to a remote island off the coast of Devon, England, where they find themselves reminded--by an anonymous accuser--of unpunished foul deeds in their past, and it isn't long before homicidal retribution begins to lessen their numbers. Can the survivors identify the killer in their midst before it's too late? Likewise, can the viewer not already familiar with the story figure out who that killer really is? It's all great fun in an old-fashioned sort of way, somewhat marred by the acting style of the day, but not overly so, with the possible exception of the vaudevillian hamminess of Mischa My Man Godfrey Auer as the first unwitting victim. Hardly essential viewing, but more than worth a watch given the opportunity. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christe's masterpiece!","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" At first glance, René Clair might seem an odd match for Agatha Christie's mystery thriller Ten Little Indians, but his buoyant touch is exactly what is missing from so many overly solemn remakes. Ten strangers gather for a mysterious gathering on a secluded island. It turns out to be a farewell party, for they all have been sentenced to die for crimes in their past by a self-appointed judge, jury, and executioner who may be one of them. One by one, the guests are systematically dispatched in the manner described in the lyrics of the children's rhyme Ten Little Indians, while the survivors nervously eye one another, splintering into tenuous alliances until the next murder throws suspicion on someone new. The terrific cast of character actors has a ball with Dudley Nichols's witty script. The flamboyant sparring of Barry Fitzgerald (whose paternal Irish lilt takes a sinister dimension) and Walter Huston is almost upstaged by Roland Young's deadpan drollery. Romantic leads Louis Hayward and June Duprez come off as arch and stiff in august company that includes a sinisterly detached Judith Anderson, a dotty and distracted C. Aubrey Smith, and a hilariously flippant Mischa Auer. The story has been remade numerous times under the title of Christie's novel, Ten Little Indians, but never as well. Clair's effervescent, lively little gem is a fatal drawing-room comedy with a body count and a surreal mood of doom. "},{"Title":"I had fun watching this","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this movie. I had read the book And Then There Were None half a dozen times before I went to my friend's house to watch this, but I ended up kneeling on the floor in front of the VCR, biting my knuckles with excitement. It does a great job of keeping everything suspenseful (even for those who know the story), but still not taking everything too seriously. And although I always like a dramatic and gory ending, I was so in love with Philip Lombard that I was extremely happy when he and Vera did not die. Also, I don't know how, in a 1940's movie, it would have been possible to kill everyone off without being corny or melodramatic. This was the first movie I had ever seen Barry Fitzgerald in, and he got my attention immediately with his role as the fatherly but nevertheless mysterious judge. Every other actor in the movie was excellent as well. The only problems I had are that the character of Anthony Marston was altered and turned into a ludicrous Russian prince (which confused me the first time I watched it), and the humor in the movie did not amuse me at all (but then, it was made in 1945). I'm waiting for someone to make some really intense modern version of And Then There Were None, but for now the best substitute I can recommend is this one suspenseful but fun. "},{"Title":"Sometimes overrated--but in a good way","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Being a fan of the game and book, I knew right away I had to see a movie adaptation of the novel, so I checked out this adaptation--and I was pleasantly surprised by a lot of the parts, and yet I was also unpleasantly surprised by most of the liberties taken. I might as well get the good parts out of the way first The cast gives excellent performances (well, Mischa Auer tends to go over the top, but aside from that). June Duprez is just lovely as the vulnerable Vera Claythorne, playing her as someone who's all smiles on the surface, but harbouring a dark secret at the core. Queenie Leonard's Mrs. Rogers is every bit as frightened of her own shadow as in the book. Barry Fitzgerald brings a sense of charisma and charm to Judge Warg--ah, Quincannon, thus making it hard to believe this character could actually be capable of murder. I could go on and on, but you get the picture.And then there's the relationship between Lombard and Vera. Ah yes, Lombard and Vera...the pairing that is so wrong, yet so right. After all, it wasn't in the book, but it was in the play and here it is in this adaptation. You could do an adaptation without the romantic relationship between them, but if you choose to include it, their relationship needs to maintain a balance; you can't have too much of it or else you'll turn it into a love story which would upset the purists more-so than the ending, but it needs to be obvious from the start that there's something between them or else if you suddenly have them flirting with each other, the audience will be like, Wait, they like each other?!? This adaptation is able to find that balance The movie doesn't entirely revolve around their relationship, but rather, treats it as a subplot that slowly rises to the surface as the movie progresses. Not only that, but Louis Hayward and June Duprez have amazing on-screen chemistry together, therefore making this pairing believable. Finally, the most impressive feature of the movie is the directing. Renee Clair is able to come up with plenty of clever angles and shots to capture the mood of the situation. For example The movie begins with breath-taking shots of Indian Island before slowly panning over to the boat and showing each guest in a situation somewhat reminiscent of a Charlie Chaplin movie. I think you get the picture. ;-) As good as this movie is, however, it also has its flaws. For starters, the book had a frightening, almost claustrophobic, vibe to it, which is what's lacking in this movie. Although the movie is suspenseful, there are very rare moments where it's actually frightening. 'And Then There Were None' is one of the few Agatha Christie novels that really has you chilled to the bone, one that makes you jump at every noise and shadow, mainly because the book has you seeing things from each character's point of view, making you feel as though you were actually there with them. What Rene Clair could've done in order to capture that feeling is by doing a few shots from the characters' point of view, the musical score could've been tensed up, and Dudley Nichols could've thrown in more tense moments.Another one of my major complaints is the fact that Miss Brent and Vera's past crimes are changed and watered down, all because their original crimes in the book were too 'harsh' to include in a movie adaptation, even though Agatha Christie didn't think they were too harsh to put in her own stage adaptation. In the book, Miss Brent drove her maid to suicide after kicking her out of the house when she became pregnant out of wedlock; in the movie, Miss Brent drove her nephew to suicide by sending him to a reformatory for having 'bad blood' from his father's side. Although I'm annoyed by this, Miss Brent still drove someone to suicide and either crime shows how truly harsh she can be, so this is somewhat pardoned. Vera's crime change, however, is not. In the book, Vera allowed her lover's nephew to swim out to sea and drown so her lover would inherit the money and be able to marry her but was cleared by a coroner's inquest; in the movie, Vera supposedly murdered her sister's fiancée, but it's later on revealed that her sister did it. I personally find her crime in the book to be much more interesting because it fully displays the complexity of Vera's nature Although she's a child murderess, she is not an unsympathetic character and shows feelings of regret and guilt which slowly drive her mad. Changing her crime without giving a deeper explanation to it subtracts any complexity her character has and therefore takes away the story's deeper meaning of guilt. Which brings me to another point Except for Mrs. Rogers, none of the characters show any sign of feeling guilty over their past crime. A major theme in the story is guilt, so you'd think more than one of the guests would start going insane from the guilt they had to face, but no; here, the guests merely treat it as a simple whodunit. Worst of all, the ending is completely altered. It uses the play's happy ending and alters it to a certain extent for no reason at all. Understandably, the book's ending couldn't be used because the Hays Code wouldn't allow it, but I really don't see why the film makers felt the need to change bits and pieces of the play's ending. After all, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Oh, well Perhaps one day, there will be an English-speaking adaptation that either gets the happy ending right or even better, uses the book's ending. "},{"Title":"An Agatha Christie Classic","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far my favorite film version of an Agatha Christie novel.  It was extremly suspensful, as you watch the guest being killed off one by one. And of course, in true mystery movie form they try to withhold the solution until the very last possible moment.   "}{"Title":"One of the finest Agatha Christie adaptations for the big screen","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Drawn almost line for line from the novel, this screen adaptation of Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None is as perfect as a novel-to-cinema transformation as I've ever seen.  The books description of characters and settings are so perfectly matched in this motion picture that it makes one wonder why other versions have been attempted. "},{"Title":"Sharp, well-reasoned, atmosphere, humor...what's not to like?","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A wonderful whodunit, with atmosphere, humorous touches, and tension. Obviously very carefully constructed to keep everything both logical and believable. Best watched on videotape, so you can go back afterwards looking for the clues you missed.  "},{"Title":"Clair does it again!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Of all the Agatha Christie mystery novels to be adapted for the screen, Rene Clair's version of Ms. Christie's Ten Little Niggers (isn't 'And Then There Were None', a better title?), is by far the best. It's superior to any other Agatha Christie story that's been brought to the screen. If you manage to catch this film on late night TV, or cable, tape it!! And look out for Clair's The Ghost Goes West & I Married a Witch two more wonderful films. Don't, whatever you do, bother to watch the 1974 remake, with Oliver Reed, Elke Sommer, and (shame on him! must have needed the money!), Richard Attenborough, who I saw in Seance On a Wet Afternoon, on TV a couple of days ago - a very good actor when he sets his mind to it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly pretty good","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not really into old movies like this.  Especially ones that are in black and white, but I found the movie suspenseful and good.  Basically the movie is about ten people who come to a deserted island and stay at this mansion. Not knowing who invited them there.  As the film progresses each of the ten are being murdered until there is only two.  A great mystery thriller adapted from that nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians.  "},{"Title":"Suspense!  One good who done it.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Of course Agatha Christie did her usual fine job with the story.  But everyone involved with this classic filmalso did their best. How can I single out any of the very fine actors involved with this achievement.  They all contributed to keeping me on the edge of my chair, and they did a very good job of it. Just who IS Mr. U.N. Owen?  Why did he send letters of invitation to these people to come here?  And, what secrets do these people have to hide?  But don't worry, about half way through, you will know who did what they did, and why. OR WILL YOU? I loved it, and still put it up there at the top of my list of favorites. Atmosphere, fine acting, fantastic story, most accomplished directing, and much more.  "},{"Title":"Classic mystery material.","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This highly regarded mystery favourite is based more on the subsequent play, rather than the original novel, by the legendary Agatha Christie. The story has been told many times over the years, officially and unofficially, and one could even see it as an ancestor to the entire body count genre, as characters exist mostly for the purpose of being bumped off. Producer & director Rene Clair manages the neat trick of making this atmospheric and suspenseful as well as lighthearted at times. The script is quite witty and ingenious, and the plotting keeps you on your toes; even people who think they've figured it out can still have great fun watching things develop.Eight people - who all have in common some sort of tragedy in their past - are invited by the mysterious Mr. Owen to a secluded island. Mr. Owen never does show up, but soon the invitees begin to be killed in a variety of ways. As their numbers decrease, the survivors try to be as proactive as possible, while also dealing with the fact that the killer just might be one of them.The cast really makes this come to life. Barry Fitzgerald, who looks like he's having a whale of a time, is the jovial judge Francis Quincannon. Walter Huston is likewise excellent as Dr. Armstrong, and the talented ensemble also consists of Louis Hayward, Roland Young, June Duprez, Mischa Auer, C. Aubrey Smith, Judith Anderson, Richard Haydn, Queenie Leonard, and Harry Thurston.Clair injects the humour into the twisty story with ease; in fact, things begin on a somewhat comical note, but soon take a darker turn.70 years later, And Then There Were None holds up remarkably well, keeping its audience engrossed and involved with its characters.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ten People. One Island. One of Them is a Murderer. Nobody Leaves Alive.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        Ten people Judge Francis Quinncannon, Dr. Edward G. Robinson, Phillip Lombard, Emily Brent, Detective William Blore, Prince Nikita Starloff, Vera Claythorne and General Sir John Mandrake were all heading to Indian Island to meet with a mysterious man named Mr. Owen. Awaiting them were Mr. Owen's servants, Thomas Rogers and his wife Ethel. Once the eight people arrive, they all get to know one another. Rogers informed informed them that Mr. and Mrs. Owen would arrive that night, but at dinner, they didn't show. They noticed a centerpiece on the table with ten little glass statue Indians. They were then reminded of the nursery rhyme about the Ten Little Indians and how each one met with an unfortunate accident until there were none. Pretty soon they heard the voice of Mr. Owen. He told them that he knew they had each committed a murder. Even Rogers and the wife who went hysterical. The men find out that Mr. Owen's voice came from a phonograph record! Rogers had put it on. Dr. Armstrong told Rogers to put Ethel to bed and gave her a sedative to help her sleep. Back downstairs, Prince Nikki Starloff drank a toast to crime when he choked, gagged and collapsed dead. His drink was poisoned! When they see the centerpiece again, one Indian statue was missing! In the morning, they find that Ethel had died in her sleep! The 9th Indian statue was missing then.          Lombard, Quinncannon, Armstrong and Blore believe Mr. Owen was a dangerous maniac that was hiding somewhere on the island so they go to search for him. They find nothing. General Mandrake is confident they will be on the island forever, even though a boat would come Monday. Poor General Mandrake was old and fargone these days. At dinner time, it began to pour rain. Oddly enough, the 8th Indian statue was gone from the centerpiece and they find General Mandrake dead by a stab wound. Blore concluded all three deaths were cold-blooded murder, while Judge Quinncannon came to more darker conclusion one of them was Mr. Owen! They began to grow weary of one another. Quinncannon watched Armstrong who watched Blore who watched Lombard. They even had a secret ballot as to whom they thought Mr. Owen might be. Rogers got the most votes. He was quite offended but even more so when they asked him to sleep out in the wood shed for their own safety. Judge Quinncannon locked the centerpiece in the dining room and gave Rogers the key. In the morning, Emily Brent went for a morning walk while Lombard, Armstrong and Blore find Rogers murdered by an ax. They unlock the dining room to find the 7th Indian statue had mysteriously disappeared. Who could've done it? Blore blamed Rogers but the others thought perhaps it was Brent. According to the nursery rhyme, the next death would be by bee sting and that evening, the men find Emily Brent dead in her room. Was it a bee? Well there was one on the window, but there was also an empty syringe beside Brent's body. It was taken from Dr. Armstrong's supplies. The 6th statue was gone. Only five left. Quinncannon and Armstrong play billiards when the lights begin to flicker, so while Lombard, Blore and Vera attempt to fix the generator, Quinncannon and Armstrong begin to trust one another. That night as they go up to bed, they hear a gun shot. They find Quinncannon shot dead. The 5th Indian statue was now gone. Four left.         That night, Blore, who thought Vera was the killer, locked her in her room but Lombard sneaked around and got in. They chatted and before he made his exit, he said he was not Phillip Lombard. Blore saws something strange on the beach when suddenly the killer got the drop on him. Literally! A bunch of stones from the second story. Lombard and Vera soon find Dr. Armstrong dead on the beach. The 4th and 3rd statues were now gone. Two people left alive. Lombard had a plan so Vera pretended to shoot him and went back in the house to find someone alive playing billiards. It was Judge Quinncannon! He and Dr. Armstrong had formed a partnership and faked his own death. He later killed the doctor on the beach. Quinncannon had removed the 2nd Indian statue and had intended for Vera to hang herself, as the nursery rhyme went. He then proceeded to poison his own drink, took a sip and died. Lombard and Vera, alone, concluded that Mr. Owen was none other than Judge Quinncannon. Soon the boatman arrived and they returned home.        Pretty good film. It's suspenseful and mysterious. Barry Fitzgerald was the best of the actors in the film. I don't really know why, but he was very likeable and Phillip Lombard served as the comic relief. Sadly, none of the actors and actresses in this movie are still with us but we will always remember them for the many films they've done, such as this one. The Agatha Christie novel is pretty good, I haven't read it but I'm sure it's good. So if you like suspenseful, who-dun-it? movie genres, then I recommend And Then There Were None!- "},{"Title":"10 little Indian boys went out to dine......","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is Agatha Christie at her best! This film gave me chills, and truly did keep me on the edge of my seat, the constant worrying about the characters, carefully watching the background, wondering just who it might be and how they managed to do it. The creepy nursery rhyme was a genius touch if I might say so. I also thought the acting was fantastic, and each and every actor was perfectly cast accordingly for their role. Also, I don't mind saying, I guessed completely wrong as to who the killers true identity is. I won't reveal who that person man or woman might be, I'll let you have the fun of guessing and seeing for yourself! The dialogue and execution of the source material was spot on here! Couldn't have been any better! This is a fun, smart, clean as far as offensive content goes murder mystery that I think most anyone can and will enjoy!! 10/10 perfection "},{"Title":"Never trust a woman...","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have been known to succumb to the temptation to get all uppity and self-righteous when I see a movie based on a book that I happen to have read. I can't promise I won't recommend the book, but I'll try to stay off the high horse. Agatha Christie's story is brilliant, although in the book as well as the film it suffers from a tendency to deliberately lead the audience in the wrong direction to throw us off the path, but what saves it from being pretentious in that way is the situation that all of the characters find themselves in. Many of them display oddities of behavior or mentality that is easily excused by what is happening. If I suddenly found myself stuck on an island and accused of a murder (or murders, of which I just happened to be guilty) and everyone around me started being killed off one by one, I would probably start thinking that seaweed might make a great dress pattern, too. The pacing is completely different from the book, because the film can't really show any of the interior monologues that each of the characters had in the book after each of the murders, but it's good because the film moves along at a pace that doesn't allow you to really think about who could be responsible for the murders, all of the characters are dropping like flies, and as you are poring over the possibilities of who might have done it, someone else is killed.There is some tragic overacting in the movie (particularly by the first victim, killed by poison). This is a character who was described as very energetic and full of life in the novel (hence the shock that he fell dead so unexpectedly), but the actor who portrays him fills him with life to the point of being cartoonish. On the whole, however, the film is a taut suspense thriller and is remarkably faithful to the novel, sometimes even line for line. I love the way the movie shows the growing tension in the movie, the characters becoming more and more suspicious of each other. They start spying on each other and reacting to each other's presence with undisguised fear and suspicion. They also begin to dispense with the formalities after the murders. After the first murder they were concerned about fingerprints on the glass that the first victim drank poison out of, and by the time Rogers was killed they were frantically waving the axe around, knowing that it didn't matter because no one was coming to help solve the mystery. The movie is able to show that they all realize they're on their own, without ever having to have any of them come out and say it. I wish they had put in something about the mysterious history of the island itself and the house on it, who built it and why it changed hands so many times and the rumors that began to surround it, but the film works even without it. Sadly, the ending of the movie has been butchered beyond recognition. I'm shocked that Agatha Christie allowed it to be released as it is, because the ending is changed so drastically that it completely changes and diminishes the meaning and the shocking effect of the story. The movie is far superior to the shoddy 1983 adaptation of Ray Bradbury's Something Wicked This Way Comes, but like that film, this one is desperate for a remake. "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having read Agatha Christie's classic novel, I knew I was in for a treat with this 1945 version of the book. 10 people gathered at an isolated mansion on a tiny island are murdered one by one by a psychotic killer--- who may very well be one of them! A fine cast- Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Judith Anderson (to name a few) makes the film believable, and the witty, suspense-filled screenplay adds to the enjoyment. A must-see for mystery fans. **** "}{"Title":"One of the best adaptions of an Agatha Christie novel","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rene Clair's And Then There Were None is far superior to any other film adaption of an Agatha Christie novel.  While the Hercule Poirot and Jane Marple films are entertaining, sometimes the detective character gets in the way of the story.  Not so with And Then There Were None.  Each and every quirky character gets the spotlight at least once and the whole story is better for it (this is NOT true of the 1974 remake however).Anyone who loves a really good whodunnit mystery cannot go wrong with this film.  It has everything that makes a good mystery good honest characters, clever dialogue with witty remarks, intrigue and - above all - suspense.If you have never read the novel, then the ending really comes as quite a shocker.  Unlike some other mysteries where you can pretty much figure out the guilty before it is revealed, this is not the case here.***POSSIBLE SPOILER*** There is one minor flaw with the plot however.  Without going into great detail - a plan made by a few of the characters regarding a key actually exonerates two other characters - both of whom are later suspected.  See if you can figure out why! ***END OF POSSIBLE SPOILER***Overall, this is in the top ten of all-time mysteries! "},{"Title":"Funny and sinister whodunit at the top of its class","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best murder mystery films ever made.  Adapted from an Agatha Christie novel, it is by turns funny and suspenseful. What makes it more fun is that this film does not end the same way the book did (thank goodness!) It will keep you guessing until the last two or three minutes of the film.  The performances by Houston and Fitzgerald are a treat, and the rest of the cast is sterling.  Just when you think you know what's going on, Dame Agatha throws another wicked curve your way.  Amateur sleuths, put on your thinking caps and see if you can figure this one out before it's too late! This is a great film! "},{"Title":"A must-see for lovers of the suspense genre and anyone who likes a thrill.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tense, tightly filmed, and deliciously creepy, this is a classic cat-and-mouse for lovers of the suspense genre and anyone who enjoys a good nail biter. Colorful characters, fine pacing, a riveting story line, solid acting round the table, and an eerie island mansion setting will make you want to lock your bedroom door afterwards. "},{"Title":"Wonderful! An old movie is a modern treat!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow! What a film! I never read the book And Then There Were None, but I do know that there are some changes in the movie and play from the original in the book. A real two-thumbs WAY up! "},{"Title":"GREAT ACTING, GREAT DIRECTING, GREAT MOVIE","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WHEN I SAW THIS MOVIE IN SCHOOL I LOVED IT JUST AS MUCH AS CLUE. TEN LITTLE INDIANS WENT OUT TO DINE ONE CHOKED HIS LITTLE SELF AND THEN THERE WERE NINE. NINE LITTLE  INDIAN BOYS STAYED UP VERY LATE ONE OVERSLEPT HIMSELF AND THEN THERE WERE EIGHT. ONE BY ONE THEY ALL DIE EXCEPT FOR UGGH I'M NOT GOING TO SAY WHO SURVIVES WHOEVER READS THIS MIGHT NOT LIKE THAT. GREAT PERFORMANCES BY ALL THE ACTORS BARRY FITZGERALD AS JUDGE/MR OWEN, WALTER HUSTON AS THE DOCTOR, LOUIS HAYWARD AS LOMBARD, JUNE DUPREZ AS VERA CLAYTHORNE, ROLAND YOUNG AS BLORE, RICHARD HAYDN AS ROGERS, QUEENIE LEONARD AS MRS. ROGERS, JUDITH ANDERSON AS MRS. BRENT, MISCHA AUER AS PRINCE SCARLOFF, SIR C. AUBREY SMITH AS GENERAL MANDRICK. GREATEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Fine - Until the End","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is, overall, very well done in terms of cinematography, acting, lines, etc. I enjoyed the film quite a lot up until the ending. However, the ending utterly ruins it and turned it into a waste of time. That was my opinion when I first saw this in 1988 and this is still my opinion now. The bland, predictable, happy ending is totally different from the much more thought-provoking, unusual, and hard-hitting ending that Christie originally wrote and turns what could have been a great film version of one of Christie's greatest books into merely better-than-average typical commercial film. Since the ending is one of the great keys to this story that sets it apart from others, this change in my opinion drastically hurts the value of the film. I give this a 6 because the film up until the ending is really very good, though. It is certainly the best of the British or American versions of this story, but I cannot give it higher because it really is inexcusable to change the ending so. Some say that the original ending would not ever have sold, but many movies have endings that are, in some way or another, not exactly happy, yet were rather successful films even if not necessarily box-office hits with the mass populace. "},{"Title":"An original classic","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 90/100. For those that feel the plot is not very original have to realize, it was in 1945, and this is the film that so many others have copied. A true classic, based on an Agatha Christie novel Ten Little Indians.The cast is comprised of actors who normally are supporting performers, and it works for this film because if there was a well known star, that person would be less suspect due to the audiences expectation that person will have more screen time. Casting the film this way adds to the mystery and suspense.Rene Clair expertly crafts this film to keep you glued to the screen, All the performances are good, Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston stand out. There are many clever touches throughout and Clair has created an intense and moody atmosphere. Great score, wonderfully done. "},{"Title":"Best Hollywood film of Agatha Christie novel","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the best screen adaptations made from an Agatha Christie story. Based on the best-selling single mystery novel ever written, it tells the story of ten people invited to a lonely island off the English coast by an unknown host. Soon after arriving, the guests are accused of past crimes that have gone unpunished, and begin being murdered, one by one, according to the nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians.A fantastic cast of Hollywood character stars, two of which were Academy Award winners (Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston) are assembled, and it was directed by noted French Helmer Rene Clair.Unfortunately the time it was made (1945) prevented the filmmakers' adherence to Christie's ending of her novel-they used the same ending that Christie adapted for the stage in 1943. Not until 1987 (in Russia) was the film made with the original novel's ending.That however, is not a major flaw in the film. The two most notable problems are the unnecessary comedy elements, and the give-away ending about 10 minutes before the film actually ends. Some of the casting was less than perfect-especially Mischa Auer's middle-aged Russian Prince, but at least he's the first to die. Peter Lawford would have been a far better choice for the character as Christie wrote it. The Richard Haydn drunken butler bit may be amusing, but to keep the audience on the edge of their seats at all times, one needs to create a BELIEVABLE atmosphere all the way through the film. How would people react if this was a real-life situation? Is there anything funny about murder? Fitzgerald and Huston are quite good, although the former is not exactly the reptilian old man Christie wrote (Wilfrid Hyde-White was more precise in the 1965 remake), and the latter began a bit of eye-rolling and speech-slurring when drinking more and more (unlike Dennis Price in the 1965 version-he was EXCELLENT). Louis Hayward is not as strong as Lombard should have been (and a bit too sarcastic)and Roland Young is amusing as Blore, but that's not the way Christie wrote it. Sir C. Aubrey Smith however is exactly the way Christie wrote the General, and there could have not been a more perfect choice. Likewise the servants, played by Queenie Leonard and Richard Haydn. The latter is fine up until the drunk scene-unnecessarily comic.June Duprez is not bad as Miss Claythorne, although the screenwriters made her appear like an imbecile whenever the gun came into play. After one of the guests is shot, she sees the gun on the stairs. Rather than pick it up, she points at it and says look!, while Hayward grabs it. A bit later, Hayward gains access to her room by passing the gun to her through a window-then she lets him in. Anyone in that situation would have at least checked to see if it was loaded...A few minutes later she is carrying the gun rather loosely at her side, and when it points towards Roland Young she allows him to make an extremely theatrical gesture and put his hand on it, shoving it away from himself. Finally (and this is the most stupid thing) when it appears that there are only two people left alive-Duprez and Hayward-she still has the gun. On the beach she moves about six or eight feet away from him, pointing the gun at him and telling him to keep away. The next scene-seconds later-he is standing RIGHT NEXT TO HER. He then takes hold of the arm with the gun, pushes it aside, and tells her Now shoot me. She replies But it won't hit you, to which he says That's what I mean, and don't be frightened when I fall. This is where they screwed up the ending. Because the next we see, the camera pans back into the house, where we see Hayward and Duprez in long shot. A little Indian figure breaks and eerie whistling commences. That tells the audience that someone is in the house. So when Duprez walks in and confronts the real murderer (and sees a noose hanging from the ceiling), there is no surprise. Likewise when the murderer tells her how and why it was done, and that he's about to take poison, and that she might as well hang herself now because the only living person found here with nine corpses will certainly be hanged. WE know that's not true, because Hayward will walk in at any minute. They did it perfectly 20 years later-we KNOW Shirley Eaton has shot Hugh O'Brian dead, so when she walks in (and virtually the same thing happens) the murderer's speech has great meaning, and we wonder if she really will hang herself.But in spite of these flaws, And Then There Were None is still the best film made in Hollywood, and there is much to recommend it. Having spoken to five of the cast members, they all agreed it was great fun to work on, and it's definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Mr. Owen could only have come to the island in one way. It's perfectly clear, Mr. Owen is one of us.","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Its been at least 4 years since I'd seen this movie. So if I am a little inaccurate, forgive me.And Then There Were None is a movie adaptation of Agatha Christie's novel. It is a pretty basic story. 10 People arrive on an island only to find out that they are wanted dead. They are all guilty of crimes in which they had escaped from without punishment.The characters are all very well played here, particularly Thomas Rogers, the butler whom everyone suspects, played by Richard Haydn. You really sympathize with him.Philip Lombard (Louis Hayward) and Emily Brent (Judith Anderson) are 2 younger people who you really get to know by their conversations.William Blore is a detective who is quick to point the finger at anyone given the chance.Judge Quincannon quickly takes the position of the protagonist in leading the investigation as to who among the group is the murderous Mr. Owen Along with the cast are the kills. Many were very sudden and you did not see them coming until it was too late. Also, whenever someone died, a little statue was found knocked over. The number of statues matched the number of people.The mood was very tense and you really got into the investigation of who Mr. Owen was.I recommend this movie to fans of crime and suspenseful movies. This is a classic and deserves much more praise than it gets.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a pretty good movie. It has comedy,suspense,mystery,and much more. The plot is about ten different people brought to Indian Island, by a mysteries Mr. Owen. The first night the are there a mysteries record player goes off and tells them they have committed crimes. They are all shocked. But what is scary is there is a poem in each of there rooms that says , ten little Indian boys went out to dine, one choked him little self and then there were nine.Nine little Indian boys sat up very late,one overslept himself and then there were eight. Eight little Indian boys traveling in Devon, one said he'd stay there and then there were seven.Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks, one chopped himself in half and then there were six. Six little Indian boys playing with a hive,a bumblebee stung one and then there were five. Five little Indian boys , one got in chancery and then there were four. Four little Indian boys going out to sea, a red herring swallowed one and then there were three. Three little boys walking in the zoo, a big bear hugged one and then there were two. Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun, one got frizzled up and then there was one. On little Indian boy left all alone, he went and hanged himself and then there were none. The murders of the people on the island follow similarities with this poem "}{"Title":"First and best version","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've enjoyed this movie every time I've seen it. I first saw it on TV as a young teenager. I'd already read the book (and have re-read it many, many times since). I was a bit dismayed at the changed ending but when I found out that the author had changed it for the stage, it didn't bother me so much. I agree with one of the reviewers that the ending could have followed the novel since movies aren't the stage.I don't know why some of the characters had their names changed but I'll hazard a guess about one of the name changes. This movie was made in the waning days of WWII. There was a famous general by the name of McArthur who had had to leave the Phillipines early in the war but had promised I shall return. He lived up to that promise. Since he was such a larger than life character (Old soldiers never die--they just fade away.) I think it would have been distracting for the audience to have the general in the movie retain the name of McArthur. Plus the legal department might have discouraged them from using it.Since they chose to put a Russian in the part of Tony Marston, they couldn't retain that name. Maybe Boris Marston? ;) Mischa Auer played a character called Boris Callahan in Destry Rides Again--the wife kept calling him by her first husband's last name. "},{"Title":"A Murderous Classic!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Queen of Crime, Agatha Christie, triumphs again with this murderously tricky whodunit brilliantly brought to the screen by French director Rene Clair.Ten strangers are invited to a weekend getaway at a lonely mansion, only to find that their unknown host wants them all dead. One by one, the guests begin to die, ominously playing out the words to the famous Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme, which ends with the line And then there were none.Clair captures the mood of Agatha Christie's world of mystery perfectly, with thrills, chills, and humor all mixed together. The cast is excellent, including such screen favorites as Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston. And Richard Hadyn, who would later become known as Max in The Sound of Music, makes an appearance as the rather bungling butler.A delightful and intriguing movie filled with murder and mystery at its best! "},{"Title":"it was ok","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was ok, but the end of it sucked!  they should've went with the end of the book, because the book was much better.  The end of the movie was so happy that it was sickening!Rent the book, not the movie. "},{"Title":"Worth watching several times","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you are the sort of person for whom movies don't have to be totally modern, relax and enjoy this film.This is a nice, old-fashioned movie with eerie shadows, witty dialogue, and a few plot twists. The characters don't have a lot of depth, but each one is a great stereotype well played.  Several scenes (such as one in which some of the characters are spying on each other, and most of the scenes with the butler) are quite humorous.  Some folk may not like the clichés sprinkled throughout the film (e.g., after a chilling pronouncement, the thunder and lightning let loose), but I enjoy them for the effect they create.The director had a nice touch for suspense, often making you follow, with the characters, a trail to the latest corpse, but never drawing it out to the point of tedium.  Even in the daylight he gives things a creepy feel. The times when the characters are studying (or arguing with) each other with suspicion serve to heighten the tension, much as a good Christie novel does.I still get chills during certain parts of the movie, and if you were to sneak up behind me whistling the title tune, I'd probably freeze in my tracks with heart palpitations.***tiny spoiler*** The sappy ending is a little bit of a let-down if you are aware of the way the novel ends; however, I feel it's worth putting up with it as the writer does make the plot changes plausible and even cleverly twisted. "},{"Title":"Excellent despite its different ending","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, since the ending to the book is so bleak and disturbing, it might be hard for an audience to take if it were filmed. Nonetheless, this is great popcorn cinema, and contains many memorable characters and death scenes. The best image, for me, was that ball of yarn unwinding right after yet another usual suspect meets their maker. It's a very haunting and hypnotic moment. The camera seems to be following it deliberately... Some day perhaps, the ultimate version of 10 Little Indians will be filmed where the script isn't afraid to follow the book almost verbatim. Until then, the world can enjoy this one. It's the finest of the 3 filmed adaptions. (the 1966 version is a campy treat if you like to compare remakes) "},{"Title":"Inferior to the Novel, but Still Entertaining","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Film adaptions of books must always reach a certain balance of differences and similarities to the book being adapted. Films like Holes (based on Louis Sachar's book of the same name) shows us what it looks like when a film is too faithful to it's source material. The film becomes predictable for those who have read the book, and frankly, the source material for Holes did not need a film.On the other hand, films like the adaption of the first three books of A Series of Unfortunate Events, shows us what can happen if a film differs to much from the book. It greatly irritates those who have read the source material, and like Holes, the series did not need a film.And Then There Were None (based on Agatha Christie's novel of the same name) falls a bit more to the too different side of the spectrum. And while And Then There Were None is still an engaging film, and doesn't deter too much from the source material, some changes may have pushed it a bit far.And Then There Were None is about 10 people who are brought to a remote island, each for their own reasons. They are to stay in a house owned by a Mr. Owen, though none of the 10 guests have even met the man! Despite this, most of the guests are enjoying themselves until a gramophone record accuses all 10 guests of murder. The guests are then slowly killed, one by one, in accordance to a nursery rhyme, Ten Little Indians. The guests come to the conclusion that one of them is the murderer, and they must figure out which one it is until they all perish.There are indeed differences between the book and film. While most of the differences are subtle, there are a few more major ones (specifically, the conclusion which differs dramatically from the book). I won't spoil anything, but I will say that most of the changes (minus the conclusion) are unlikely to be more than irritating to those who have read the book.There is certainly a difference in tone. While the book is dark, grim, and extremely suspenseful, the film adaption takes a different route. The subject matter is still dark, but there's a lot of humor in the script, which eases the tone to make the film slightly lighter fare. The suspense is also played down a bit, though those who haven't read the book may find this to be a much more tense experience.Though the humor is agreeable, some changes are less so. While I won't spoil anything, the conclusion was relatively unsatisfactory, especially compared to that of the book. Also, many of the subtleties of the book are completely lost of the film. And at least one of the deaths don't follow the nursery rhyme accordingly.Another most unagreeable change is the back story of one of the characters. Vera Claythorne's back story is completely changed, despite the fact that in the book, her backstory is quite pivotal to the conclusion (which may also account to the changed ending).Differences aside, And Then There Were None is still an entertaining film. Characters are well developed, especially considering the fact that there are 10 primary characters that are developed within a film just under 100 minutes. The personalities are given a surprising amount of depth, even those with less screen time, though once again, the books does a superior job at this.Suspense is well kept up (especially in the last half hour), though less so than in the book. The murders, while sometimes differing to that in the book, can be unexpected and even alarming, while at the same time, eliminating even the slightest bit of gore.The acting is solid. The general cast is excellent. The only complaints here regard June Deprez's role as Vera Claythorne. She plays the role without much depth or personality. Perhaps this was due to the script, but at any rate, Vera is not the more interesting character she was in the book.The score, composed by Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco, has it's charms (and the recurring tune of Ten Little Indians is a nice, if obligatory touch), but it seems a bit lacking overall. There isn't much by the way of character themes, or the music is surprisingly suspense-less most of the time.Despite my many nitpicks regarding the differences between the book and film, And Then There Were None is still an enjoyable film in many respects. Though the hugely different conclusion and back story changes may be just enough to turn off fans of the book, this is still an excellent mystery film, if a bit lacking compared to Christie's novel. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as my version!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have very fond memories of this film, having seen it first in the 1960's. I read the book afterwards, and found that surprisingly inferior. However, I have now learned (from the IMDb) that all the films were based on Miss Christie's play, not her book, so the improvements are hers anyway. A superb cast, even after sixty years or so, and wittily written, the film benefits from Rene Clair's direction, despite the poor exterior sets. But the ending .... my memory of it was much better. As the last two meet on the gloriously-sunny beach for a confrontation, the camera pulls back into the room. In my memory, a hand lets the curtain drop. Well, I prefer it that way. "},{"Title":"A brilliant book, adapted into an equally brilliant film!","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am 17, and a huge fan of Agatha Christie, and I must say, while Marple and Poirot have standout murder mysteries, this dominates all of them as the best version of any book, by the Queen of Crime, though Witness for the prosecution was very good too. The book itself is just magnificent, and I personally think it's Christie's best book, full of well-developed characters, numerous plot twists and a mystery surrounding a song, and that alone made the book so sinister. The deaths described I found quite terrifying, as the images in your head are very vivid. Also, the final solution is ingenious, and you could never imagine it in a million years, in fact, a whole chapter was dedicated to the murderer's confession. I didn't understand it at first, but I read the book three or four more times to ensure my full understanding. About the film. The cinematography is gorgeous, and so is the music score, so haunting and beautiful, especially when you're first introduced to the characters. The scipt is snapy and thoughtful, and the deaths manage to be still be chilling. The acting is superb, especially from Barry Fitzgerald as the judge, the ever reliable Walter Huston as Dr Armstrong and Judith Anderson as Emily Brent, who was made more sinister than she was in the book. I liked June Duprez as Vera Claythorne, though I liked her more in Thief of Baghdad. My acknowledgements to everyone else too, Richard Haydn and Louis Hayward. In fact, the only problem I had with the film, was the ending, because in the book, everyone dies, yet Claythorne and Lombard are seen running away together. Though, the ending in the book, is extremely difficult to pull off, and definitely intended for the stage. In conclusion, a unique and suspenseful adaptation of a brilliantly-constructed book. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Murder most foul ...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Rene Clair's screen version of Agatha Christie's murder mystery, (mass murder mystery considering the number of corpses), is one of the most entertaining genre pictures of the forties, particularly if you don't know the plot and are seeing it for the first time. Still, even if you do know the twists there is much to savor; a creepy island setting, some taut dialogue, courtesy of Dudley Nichols, from characters you wouldn't want to meet let alone be holed up with with no means of escape, and a marvelous cast of top-notch character players, including Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston and Judith Anderson, (always nice to see her in jeopardy). The plot's been done to death, of course, but I doubt if it's been done better. "},{"Title":"Murder on a remote island","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Who-done-it No. 1. This could easily be the subtitle for this great suspenser based on Agatha Christies novel. Masterfully directed by french René Clair and with an amazing cast including such movie greats as Walter Huston, Judith Anderson, Louis Hayward, Barry Fitzgerald and Roland Young. Maybe not the most likely of story lines ever put on film, but who cares? Even if you do not find it very remarkable, you have to acknowledge the superb use of location and photography. The music is another plus and adds to the suspense. One of the best detective-films (without the detective!) ever made it will satisfy any real connoisseur of the genre. "}{"Title":"Just about the best Mystery Movie Filmed","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent adaptation of the Christie novel, director Rene Clare assembled a superlative cast and woven a tightly knit mystery laced with a combination of humor and genuine fear.While the romantic leads pale in comparison to such gifted character supporting players as Walter Huston and Barry Fitzgerald, among others, the film does not suffer for this weakness. "},{"Title":"Agatha who?","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The one problem I have with the works of Agatha Christie when performed in play, TV adaptation or film form, is that the writers have to put so much effort in to make the characters and motives better than one-dimensional pasteboard cutouts she created that it doesn't seem worth their while.Although this follows the stage adaptation of the novel, rather than the novel itself, this is superior fare, largely to the playing of the cast (especially Loius Hayward, the brilliant Roland Young, Barry Fitzgerald and Richard Haydn, and Basil Rathbone (bet you can't spot him!)) and the fact that director Rene Clair refuses to take it seriously.It is genuinely suspenseful and rewards repeat viewings to see how the mechanics of a good suspense film work. Better than Hitch? For the period, yes, and equally as good or better than Clair's other British or American efforts, such as 'The Ghost Goes West' and 'I Married a Witch'. Buy, savour, enjoy... It's a lot better than either book or play! "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As usual it is not as good as the book it came from but I rate this as the best book and movie from a book I read and saw in High School. It was also the first as I took it in the summer school course before Freshman Year. When I finished reading the book I hoped somebody would make a new version of it.Starring Raymond Burr as Judge Wargrave  Wallace Shawn as Dr Armstrong  Harvey Keitel as  Philip Lombard Robert Duvall as Detective Blore  Maggie Smith as Emily Brent Micheal Gould as Rogers the butler Lloyd Bridges as Gen. Macarthur Antonio Banderas as Anthony Marston  the other two characters I never could figure out but....This version of the movie is well acted by a cast of 1940's all stars. Very good, but not for all. "},{"Title":"Very stupid to kill the only servant in the house. Now we don't even know where to find the marmalade","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Who among the ten little Indians is a murderer? For the record, all my money was on Vera Claythorne (June Deprez) for most of the film. It's always the person whom you least suspect, was my reasoning, and nobody ever suspects the pretty young lady. But, of course, Agatha Christie had already foreseen my logic, and deftly maneuvered her tale around it. Even in the final seconds before the reveal, I threw away all rationale, and, in a fit of desperation, announced that the killer was actually the British sea-man who had brought the ten people to the island. I was wrong. 'And Then There Were None (1945)' boasts a murder mystery that nobody could possibly have deciphered in ninety minutes, and, even if a viewer did guess correctly, it's only because the gods of probability were kind to them. Who among the ten is a murderer, you say? Well, nearly all of them, as a matter of fact. In this Agatha Christie adaptation, a criminal mastermind doles out justice against sinners whose wrongdoings have until now gone unpunished, and punishment is ultimately enjoyed by all who deserve it.Watching René Clair's murder mystery unfold, one can't help but be reminded of the slasher horror sub-genre that first gained eminence in the 1970s. You've got ten people stranded in a remote location, far from outside intervention, among them stalking a killer who discretely but reliably retires the guests one at a time. Everybody is under suspicion, for there can be no trust between complete strangers. That, at least, was the idea behind Agatha Christie's original novel (tastefully published as Ten Little N!ggers in 1939), which I haven't read myself, but ends with the eradication of all ten guests. 'And Then There Were None' instead concludes with the ending used in Christie's theatrical version of the story, which was apparently revised to provide comfort to war-weary audiences. Two of the visitors (the youngest and most attractive actors, of course) have, it seems, been falsely accused of their crimes, and so are free to fall in love, outwit the murderer and live happily ever after. It's a less interesting conclusion, I think, but, by 1945, America deserved some optimism.Stylistically, there's nothing particularly notable about Clair's film adaptation. There's enough sinister lighting to evoke the required atmosphere, but nothing that we haven't seen before. Instead, the bulk of the emotional power arises from the scenario devised by Agatha Christie herself, and one receives a certain icy chill whenever a character suddenly realises that they've only one companion in the room. The acting is top-notch from Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward and Judith Anderson, but some of the other players have a tendency to overreact. Let's just say that I'm glad Prince Starloff (Mischa Auer) was the first to choke himself, for the character was gratingly hammy. Also, though I have no particular complaints about Roland Young as Detective William Blore, he might just be the most dim-witted detective I've ever seen. So put on your deer-stalker hat, keep your magnifying glass at hand, and see if you can decode this perfectly baffling mystery. I bet you that you won't guess who the murderer is &#150; or, at least, I'll give you 10-1 odds. "},{"Title":"Is the respectful, trustworthy and above reproach movie version.","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the first adaptation of the classic title of Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians and by far the best, others who died in 1965, 1974 and 1989.Under the direction of René Clair, we offer a magnificent interpretation of the characters, especially emphasizing the role of Barry Fitzgerald, who in this work plays a different role than we're used to seeing him play in other classic films, representing the character the Judge Quincanon.It's an Interesting black comedy with an exceptional cast and a different ending to the book. The English-style humor and bewilderment that show the characters, beyond the tragedy, they behave as if their impending deaths do not matter, because what counts is the solution to the puzzle, and make comments like Very stupid to kill the only servant in the house. Now we do not even know where to find the marmalade. It's an unforgettable version of a classic of suspense. A very good script, outstanding photography and direction, "},{"Title":"The movie is good, yet it's different from the book","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I will always agree that a book is better than a movie. My rule once again goes with this movie. And then there were none is a classic written by Agatha Cristie. The story is about 10 people in an island each accused of committing a crime and one by one they start dying. Firts the deaths in the book are a little more scary, yet in the movie you know they are dead, but you don't see anything. Next the movie is predictable when it comes to the order of deaths. Its always who the suspected person is the murderer, the next one to die. However the actors were really good portraying their character, yet there is changes from the book and the movie. The music was eerie and that really helped the theme of the movie. Lastly what bothers me most about the film is the ending. The ending in the film is completely different from the book, and it just loses its scary movie touch. Overall the movie was OK, but do not expect a lot if you have read the book. "},{"Title":"Another great book that makes a mediocre movie.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SOME OF WHAT I WRITE MIGHT BE CONSTRUED AS A SPOILER.  YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.And Then There Were None, taken by itself, would be a perfectly serviceable movie, certainly superior to the various remakes it spawned.  Unfortunately, when one reads the book, the movie's deficiencies become all too clear.The book, of course, has the luxury of taking its time in revealing the dark pasts of the characters.  The film doesn't.  Even still, it feels considerably more rushed than it should be.  Also, several of those pasts have been significantly watered down--Emily Brent's, in particular.Of course, virtually every film adaptation of a novel makes a few changes, but here the film's ending is tremendously different from the book, and I've never been happy about it; it seems a copout, somehow. Little details, too, call the plot into question.  For example, when one of the characters is killed in the book, he meets his end in an isolated spot far from prying eyes.  However, in the film, Emily Brent can clearly see the spot from where she is sitting--so why doesn't she notice the murder?  Likewise, Mrs. Rogers delivers a line in the film that clearly indicates that she and her husband, at least, are guilty of the crime of which they've been accused.  It's nice in that it establishes that the Rogerses are not nice people, but it also more or less eliminates both of them as suspects.Most importantly, at one point a search is made of the island to find the unknown assassin who has (at this point) killed two people.  In the book, three characters conduct this search; meanwhile, the murderer is committing the third murder.  However, in the movie, the murderer joins in on the search, and therefore has no opportunity to dispatch the victim.Still, the movie is fun.  Richard Haydn does a very effective drunk scene, a nice bit of comic relief for a film in which over half a dozen people are corpses by the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Christie classic comes to the screen with mixed results","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A group of people go on a holiday to an island retreat and before long, the group is afflicted by suspicion and paranoia. One of them is a murderer but who?The movie, based on the Agatha Christie novel, was made in 1945 but looks much older in some respects, with cliché photos of the island and the sea. There is, however, a sombre note to the film-making and the long takes have some interest - for example, one that follows Barry Fitzgerald from the window of his room to the door. The acting has some highly-competent performers from the 1940's &#x96; Barry Fitzgerald as the judge, Dame Edith Anderson as Emily Blunt, Walter Huston as the doctor and C. Aubrey Smith as the elderly general. C. Aubrey Smith was 83 when the movie was made and fits the role to a tee.The movie has a brooding atmosphere as the waves crash in the background and the clouds and winds sweep over the beach. However, I found the soundtrack irritating and does not match the mood that the location evokes. This is unfortunate because the script and the acting are excellent. There are touches of humour in the tipsy doctor, the wit of the judge, the dry one-liners of Emily Blunt and the acting of the butler when falsely singled out as the murderer. (The role is played by Richard Haydn who later performed in The Sound of Music as Uncle Max, a totally different characterization.) The movie's ending departs from the book so Christie fans will be disappointed. Perhaps the producers didn't like the ending. If so, it backfired with this viewer. The movie certainly has some merit but on the whole, it was disappointing. Agatha Christie deserves better. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZ......and a bit of a spoiler.","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Does it really take the Russians to come up with the only credible adaptation of Christie's masterpiece? I was half-expecting this one to possibly deliver the goods, having seen all others, but no. This production comes across as a boisterous but really quite inferior little effort at the end of the war. Changing the characters'names, backgrounds and details of murders committed could possibly only serve one purpose - to alienate and infuriate Christie's trainspotters, or those who were genuinely fascinated by the book and hold it dear. Or, perhaps, the cockiness of the author of the screenplay, who might have thought they're being lucid. Would anyone revise and re-orchestrate, say, The Rite Of Spring, replacing the famous opening bassoon solo with alto-flute? No, they wouldn't. Therefore i see no reason that Judge Hargrave shouldn't remain Judge Hargrave. Let alone the comic relief brought by Richard Haydn (cringingly embarrassing), which, I reckon, was to serve as a lighthearted intermezzo between two murders and which, needless to stress, is non-existent in the book, and with a good reason too.And wasn't he the voice of the caterpillar in Disney's Alice In Wonderland? I'm lazy to do my research, but, following that logic, maybe the rest of the cast should have been recruited amongst comic actors too, with possibly a better effect, who knows.The only genuinely funny moment - and most probably by accident - is the Russian prince's musical recitation of the tune itself, at the piano, with an added exclamation koji uzas!! (quelle horror, in Russian) - just before the last famous line of the poem. So much for the artificially implanted comical aspect of this screenplay which I still cannot believe some reviewers found appealing. Christie wouldn't. All in all, in my opinion, a gentle Saturday matinée yawn which actually hasn't aged too well. Check out the Russian version of this, if you're unbelievably lucky to find it, it's wicked. And in that one there REALLY is nobody at the end. None. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The Mystery Clairified","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is a masterpiece in every way! The pacing, the camera work, the million small touches, it needs to be seen over and over. Castelnuovo-Tedesco's musical score is simply wonderful and Clair's light touch and gentle sense of irony make this, at least for me, the best Agatha Christie put on screen. The cast of characters is standard as appropriate in the format, yet they seem so fresh. In so many screen adaptations of mysteries we are trying to discover who the culprit is but in this case, it makes hardly any difference at all - it's the ride that counts.Sit back, dim the lights and savor this one.Curtis Stotlar "}{"Title":"a dark house and a lot of mist ...","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ... and the scene of multiple murder where someone on the island must have 'dun it'.  Ten people present, and all named as murderers on a gramaphone record left by their mysterious absent host.  The cast includes Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, June Duprez, Louis Hayward, Judith Anderson, and C Aubrey Smith (all good) as various stock murder mystery characters (the judge, the doctor, the mysterious young lady, the playboy, the spinster, the colonel ...).  Set in one house and the surrounding scenery and tightly directed by Rene Clair, Agatha Christie's mystery has been tweaked considerably for the screen but the movie leaves us entertained.  I'd seen the 70s remake before this so I knew the identity of the murderer, however there are many differences between the two versions and enough to keep the interest. "},{"Title":"A really great classic mystery film!!!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie back in high school and i had never heard of it at the time. Ever since i saw it i loved it! It's got the kinda same thing like Clue does. This movie has a wonderful cast...Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Louis Hayward, June Duprez, Judith Anderson, Richard Haydn, Queenie Leonard who was the last of the cast to pass away this year. One by one someone is killed throughout the movie and whenever you first see it it's like ok what's going to happen next it's just really suspensful and interesting..Close to the end they try to confuse ya but it's supposed to do that ) Overall i give this movie 4 stars ****!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Mystery and Suspense at its finest!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An enthralling film that actually improves with each viewing based on Agatha Christie's bestselling novel about ten strangers who are invited to a dreary island mansion where they are murdered one by one by an unknown killer. Brilliant in every detail! ****/****  "},{"Title":"Noirish murder mystery, excellent cast","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" AND THEN THERE WERE NONE Aspect ratio 1.371Sound format Mono(Black and white)Ten people with criminal pasts are invited to spend the weekend at a clifftop mansion on a lonely island where they're murdered, one by one, by a ruthless killer who patterns each death after the corresponding portion of a morbid little nursery rhyme.Top-class adaptation of Agatha Christie's genteel murder mystery, directed with wit and economy by René Clair (I MARRIED A WITCH), scripted with uncommon grace by Dudley Nichols (STAGECOACH), and photographed with moody intensity by Lucien Andriot (THE SULLIVANS) on splendidly atmospheric sets by Ernst Fegté (THE UNINVITED). The film's archetypal narrative has been repeated - with variations - many times over the years (today's 'slasher' movies owe much to Christie's template), but Clair's version is a note-perfect synthesis of humor, mystery and drama, toplined by a cast of 'Golden Age' greats, including Walter Huston and Barry Fitzgerald as doctor and judge respectively, whose guilty secrets come back to haunt them in the worst possible way. Clair keeps it simple and snappy, and the nursery rhyme underpinnings are bolstered by Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco's memorable music score. No gore or unpleasantness, just plenty of old-fashioned Hollywood moonshine.The movie was first released in the UK as TEN LITTLE N*GGERS, the domestic title of Christie's 1939 novel (later changed - for obvious reasons - to 'Ten Little Indians' and published in the US as 'And Then There Were None'). Though abhorrent now, the original title was considered unremarkable in its day, and actually referred to an old music hall song, though time - and common sense - has rendered it completely unacceptable. Clair's adaptation borrows the compromised ending of Christie's 1943 stage version, which accounts for the film's unfortunate 'comic' coda. "},{"Title":"One of two best Agatha Christie screen adaptations!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of two of the best screen adaptations of an Agatha Christie novel (the second being 1974's MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS).  A great cast with snappy dialog and a script that is photographed with great style.  A classic.  "},{"Title":"Wildly overpraised drawing-room whodunit...","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Agatha Christie's novel-turned-play becomes slick, stagy, hammy film, an illogical murder-mystery set amongst ten strangers in a large estate on Indian Island, a secluded British isle shaped like an Indian's head. Each has been invited there, they soon learn, due to being directly or indirectly involved in past crimes which resulted in an innocent person's demise--and each is picked off one by one in conjunction with the Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme. The characters talk a lot but don't think things through, and the denouement leaves more questions unanswered than solved. Some of the pacing is sprightly, and there's an eerie undercurrent due to the macabre subject matter. However, once the set-up is understood, we have nothing to look forward to but more deaths (all off-screen) and the eventual unmasking of our host (which is staged very well). Of the performances, Richard Hadyn's drunken butler, played to the rafters, is the most offensive; Barry Fitzgerald as a steely-eyed judge and June Duprez playing a decent damsel come off best. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Forever an all-time favorite...","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First viewed ATTWN in a movie house (cinema) at the age of 6, in the year of its original release. Almost every detail of the film stayed in my mind, and I was thrilled when it became available on videotape, some 47 years following my first and only previous viewing.Ever an aficionado of character players more than of movie stars, I have always found the film remarkable -- and almost unique -- in starring such excellent players as Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, Aubrey Smith, Judith Anderson, Richard Haydn, Roland Young and the like. No, they were not performing as supporting players but as the stars of this film! (The young romantic leads, Louis Hayward and June Duprez, whose performances I shouldn't dream of disparaging, seem almost incidental.)  "},{"Title":"The best version of one of the best mysteries ever written","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The plot of this movie is so familiar that it needs no explanation. The story is one of Agatha Christie's very best mysteries, and that means one of the very best mysteries, period. The story has been presented many times, in many different versions, on stage, television and on film. It is so familiar that it has also been parodied almost as many times. All that being said, this is unquestionably the best version. One simply couldn't assemble a better cast than the ensemble presented here, and every one of the actors in top form. If you haven't seen this version,see it, even if you already know the story. This is the one all the others are measured against. A great story, a great cast, and expert direction, what more could one ask? "},{"Title":"One of the great mystery movies","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I agree with all the other comments on this title it's a fine mystery movie and great entertainment. I don't understand why it isn't in the top 100 Mystery movies - I came across it by accident, but it leaves many others for dead, purely because of the skill of the cast and direction. The thing I found very interesting was that it engrossed me from the first scene without any tricks or CGI or big names or formulaic exchanges between the characters. It's true that it is theatrical rather than cinematic but I think that's why I found it so entertaining - I wasn't being assailed by it - I was being entertained and asked to contribute as a viewer. I can think of four or five relatively recent movies that I've started watching and parked because they're predictable, following a formula, gratuitously violent so as to distract from the plot, childish in places and/or something else other than entertaining. This one kept me watching with no strain but a lot of pleasure. "},{"Title":"Wonderful mystery","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A delicious movie. Great plot with a greater ending. Been repeated many times. The actors were well picked for their parts. All seem to be in character with a nice twist. As the plot unfolds the audience seems to get more and more involved. Perfect for B&W considering the English locale. The remake was terrible. "}{"Title":"Shot-for-shot, line-for-line A Perfect Movie","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As stunning as anything it has ever been my privilege to see. "},{"Title":"A contrived plot that failed to excite","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The best part of this film was the magnificent set despite the fact the main lounge area was so big the characters tended to get lost in it. Nevertheless the architecture was both interesting and exciting.  This is more than can be said of the actors or the script.In my opinion the story would work better as a stage production rather than a film.  The story itself is very contrived - an invitation to ten suspected murderers to meet in this remote and isolated hotel with no chance of escape across the surrounding desert. The audacious plot is to kill them off one by one like the Ten little Indian boys.We know the plot soon after the first victim collapses so there is no real mystery about what is to happen - the only thing to consider is how, when and where each will die.  This should be a matter of grave concern.After the third death and the removal of the third little ceramic Indian boy from the table's centrepiece, I was hoping the subsequent deaths would follow quickly as I could see it was going to be rather repetitious and a trifle boring.Knowing that possibly ten people were going to die should have filled me with horror at the very thought of it but the characterisations were rather shallow and I lost interest in their future.  I must admit a few shadowy forms in the half light began to heighten the atmosphere but this was not maintained.  On the whole the series of deaths so important to the development of the story seemed to me too remote from the camera. More close-ups would have added much to the atmosphere and the excitement.  After all, this is an advantage cinema has over stage productions.  Why not use it?It amazes me that so many reviewers actually raved over this production. "},{"Title":"Justifies the description thriller much better than many detective stories","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was released in the UK under Agatha Christie's original title (Ten Little N-Words) which in America was presumably too politically incorrect even for the standards of the forties. (A somewhat hypocritical attitude, given that during this period Hollywood operated an unofficial colour bar which restricted African-American actors to minor roles). Although I suppose another explanation for the change of title might be that the film-makers did not want white audiences, especially in the South, to jump to the erroneous conclusion that the film had an all-black cast. Many of Christie's murder mysteries have a country house setting; the twist in this case is that the house in question is situated on a small island (Indian Island) off the Devon coast. Ten people, two servants and eight guests, find themselves in this remote location, cut off from the outside world because there is no telephone and the ferry to the mainland only calls twice a week. The guests, who include an émigré Russian prince, a judge, a retired general, a doctor, a detective, an explorer and two women, have all been invited to the island by its owner, one U.N. Owen (an obvious pun on unknown). It soon becomes clear that those assembled are hiding a number of guilty secrets. All of them are allegedly guilty of some act which led to someone's death- the judge, for example, is said to have framed an innocent man who was on trial before him for his life, the prince to have been guilty of causing death by dangerous driving, and the doctor to have killed a patient through negligence. One by one the guests start to die violent deaths, starting with the prince, who is poisoned. The others realise that the mysterious U.N. Owen has taken it upon himself- or herself- to execute justice upon them, and has invited them to the island for exactly this purpose. As no other person is on the island, U.N. Owen must be a pseudonym for one of the ten, leaving the audience to ponder the questions who is the murderer? and will any of the others survive? That old nursery rhyme (here called Ten Little Indians) takes on a sinister significance. I have never been a great lover of Christie's work, or of the school of detective fiction which she represents. The hallmarks of her work seem to be artificial if ingenious plots, a lack of interest in characterisation beyond a superficial level and a too neat ending in which the detective solves the crime and explains to everyone else how and why it was carried out. For all their faults, however, her stories often transfer well to the stage or cinema screen, and in the seventies and eighties there was to be a cycle of films based on her work, such as The Mirror Crack'd or Evil Under the Sun. These films were generally lavish period-pieces shot on location in what might be called the heritage crime style. One weakness of such films is that much of the excitement tends to dissipate after the initial crime is committed, the rest of the film being given over to a fairly leisurely examination of how the detective solves the case. And Then There Were None, made on a much more limited budget with black-and-white photography, studio sets and a contemporary setting, is very different in feel to these later movies and very much a product of its time. Nevertheless, it is still worth watching even today. There are no great acting performances, although to be fair to the actors that is not surprising given that the characters are all so one-dimensional, and no particularly memorable dialogue. What the film does have going for it is a genuine sense of tension, as paranoia breaks out among the survivors, none of whom know whom they can trust or who will be the next to be murdered. One unusual feature is that there is no detective, no Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple to act as a deus ex machine; all the characters are potential suspects, and all potential victims. It justifies the description thriller much better than do many other detective stories. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dame Agatha's Dead","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Christie has been as profoundly influential in film as Shakespeare. We can't take too lightly how often we see the effects of her experiments in tweaking the identity of the reader/ viewer. This is one of her most interesting constructions presented quite differently in the book.It only works when we become engaged in the reality of the thing because the whole idea hinges on a performance within a performance. When the presentation is as heavily stylized as it is here, we cannot make that connection play about reality about a play. Probably, even in its time (60 years ago!) it lacked the power of the original.There are a huge number of direct copies of this setup. The one that may be the most cinematic is Seven, the most intelligently folded Identity.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"I Figured Out This Mystery, And I'm Not A Good Detective!","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I figured out who the killer had to be anyway, before it was solved. Actually there is no mystery to solve here. U.N. Owen's phonograph record offers the motive for the murders, I suppose, but basically knowing how Hollywood sets up movies and uses performers it was clear who the killer, the center of attention, would have to be.The movie came out in 1945. It starred WAlter Huston, Roland YOung, Judith Anderson, Barry Fitzgerald, C. Aubrey Smith, Richard Haydn and Mischa Auer.Huston was busy in Hollywood, but had yet to win his Oscar for Treasure of the Sierra Madre. Roland Young had been nominated for Topper in the late thirties, Judith Anderson had been nominated in the early forties for Rebecca, Fitzgerald had won for Going My Way just two years earlier, and Mischa Auer had been nominated for My Man Godfrey in 1936.The remaining three performers, Louis Hayward, June Duprez and Queenie Leonard, weren't Hollywood standouts.After the first three murders, one from a poisoning, one from an overdose and one from a knife in the back should have provided enough for a mystery to at least be to a point for being solved. It would take one more murder for me to realize who the killer had to be. Now when the twist was thrown in there, I thought I was wrong, but at the end, I was proven correct.But there are no clues to solve the identity of the killer, is there? Not after 3 murders, nor after five, so there was no mystery, just a story.But again, I figured it out by the predictable rules of Hollywood, but even in listening to the explanation as to who Mr. Owen must be, it was obvious who the killer had to be.Still, the final death, when one of the few remaining guests says who the killer must be before he was killed himself, it wasn't clear how he knew the murderer's identity, based on what he saw on the beach.It is fun also to watch the amazing cliche of Fitzgerald announcing one of them, one of the seven remaining persons, must be the killer and the thunder outside claps and we see all seven persons, then we get a second run through of the seven suspects. Too priceless.I can't help but wonder if Owen had been one of the other suspects, how the actor might have handled it compared to the one that did. This one or that one might have actually done it better.And yes, the distinction of the final victim is obvious, agewise.  I thought the killer's final words were very amusing too. No wonder there was so much trouble with sexism in America if this the way the minds were thinking. "},{"Title":"Time has Passed it By","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ten people are invited for a weekend on an island by a Mr U. N. Own.But he isn't on the island. At dinner a record is played. By that all the people are accused of murder. Suddenly the first of them is dead.Then the next.It seems to be that one of them is the murderer Mr. U. N. Own. But the person in suspect is always the person who is murdered next. At last only two people seem to be left.I was never a huge fan of Agatha Christie and time has passed her by. Same with this film. Slow, talkie, little action. Lots of over acting.You'd do way better watching some Columbo episodes if you want a good mystery. Plus, you know who did it before the first commercial. "},{"Title":"You've been voted off the island","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" People who call this the best mystery ever made need to get out more. A lot has happened in film in the last 62 years. And this shows every moment of its age. They should also view Murder on the Orient Express (1974) which has all the usual Christie problems but is still much better than this.Holes abound Most of them owing to poor writing which yields witless characters, and fails to make the premise convincing. Where are all these victims collecting? Do bodies cease to exist after being killed? The group should review the pile, even one time, to make sure the dead are still dead. They should pass some of their time, reviewing the rhyme to anticipate the next method of death. But no they just sit around chatting politely (knitting!?) until each new person is killed; that's some terrific, believable volition. They could decide to stay in pairs to make sure no one ever has a moment to perpetrate the next killing. Lastly, someone should hide near the statue of ten indians and nab the person breaking them. This stuff is remdial if you're life is threatened.But these are dumbest, stock characters a lazy, average screenwriter from 1945 could produce. They're such imbeciles you're cheering for their deaths. i.e. A black dot stuck to someones head is enough to persuade everyone that the next victim has been shot? guh. You're joking, right? As with all Christie mysteries she devises the boffo ending (gimmick/conceit) but can't be bothered to produce an interesting, credible way of executing it, or getting us there. On top of all this the movie fails to generate an ounce of tension. These characters show about as much concern over their imminent deaths, as if they ran out milk. Why would anyone else care? "},{"Title":"Murder as a parlour game","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have always been amazed at the popularity of Agatha Christie. To me, she is a silly person. Her stories are often really ridiculous. She treats murder as a parlour game, as exemplified especially here in this film. Of course, it may well be that people are comforted by murder being regarded as a parlour game, because they are all afraid of death, and the idea that murder can be reduced to a puzzle which one can solve if one is clever (with a little help from good old Agatha, who teases as she pleases) brings them into a calmer state. After all, one could never imagine that any of the silly Agatha Christie plots could ever really happen. So perhaps death can never really happen either. Is that perhaps the clue to Christie's appeal? Or is she the crossword-puzzle solver's type of thriller writer? Murder with her is reduced to five down and six across. Or is it ten down and seven across? Oh well, mental puzzles do divert people so. Isn't murder fun when packaged as an entertaining puzzle for vapid consumption? I only bought this DVD because I discovered that it had been directed by René Clair, the French director normally worthy of serious attention and respect. And by serious I do not mean that one cannot appreciate his frequent use of comedy, with which he laced so much of his work. And there are indeed some comedic touches in this silly film which he made in Hollywood, which was frankly not worthy of him. The cast includes Walter Huston, who does very well. I always find it intriguing listening to his voice and realizing how similar it was to his son John Huston's voice, except that John Huston's was deeper and even throatier. C. Aubrey Smith is marvellous as a deaf old general of the old school. Judith Anderson is suitably sinister as 'Miss Brent', who never stops knitting and quibbling, and who may be a murderess, or not, who knows. Queenie Leonard is suitably hysterical as the butler's wife, though she does not last long, and vanishes early in the parade of murders which are meant to lead to there being 'none'. Barry Fitzgerald is suitably curmudgeonly as a retired judge. Mischa Auer, whom Clair must have known well from Paris, is way over the top as a 'professional guest' and an exiled Russian prince who plays the piano and speaks much too loudly in a high, anxious whine. June Duprez manages some eerie and mysterious expressions and keeps her distance from the others in a way which raises the suspense level. The story of ten people being invited to a lonely island (obviously intended to be Scottish) with a single grand house for a weekend by a man whom they have never met is, obviously, entirely ludicrous. And then the idea that they are picked off one by one because they all committed past crimes and had gone unpunished is equally silly. And then there is the fact that their invisible host, Mr. Owen, has the initials of U. N., hence is 'Mr. U.N. Owen', geddit? 'Mr. Unknown.' How corny can you get? Pretty corny, if you are Agatha Christie, who seems to have been born in a cornfield. Oh well, it is all just harmless fun, and some people like it. "}]