[{"Title":"Beautifully crafted binding of Disney shorts","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Make Mine Music is a beautifully crafted binding of Disney shorts, and I think it is an improvement over Melody Time. Melody Time did have some memorable parts especially Once Upon a Wintertime, Bumble Boogie and Johnny Appleseed, but what made Make Mine Music better was that it had a somewhat better variety of music and that it contains some of my all time favourite Disney moments. But like it is with Melody Time the success of the shorts is variable.The Martins and the Coys(10/10)-Man I loved this! Probably the most underrated of all the shorts featured in this film. It mayn't be to everyone's tastes now, and it does stereotype the Appalachians, but what makes it so enormously entertaining is the fluid and colourful quality of the animation, the rollicking soundtrack and the vocals.Blue Bayou(10/10)- I don't know where to begin praising Blue Bayou. Whether it was the stunning animation, with the pristine and perfect blue backgrounds, the poetic lyrics and the lyrical, sensual melody of the song. And the music is sublimely sung.All the Cats Join In(10/10)-One cool and jazzy cartoon. I am not always that fond of jazz admittedly, but the music courtesy of Benny Goodman and his orchestra is wonderful. Topped with clever and sophisticated animation and the story, even for a combination cartoon, works effectively.Without You(9/10)- I liked this, the animation is gorgeous in this sequence and the song itself is sweet and memorable. Andy Russell does a good job with the singing. I will say though it doesn't rank as a favourite, and I can't put my finger on why, maybe it was to do with where it was placed in the film.Casey at the Bat(8/10)-The pace is rushed here, but this cartoon is entertaining. I for one liked Jerry Colonna's mini-commentary-like vocals here, and I liked the animation too. Casey at the Bat is also very funny, certainly makes a game of baseball entertaining.Two Silhouettes(8/10)-Don't get me wrong, I really liked this sequence. It is sentimental and sappy of course, but it looked beautiful, with graceful dancing, and the song was lovely, sensitively sung by Dinah Shore.Peter and the Wolf(9.5/10)-Easily one of the better shorts of the film. Not my personal favourite by all means, but definitely memorable. The animation is beautiful here, the music is outstanding and the story is effective. Not to mention the characters are very well done, in fact the Wolf when my sister and I were little was so scary for us, my sister still refuses to see this cartoon, as she got nightmares from the Wolf and the French horn motif played to signify his entrance.After You've Gone(8/10)- I do prefer All the Cats Join In but this is full of jazz and pizazz. It's running time though is disappointingly scant, and it is a tad rushed. The artwork is beautifully done though, and the music is wonderful. Another example of a combination cartoon, and works well at it.Johnnie Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet(10/10)- I love how beautiful, simple and poignant this is. Coupled with nice animation, lovely music and beautifully blended vocals from the Andrews Sisters, this is a definite must.Willie the Operatic Whale(or The Whale Who Wanted to Sing At the Met)(10/10)-Save the best until last I'd say. Along with Peter and the Wolf this is the only other cartoon from the film I was familiar with before watching. This one is unforgettable, truly unforgettable with a truly special whale. The animation is gorgeous and charming, and the singing from undervalued Nelson Eddy is outstanding. What made this though was the opera music, it was wonderful to hear Largo Al Factotum from Barber of Seville and Sextet from Lucia Di Lammermoor to name a few. This was the cartoon that introduced me to the wonderful world of opera, that's why it is so special to be.Overall, while there are one or two sequences that aren't as good as others, Make Mine Music is beautifully crafted, and I would recommend it. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"8/10  ****/5 ~ Walt Disney's Pop Fantasia for the Fightin' Forties.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Make Mine Music finds Walt Disney in the midst of the transitional period between his first five animated features (Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Pinocchio, Fantasia, Dumbo, Bambi) and the post-war revival begun with Cinderella (1950). The idea of a casual variant of Fantasia featuring popular music was a good one. Even though the segments which comprise the film vary in quality, the film as a whole is a bright, colorful and amusing light entertainment which fit wartime needs ideally. Highlights include two spirited Benny Goodman swing numbers (All The Cats Join In and After You've Gone) and the unforgettable finale, Willie the Operatic Whale, narrated and sung by Nelson Eddy. The animation is generally first-rate and the Technicolor film will dazzle any viewer not expecting a genuine masterwork. Make Mine Music was successful enough to warrant a considerably better follow-up, Melody Time (1948).The undistinguished but harmless Martins and the Coys segment, concerning the gun-feuding backwoods families of American folklore, has idiotically been removed from current editions, evidently for PC reasons. It's scary that Disney may start altering their classics to meet artificial modern standards. (If they had cut anything from Make Mine Music, it should have been the tasteless Two Silhouettes ballet, all doilies and valentines and icky fake sentiment.) "},{"Title":"A classic censored","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This is one of my Disney favorities, a collection of ten musical cartoons including such classics as Peter and the wolf, Willie the operatic whale and Blue Bayou(this was at first planned for the music of Debussy's Clair de lune in Fantasia). And there also WAS the cartoon I prefer The Martin and The Coys, comical history of a war between two families in the old America.  Now I've buyed the new video of this film and I've discovered that this beautiful episode has been completely cut out. Shame on you Disney! Classics must not be touched! It's very sad that,when we are under the continue pressure of Pokemons and other violence and sex from TV, Disney cuts his comic fairy tales because children could believe that the shooting fight between the Martins and the Coys is real (and repeat it,perhaps in schools?)SHAME ON YOU!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"My views about Walt Disney's Make Mine Music","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I'm a UK viewer and I saw Make Mine Music in the late 1940's,when it was newly released . I had seen and been excited by Fantasia and the MMM numbers, as a late teenager, I found hugely enjoyable. I'm sad to learn that the Martins and the Coys number has been deleted - it was fun and the hill billy feuding' was something we'd found amusing and harmless. I disagree with some of the comments on the individual numbers, particularly Without You by Andy Russell and Two Silhouettes by Dinah Shore, both of which made an impression on me and I've been trying to obtain a record of the former for years, without success. I have fond memories of Johnny Fedora and Alic Blue Bonnet (absurdly sentimental though it was)and can sing the first lines to this day. The Benny Goodman numbers are superb - musically and animation-wise - but then I'm a B.G.fan and ever will be. Peter and the Wolf persuaded me to listen to the real classical version and, subsequently, to buy the sound track record. Perhaps I do agree with the viewer who found Jerry Colonna's rendering of Casey a lemon but then you either take Jerry's versions of things or you don't. Nelson (The singing capon)Eddy's version of Willie was a delight, though in later years it may have made one more conscious of the bloody aspects of whale hunting. Anyway, it was good to hear Nelson without Heart of Steel Jeanette MacDonald. You see, without seeing the film again the memories come tumbling out and I've given it a 9 for more reasons than one. Please will somebody tell me where I can obtain a VHS copy ? David Miles "},{"Title":"Some great sequences, and some duds...","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  An episodic musical tapestry a' la Fantasia, only this one utilizes the pop music of circa 1946.  Some are worth viewing, and others are worth fast-forwarding through.  My own personal favorites are the two Benny Goodman numbers, All the Cats Join In and After You've Gone.  I haven't seen the now-deleted The Martins and the Coys sequence, but I do oppose the tampering of classic films in the name of PC.  If I had known this was the case with Make Mine Music, I would have never bought the VHS tape. "},{"Title":"A Small Fantasia","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" One of Walt's early package films and not bad at that! Some segments are cloyingly hokey, of course, but most shorts are surprisingly playful and charming. The highlights The Martins and the Coys is full of stereotyping and comic gunplay and simply fun to watch; Casey at the Bat is a whirlwind of poem recitation; the two Benny Goodman segments feature nice tunes and Peter and the Wolf and, particularly, The Whale Who Wanted To Sing At the Met are two of Disney's best cartoons.Just skip the padding and enjoy this compilation! 7 out of 10 triple-voiced Nelson Eddys "},{"Title":"Pop and jazz second-cousin to Fantasia","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Chocolate-box potpourri of Disney-animated shorts became Walt Disney's eighth animated theatrical feature, one that plays like a middling excuse to allow the studio's animators to blow off some creative steam. Divvied up into separate musical suites (utilizing pop, jazz, Big Band, and the Russian classical piece Peter and the Wolf), Make Mine Music is musically of its time, featuring the talents of Benny Goodman, Dinah Shore, Nelson Eddy, etc. In that regard, it dates far worse than Fantasia, and comes to a virtual halt in the middle of an overstretched slapstick baseball satire, but there are incidental pleasures. The popular Peter and the Wolf segment, which was later serialized on Disney's TV program and found a large following, is the only segment that feels fully thought-out (and has involving animation), while The Whale Who Wanted To Sing At The Met is an interesting idea (with beautiful flourishes) in search of a narrative (the hero actually ends up in Heaven...complete with angel's wings!). Followed by Melody Time, which featured more storytelling and less abstract whimsy. ** from **** "},{"Title":"They've Made Mine Music!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Most Disney fans are not too familiar with some of the Disney Animated Classics such as this one. I am not one of those. Make Mine Music just shows us more of what the master himself, Walt Disney, has created. I have heard from a few people that the Martins and the Coys segment has been removed from the newly released DVD version. Why that segment was removed, I don't know (probably because of the amount of violence). Other than that, the other segments are very memorable. Segments like Peter and the Wolf, Casey at the Bat and The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met are amusing, catchy, and fun to watch. My favorite segment of the movie would have to be Johnny Fedora and Alice Blue Bonnet, which I had completely forgotten was part of this movie. All segments of Make Mine Music have been shown on various Disney videos and Disney TV specials. This is just a great movie; it's just as good as all the other Disney Animated Classics. I'm sure that kids of all ages will enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Some of my Dad's best work!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Make Mine MusicWhat a great collection of stories! I watched it fairly recently with my Dad and some other family at his house in Pinon Hills. I still cry at the Johnny Fedora and Willie The Whale stories. I grew up watching these and so many Disney cartoons and movies on our old 16 millimeter projector. We still have it, but it needs a bulb. My nephew Kurt brought this cartoon up on DVD. It was great to see my Dad's name up in lights, so to speak, at least for animation credits. He loved seeing it again, altho' his eyes aren't so good now at age 92. But he is still hanging in there.  "},{"Title":"A big batter, some bopping boppers and a booming bass to round things off.","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I really enjoyed Make Mine Music. And then I found out I hadn't seen it all. Thankfully, that was easily resolved by a quick visit to YouTube to see the excised segment The Martins And The Coys, another reason for me to appreciate the delays to all attempts to censor material (if that damn PIPA or SOPA or WhateveritendsupbeingPA ever gets through then we will lose access to gems like that one).Now, having seen the whole thing, I can still say that I really enjoyed it. It wasn't a complete success but it was a wonderful mix of animation and music that felt almost like a Fantasia-lite, which is a good thing for those who thought some parts of Fantasia were a bit too ponderous.Here are the individual sections, as they should be viewed and a little bit about each one.The Martins And The Coys - available to view on YouTube, this tells a tale of two families feuding in the mountains until all but two are left, a boy and a girl who may want to lay down their guns and just get closer to one another. The comic gunplay is the reason that this has been removed from subsequent releases of the movie. Pah is all I have to say to that.Blue Bayou - One of the duller moments, but it's very brief and therefore quite painless to watch.All The Cats Join In - Well, well, well, this is a bit racy for Disney. It's also a LOT of fun as an artist struggles to get the drawings finished and often interrupts the action so that he can finish the details required. Energetic animation is accompanied by energetic music from Benny Goodman.Without You - Mediocre but lovely to look at. Again, being rather brief makes this quite a painless watch.Casey At The Bat - Jerry Colonna recites the poem by Ernest Thayer about a baseball player who is beloved and arrogant, right up until things go horribly wrong for him.Two Silhouettes - A nice piece of animation mixing live-action ballet in there.Peter And The Wolf - A delightful piece that utilises the famous musical composition by Sergei Prokofiev.After You've Gone - Fairly enjoyable filler moment, with another turn from Benny Goodman.Johnny Fedora And Alice Blue Bonnet - A love story between two hats. It's surprisingly well done and enjoyable, with The Andrews Sisters providing the vocals.The Whale Who Wanted To Sing At The Met - Exactly as the title says. This is a lovely, bittersweet, end to the proceedings and manages to be as moving as it is inherently absurd.With the usual wealth of directors and writers on board for this one, Make Mine Music maintains the quality and cuteness that Disney was already well-known for at this stage. With a mix of comedic pieces, love stories and mood moments, it may feel like little more than an animated anthology movie but that's no bad thing. If you don't like any of the segments then you can feel safe in the knowledge that you may like whatever is coming in the next few minutes.One of many movies that ended up being made from other scraps and ideas for other movies, Make Mine Music feels surprisingly cohesive throughout despite the lack of any major theme linking the separate segments. It's just all about the music and the lyrics, with appropriate animation for each tale, and it impresses as a fun and light confection that has still been crafted with skill and care. "}{"Title":"Fantasia... Part II - featuring the Top 40's... OF the 40's","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Of all Walt Disney's animated films, there are 5 features that a huge amount of people have never heard of. Saludos Amigos (1943) is one, but it's not fully feature-length (it's only 45 minutes, so it shouldn't even count when you always hear those Disney video & DVD announcements that say Our 20-whatever-TH full-length animated classic..., but they actually do count it). The excellent Fun and Fancy Free (1947) is another. The Adventures of Ichabod & Mr. Toad (1949). And then, there are the 2 sequels to Fantasia (1940) Melody Time (1948) and this film, Make Mine Music (1946). The reason you probably haven't heard much about them is that, first- they were Package Films which were never really that popular AS package films, and second- they didn't make a lot of money for the studio when they were released in theaters in the 1940's. In fact, Disney would have gone extinct forever in 1950 (many say) if Cinderella had not have been a huge hit (which it was).I say, they are sequels to Fantasia because they are made almost the exact same way. They lack a Composer / Orchestrator character to link them together, but when one segment ends, another simply begins. So basically, if you liked Fantasia, all you need to like this movie is some appreciation for the music you hear here. And this really is in the same sort of style as the music we hear in several Disney films. There's jazz (which you hear in The Aristocats, 1970), classical (every Disney film, animated or non), and interpretive stuff. I may not be a huge fan of any of these styles of music, personally, but that's what's great about Disney. They can put animation to it and make you like it or appreciate it more.The first thing that should probably be said is that the wonderful people at Walt Disney Home Video, have taken it upon themselves to edit one of the musical segments entirely out of all prints of the film available on VHS and DVD. Isn't that nice of them? Without any proper explanation why - if you haven't seen it already, you're not going to see it ever (and I checked, it's not on You Tube). I've never seen it, so I can't comment on it.The segments in the film can be put into 3 categories. 1- Storyline, 2- Interpretive, and 3- Combination. Peter and the Wolf and The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met are Storyline. So they are longer than the others and take more time to tell. Both are good stories, if you like opera and folk / fairy tales. Though, Peter is probably the best (certainly it's been said it's Walt Disney's favorite), some of the animation / color choices here seem a little too wacky for Americans. Whale is underwhelming but has a memorable ending (it was a mistake, I think, to have the 1 opera singer doing all the speaking voices too).Blue Bayou, Without You, Two Silhouettes, and After You've Gone, (big surprise) are Interpretive. No characters, no story. Just a song with some lyrics, and pure art. Bayou and Without are very beautiful and a little haunting. Silhouettes is truly classic and lovely, if also the most boring part of the movie. After has no lyrics but is very fun and upbeat.Then finally, All the Cats Join In, Casey at the Bat, and Johnnie Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet are Combination. Which means, they have stories, but they are entirely told through one long, continuous song or don't take any breaks. Casey is funny, without a doubt (even though it's quite offensive, in one moment, to overweight people). Johnnie is definitely a fan favorite, and is kind of sad too. And Cats is fast-paced, so it's entertaining. But it doesn't speak too kindly of the youth of the 1940's. They are portrayed as quite elitist and discriminating.So, unlike most Disney films (and even their package films), this film rests entirely on the strength of each individual segment / short. And some of these aren't memorable, while most are slightly below average quality. No Disney movie to buy on DVD is cheap, but with these Disney titles, you usually get a bonus cartoon. So I recommend purchase for true Disney fans. If you're looking for something to rent - I recommend only for you alone, if you're a Disney completest. But for your family, there are more appropriate and sensitive Disney films. Most films act as art, and as that, Make Mine Music does provide some average stuff worth seeing. I recommend it for that reason alone. If you're looking for something else, I say, find something else. "},{"Title":"Musical, enjoyable, laughable, smile-able!!!!! LOL","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Get your dancing shoes on and have fun with this 1946 Disney cartoon classic, Make Mine Music.This movie contains ten animated segments for the original version, and nine for the DVD version (due to the first short being a little bit too...). Like all of the other Disney classics, these shorts are exceptionally outstanding!One short in particular The Whale Who Wanted To Sing At The Met. I'm mentioning this short the most because this was seen on the old Disney Channel (before it got all Raven-ed up LOL) nine years ago from writing. Sure, it was long, but it made for a very interesting short. It may also not have Mickey and Minnie, but it's still worth watching!Make Mine Music is a good movie to watch if you are a little bit down and need to be all pepped up! Enjoy!10/10 "},{"Title":"Good, clean, fun and actually better than Fantasia!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Make Mine Music is another short story combination of short stories based around music numbers like The Three Caballeros and Melody Time but this whirly and witty collection is cool to bits and I actually fond it more fun and watchable than the big cheese before Fantasia! This programme gives open a fun and interesting taste of swing and popular music of the late 1940's and with good, amusing short stories that should everybody watching. The best ones in my opinion is Willie the Operatic Whale which is kinda sad but hilarious to find a whale singing in concert and All the Cats Join In which isn't actually about cats, it's about teenagers dancing to swing music. It made me surprised to find out that Americans in 1946 worn basic baseballs tops and polo shirts which proves that sixty years around, it wasn't that old fashioned! This is so much cooler inspiration of Walt's music festival which you shouldn't miss! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but better seen as individual segments","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Unable to initially return to making true animated features like Pinocchio and Bambi after the Second World War, Disney turned to making package features. Like Fantasia, these films strung together various shorts and featurettes into a feature-length anthology. Between their release in the 1940s and the DVD age, these films were rarely, if ever, shown in their entirety. Instead, the individual segments were re-released as stand-alone pieces, some of which became quite popular. It's understandable why this was done. Whereas the individual elements of Fantasia have a similar enough artistic vision to be kept intact as a single experience, the package features do seem like a line of random, individual shorts that have been strung together. As such, the films can seem quite uneven and somewhat unsatisfying collectively.In particular, Make Mine Music stands out as being one of the most inconsistent package features. It consists of ten shorts, all relying heavily on music. Some of the shorts are fairly conventional, story-driven, while others are quite experimental. The real stand-out pieces are Peter and the Wolf (initially considered for a sequel/continuation of Fantasia) and The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met. The stories are engaging, and they are absolutely charming, although Peter and the Wolf relies a bit too much on narration. It comes as no surprise that these two shorts became the film's most famous segments. Special mention should also be given to Blue Bayou, which uses footage from a deleted segment of Fantasia that was to be set to Debussy's Clair de Lune (here, though, it's set to a love ballad).Other segments, however, vary. The Martins and the Coys, which was rather stupidly removed from the American DVD, is not bad but hardly memorable. After You've Gone, an interlude featuring anthropomorphised musical instruments, means well but falls quite flat, ultimately appearing as not much more than filler. All the Cats Join In and Without You equally seem like experimental filler, yet both are more successful. Casey at the Bat, on the other hand, contains too many self-indulgent gags and overly caricatured animation to be of any real artistic or entertainment merit, a fact not helped by Jerry Colona's obnoxious narration. The two other segments, Johnny Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet and Two Silhouettes, are so cutesy that they become nothing but pieces of unadulterated kitsch.Ultimately, the only people I would recommend Make Mine Music to would be the people who would only be interested in it - Disney fans and animation buffs. To everyone else, as with a good number of package films, it would probably be best seeing individual segments, which is how these films work best. "},{"Title":"'Martins & The Coys' missing from montage makes 'Make Mine Music' merely mediocre","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The segments included in this anthology film are very good. I just think it's ridiculous that Disney would release a movie with the first chunk missing. The way it was done made it seem like they thought people wouldn't notice. I have to admit, I'm glad they released it even in part on DVD so we could enjoy the rest, but on the Walt Disney Treasures collection they have released several short subject cartoons on DVD with a disclaimer from Leonard Maltin beforehand. I think they could re-release 'Make Mine Music' in it's entirety with such a disclaimer because the segment is actually very entertaining. I remember seeing it as a kid and it left no impression whatsoever that I should grab a gun and start shooting. Maybe because I had smart parents that had a greater influence on me than what I saw on TV. "},{"Title":"Did not quite make my music.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" This is Walt Disney's eighth full length animated feature film. This film is another one of six package films (string of short stories bundled in one movie), which contains 10 featurettes from the semi-adventurous Peter and the Wolf to the sad Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met - all set through contemporary Golden Era oldies music.This film's animation wasn't bad for its time and the music, well, you have to be true enthusiasts of jazz, blues, and big band in order to appreciate the music. Otherwise, you might find the soundtrack quite boring. Much of the segments weren't very appealing as it didn't stand out as far as personality, fun, or charm, which is something another segmented film, Fantasia, had. The Peter and the Wolf, fedora and bonnet love story, and the singing whale segments were the only ones that grabbed any of my attention.While unique, the overall film is not an attention grabber and children certainly wouldn't be able to sit through it. It falls short of entertainment and it won't hurt to skip over this one. If you're looking to watch a Disney package film with a little more excitement, I would go with Fun and Fancy Free and The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad.Grade D "},{"Title":"Fantasia's less talented cousin","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" In 1946 the war was over, but Disney was still forced to tide things over because they hadn't had any chances to produce new material during the war years. And thus we get a string of short film collections, of which this is arguably the first. And arguably also the worst.There are some good segments. Mostly the ones with a story. All the Cats Join In is a great, brief segment with some really great jazz tunes and lively animation style. Peter and the Wolf is a classic that has since been re-released numerous times, and for a reason. The animation style is great, the story lovable and as a whole it's a tight package. The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met, the finishing segment, is also great in its own bombastic way. Personally I find it perhaps a bit unambitious, but it's a fun idea done well.There are also couple story segments that don't really grab you, like Casey at the Bat, a baseball story, and Johnnie Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet, a hat love story, which are both animated well but lack a captivating storyline. And then there's The Martins and the Coys, where two hillbilly families duke it out until love enters the picture... and even then there's some roughhousing. Originally the opening segment, it has since been censored from many versions. Which is a shame, because it's easily the funniest of the segments.But then there are the music segments, which make up about half of the segments, which basically just try to copy Fantasia, but lack the right music and animation talent. Instead they're meandering, boring and overly long in every way.Make Mine Music is an interesting film to watch once, but it's not a movie I would see myself watching again. It has some good segments, though none which I'd call great, but on the average it's lacking in direction and vision. "},{"Title":"A Nice Variety of Musical Shorts","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Make Mine Music is one of the package features that Disney released in the 1940's to get by during the war and tough economic times. These films aren't too well known today by the General public, but many will recognize the short stories within as they were reissued separately in later years.Make Mine Music is a collection of ten stories of different music and moods and styles. It's like Fantasia but with then contemporary music. In fact 2 segments were actually leftovers from Fantasia. The Animation for Blue Bayou was originally set to Clair de Lune and Peter and the Wolf was planned for Fantasia. My favorite segments are All the Cats Join In, Two Silhouettes, and Peter And the Wolf. Two Silhouettes kinda has a similar mood to the song Colors of the Wind at times. After You've Gone is very impressive. Word of caution, the first segment, The Martins and the Coys has been cut from all VHS and DVD releases in North America.Make Mine Music is a lesser known gem from the Disney canon that will sure to joy any Disney enthusiast "},{"Title":"...because miracles never really die.","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Animated anthology movie from Disney. They made several of these during and after World War II. It's a fun movie with cartoons of varying quality but none are bad. Many of these cartoons were released later as theatrical shorts. There are ten segments. The most popular of them is probably Casey at the Bat, a recitation by Jerry Colonna of the famous poem. It's a funny, wacky baseball cartoon that was one of my favorites as a kid (seen on a compilation video). Other well-known parts include the Disney version of Peter and the Wolf, The Martins and the Coys, which is now considered politically incorrect by those who make such determinations, and The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met, featuring Nelson Eddy. These are all fine cartoons, though the last one has a surprisingly downbeat ending. The 'worst' shorts are the ones that have no real story, just offer a few minutes of animation to some song, almost like a music video of sorts. Blue Bayou, Without You, and Two Silhouettes, for example. They aren't bad shorts, just slight. They feel like time filler. My two favorite shorts in the whole movie are All the Cats Join In and Johnnie Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet. 'Cats' is an energetic big band number with Benny Goodman music playing while a pencil draws the action as it happens. It's creative and cute with a surprisingly sexy part. You'll have to watch it to see what I mean. 'Fedora' is a sweet story about two hats (yes, hats) falling in love and becoming separated. This is narrated through song by the great Andrews Sisters. Overall, some nice little shorts that should please old-school Disney fans. Good animation and music. A very pleasant movie that will leave you with a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"I noticed some risqué scenes","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" OK, so Make Mine Music follows the Fantasia model of setting action to music. The Looney Tunes cartoon A Corny Concerto was probably the coolest incarnation. I understand that a sequence from Make Mine Music showing feuding hick families shooting at each other got cut out of concern that it made gun violence look funny. Isn't the problem easy access to guns? I noticed that the jitterbug sequence featured some scenes that probably irritated the prudes (a girl showers and then shows her naked upper back). It's always neat what animators managed to slip into their cartoons. Overall, a lot of the content was too flowery for my tastes, but I did like the vignette about the singing whale. And of course, sarcastic person that I am, while watching the movie I made a few remarks similar to those that Mike, Servo and Crow make at the crummy movies sent them by Dr. Forrester and TV's Frank on Mystery Science Theater 3000. Specifically, during Peter and the Wolf whenever it played Peter's theme, I referenced Otter in Animal House (you may recall that he whistles the theme).Anyway, we can accept the movie for what it is. "}{"Title":"Question on Make Mine Music's content","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this as a child in the 50s (imagine that) and have always loved Willie the Whale the most. This film kick-started my love of classical music and opera. The ballet scene was another favorite, and led to a period when I dreamed of dancing (luckily, I discovered how poorly that occupation suited my talents and gave it up, but I still love to watch). Unfortunately, while I was eventually able to find out that Lucia di Lammermoor was the name of the opera Willie (Nelson Eddy) sang to Tetti Tatti, I was never able to find anyone who knew the title of the piece he sang in Whale Heaven. I've given up humming it to librarians and music store clerks--it gets more embarrassing every decade. Does anyone recognize it? "},{"Title":"Mixed bag, but a winner overall!","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" These potpourri musicals Disney made in the late 40's are usually variable, but this feature's my favorite among that whole batch. The Disney guys are always at their best in animation emphasizing characterization, and those musical sketches stressing this are the ones that work best. But one of the centerpieces here always struck me as Disney at his all-time worst his attempts to duplicate the artistic success of Fantasia with a jumbled treatment of Peter and the Wolf. I have yet to see a successful visualization of this piece....better to hear it on records, since this is largely a theater-of-the-mind piece, geared to help youngsters learn about some of the instruments of the orchestra. The Disney guys turn it into pure sap. But Casey at the Bat, Johnny Fedora & Alice Bluebonnet, The Martins & the Coys, and especially All the Cats Join In and Willie the Singing Whale more than make up for what surrounds them. "},{"Title":"Disney disappointment...","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" MAKE MINE MUSIC is too jumbled. It's supposed to be a mix of the language of emotions, which is music, but it's an awkward attempt as we are treated to either boring ballet ballads or obnoxious jazz be-bop segments. I enjoyed Blue Bayou for its visual splendor, Johnny Fedora & Alice Bluebonnet for its cuteness, Peter & The Wolf because Sterling Holloway is the best! and Casey At The Bat because I also love Jerry Colonna's (sp?) voice, though Casey feels sad and incomplete when it ends with the ball player striking out and nothing more is said. The other segments, including the annoying singing whale, could have been axed in favor of part 2 of Casey, which I've seen on TV years ago, about Casey having 9 daughters and coaching them as a baseball team. Walt Disney was trying to help audiences find an appreciation of different genres of music, but this mostly is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"fantasia goes pop","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This showed up on British tv a few years ago, *with* The Martins and the Coys still in.  Good.  Other high points - All The Cats Join In; Without You; Blue Bayou (a lake, two birds, sweet); and the wonderful The Whale Who Wanted To Sing At The Met (later to become a short feature, Willie the Operatic Whale).  Low point - Casey At The Bat - there was never any need for Jerry Colonna's irritating voice!  Otherwise, great film, some excellent animation, decent soundtrack, should be much better known than it is. "},{"Title":"Horribly uneven--ranging from the very good and memorable to the insipid and awful.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Make Mine Music is another post-war feature film that is actually a compilation of shorts all packaged together--like Fun and Fancy Free, The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad, Saludos, Amigos and the like. And, for the most part, these films marked a low-point in Disney history--as the great quality and artistry of their earlier full-length films (such as Snow White, Bambi and Pinocchio) and before the studio's rejuvenated late 40s and 1950s (with films such as Cinderella and Peter Pan). Much of this is probably due to the studio staff experiencing HUGE changes after WWII and a protracted union strike--and a very sizable number of animators and other artists were lost. Unlike the other features released just after the war, the shorts in Make Mine Music were very, very short.Blue Bayou--Thankfully this was a very short film, as I was contemplating suicide it was so boring and dreadful. The music was somewhat like Jeanette/Nelson Eddy music and seemed very dated...and dull. 1 All Cats Come Join In--Benny Goodman and his orchestra provide the music and the style is a jazzy big-band sort of tune. The animation VERY simple--with characters with very non-detailed faces and backgrounds. While the music integrated well with the music and it was enjoyable, it would NEVER be confused with Fantasia as the look of this short was rather cheap. 3 A Ballade in Blue--A dull affair as a whiny guy sings about how life sucks without his beloved. Sure to make kids angry and restless. 1 Casey At The Bat--Probably the best and most famous of the shorts in this film. Jerry Colonna narrated the famous poem and it really came to life due to the silliness of the animation--which was reminiscent of a Goofy short. Too bad this short was so unlike the rest of the film and didn't seem to really fit the theme--which was really dull music and animation! There was only incidental music and this short forgot to be boring. 8 Two Silhouettes--Dinah Shore sings as silhouettes of a man and woman dance together. Frankly, if the earlier shorts didn't drive kids crazy with boredom, this one is sure to do it. Dull. 1 Peter and the Wolf--Oddly, this one began with a narration (Sterling Holloway--who later played Winnie the Pooh) as he explains how various instruments represent various characters in the story--then he continues to explain the story as the music plays. While I am not a huge fan of this short, it is head and shoulders better than most of them--and certainly is entertaining. Not a great film for most kids (unless they are a Frasier or Niles Crane sort of kid who adores classical or neo-classical music). But, it might also serve as a nice way to introduce kids to this sort of music. The animation of this one is noticeably better than the rest of the film and most adults should enjoy this film. 8 After You've Gone--The Goodman Quartet (including Benny Goodman) provide some bouncy music during which musical instruments, keyboards, fingers, etc. come to life. While kids will also surely hate this one, adults will probably find the music and animation zippy good fun. I didn't hate it. 6 Johnny Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet--Sung by the Andrews Sisters, this is the story about two hats that fall in love---something you DON'T see everyday! This is a pretty weird cartoon. Again, kids probably won't love this one but it was amazingly cute seeing these anthropomorphic hats. And the Andrews Sisters' music is pretty enjoyable and cute. 7 Opera Pathetique--This is sung by Nelson Eddy whose style of music is not to my liking although it was popular back in grand-pappy's day. The animation is much more enjoyable than most of the rest of the film but the singing is very operatic. If that's your thing, then are you in for a treat. However, if you think this sort of music is LESS enjoyable than hearing a cat being tortured, then it will be a chore to watch even with the cute animation of a gigantic singing whale. Cute but probably not everyone's cup 'o tea. 5 Overall, the film was hard to watch because it was so wildly uneven---it just frustrates the viewer to no end. Some of the shorts are very nice but many are just plain awful. Kids will most likely hate most of it and it's best you only show them a few selections. Adults will be, on the whole, more patient and willing to stick with it--particularly if they loved Fantasia--though the quality of Fantasia was almost always much higher--especially in regard to the artwork. For huge Disney-philes it's worth seeing--others might want to try renting this one instead of investing in the DVD. "},{"Title":"Still worth viewing","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  The DVD version I've just seen included 9 of the original 10 segments. The loss of The Martins & the Coys is lamentable. This DVD did not include two titles listed as inclusions by IMDb...Two for the Record and The Misadventures of Chip & Dale...neither of which I've seen. I'd rated Martins/Coys (seen elsewhere) at 8 and usually rate a C&D 'toon at 8, so not much change there. This DVD did include 3 other titles, but not as part of the featured program...I rate Music Land, The Band Concert, and Farmyard Symphony at 9 each. Other 9s from the original line-up are All the Cats Join In (great art-work _and_ great memories), Casey at the Bat (comedian Colona was a fine choice as the narrator), Johnny Fedora and Alice Bluebonnet (good art & super love story), and Peter and The Wolf (excellent match between the action & the music). After You've Gone is an 8...Jazz isn't my thing, but the visuals are nothing short of fantastic. Blue Bayou and Without You are nicely drawn but monochromatic and the music is unmemorable...both are rated 7. So are Two Silhouettes (I expected 2S-on-the-Shade & was disappointed) (& I _know_ I've seen -Shade done by Disney somewhere, somewhen) and Willie's story (I just don't like the way the tale turned out). So, based on the 4 9s, an 8, & 4 7s, Make Mine Music is an 8. "},{"Title":"A lovely journey through a myriad of emotions.","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Make mine music is a compilation of a few short videos to music. If you liked the syncronisation of music to video that you saw in films like fantasia, you will adore this film.In 1940 the animation industry was booming, due to the increased skill in the market and better tools available. This was the time the classic Disney figures were being born. But it was also the time of experimentation, we finally had the ability to display the wonderful stories that music tells to us.It takes you on a journey through different genres and emotions, and gives you a small window into the 40s. In my opinion it is far better than many films that are out today in regards to emotional involvement (strangely). I don't always want to wait hours into a film to get involved with a character who is frankly just another john smith. By giving you a selection of shorts, Disney has avoided the problem of making your involvement with a film focused on a specific character and situation. As such the ideas represented can spur thoughts and ideas in many different directions.Well worth watching. "}]