[{"Title":"Visuals Add To Already-Excellent Film","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"55 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was an excellent suspense film with outstanding cinematography and interesting characters played by a strong cast.There are lots of complimentary adjectives in the above sentence but the film deserves it, particularly the photography (see this on DVD). The lighting is as good as anything I've ever seen in film noir (this is not a film noir, as one reviewer correctly points out). In fact, outside of David Lean's Oliver Twist,  this may be the best-looking black-and-white film I've seen. A good part of the visual treat is viewing the fantastic Victorian house where most of the action takes place. The lead character, played beautifully by Dorothy McGuire, is one the viewer cares about which helps get one involved in the story. All the other characters are fun to watch, and are detailed here in other reviews. I go along with most in saying Ethel Barrymore was the most likable.There are a few holes in the storyline, to be sure, but one doesn't care since the film movies rapidly, the story keeps you so involved and the visuals and audio are so interesting. This latter also features the longest thunderstorm on record! "},{"Title":"excllent psychological thriller","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"52 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the most elegantly crafted, paced, photographed and designed of all lady-in-distress thrillers, a sub-genre I am not altogether fond of, but in this case the result is something near to a masterpiece. The actors, especially Dorothy McGuire, are first-rate. I'm particularly in love with the house, a cavernous Victorian, over-decorated, visually and spatially 'busy' place, full of odd furniture and fixtures, rugs, lamps and mirrors, it is as much a character as any person in the film. Kudos to the RKO art department, fifty plus years later I salute them. The way the house is explored is a fascinating as the way the characters are presented. Bit by bit we grow accustomed to the place and its denizens, and when the inevitable thunderstorm happens we feel comfortable inside, aware of the menace within we are none the less seduced by the grandness of the place, indeed enveloped by it, as the air of danger becomes almost cozy, and the gothic surroundings become as comforting as they are baleful. This is no small trick; it's an art. Name a film of the past thirty years that comes close to The Spiral Staircase in its exploration of the various shades of meaning in what for want of a better term one would have to call the Great Gothic Place. "},{"Title":"A lesson in atmosphere","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Spiral Staircase is one of the most eerie and atmospheric films that I have ever had the pleasure of seeing. The entire movie gives off a sense of malice throughout, and the use of music here is some of the best I've ever seen in a movie. The film's plot follows a series of murders, of which all the victims are people with imperfections. Our hero is Helen; a young mute girl that works as a nurse for Mrs Warren, an old lady that lives in a big house. Aside from the old lady, also living in the house are her two sons; Albert and Steven, along with a few other people such as the maid. As the murders are being committed on imperfect women, the old lady becomes concerned for her mute nurse and begs her to leave. When another murder is committed in the house, the danger that the young girl is in becomes more apparent.The first thing you will notice about this hidden gem is it's striking cinematography and lush settings. The film is very Gothic, and that gives it a very foreboding atmosphere. This is without doubt the best things about the film; in a dark thriller such as this, the atmosphere is always important, and as I said; this film has plenty. The film also features a lot of intrigue. As it has many characters that could be suspects, it leaves you guessing. Playing it's cards very close to it's chest, we don't find out who is the murderer until the very last minute. The cast of The Spiral Staircase don't excel individually, but they come together very well as an ensemble. Most of them would never make another notable movie, although the majority have rather large filmographies. Robert Siodmak takes the directors chair, and he should be commended for his work. His use of the camera is excellent; the film features numerous close-ups, and when coupled with the haunting music; it makes for a great eeriness. There is one sequence in particular where the killer is watching his would-be victim from some bushes in the rain, and that with the haunting music in the background is altogether one of the most frightening sequences ever filmed. Cinematic perfection.  "},{"Title":"A Gothic, Noirish, Hitchcockian Masterpiece.","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Helen Capel was rendered mute in childhood due to a family trauma, now she acts as a companion to the bed ridden Mrs Warren. She's currently fretful because a serial killer is on the loose and he preys on women with afflictions...Based on Ethel White's novel Some Must Watch, The Spiral Staircase harks back to the days of the old dark house thrillers and encompasses a German expressionist sheen. The setting is an old Gothic mansion in New England at the turn of the century. Directed by Robert Siodmak, not one spooky house thriller genre convention has been neglected here. The tension builds amid creaking doors and gates, whistling winds, flickering candles, blowing curtains and cut-aways to the eyes of the unseen lurking madman waiting to add poor Helen to his roll call of victims. Mirrors, windows and shadows feature prominently as craftsman Siodmak spins his uneasy expressionistic web.The cast are uniformly strong. Dorothy McGuire gives one of her best and most convincing performances as the under threat Helen. While Ethel Barrymore (nominated for Best Supporting Actress), Elsa Lanchester and George Brent all turn in brilliant performances. But perhaps it's not unfair to say that the real stars here are the technical staff? Siodmak expands his talent and knowing from his work at Universal Pictures (Son Of Dracula/The Suspect), Albert D'Agostino's sets are wondrous period delights and Nicholas Musuraca's deep-focus photography has the ability to make one keep looking over the shoulder to see if something is lurking in the room with us...There's quite a few changes in this adaptation from the novel, notably the setting was in England and Helen was a cripple and not mute. But few could seriously argue that The Spiral Staircase in silver screen form is anything but a triumphant piece of classic cinema. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One emerged from the film feeling as exhausted by terror as McGuire had been...","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The extra vulnerability of the handicapped has been a magnet to attract some fine directors of suspense&#133;The fulcrum of Robert Siodmak's 'The Spiral Staircase' was the fact that the beautiful and expressive Dorothy McGuire was dumb &#150; deprived of her speech by shock&#133; Her terror when death stalked had to be wordless, and it was all the more potent&#133; She could not communicate, she could not plead or call for help&#133;It was New England in 1906, and she was employed by the bedridden mistress (Ethel Barrymore) of an old mansion (decorated in Victorian style). On the girl's day off, a disabled girl was found murdered in the little town. It was the third such murder&#133; In each case the victim had been physically handicapped &#150; and, as we learned later, the murderer killed because he could not tolerate imperfection&#133;There was a chilling start to the suspense as Dorothy McGuire walked home through a stormy night, rattling a twig against railings&#133; In a lightning flash we saw &#150; but she did not &#150; the silhouette of a man watching her&#133; On into the house and, as she paused on a landing, we saw the feet of the man on another landing&#133; waiting. And then, in a close-up of his eye, we saw her face reflected &#150; an imperfect face&#133;On this level the tension was maintained in visual terms, through the murder of another girl in the house and the mute's discovery of the body, and her belief that she knows the murderer&#133; She tricks him into a room and locks him in&#133; but, as she is to find, she has locked up the wrong man&#133;Ethel Barrymore received the film's only Academy Award nomination, as Best Supporting Actress&#133; McGuire would have to wait another year to be nominated as Best Actress, for her great role in Elia Kazan's emotional 'Gentleman's Agreement', 1947. "},{"Title":"Riveting Masterpiece","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Spiral Staircase is an excellent film. Dorothy McGuire gives a great performance as a mute woman in a town where disabled women are being killed, I think she deserved an Oscar nomination. She does a lot of emoting with her eyes and her body language.The technical aspects of this film are amazing. The score is extremely creepy, the camera work is excellent, and the main set is well designed. There are some extreme close-ups of an eye that are very spooky.This is a movie that Alfred Hitchcock would have made. There is a long and extremely affecting dream sequence that is riveting. Elsa Lanchester is very good as servant, and Ethel Barrymore deserved her Oscar nomination for playing the employer of the mute woman. An excellent movie that is a must see.   "},{"Title":"The World Has No Place for Imperfections","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In the beginning of the Twentieth Century, a serial-killer is terrorizing a small town, killing women with imperfections. In the Warren manor, the mute servant Helen (Dorothy McGuire) nurses Mrs. Warren (Ethel Barrymore) who is terminal in bed. The newcomer Dr. Parry (Kent Smith) falls in love for Helen and has the intention to take her to specialists in Boston for treatment for recovering her voice and marry her. When the reckless Steve Warren (Gordon Oliver) arrives from Europe, he stays in the mansion with his mother and his stepbrother Professor Albert Warren (George Brent) and has a brief affair with Albert's assistant Blanche (Rhonda Fleming). When a crippled woman is killed in the town, Mrs. Warren advises Helen to leave the house immediately since she is in danger. When a murder occurs in the mansion, Helen does not know who is trustful to help her to call Dr. Parry to rescue her.The Spiral Staircase is a suspenseful stylish movie, with a magnificent black and white cinematography that follows the German Expressionism and wonderful set decoration in Victorian style. It is impressive the use of shadows and lights in many unforgettable scenes, like for example Blanche in the basement or Helen in the spiral staircase. The beginning is an awesome tribute to the earlier days of the cinema. The performances are excellent and it is impossible to individually highlight any actor or actress. The plot keeps the tension until the very end in this great movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Silêncio nas Trevas (Silence in the Darkness) "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase starts off with an afflicted woman being murdered, and right from the onset I was surprised at how explicit it was for its time - by today's standards it's nothing you don't see every day on television, but 1946 was a very different time.It then moves onwards and we are introduced to a young woman who is mute and lives in a mansion with a long, spiraling staircase. (Hint this pays off later in the movie.) When it's made known that a killer is making his rounds murdering afflicted women, the owner of the mansion fears for the mute woman's life - and after a string of more murders occur they realize she's next.RKO's picture was far ahead of its time. Someone on here said it's not a film noir and commanded that people stop calling it one. I'll disagree. I think it IS film noir, in the sense that it's a personal struggle for one person who's surrounded by death and murder. I don't think it should be left up to one person to decide what film noir really means. I do think there are limits of course (Batman Returns is NOT film noir, it just tries to come across as one) but no one should say, This isn't a film noir because it's a thriller. So what? Loads of film noirs are thrillers.I personally feel the stylings, the themes and the motif of the movie could be classified as film noir. It's a beautiful movie to look at, very well filmed, and the ending is probably one of the best I can remember ever seeing.It's had a few remakes over the years, but the first remains the best - by a long shot.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric old dark house thriller...quiet but deadly...","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For sheer mastery in the art of black and white photography and its ability to provide the shadowy atmosphere necessary for mood, they don't come any better than this. The house alone is as much a part of the plot as the actors--but everything clicks...the acting, the script, the story, the direction and the brooding atmosphere that lets you know you're in for an intense and absorbingly suspenseful story. All of the suspense is relieved occasionally with just the right amount of humor. Particularly by Elsa Lanchester as the housekeeper who uses trickery to steal an extra bottle of liquor from the wine cellar. While thunder and lightning storms outside the mansion, we know that a serial killer is lurking on or near the premises, one who specializes in murdering women with physical afflictions. At the center of the story is Dorothy McGuire's character, a mute girl who lost her voice years ago during a traumatic experience. Around her are a number of people, all of whom become suspicious as the plot thickens--Kent Smith, Rhonda Fleming, George Brent, Ethel Barrymore and Gordon Oliver. Ethel Barrymore is especially good as a frightened old woman, bedridden and suspicious enough of everyone. For comparison, view the recent color TV adaptation, bland in overall effect. It will make you appreciate this black and white classic more than ever. As with most remakes, it doesn't stand a chance against the original.My only complaint is that DOROTHY McGUIRE does not have much range in her expressions. Wide-eyed, but seldom wild, her restraint limits the amount of fear her character can express without using her voice. A more over-the-top performance might have been more useful, given the Gothic mood created so well by director Robert Siodmak. She is overshadowed by Ethel Barrymore as a bed-ridden invalid urging her to leave the house and Gordon Oliver, as the playboy step-brother who plays his role to the hilt. GEORGE BRENT does nicely for the most part, but seems too laid back in the final scenes to be as menacing as he is meant to be.Still, well worth watching for its shadowy Victorian atmosphere alone. "},{"Title":"Silent Terror","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" (Slight Spoilers Effective turn of the century thriller set in New England about a killer on the loose murdering young women in the community who have imperfections in their mental or physical abilities. It's as if this murderer, like mimicking the actions a wolf pack, is attempting to cull out the sick and the weak reindeer or caribou to keep the rest of the herd strong and healthy for future breeding. After murdering three unfortunate young women the murderer zeros in on young Helen Capel, Dorothy McGuire, a mute young women who works as a maid for the old and bed-ridden Mrs.Warren, Ethel Barrymore, at her estate outside of town.You begin to realize that the killer is in a way imperfect himself and by trying to eliminate those he deems imperfect is making up for his own imperfections. Dorothy McGurie in one of her best roles as the mute and pretty Helen is stalked all through the movie by the killer in the shadows of the Warren Mansion and in the woods around it. There's a really scary scene early in the movie when the killer in the pouring rain follows Helen through the woods at night as she momentarily drops her key to the Warren home only to back off at the last minute when someone else unexpectedly arrives. Ethal Barrymore is also very effective as the sick and bed-ridden Mrs. Warren who has some idea who the killer is and wants Helen to leave the house as soon as possible in order not to end up being his next victim. Both George Brent and Gordon Oliver are fine as the two step-brothers and sons of Mrs Warren in their roles as the serious Prof.Warren and his globe-trotting and fun-loving brother Steve. Who have very deep and troubling insecurities about themselves due to their late authoritative father's high standards that he set for them that they both couldn't live up too.There's also Kent Smith as Dr. Parry who knows the real reason for Helen's loss of speech, she tragically saw her parents die in a house fire at a very young age. Dr. Perry wants to help Helen get her voice back by having her see a vocal specialist that he knows in Boston. It turned out at the end of the movie that it was shock therapy that did the trick. Spine-tingling final when the killer comes out of the shadows and closes in on the terrified Helen for the kill chasing her up the spiral staircase of the Warren house. It's then the killer finds out only too late that he, not Helen, has gotten himself trapped in the cross-hairs of a deadly ambush. "}{"Title":"Terrific Thriller; Excellent Leading Performance","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a terrific thriller, made just the way that thrillers should be done, with nicely crafted tension, atmospheric setting, and plenty of strange and mysterious characters.  Adding in the excellent leading performance by Dorothy McGuire makes it a top-notch picture.From the very beginning, the suspense begins to build, while at the same time McGuire's character Helen immediately attracts and holds the audience's concern and sympathy.  The combination works very well, and while you're never sure what else is going on, or which of the other characters can be trusted, you know that Helen is in danger and that you care about her.The rest of the cast are all nicely matched with their characters, and do a fine job of bringing them to life.  Some of the plot developments probably would prove somewhat implausible if analyzed carefully, but the story and atmosphere are crafted so effectively that you never notice while watching.Anyone who enjoys classic thrillers should make sure to see The Spiral Staircase. "},{"Title":"Classic Gothic Horror Story, Very Atmospheric.","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I caught The Spiral Staircase on the Turner Classic Movies Channel (yes, surprisingly enough, I do watch that channel), and I had heard about this film before and decided to see what it was all about. I'm glad that I did, because it was a very rewarding experience. This film centers around Helen (Dorothy McGuire), a mute house-maid who works for an eccentric woman, Mrs. Warren (Ethel Barrymore), who lives in an old New England mansion with her two grown sons in the early 1900s. In the area where Mrs. Warren lives, a serial killer has begun targeting women with afflictions, or disabilities, strangling them all to death. Helen begins to fear that the killer may target her, and her fears become a reality one stormy night as the murderer stalks her within Mrs. Warren's darkened mansion, waiting to strike.I've always enjoyed older black and white movies, and I think it's important to take a look at early cinema to compare it with what modern cinema has evolved to, so I had some sufficient interest in this film. I also love Gothic stories similar to this - so this film was the perfect type for me. The story is apparently a hybrid of two novels that were fused together and made up the plot line for this film, and the story in and of itself is very creepy and very unique. This is a heavily Gothic film, it's up to the brim with about every Gothic element that you can think of - it's a classic horror story, and I loved that about it. Some splendidly chilling sequences (among them being the very eerie scenes where Helen is spied on by the serial killer in the house) and very eerie moments add to the overall foreboding atmosphere that this film gives off.Atmosphere is also very heavy in this film, and many of the story's elements make it so strong. The dark mansion is an eerie and classic setting for a horror story of this type, and the backdrop is used quite effectively. The house is lit only by candlelight, and there are shadows bouncing off the walls everywhere the characters go. The cast is very good and all of the performances were well-done. Dorothy McGuire plays the silent heroine excellently, and the professor and his mother are also both played very well. Most of the cast aren't extremely well-known, besides the legendary Elsa Lanchester (who played the infamous role of the monster's mate in Bride of Frankenstein), but that really doesn't matter much because they all are quite good in their roles. The film's conclusion is satisfying and the film keeps you guessing up until the final revelation, which was a great way to conclude the spooky little story.All in all, The Spiral Staircase is a classic Gothic horror story. It won't scare today's audiences and most modern movie-goers will find little interest here, but if you give it a chance, it is quite an excellent little thriller (especially for it's time), and it has plenty to offer. Wonderful horror classic, I'm surprised that there aren't more people aware of this film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Twenty-first century suspense films &#150; take notice","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  -Possible Spoilers-The Spiral Staircase is a fine example of why I seem to prefer classic films over the majority of what is turned out from Hollywood today, particularly in the suspense/thriller genre.  The film has a fairly simple plot; in turn of the century New England, a serial killer is targeting women with various physical impairments and sets his sights on Helen, (Dorothy McGuire) a woman who has been mute since a traumatic moment in her childhood.  During one stormy night in the mansion where she works as a nurse/companion for a dying matriarch (Ethel Barrymore) she finds that she is the next target and is trapped in the house with the killer inside.  While the story is pretty basic, and the killer is pretty easily identifiable early on, this is a really creepy film that brilliant employs a lot of simple devices to make the film psychologically scary and very suspenseful.  Even more artful, I found that the moments left in the film after we find out who the killer is to be the most frightening; I literally could feel my heart pounding.  It was no surprise to learn that audiences in 1946 were absolutely terrified during this film, because it is masterfully done.  --Shelly   "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this any more","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I find it surprising that there are almost 50 user comments on this '40's melodrama and even more surprising that by far the greater number of them are so favourable. Not that I would disagree. It is simply that I had mistakenly imagined that as I had recommended it to one of my sons when he was in his twenties with the comment, They no longer make them like this, and received the reply, Thank God!, attitudes might be even more dismissive now so that a strong defence would be the order of the day. Pleasing to find that this is no longer necessary and that practically everything I would have written has already been said. For us oldies for whom The Spiral Staircase was a formative part of our childhood, the film still evokes enormous pleasure. It is, after all, the definitive Old Dark House / Lady In Distress movie with all the trappings of Hollywood Gothic, flashes of lightning, bursts of thunder and an old Victorian country mansion full of shadows and terror that might erupt any minute. As a child I loved experiencing those frissons of fear when a live eye might stare out from a portrait on a wall. The malevolent eye that stares out from behind a rack of clothes hanging in a cupboard during the first murder scene in The Spiral Staircase is possibly the most chilling of them all. Indeed everything about the first ten minutes of the film is masterly; the evocation of a small New England town on a sultry afternoon before the gathering storm, the hotel with the silent film show downstairs and the murder of the crippled girl in a room upstairs; the dumb girl's apprehensive journey home to the creepy house where she works as a domestic, taking in a wood with eerie sounds en route. The dramatic tension of the film is greatly enhanced by seeming to take place in real time, a late afternoon and a long, long evening. If the male characters are on the surface a rather uninteresting lot, there is enormous compensation on the female side with a trio of middle-aged to elderly biddies hamming it up for all they are worth, Elsa Lanchester as the cook whose fondness for a drop almost knocks another nail in the heroine's coffin, Sara Allgood, the irascible nurse driven by pique to depart from the house thus further endangering Dorothy Maguire and most impressive of all, Ethel Barrymore as the invalid confined to her bed who senses the evil all around but is powerless to help until the end. Two odd points worth noting. I would never have guessed that the staring eye was that of the director, Robert Siodmak. The fact that it resembles so remarkably that of the actual murderer rather gives the game away very early in the film. Then there is the spiral staircase itself that isn't a real spiral as it is broken by a straight piece of corridor every time it reaches a floor of the house. Although a climactic scene at the end of the film takes place on it and overhead shots accompany the opening credits, it doesn't really have the significance the title suggests. It could be just another part of the hokum that I find so irresistible. Having recently sat through The Skeleton Key a recent Old Dark House film that contains little more than a couple of moments where figures jump out on you, I can again say quite unashamedly that they don't make films like The Spiral Staircase any more. The more's the pity. "},{"Title":"Style, Suspense & The Evil Eye","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This stylish thriller was based on Ethel Lina White's novel Some Must Watch and features a very strong cast, an excellent script (by Mel Dinelli) and some stunning work by director Robert Siodmak and cinematographer Nicholas Musuraca. Its German expressionist style, fluid camera movements and slanted camera angles create an ominous atmosphere which becomes even more threatening in the sequences which are either shot from the murderer's point of view or where close-ups of the killer's eye are seen and the whole effect is then strengthened further by a creepy score in which the eerie sound of the theremin is prominent.The Spiral Staircase is set in a small New England town in the early part of the 20th century. A serial killer is on the loose and the victims to date have all been women with disabilities. Helen Capel (Dorothy McGuire) is a beautiful young woman who's employed as a servant by a wealthy invalid called Mrs Warren (Ethel Barrymore). Helen lost her ability to speak following a traumatic event in her childhood and is now seen as being in considerable danger of being the killer's next victim.Mrs Warren lives in an old mansion with her stepson Albert who's an urbane professor, her son Steve who's a widely travelled womaniser and her employees who, in addition to Helen, include a housekeeper, a handyman, a secretary and a nurse. There are a number of strained relationships in the Warren residence as the two brothers don't see eye to eye, Mrs Warren has a low opinion of both brothers (who she regards as being weak) and Nurse Barker (Sara Allgood) is consistently humiliated by the insulting way that she's treated by her employer.Mrs Warren likes Helen and is very concerned about her safety. She warns her that she's in imminent danger and pleads with her to leave without delay. Dr Parry (Kent Smith) is a newcomer to the town and a man who's taken a romantic interest in Helen. On one occasion when he attends Mrs Warren, she begs him to take Helen away with him but an emergency call for him to visit another patient prevents him from doing so. This unfortunately leaves Helen unprotected when the serial killer eventually reveals himself and makes it clear that he's determined to kill her.As previously mentioned, the movie's visual style is particularly strong but the whole story is also compelling to watch from start to finish, partly because of the marvellous bunch of characters featured but also because the action is so well paced. A number of sequences (such as the first murder) are especially well staged and the carefully created suspense never lets up.The acting is good throughout and Dorothy McGuire deserves special praise for the realistic way in which she expresses her feelings and reactions to situations without any dialogue. Ethel Barrymore was nominated for an Academy Award (Best Actress in a Supporting Role) in recognition of the strength of her portrayal of the cranky Mrs Warren and Elsa Lanchester brings some humour to her role as Mrs Oates, the housekeeper. "},{"Title":"Scary steps","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What better to watch on a cold, dark rainy night than this classic Hollywood Gothic chiller from the 40's. Atmospherically directed by Robert Siodmak, it starts with a shocking killer- as-voyeur murder of a crippled young woman in a hotel room. Soon afterwards we're introduced to the film's central character, the young Dorothy Malone, playing a mute housemaid to the bedridden matriarch of a massive old mansion which has as its centrepiece, as if you couldn't guess, a spiral staircase. With a small cast of central characters it's not too hard to identify the eventual killer, but by making full use of the dark, rambling old house, Siodmak nevertheless gets the nerve-ends jangling as the danger to Malone increases. There are some marvellous touches, one, where the murderer, who, it's already been established, only kills handicapped women of some kind or other, sees Malone's mouth-less reflection in a mirror, surreally but brilliantly highlighting her disability, another the murder of secretary Blanche from the murderer's point-of-view, his outline obscuring all but her futilely quivering hands as she is strangled to death. Yes, the story's a bit ramshackle in places with an implausible ending,where Helen gets rescued by an unlikely source but shot in gloomy black and grey, with the sprawling house a character in itself, noir-ish shadows everywhere and committed acting by all, this is a devilishly good thriller, the spell only finally broken when Malone is shocked back to the land of the speaking in the final scene. "},{"Title":"The Eyes Have It","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Like Charlie Chan at Treasure Island,this film uses close-ups of eyes to convey evil. It's most effective when the killer in film is sizing up a prospect. It's set in a small town at turn of century,the gaslight era. Dorothy McGuire is a mute servant girl in a spooky old mansion presided over by Ethel Barrymore. The old lady keeps urging the girl to leave as she is in danger. The picture boasts the superb technical facilities that existed at RKO in the forties,photography,costumes,etc. I especially liked creepy film score. The scene in the woods that shows Dorothy walking home. The music changes from light to medium tones then to sinister as she suspects someone might be following her. Very effective. The music cues for the staring eye scene are good,too. This film has been remade a few times but never as good as this one. Highly recommended. The cast is very good,featuring a young Rhonda Fleming,fresh from Spellbound. George Brent, Warner Brothers stalwart, is on hand as the master of the house and older brother of the family. "},{"Title":"Made in 1946, seriously?","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film for the first time in 2015, almost 70 years on from when it was made, it sounds unreal to put it like that. It gets a 10 from me, my interest in the film noir genre is growing and this is definitely one of the best i've seen. The Gothic English setting is perfect, although it has a slightly unclear American/British feel to it. In truth I don't recognise a lot of the cast, I'm of course familiar with Elsa Lanchester, great actress. I can see how Ethel Barrymore was an Oscar nominee for her performance. I have seen the 70's remake, which is quite pale and garish in comparison. A classic glorious film I will be watching again soon. Classic! "},{"Title":"Nice and spooky.","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'The Spiral Staircase' has a lot of nice light / dark atmosphere in and around the mansion, where spookiness is abound. The story is pretty much okay, though in the middle it was dragging on a little. A couple of scenes take the cake visually (e.g. Helen in front of the mirror, her wedding fantasy and when she finally begins to speak), but the film looks good overall, as well. The acting is just fine, but Dorothy McGuire stands out; even if some parts felt a little over-acted, she still won my sympathy for Helen. It must have been a difficult part to play, I would say.A big 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Evilest Eye in Cinema History","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Being one of the last truly great thriller/mystery classics I still had lingering on my must-see list; I cherished big expectations for The Spiral Staircase. Perhaps even a little TOO big&#x85; Don't get me wrong, it's a fantastic film and a bona fide genre masterpiece, but somehow I expected even more suspense and moodiness! Let me just get out of my system that certain sequences inside the old dark house were a bit tedious and overdone. But hey, who's complaining, since the full rest of the film is pure perfection in terms of beauty, elegance, atmosphere and scenery. It's rather intriguing how certain films, like Freaks or Peeping Tom to name just two, caused so much controversy and scandal while The Spiral Staircase is widely considered as an untouchable landmark even though it features similar prohibited themes like voyeurism and murder victims with a disability. The opening sequence is almost too brilliant for words. A medium sized crowed gathers in a small theater for a silent movie screening while, on the floor above them, a crippled girl prepares herself to go to sleep. The utmost evil glazing eye watches her from inside the wardrobe and strikes exactly when she lifts the gown over her head. You can't get any more expressionistic than that. After that, The Spiral Staircase establishes itself as the sheer archetype of old dark house thrillers. The beautiful but mute Helen is a social worker in the secluded mansion of the ailing Mrs. Warren. A heavy thunderstorm rages outside, Mrs. Warren son and stepson argue over their life styles (and the lovely secretary Blanche) and the rest of the household staff either turns to alcohol or complains about the stubborn matriarch. Both Mrs. Warren and her doctor urge Helen to leave town. Could it be the maniacal killer is inside the house? This film is a rarity. Even though it doesn't require an Einstein brain to figure out the killer's identity, you honestly don't care that much and remain glued to the screen to admire how the Gothic atmosphere unfolds further. Director Robert Siodmak &#x96; a German immigrant in America following WWII &#x96; truly masters the cinematography and Victorian set pieces. He also manages to include the thunderstorm as an extra &#x96; and essential &#x96; supportive character. Speaking of the cast, I dare you to name a so-called 'damsel in distress' more amiable than Dorothy McGuire's Helen. She's a vulnerable angel, targeted by a frustrated and obsessive madman on a mission to rid the world of imperfection. Especially the women impress in The Spiral Staircase as I simply must also mention Ethel Barrymore as Mrs. Warren (nominated for an Oscar, even) and Elsa Bride of Frankenstein Lanchester as the maid with a taste for brandy. "}{"Title":"The Power of Affliction, the Affliction of Power","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase (1945)The Power of Affliction, the Affliction of PowerIf you want to buy into the demented fixation of the murderer, played by the good natured George Brent, you'll have to stretch it a bit. This well mannered professor feels there is no room for human flaws or afflictions in the world. Hence, the mute heroine of the movie is on his to-kill list. Of course, this meek and troubled Helen (with Dorothy McGuire perfectly cast) is not about to die in front of us--in fact, at the end she comes to life, in a way, by regaining her voice, thanks to the goodness of a young handsome doctor, Kent Smith.If you'd rather just buy into a classic manipulation of mood and familiar suspense movie fears you're all set, because that's what this delivers. Robert Siodmak, who also directed the gritty and gripping The Killers and Criss Cross, gives dramatic mood first priority, achieved most of all with astonishing lighting and camera-work. I know, there are endless astonishing black and white movies from the 1940s. But this is one of them, and while you are being creeped out or downright scared for Helen, watch the way the camera moves us through the shadow infested house. Some reviewers talk of the excess of clichés in the movie the thunder and lightning, the rain against the windows, the dark corners of hallways, the cobwebbed cellar, and shadows everywhere like the crazy moving shadows of trees blowing in the lightning storm. And a candle that blows out when you most need it. And a window swinging open for no reason as the rain rushes in. People complain about this? Isn't this the point? Isn't this the most revered way of making a scary film scary?Remember, too, this is a film that helped cement those would-be clichés, beaten into silliness by the B-movies in the 1950s, and television later still. It gets a bit much with the blowup of the eye and the murder seen in its supposed reflection--or does it? This isn't camp, it's just drama. The clichéd notion that this is like Hitchcock also needs the reminder that Hitchcock's classic American suspense films are being made around the same time or later. I'm not taking away from the great Hitchcock innovations, and the free spirit he brought to unfolding a good plot (a spirit not really in play here), but visually, at least, this movie is at the top of the game on its own terms.There are some strong supporting parts, each perfectly exaggerated just a hair, like the gruff old woman in bed played with energy by Ethyl Barrymore, no less. And there is that terrific view at the beginning inside a World War I era movie theater a woman is playing live piano for soundtrack as the crowd is sitting rapt in the dark, the projector being cranked by hand. And remember, our mute (but not deaf) heroine, watching The Kiss as we watch, lives in a world parallel to that in the silent film. As the woman upstairs is being strangled, a dead girl is carried on screen below. This is great stuff. And then the man runs up a sort of spiral staircase in the hotel.And the gorgeous spiral staircase in the house is to truly die for. "},{"Title":"Long On Atmosphere","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's 1916 and a rash of women being killed who are 'imperfect' in the eyes of the killer whomever it is have both Dr. Kent Smith and bedridden dowager Ethel Barrymore concerned for the life of Dorothy McGuire, a beautiful, but mute servant girl in her house.There's not much mystery to this film, it's not hard to guess the identity of the perpetrator, given the limited number in the cast. But The Spiral Staircase is one of the most atmospheric films ever done. Director Robert Siodmark made terrific use of the Victorian era set of the Warren house where 90% of the film is done. The centerpiece of course being The Spiral Staircase.Two years before a deaf mute act won Jane Wyman an Academy Award, a lot of people, me included, felt Dorothy McGuire should have at least gotten a nomination for her role. She conveys so much in her portrayal, the meekness of her character and the gradual overwhelming fear that takes over her as she senses danger. Worse even when she fixes on the wrong individual as her menace.Ethel Barrymore got an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress as the crotchety old woman who was in McGuire's keeping. But Ethel had won the same Oscar back in 1944 for None But The Lonely Heart. She lost in the finals to Anne Baxter for The Razor's Edge.George Brent, Gordon Oliver, Rhys Williams, Rhonda Fleming, and Elsa Lanchester round out a good cast in one of the best atmospheric thrillers ever put on film. "},{"Title":"Folks, please learn the definition of film noir","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This excellent suspense yarn contains spot-on performances, wonderful set design, and great direction. It is not, however, an example of film noir. That is one of the most abused phrases, regarding film genres.Although the film has been remade several times, none are superior to this original production.Major talent populates this RKO A-movie, and it should definitely be on every film lovers must-see list.It's not about who-done-it, but the quality of film-making, and the professionalism of the cast.Film noir it isn't. Excellent it is. "},{"Title":"McGuire and Barrymore terrific","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A woman is found strangled in a hotel. Dr. Parry (Kent Smith) is one of two doctors in the small town. The older Dr. Harvey is dismissive of the younger Parry. Parry urges mute Helen (Dorothy McGuire) to leave her job. Helen returns to bedridden Mrs. Warren (Ethel Barrymore)'s mansion as her personal nurse but there is a mysterious man lurking outside in the storm. Mrs. Warren cryptically urges Helen to leave that night.I really love McGuire and Barrymore together. They have so much power even with a silent McGuire. I love the mood in that bedroom. The other characters are almost useless when McGuire isn't there. None of the others are that compelling compared to the 3 leads and I can't wait for their scenes to be over. The last act is pretty good but I bet a remake with some blood can be much more intense. "},{"Title":"Familiar, but highly atmospheric","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE is one of the best known in the old dark house genre. These films typically feature a disparate group of characters who inevitably find themselves alone and trapped within a huge, rambling and spooky old house on the night of a storm, with a killer amongst them. What's notable about this outing is just how stylish it is the story is nothing special, but the style makes it.The story features a black-gloved killer (complete with POV shots) who hides in wardrobes and stalks his young, female victims and strangles them. In one of the movie's most infamous shots, the viewer sees a victim from the killer's point of view, and she's missing her mouth; symptomatic of his disturbed mind, and highly eerie with it. The whodunit aspect of the storyline is played up strongly, with some red herrings thrown into the mix, although it's pretty easy for a modern viewer to guess the identity of the murderer.THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE features some decent performances, particularly from Dorothy McGuire, playing (unusually) a leading role as a mute. That the viewer becomes accustomed to her muteness and, eventually, even forgets about it is testament to her performance. Elsewhere in the cast, there's a barnstorming turn from grand old dame Ethel Barrymore who rules the roost from her deathbed, and a nicely comic performance from the BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN herself, Elsa Lanchester, as a drunk cook.In the end, the film works because of the visual flourishes. As in a film noir, there's a lot of creeping about in the shadows, and silhouettes of various things and people play a big part. The emphasis on a deranged killer is a neat precursor to the later gialli and slasher films of the '70s and '80s, and there's little padding on the bare bones of the narrative. It's a good 'un. "},{"Title":"Still scary","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Even now, six decades after it was made, I wouldn't want to spoil the ending of this movie for anyone who hasn't seen it. The Spiral Staircase grips you from the first close-up of the killer's eye until the end credits.The Spiral Staircase is a serial killer movie, made long before the expression was coined in the 1970's. The real power of this movie is not so much in the brutality of the murders, which mostly happen off screen anyway, but in the relentless build up of tension and the moody style of the whole production.My appreciation for the film increased after reading Ethel Lina White's novel, Some Must Watch. The screenwriters introduced many distinctive touches that were not in the novel. For example, the fact that the victims were all women with afflictions and that Helen, the main character played by Dorothy Maguire is mute. Indeed, the actual motive behind the murders in the movie makes more sense in a nasty kind of way than in the novel where the killer's reason was simply a love of killing, The filmmakers also changed the locale from England to New England and set the movie in the early 1900's.Although The Spiral Staircase is generally recognised as a classic, some have charged it with being too talky. But I feel that some exposition was needed to set up the framework of the story, and to introduce the red herrings that keep the audience guessing about who the murderer is. However, the film has been remade at least twice using almost the same screenplay but with lacklustre results. The 1945 version easily outshines them, proving that the basic ingredients needed the magic in the mixing that director Robert Siodmack and his team brought to the production.Admittedly other actors probably could have played most of the parts without loss to the overall effect. The exception, in my opinion, is Ethel Barrymore who brought to the character of Mrs Warren the special quality she gave all her roles &#x96; she was a truly unique presence on the screen. To be fair, Dorothy Maguire also brings a lot to her role. The film also features Rhonda Fleming in a small part &#x96; only her third credited screen role after playing an asylum inmate in Hitchcock's Spellbound. Speaking of Hitchcock, I think The Spiral Staircase stands comparison with some of his best films, and is head-and-shoulders over his lesser efforts.For me, The Spiral Staircase epitomises the definition of the word thriller. For anyone seeing it for the first time, it is an edgy and unsettling experience, but with enough humanity to relieve the darkness of the story. For those who have seen it before, every viewing is another chance to appreciate the brilliant craftsmanship, both in front of the camera and behind it, which has kept the film so compelling for nearly 70 years. "},{"Title":"I'm glad you couldn't.","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Spiral Staircase was the horror masterpiece Robert Siodmak had always threatened to make.In 1939,Pièges his last French movie and his finest -remade by Douglas Sirk as lured introduced the unusual places,the eerie atmosphere (Von Stroheim's house).In 1944,Phantom Lady from the great William Irish introduced the psychokiller.In 1946, the Dark Mirror  would continue the Freudian vein ,which Spiral staircase had begun.It was not the first time a film had displayed Freudian accents.At the time,all the thrillers directors (Fritz Lang,Alfred HItchcock) had their movie dealing with psychoanalysis.Of course it's dated now.Almost all these catharsis revealed something buried in infancy/childhood.Even the serious works such assnake pit were no exceptions.The black and white cinematography is stunning,dazzling ,making the whole film a feast for the eye.If Siodmak takes the easy way out for his killer's identity,all that surrounds him is splendid indeed Dorothy McGuire,in a theater ,watching a silent movie (she is a mute girl),while horrible things happen in a room upstairs ,things not alike the conclusion of the movie and a sinister omen of events to come;the (Gothic,of course)mansion where scared people flattens themselves after dark;the park where the whispering trees generate fear;the cellar where the pages of a book become an impending menace;this extraordinary dreamlike sequence where MacGuire sees her wedding and this voice which keeps on repeating SayI do! ;the staircase,the central place of the story where the plot is resolved .Spiral staircase is essential viewing for anyone interested in thrillers .Remake by Peter Collinson in 1975 with Jacqueline Bisset.Like this ?Try these -the three other Siodmak movies I mention.-Mute witness Anthony Waller 1994 "},{"Title":"Spooky","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Excellent chiller with an outstanding Dorothy McGuire in the lead. Fantastically moody settings and a real sense of dread permeates the proceedings under Siodmak's solid direction. Its the women in the cast who stand out, aside from McGuire there's a young and very beautiful Rhonda Fleming, a quietly understated but still scenery chewing Ethel Barrymore, and the humorous duo of Elsa Lanchester and Sara Allgood. All the men are rather stolid but it doesn't detract much from this superior and classy fright flick. The people who churn out the blood splattered trash that passes for suspense thrillers today should sit down to watch this and learn how to do this sort of thing properly. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and thrilling when it has to be; interesting and engaging at others. Either way its great","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is 1916 in a quiet little town. Everyone knows one another and the only trouble is a bit of tension between the old town doctor and the new dashing and dedicated Dr Parry. However the town is also beset by a new problem &#150; a serial killer who has already killed three women who suffer from some form of physical or mental disability. Beautiful mute Helen Carpel suspects that she is being stalked outside the home of her employers, but with so many other conflicts within the home, it is unclear where she is safer.Opening with a very clever shot that leads us into the serial killer watching and then killing his victim this film had my attention from the very start. It continues in this vein, with some well executed scenes of watching and stalking that are very tense and thrilling. It doesn't keep this up though, in fact the focus on the serial killer is almost left to slide to one side for much of the middle of the film, but it is more than compensated for by some interesting writing. The brothers that hate one another, the emotional scars that run through Helen, the crowing old woman, the comic touches and many other aspects (not even to mention the idea of a German director making a film about a serial killer targeting those that are imperfect) all make the middle section engaging even if it does lack the tension and style of the start and the end.Speaking of which, the film looks great &#150; light and shadow are used well, with the sets particularly well lit to produce some great shapes and shadows. It is tense not only because of the look but also the relationships, characters and threads that had been developed in the middle section &#150; a section that some reviewers here have absurdly labelled boring! The cast match the material well. McGuire is silent for 99% of the film but still makes for an engaging lead character thanks to her performance. Barrymore is wonderfully bedridden while Brent and Oliver battle each other with gleeful spite.Overall this is a great film for many reasons. On a strictly genre note it looks great, is very atmospheric and thrilling but it is also built on other things such as characters and relationships, all of which help to make this stand out in the mind apart from similar genre films. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Brilliant, Brilliant","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An absolute masterpiece adapted from the novel of the same name by Ethel Lina White. Incidentally, she also wrote the classic Hitchcock -'The Lady Vanishes'.Maybe its the menacing storm, enormous mansion or the eerie cellar that will leave you terrified. But the real star is Dorothy McGuire, the mute girl. A great performance considering she only utters two sentences in the entire movie!You will replay the final scene in your mind, forever.  "}{"Title":"Stairway to suspense.","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's a serial killer running loose in the community offing women with handicaps. Helen Capel (Dorothy McQuire) , a mute attending to the needs of a crotchety dowager, Mrs. Warren (Ethel Barrymore) in a Victorian mansion more than fits a victim profile so she is closely monitored by Warren's professor son (George Brent) who hopes one day to once again give voice to Helen. On a dark and stormy night another victim is dispatched close to home, in fact in the home. Will Helen be next?Using the bare bone outline of a stereotypical Gothic horror suspense, film practitioners Robert Siodmak and Nick Musaraca turn The Spiral Staircase into a master class of atmospheric terror as they deftly create through form a disturbing whodunit packed with one tense moment after another. Siodmak barely allows the viewer to catch his breath as he tightly edits and moves his camera from one taut scene to the next. Cinematographer Musaraca also does an outstanding job of creating mood by way of lighting and positioning his camera in the same way that brought chills to Cat Woman. Cast wise McQuire does a fine job of conveying her feelings without words while, Barrymore, Brent , Gordon Oliver and Rhonda Fleming play it deceptively ambiguous in their roles with character actors Sarah Allgood, Elsa Lanchester and Rhys Williams offering broad relief while remaining suspects.The Spiral Staircase may use all the tropes that can be found in the haunted house catalog of movie-making but under the capable hands of this cast and crew it embraces the stereotype and beats the odds. "},{"Title":"Morbid Burrowings in Hollywood Melodrama","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Close up. A bulging, abhorrent eye watches a woman getting dressed. A voyeur? Michael Powell would borrow the same technique for Peeping Tom.Then he strikes. A killer who cannot tolerate women with imperfections. The screams alert a congregation of villagers who have gathered to watch the mysterious spectacle of early-century cinema. The birth of voyeurism.A theremin plays, bathing the film in a morbid, oneiric tone. Making the psychological connections clear. A number of red-herrings are established. A mute girl is to be the next victim.Siodmak, working in expressionism and film noir, uses both influences to effect. Combines with the legendary Nick Musuraca. Camera captures dark projections. Tracking shots. P.O.V. Distorted angles. Fear becomes heightened.And then...Hollywood intervenes. A happy ending...not so dark after all. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Old Dark House Film of Its Era?","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A killer who targets women with imperfections is on the loose. Everyone suspects the next victim will be Helen, who is mute and works as a caregiver for a wealthy old woman. Who is the killer and is Helen safe?George Brent stars in this, along with a marvelous cast. I am not familiar with Brent's work, but he was amazing here. And working under Robert Siodmak? What more can you ask for? The Siodmak brothers were a strong force in their day, and sadly forgotten by many today.If you like film noir, thrillers or subtle horror, this film is really a must-see. The title is a tad misleading. Near as I can tell, the spiral staircase plays no important role in the film. But, still, a must-see regardless of title. "},{"Title":"The Spiral Staircase","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Just magnificent psychological tale of suspense regarding a serial killer on the loose, who targets women with imperfections(one was lame, another was simple-minded). The constable(James Bell)warns Professor Warren(George Brent)that he has traced the killer's whereabouts to the Warren estate and to keep an eye open for anything suspicious. Helen Capel(Dorothy McGuire, who is excellent)has been mute since the horrible house fire which killed her parents. A new physician in town, Dr. Parry(Kent Smith)believes the condition is psychological and that Helen must confront what has caused her silence. He believes there's help in Boston which can cure Helen's ailment..Parry is also in love with Helen and vice versa. But, Helen is indeed a woman that the killer might target as she is hired help for the ailing stepmother of the Professor, Mrs. Warren(Ethel Barrymore, also quite good in a rather underwritten role)and so her life could be in danger as long as she remains at the estate's spooky mansion where a possible killer might be lurking. We see, when Helen returned from a movie house where the killer strangled the lame female, that someone is watching her hidden in darkness. Director Siodmak has the camera close in on the killer's crazed, widening eye as it peers at the next chosen victim. So we are informed by the eye staring at Helen(..with the bonus imagined face of Helen without a mouth inside the pupil of the killer's eye)she is to be chosen as the next possible victim setting up the creepy story within the dark, rain-drenched mansion where shadow and light converge. A possible suspect might be the Professor's brother Steve(Gordon Oliver)who arrived home from Paris just as the murders started. Blanche(Rhonda Fleming)is the Professor's secretary, his former flame, now secretly Steve's lover. Mrs. Oates(Elsa Lanchester, who is a hoot and easily steals every scene she's in), the maid, can't resist taking a nip of brandy when she can sneak a bottle from the Professor's cellar. She keeps having to close an open window which had been shut..this is Siodmak's way of informing us that the killer is within the house. Mr. Oates(Rhys Williams)is the man who helps fetch supplies among other duties on the grounds of the Warren estate. He'll have to fetch some ether as the matriarch Warren falls ill often passing out when rattled in her weakened condition. Mrs. Warren constantly warns Helen to leave the premises for her own safety..she seems to feel that danger awaits Helen in the mansion. With Mrs. Oates drunk as a skunk, soon a murder within the cellar has Helen fearing for her life as it seems most are gone from the estate..Parry gets a call from a sick boy, Mr. Oates is off to fetch ether & someone is murdered while two suspects might have something to do with it as Helen must somehow survive on her own.This film has that kind of building dread, and great looking, atmospheric B&W photography one craves when looking for a classic Gothic thriller. The story regarding how a mute, who can not cry for help when the killer is revealed, is perfect within this mansion setting. Using candlelight when certain characters walk into the darkened cellar(where a murder takes place), Siodmak shows his excellence at creating tension. You just know that the cellar is the perfect place for a killer to hide with the ability to catch a victim off-guard when they have their back turned. Also, the spiral staircase of the title is served well thanks to the moving camera and how Siodmak lights it. Just a wonderful little creeper with McGuire in a winning role as she must convey various emotions without uttering a word. "},{"Title":"It was a dark and stormy night....","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The sensational Dorothy McGuire gives one of her most magnetic performances as a mute young lady, companion to an imperious matriarch and an intended murder victim! It appears that a serial killer's intent on disposing of imperfection wherever he sees it, and now McGuire is a target! George Brent and Gordon Oliver are the heirs to bedridden Ethel Barrymore's estate, Brent a stepson intent on running it, and Oliver showing up every now and then to his mother's contention. This is a very odd household Sara Allgood plays the tough nurse Barrymore despises, totally abused by her, while Elsa Lanchaster is the drunken cook. A huge bulldog is first introduced when Lancaster trips over it in the dark and conveniently pops up every now and then.The old dark house surrounded by never ending thunderstorms is in itself a spooky character, with the winding servant's staircase as possibly McGuire's escape-or entrance to doom. Slowly paced to add on tension, this Gothic melodrama utilizes many elements of mystery seeming like a Hitchcock film without the master of suspense involved. The house itself is an American cousin to Rebecca's Mandalay as a set of secrets, with McGuire's muteness a mystery in itself of psychological trauma with psychiatrist Kent Smith desperately trying to break through.The ensemble cast is superb, brilliantly directed by Robert Siodmark, an underrated master of suspense himself, and with an atmosphere of horror that must have had its 1946 audience watching in total silence. It really does not matter that the suspects (identified through obvious shots of the killer's eyes) are a limited few. This grabs you from the very beginning. Remade with indifferent result in 1975 (in spite of an equally excellent cast), this version shows that old fashioned melodrama could still work in 1946, comparable to the original silent version of The Cat and the Canary and holds up just as well today. "},{"Title":"Technically And Thematically Captivating","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A grand example of cinema holding the audience in suspense and letting their imaginations wander by the use of technical prowess, The Spiral Staircase contains a magnitude of visual power which have striking effects.The plot is quite straight forward as a murder mystery takes grip in a picturesque New England town with the murderer strangling women with impairments. Protagonist Helen has been mute since childhood, making the audience suspect she will be the next in danger resulting in an eventful night where the audience constantly questions the identity of the murderer and are kept apprehensive of him. Without the use of expressionist methods or perfectly planned camera positions, The Spiral Staircase may have been nothing more than a typical whodunit story. Yet it is the technical sophistication shown by people behind the camera such as Roy Webb (lighting), Nicholas Musuraca (cinematography), Albert D'Agostino and Jake Okey (art direction) who transformed the space within the film to one of atmospheric and haunting brilliance.Even as early as the opening credits the audience is made to be aware of The Spiral Staircase's tone as a lonely figure is shown walking down the staircase with thunder blasting from the windows and dark shadows on the wall letting their imaginations run wild with anxiety. The audience is always kept on their toes as to the whereabouts of the murderer, for example when Helen is returning to her place of work at the Warren mansion, the heavy rain is a juxtaposition for the dark lighting to be a backdrop as the audience sees the murderer from behind, lurking in the trees stalking Helen. Being made aware of the murderer's presence when the characters are not has always been an effective tool in suspending the audience. When Helen herself knows the identity of the murderer it begins a cat and mouse chase around the mansion with the use of darkly lit spaces, empty corridors and haunting music playing on the audience's mind making them just as tense as it would be for Helen.Along with the technical aspects of The Spiral Staircase being top notch, the acting was also to standard in particular the lead protagonist and antagonist. It must have been a huge task for Dorothy McGuire to play Helen in total silence but she managed to pull it off, using her demeanour in an innocent fashion and her facial expressions were always on cue for the right amount of emotions to convey herself as the vulnerable target. George Brent as the seemingly friendly Professor Warren, an employer of Helen who switches to deadly determination when allowed to show his true colours indicates the extent of his acting ability.Brent's acting goes on par with that of Gordon Oliver who plays his younger, apparently more sinister brother in the sub plot of their family conflict. A recurring motif of this sub plot is the mentioning of their Father, who was a man of strength and despised the weak. When the Professor is revealed to the audience as the murderer, he states he hoped he made his Father proud. This startling comment along with the victims having impairments seem to indicate the Professor's distorted vision of humanity is an allegory for social cleansing the Nazis deemed fit during World War Two. Considering The Spiral Staircase was released less than a year after the war's end, such evils would be fresh in the mind of the contemporary audience at that point in time, playing on these feelings to enhance the horrific aspect of the plot line a step further. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and atmospheric","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the best thrillers of the 1940's. It's about a small town where disabled women are being strangled to death by an unknown psychopath and Helen (Dorothy McGuire), a beautiful, mute servant in a wealthy household, may be the next target. The Gothic mansion is owned by an ailing widow (Ethel Barrymore) who is overbearing to her staff and family, but is fond of Helen and pleads with her to leave before the killer attacks her. Also interested in her is a young, idealistic doctor ((Kent Smith), who also yearns for her romantically along with his desire to cure her muteness, caused by a childhood trauma. Eventually, it becomes apparent that the killer is someone in the House and the suspect list includes the widow's playboy son (Gordon Oliver) and professor stepson from her late husband's prior marriage (George Brent), and perhaps even the doctor. The house is Gothic, with lost of shadows and corridors. It makes a great setting. Kudos especially go to Nicholas Musuraca's cinematography, which takes full advantage of the sets and uses light and shadows to excellent effect. This provides more suspense than most of the more violent films of current times. "},{"Title":"Cineamatography, Atmosphere, Performances, and Pacing Create Textbook Whodunit","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A fantastic piece of celluloid horror, The Spiral Staircase, entertains and invests the viewer completely. A seemingly idyllic New England town has a dark cast over it right away as an innocuous modern miracle of moving pictures is shattered by another in a series of murders. The central character, Helen, who is a mute (an afflicted female), while walking home from the show is given a ride by the chivalrous Dr. Parry who warns her that she is in particular peril and should not tarry in the least. This sets a stage as Helen approaches the home of her eccentric employer. A home that though an island of safety is wrought with peril all around it. The atmosphere provided by the excellent settings and complimentary cinematography is so thick you can feel it. As Helen reaches the perceived safety of her employer's home a sense of forbidding evil lurks as someone is watching and she narrowly escapes his grasp. What transpires is a study in edgy horror as the night progresses and Helen is in and out of danger.It's 2011 and I've never seen The Spiral Staircase until now. What I can say is in seeing it I've seen one of a very small number of absolute classics in the horror genre. It's uniformly excellent in all things considered and shouldn't be missed by any fan of cinema, horror or otherwise. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A stylish and suspenseful Gothic thriller","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This elegant Gothic film-noir is about a stormy night at a remote mansion where a mysterious serial killer is at large. The murderer has terrorized the local community, killing women with physical infirmities. At the centre of the story is a mute maid, who understandably is in fear for her life&#x85;The Spiral Staircase is quite a suspenseful and scary film considering its age. Having the villain as a psychotic woman-killer is quite unusual for a Gothic film. It's a fairly explicit subject for a 40's movie but makes it all the more frightening. The scene early on where he stalks the maid in the dark, in the rain, is a scary one indeed. What adds to the atmosphere is the excellent cinematography and expressionistic shadows. The spiral staircase of the title doesn't have too much of a relevance to the plot but it's where the final scenes of the film happen and those are good.This is a good combination between film-noir and Gothic-film. It takes the creepy aspects of both genres and puts them together as a beautifully photographed whole. Very much a recommended old chiller. "},{"Title":"An Exercise in Atmosphere and Tension","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Killers made me discover the work of Robert Siodmak; The Devil Strikes At Night straightened my love for it. The Spiral Staircase continues my fascination with the work of a director who today is barely known and yet was a master.The Spiral Staircase, made in the same year as The Killers, should be studied in film school as perfect example of how to create a haunting, oppressive atmosphere in horror movies.The movie's heroine is Helen, a mute maid who works for Mrs. Warren, an invalid rich woman. In the town they live in, a serial killer (this is in the early years of the 20th century), is killing 'imperfect' women. As the movie begins, Helen is watching a silent movie as the killer, upstairs, kills a woman with a limp. Helen returns to Mrs. Warren's mansion in fear, and we the audience can see she's being followed.Once she enters the house, it becomes obvious the killer is inside too. And slowly we wait, in pure torment, for the eventual confrontation, for that moment when the two come together. It's even more fascinating because slowly the house becomes emptier as people leave for this and that reason, meaning that Helen will soon be helplessly alone with the killer. It's one of the most suspenseful build ups I've ever seen in a movie.Sadly the movie is not perfect; what happens from the moment she arrives at the mansion to the moment the killer is revealed is filled with smaller moments of tension, but also with some contrived scenes and some sloppy storytelling. For one thing, it's pretty obvious who the killer is. Secondly, there's some bad dialogue in the movie.But the way Siodmak creates tension and atmosphere is perfect. The mansion itself is an amazing set, with its corners, its staircases, and its mirrors with their creepy reflections. There's a trip down the cellar that is frightening thanks to the way the cellar is designed, full of shadows, cluttered with stuff, with strange sounds.Then there is Nicholas Musuraca's cinematography. There's an effect that I love in this movie in a very dark room, suddenly the screen lights up. It's used a few times and with a good effect too.Dorothy McGuire gives an excellent performance with just one line of dialogue. Playing the mute Helen, she manages to express herself just with her bright, wide-eyed eyes. Her eyes full of fear are especially amazing. Although only Ethel Barrymore was nominated for an Oscar in this movie, for me McGuire gave a career-defining performance here.Although this movie lacks the clarity of narrative that Siodmak's other movies have, this is nevertheless a fascinating movie. It's not a poor man's Alfred Hitchcock movie, although the Master's influence is undeniable. In fact one can see the beginning of many trends in this movie the killer wearing black gloves, the close-ups of the killer's eyes as he's watching his victims; the shot of the killer hidden in the shadows - all iconic images that have entered the language of horror cinema. For its historical importance to the genre, The Spiral Staircase deserves to be remembered. "}{"Title":"Anything  can  happen  in  the  dark...","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Trouble is, not a lot really does, in between the absolutely superb set-pieces that distinguish this piece and compensate for its gradually faltering script.. The opening sequences have a classical brilliance. A lame girl is strangled in a Massachusetts village-hotel one thundery afternoon. Seized from behind she does not struggle with her attacker - identified to us only as a Glaring Eye - but is posed strikingly with convulsed hands above her head like a kind of religious sacrifice. Downstairs in the lobby an early form of motion-picture show is also reaching a tragic end. Among the rapt audience sits Helen (Dorothy McGuire) for whom this world that cannot speak has direct relevance. As a child she had witnessed the deaths of her parents in a fire and has been mute from shock ever since. Which puts her high on the hit-list of the Glaring Eye who's already accounted for several young girls with imperfections. The self-important Constable (James Bell) warns her to get home before dark..She accepts a buggy-ride from the new young doctor (Kent Smith) who wants her to see a specialist and whose interest seems more than professional. When he's summoned on the road to a case she continues on alone through the tingly-tangly woods to the big old Warren mansion where she lives-in as a domestic. Armed with a piece of branch she runs it along the fence like a child whistling in the dark but fails to notice, as the storm breaks, a figure in oilskins watching her from behind a tree along the drive. As she fumbles for her key in the pelting rain it makes to intercept her but she reaches the front door unaware and unscathed. Inside the house, splendid with spacious vistas and shadowy byways, a sly old matriarch (Ethel Barrymore) dominates the scene, ostensibly bedridden but with a revolver under her pillow. Just as well as Glaring Eye's on the premises, scrutinising Helen from the landing as she studies her reflection in the full-length mirror. Her breath on the glass makes her mouth disappear... Things start spiralling down once we meet the Warren children - playboy son Stephen (Gordon Oliver) and his half-brother Albert (George Brent), a stuffy Professor whose beautiful secretary Blanche (Rhonda Fleming with her old nose) is conducting an uneasy affair with his despised sibling. While this dull trio go through the motions (to increasingly uninspired dialogue) Mrs. Warren keeps warning Helen to quit the house, the tippling cook (Elsa Lanchester) gets drunk and all's set in motion rather too obviously to leave Helen alone with the killer. In all this aftermath four scenes stand out in sharp relief - Helen's daydream of marrying the doc becomes a nightmare, chillingly staged, when she's unable to say I do at the ceremony; the murder of Blanche in the wine-cellar, again with disturbingly religious imagery, though prefaced with the hoariest cliché - Oh it's you ! she exclaims brightly to camera, You frightened the life out of me !; Helen's desperate failure to summon help when the Constable calls unexpectedly - and the showdown on the titular staircase, the old lady rising from her bed, gun in hand, to pump some much-needed blood into the climax - and give Helen her voice back...It was a real treat to discover the source-novel by Ethel Lina White in full online. Set on the Welsh border in the 1930s it has a fuller cast of characters, good conversation and humour, interesting period details, some intriguing twists and turns - and brilliantly extended suspense. And Helen's not mute in the book - a major bonus - and being Welsh (like Miss White) she's got plenty to say for herself. "},{"Title":"Excellent woman-in-danger melodrama in sumptuous old mansion","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I thought that I'd actually seen this one years ago, but nothing seemed terribly familiar. Dorothy McGuire excelled at the woman-in-danger roles, and here she is as a young woman rendered mute by unspeakable tragedy in the past, acting as caretaker for a rather gruff and mean bedridden old woman in a spooky old Gothic house filled with unpleasant, unhappy people. Young women have been dying in mysterious ways in the town (where, we never learn, but it's a late-Victorian atmosphere - actually 1916 - that seems like it could be in the same neighborhood as the Amberson mansion, in a slightly better part of town than George Bailey's abode) and it looks like murder! The constable believes the killer is in the vicinity, and what's more he's killing women with disabilities.IMDb lists this as noir, but most other sources don't -- it's a period piece and there really isn't a proper noir protagonist unless it's McGuire. Whatever you call it, it's very well-shot and the suspense is palpable throughout. Fine work by Elsa Lanchester and George Brent, among others. "},{"Title":"Excellent Suspense","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It amazes me that the author of The Lady Vanishes had this work done by someone other the the master of suspense Alfred Hitchcock. That is no great loss as this film could not have been done much better. Staircases are a central theme in most Hitchcock films which makes it even more odd.Dorothy Mcguire is the least known star in the history of Hollywood and in this film, with a thin Stanwyck type figure, she is in top form as the star. A great supporting cast includes George Brent, Rhonda Fleming, and Elsa Lanchester (yes, the bride of Frankenstein, not Al Frankenstein) in support. Mcguire did a lot of great live stage work but when you look at the films she did, her talent is being forgotten by todays generation. That is their loss as she is in several excellent films. A supporting Oscar went to Ethyl Barrymore for her work in this film. Shet is another reason this film is worth viewing.This film is about murder, and more murder, and is sufficiently scary to make fans of this film genre very happy. The production work and directing work is very well done and it has a look of being outdoors even though it was shot in studio sets. This film was just featured as an essential on TCM and it is very easy to see why. "},{"Title":"Well Done Who Done It","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a well-done who done it. It would be great to watch on a dark and stormy night, (or day) when snuggled in the house during a snowstorm, etc. It gets you involved quickly and even though I guessed the culprit early on, I also guessed it was everyone else but the dog...and there was a moment when...Never mind. He was too short.Surprisingly good acting from all involved although it could have easily become a schmaltzy melodrama. True the ending explanation by the killer of why (he/xhe/it) did i is a little corny. But hey, that's part of the formula for these types of movies and the period.So settle in and snuggle down to enjoy this film and keep something heavy nearby just in case someone tries to sneak up on you. "},{"Title":"Excellent atmosphere, a visual treat","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Terrific Gothic thriller, one of the best of it's kind. A serial killer is murdering women with afflictions, and the mute servant Dorothy McGuire looks to be next on his list. Dripping with atmosphere, well-paced and well-acted, this is a great film. While the killer is pretty obvious from the outset, the fun is in getting to the gripping climax, and we are treated to plenty of visual treats. I love how the film opens, with the silent film The Kiss (1914). How apt, for both the time period and the fact that McGuire's character is essentially silent. Great supporting work from Ethel Barrymore and fine English character actresses Elsa Lanchester and Sara Allgood, as well as a sexy Rhonda Fleming. Excellent pick for a spooky and cold, dark rainy night. "},{"Title":"Taut Gothic Thriller","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" On a dark and stormy night, a mute woman is trapped inside a Gothic mansion while a serial killer lurks on the premises. McGuire gives a finely controlled performance in conveying a range of emotions without speaking. Barrymore, Brent, Smith, and Fleming all turn in good performances, with Lanchester and Allgood providing the comic relief. Although the identity of the killer becomes apparent early on, the pleasure is in the journey, not in the plot details, which are somewhat implausible. Siodmark's direction is superb, reminiscent of Hitchcock, as he creates a marvelously creepy and suspenseful atmosphere. The cinematography is gorgeous. "},{"Title":"It was a dark and stormy night","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Dorothy Mcguire is a mute young woman in The Spiral Staircase, a 1946 film also starring Ethel Barrymore, George Brent, Elsa Lanchester, Gordon Oliver, Rhonda Fleming, and Kent Smith. Helen (Mcguire), whose job it is to help care for the bedridden Mrs. Warren, has mutism brought on by the trauma of seeing her parents burn in a fire. In the house also are two half-brothers - Steve (Oliver), who is involved with his brother's secretary (Fleming) and the older Professor Warren (Brent). There have been a series of murders of young women with some sort of affliction - lameness, etc., and Mrs. Warren wants Helen to leave the house with the doctor (Smith) who wants to cure her mutism and also marry her. She knows somehow that the killer is in the house and that Helen is in danger.While the story may be somewhat predictable, based on a novel and a Mary Roberts Rhinehart story, the direction by Robert Siodmak is not. The atmosphere, location and suspense are among the best you'll see in any film the old, dark house, the stairs, and best of all, the rainy darkness. I personally thought the killer was rather obvious but it didn't spoil my enjoyment at all.Mcguire, whom I saw on stage in the '70s, was a wonderful actress who was brought to Hollywood originally to recreate her Broadway success, Claudia. Her role in The Spiral Staircase is a far cry from the lightness of the child bride in Claudia - she is pretty, courageous yet vulnerable, and a young girl in the throes of love. Helen is frustrated and unhappy that she's unable to speak but in a way, she's afraid to hope for a change. Yet from the beginning we see that Helen isn't afraid of anything - she really wants to see what's going on at the murder scene in the beginning of the film. Barrymore is in her typical role of the grand dame, and the rest of the cast is just fine, Lanchester hitting the right note as a maid who loves the bottle.The ending is fantastic. The whole film is fast-paced and portends danger around every corner. Truly one of my favorite films. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Twisty Thriller.","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Robert Siodmak directed this atmospheric thriller set in early 20th century New England. Dorothy McGuire plays Helen, a mute servant working in the household of old & sickly Mrs. Warren(played by Ethel Barrymore) who lives with her two sons(played by George Brent & Gordon Oliver). A series of strangulation murders of young women is occurring in the community, and Mrs. Warren is fearful that Helen may be a target, since the victims all had some kind of affliction, the only common thread between them. She implores Dr. Perry(played by Kent Smith) to take Helen away, but unfortunately circumstances prevent this, and the killer does indeed go after Helen... Good suspense yarn has effective direction and performances, even if the ultimate revelation about the killer and motivation is underwhelming. Still, worthwhile viewing nonetheless. "},{"Title":"In a small town at the turn of the century, a young mute servant finds herself the intended next victim of a maniacal killer.","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This timeless suspense classic contains some heart-stopping moments worthy of Hitchcock. A mounting sense of danger pervades the entire film,with the level of tension escalating steadily. The seemingly cliché ideas of the gloomy old mansion and the dark, stormy night have seldom been better handled. An excellent script and realistic performances help to make the story completely believable, with outstanding work by Dorothy McGuire as the heroine and great supporting performances from Ethel Barrymore and Elsa Lanchester, among others. A truly eerie musical score and excellent cinematography help create an unnerving atmosphere. This is must viewing for any lover of suspense and mystery. "},{"Title":"Engrossing Thriller","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Dorothy McGuire so realistically portrays the mute heroine in this film that you strain to scream for her.  Although I was never a particular fan of Ms. McGuire, her performance here is so absolutely wonderful that it caused me to change my mind. She brings a touching vulnerability to the part while still projecting a strength which sustains her through the trials that she eventually faces in this movie. An acting tour de force! But she isn't the only thing good about the film.  The supporting cast, made up of veteran actors, hits just the right note and again proves that character players were the backbone of good movie making. The eccentric acting of Ethel Barrymore as the bedridden (well, not totally) mother adds a touch of menace to an otherwise secondary role.  Rhonda Fleming is ravishing as Blanche; Kent Smith is his usual rather bland self as the doctor and George Brent does some of his best work in the co-starring role. But Dorothy McGuire holds center stage......it's her movie.  You will squirm in your seat as the story of a killer who preys on afflicted girls unfolds.  The ending may not come as a total surprise but it will hold you spellbound.....especially when the words,It is I, Helen are spoken.  Well worth it!!!   "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A large dose of atmosphere keeps this film engaging despite an unsubtle story that is lacking in complexity. The storm sound and visual effects are very realistic and convincing, and paralleled against what is happening in the film, they enhance the action. The photography is also very good, with various gliding and sweeping shots used to capture the moody sets. The male performances are a bit stiff and forced to a degree, but the actresses of the film are perfectly suited to their roles. McGuire is often acclaimed for her realistic portrayal of a mute servant girl, but Barrymore adds some sparks in too. The killer's identity and the story resolution could have been better worked in, but it is still thrilling and captivating to watch as it is. "},{"Title":"Mute, but not dumb!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film based on a novel by Ethel Lisa White, gave the director, Robert Siomak the opportunity to bring together a brilliant cast. The suspense created in the movie speaks highly of the skills of this director. He had an eye for creating mystery in ways some other directors couldn't.At the center of the story is Helen, a maid in the Warren household. We watch her at the picture show in town when the film starts. There is a serial killer loose in the area. He only pries on single girls who have physical defects. We know that Helen is not immune to the threat this person represents since she can't talk, thus making her an easy prey for this animal. The cast is excellent. Dorothy McGuire is Helen, the innocent young woman at the center of the story. George Brent always plays convincingly. Ethel Barrymore only has a few good moments, but she makes the best of them. Kent Smith is the young doctor in town in love with Helen. Gordon Oliver is the playboy brother. Elsa Lanchester plays the tipsy cook with gusto.The thriller is spooky enough to keep us guessing who is the killer and why is he doing these horrible murders.  "},{"Title":"This movie will keep you frightened and on the edge of your seat","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a horror movie, and a very good one.No, there are no monsters in it, at least in the conventional sense of monster.And no, there is no blood and gore.But the direction, and the camera work, and the lighting, and yes, the acting, old-fashioned but first-rate, keeps you terrified of everything in this movie.And while there is a lot that is good in this movie, the best of all is Dorothy McGuire's acting. Because she cannot speak, she has to convey everything with her face and body, and does she ever! I have never seen her in anything even close to this good. She was, to judge by this performance, one very talented actress. Not to mention - though I am going to mention it - a very beautiful young woman.Watch this movie. Not in the light of day, but at night, with the lights out.You won't sleep afterward, but you'll have one riveting movie experience. You can catch up on your missed sleep some other night. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The mute maid of a wealthy family is stalked by the local strangler, even into the depths of their dark and spooky mansion.Murder mystery with a melodrama of back biting characters, who dash on and off - stage left, stage right - as the plot cranks along with uneven pace. Lots of little back stories are chipped in, and some of the performances are good, but there's no core, no deep motivation or truth. A few touches of humour, but then some awful lines I've been out walking. In that rain? Yes, in that rain.The heroine gives good close up and is convincing in her muteness, but the pantomime dame in the bed takes the award, even though you sense her character could have been written with more intelligence. And they make the crucial mistake of absenting the hero from the climax, although the end is amusing enough.The real star is the direction and photography. An interesting opening scene with a silent movie within the movie (hard to tell if they were mirroring the villain's mentality), some nice POV shots and especially those done through the eye, and a plush wedding scene. Also lots of shadow and candle-lit close ups.Music is swooping strings.Overall - looks good, but stodgy story. "},{"Title":"In der Beschraenkung Zeigt Sich Erst der Meister","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase is an early example of a serial killer film. The story is set in a small New England town around 1910. Several young women have been murdered, and all the victims have been in some way disabled or disfigured. The film's main character is Helen, a young girl who works as a servant in the house of the wealthy, elderly, bedridden Mrs. Warren. As Helen has been mute since a traumatic experience some years earlier, she is afraid that she might be the killer's next target. The other major characters in the drama are Dr. Parry, the local doctor who is in love with Helen and hopes to cure her, several of the other servants, Mrs. Warren herself, her son Stephen and her stepson Albert. Stephen and Albert are half-brothers who had the same father but different mothers. They are quite different in character, Stephen (the younger) being handsome but vain and arrogant, whereas the bookish intellectual Albert, who holds the title of Professor, seems calmer and more reserved. Despite their differing personalities, Mrs Warren despises them both for being weak and not the man that their late father was. The director Robert Siodmak was one of a number of Jewish film-makers from Germany or Central Europe- others include Billy Wilder and Fred Zinnemann- who moved to America to escape the Nazis, and the film was made in 1945, the year the war ended. I have often wondered if Siodmak saw the film's theme, that of a murderer who targets those he sees as weak and inferior, as a metaphor for Nazi persecutions and for their obsession with producing a strong, fit and healthy Master Race, especially as the disabled were also singled out for destruction in Nazi Germany. To the modern viewer, however, the film is notable less for any political allegories that it might contain than for Siodmak's skill in producing a sense of increasing tension. Most of the action takes place in Mrs Warren's old Victorian mansion. (The spiral staircase of the title is the staircase leading down to the servants' quarters in the basement and plays an important part in the plot). Today, Victorian Gothic architecture is much admired, and its use in films, particularly those made in the heritage cinema genre, is generally as a symbol of wealth, elegance and good taste. In the forties and fifties, however, the style was out of favour, being seen as gloomy and oppressive, and Victorian houses were often used in melodramas like Caught, The House on Telegraph Hill and even Psycho to produce a dark, forbidding atmosphere. (This particular cliché is to be found even in films where Gothic architecture is historically inappropriate, such as Dragonwyck or the British horror film And Now the Screaming Starts! from the seventies).In 1945 the Production Code was still very much in force, and on-screen depictions of violence tended to be discouraged. In The Spiral Staircase, therefore, we do not actually see any killings or any bloodshed, in complete contrast to the modern slasher movie or even to something like Psycho, made only fifteen years later. This is not, however, a weakness of this film. To quote the German proverb In der Beschraenkung zeigt sich erst der Meister- roughly translated the master-craftsman most reveals himself to be such when working within limits- and Siodmak shows himself to be a master by working within the accepted limitations of his period. The use of spooky music, the sound of a storm raging outside and dark, shadowy black-and-white photography do not seem very original today, but these devices were perhaps newer and fresher in the forties and they are certainly effective in building up an atmosphere of psychological terror. Siodmak, like other directors of the period, realised that the unseen can actually be more frightening than what is seen, that understatement can be more effective than exaggeration. Together with Jacques Tourneur's Cat People, this is one of the classic understated horror films of the forties. It appeared a year before another great Siodmak movie, the film noir The Killers. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A perfect mix of style and substance........","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Robert Siodmak directs this masterpiece of Gothic terror,creating a blend of substance and style that has yet to be bettered in this genre.Based on a novel by Ethel Lina White.It features a spine tingling score by Roy Webb,which adds greatly to the overall atmosphere and tone of the film.In the early 1900's a serial killer targets a small Amercian town murdering women who are in some way afflicted by a disability.Young mute servant Helen Capel(Dorothy McGuire)is watching a silent film at the towns hotel,when a woman guest becomes the next victim.The local Doctor Mr Parry(Kent Smith)who's trying to help Helen overcome her affliction(brought on by a childhood trauma),warns her to take extra care of herself.Helen is employed by the wealthy Professor Warren(George Brent)to look after his ill mother Mrs Warren(Ethel Barrymore).Mrs Warren keeps warning her to leave the house for her own safety.And during a seemingly unending thunderstorm it soon becomes apparent to Helen who the murderer is. She finds herself drawn into a terrifying cat and mouse game.The real beauty of this film is the fact that suspicion is directed at everyone.We never see the killer committing their crimes either,only a shot of deranged eyes,staring at the victim from the shadows.Elsa Lanchester turns in a wonderful performance as the kooky housekeeper Mrs Oates,who's only desire is to have an occasional swig of brandy on duty.In Helen we have one of the most vulnerable heroines in film history.Her inability to speak means she cannot phone or shout for help and must survive using her wits only.The photography is memorable and effective and the level of suspense leads to many nail biting moments.Any director wishing to make a terrifying and successful suspense thriller should watch this,to see how to do it before beginning.If you haven't seen this then I recommend that you try and find it on DVD. "},{"Title":"On a dark and rainy night...","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This takes place in New England in 1906. A mute servant girl (Dorothy McGuire) takes care of a sick and old but aggressive woman (Ethel Barrymore) in a big, dark and creepy mansion. There's also a killer around who goes after women with imperfections...and he may be in the house. Also there's a huge storm going on, night is falling and the house is isolated...Let's see...a mute servant, a psychotic killer, a dark and rainy night and a creepy old mansion. This movie pulls out all stops and is actually a very good suspenseful horror film. The closeups of the killers eye watching potential victims (and the VERY creepy music that plays) really spooked me more than a little. The killer himself is fairly easy to figure out but the good acting and eerie atmosphere keep you watching. With the sole exception of Kent Smith all the acting is good...but McGuire and Barrymore are incredible. McGuire has to use facial expressions all through the movie to convey her thoughts and she carries it off. Barrymore (Oscar-nominated) is just a tower of strength...even if she is supposed to be old and frail.A top thriller...among Hollywood's best. And (at 84 minutes) it doesn't overstay its welcome. An 8. "},{"Title":"An interesting '40s melodrama","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The ingredients are simple,the recipe is a winning one,The Spiral Staircase (1946) being firstly,and with conviction,a melodrama,and a conventional one;the melodramatic content is underlined,stressed, and defining.A very pleasant thing is Mrs. Rhonda Fleming's presence in this show.Another fact to be mentioned is the subtext of sexual pathology of the movie.The feminine cast is very competent and able.The Spiral Staircase (1946)is mainly about atmosphere,and it displays a study of atmosphere.The gifted critic Michael E. Grost admires The Spiral Staircase;he rightly noted the movie's not very subtle subtext of sexual psychopathology.But the film's plastic content is not important in the sense some believe it is.It is not a lavish,baroque masterpiece (in fact,not a masterpiece at all) like those of Wilder and Welles.The Spiral Staircase (1946) is no more than a macabre and unambitious melodrama,extremely aware of its condition,but a well made and terrifying one.One of its main achievements is that it is never banal, that it never falls into the ridiculous and rubbish,though it is camp enough,in an attractive way.It avoids deftly the expected errors of the genre.But it achieves also the sad and quite common performance of an Un-purposeful disclosing of the identity of the murderer very early.I can not pass under silence a certain primitivism of conception,and a lack of intelligence.There is an obvious contrast between The Spiral Staircase (1946) and a movie like The Verdict (1946) ,also a Victorian period piece.While Robert Siodmak's film is a puerile melodrama,Don Siegel made a strong and bitter movie,very sharp,very well directed.It is Don Siegel who made the defiant and definitive Victorian mystery movie.In his interesting list of many of the best mystery movies ever made,Michael E. Grost included The Spiral Staircase,a movie with an too early denouement,but did not include a masterpieceThe Verdict (1946). "},{"Title":"Really creepy?","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've read the previous review and have to disagree with it. I found The Spiral Staircase completely predictable - I had the murderer pinned within a couple of scenes - and the atmosphere fell well short of that in many creepies of the era in which it was made. In fact I'm finding it difficult to find the required ten lines to say about the film. The acting was adequate but, as I said, the murderer was easy to spot. Probably the best performance was from Ethel Barrymore. It can't have been easy producing so many different moods whilst simply lying in bed. The Spiral Staircase provided a little mild entertainment to watch during a rather boring afternoon but I'm glad I didn't pass up anything else in order to watch it. "},{"Title":"Heavily flawed, but frequently extraordinary","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase (Robert Siodmak, 1945) isn't blessed with the neatest mystery or the strongest script, but it contains one unforgettable performance and several scenes of mounting terror that are among the most intoxicatingly frightening ever filmed. Dorothy McGuire is a mute house servant who starts to believe that a serial killer is living in the place. Offing B movie favourite and future creator of the autograph fair Myrna Dell in the opening credits, the murderer targets women with disabilities (Dell had a limp), making the silent, traumatised McGuire a likely target. At first just the killer's Lugosi-ish eyes are shown, eerily made up in the silent movie manner. That's no accident - Siodmak expertly exploits the possibilities of having a heroine who can't speak, particularly in the film's greatest sequence, where McGuire runs to the top of the house, smashes the windows and screams, only for no sound to come out. The systematic removal of her character's safety net - her doctor boyfriend goes out on a call, her ailing guardian is asleep, the maid is passed out drunk - is skillful, leaving just McGuire, the killer and the director's boundless imagination.The film isn't as well-scripted as Val Lewton's '40s horrors, but there's an obvious parallel in the way it reaches a dizzyingly zenith during the brilliantly-constructed set-pieces. The erratic Siodmak, who did great work on The Killers, Criss Cross and Cry of the City, while also lending his talents to misfires like Christmas Holiday and The Strange Affair of Uncle Harry is probably more closely associated with film noir than any other director. He certainly brings a noirish sensibility to this fusion of crime picture, horror film and Gothic melodrama, aided by Out of the Past cinematographer Nicolas Musuraca, who Robert Mitchum famously said lit by matches (The fact was that the high-priced stars back at the studio like Cary Grant, they got all the lights, so ours were lit by cigarettes, he said later, by means of sardonic elaboration). There are a pair of backwards tracking shots that follow Rhonda Fleming and later McGuire through a cellar that are just incredible. It's not the technical proficiency itself that's impressive, but the cranking up of the viewer's unease through a really smart, unobtrusive little trick. Indeed, the whole film is stuffed with imaginative ideas, like the shocking moment where we see a mouthless McGuire through the killer's warped gaze.But even Siodmak's considerable magic wouldn't count for much were it not for McGuire's remarkable central performance, as good a turn as you're ever likely to see. She's touching, ethereal and utterly heartbreaking, lending the inspired ending an emotional wallop. Stage legend Ethel Barrymore, who played a similar part in the Frank Borzage noir Moonrise, is excellent in her key role, while Elsa Lanchester provides slightly unsuitable comic support (her patter worked better in The Big Clock), while George Brent - an actor I struggle to like - Kent Smith and Gordon Oliver round out the cast. It's a shame Siodmak and McGuire weren't handed a mystery quite befitting their talents - you can solve this one about 20 minutes in - but the results are still frequently astounding. "}{"Title":"With a Title Like That, I Expected More Ups and Downs.","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Though his subsequent noirs Criss Cross and The Killers are thrillingly stylish and enjoyable, with The Spiral Staircase, Robert Siodmak's attention is too disproportionately rooted in demonstrative Expressionist visuals---brooding shadow, ominously suggestive settings, the rumble and cracking of thunder, the flickering candlelight, the creaking door and the gusts of wind from out of nowhere---to give any cohesion or gravitas to the story or his unwaveringly wooden actors.Ethel Barrymore, playing the bed-ridden matriarch of the boring George Brent and Kent Smith, is interesting, albeit her role as a crabby invalid is barely worthy of her extensive talents. Other than that, Siodmak even manages to get a dull performance out of the invariably entertaining Elsa Lanchester, playing a drunken comic-relief maid and cook who end up really being of no consequence whatsoever to the story's culmination. And I'm sorry if I was not impressed by Dorothy McGuire's pantomime performance. So many critics think that an actor or actress merely taking on a mute role secures their performance as stunning, priceless, impressive. I found McGuire's emoting to be way too overly demonstrative, I sensed no conviction in any of her dramatic moments and I frankly became increasingly spent by the continual unmotivated collapses, sobs and tense clutching of handkerchiefs.Set in a small New England town in the early 1900s, for no apparent reason, Mel Dinelli's anachronistic adaptation of what I imagine is a decent Ethel Lina White novel is about a spree killer who is murdering afflicted young women in the village, also quite arbitrarily it continues even now to seem. There is not much apprehension or foreboding in respect to the psychopath after he murders a woman with a limp at a silent movie theater, then stalks mute Helen home to the manor in which she works. Wouldn't you know it, a storm comes, guaranteeing no one can securely leave the Victorian residence for the remainder of this exposition-laden script, which is spent making us suspect who might be the killer in the house. But it isn't much of a mystery. With its extremely constricted choice of potential suspects, it's exceptionally simple to work out who the bad guy is. And I'm not a foremost figure when it comes to guessing the killer in mysteries. I consciously prefer to allow myself to be surprised by the revelation. I couldn't here.Besides Robert Siodmak's strikingly moody direction, this precursor to Bava, Argento and De Palma has remarkably little to present in the way of effectual power, with an hour and change of the film's 83-minute duration mired in the tedious activities of a handful of characterless characters. Helen is constrained to spend one dreadfully long night inside the walls of the old lady's lavish estate among her idiosyncratic relatives and servants. Dinelli has steeped the bulk of this specious thriller with a lagging, flatly verbose affectation, and there's little misgiving that the persistent highlighting on the various characters' unenthusiastically histrionic tomfoolery becomes exasperating virtually right away, even before Brent and Smith's plodding establishment of their dysfunctional rival-brother relationship.It's a disappointment, certainly. The menacing cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca guarantees that the film is by and large continually compelling on a solely visual plane, while the few sequences with any energy are only fairly efficient in a very conventional sense, at no point aspire to any storytelling nuance. It's not even really about anything. What importance does the eponymous staircase hold in the film? The fact that characters will occasionally climb and descend it? The fact that the very brief and static climax transpires on it? So what? Whatever airs it puts on to psychological drama may be measured only as a compromise to a trendy genre whim. But this bafflingly overrated piece of plodding theatrics ultimately is ill from a sense of overlength that counteracts its remotely intriguing rudiments. It's unmistakable that The Spiral Staircase almost certainly would've worked a whole lot better as either a short or as an episode in a horror anthology. "},{"Title":"Somewhat dated suspense thriller.","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am a fan of classic film noire/suspense films, but this one doesn't do it for me for the following reasons 1. The acting is poor and often non-believable. For example, Ethel Barrymore keeps stirring from a near comatose state of health wide eyed, fully alert with a strong voice. It reminded me of the type of acting one would expect in a silent picture where the visual performance is over-acted to compensate for lack of vocal performance. She was nominated for Oscar for this film and is therefore clear evidence of the influence the Barrymore's had in Hollywood at this time - great acting not a prerequisite. Even the family dog can't act the part; he is an old bulldog more infirmed than Ethel Barrymore's character, but apparently somehow manages high leaps thru open windows. 2. The set is suspect. The central architecture feature for the film, i.e., the spiral staircase, is actually a steel tread job, the type one would expect in a factory, not a stately home. It is clear that this theme was added as an afterthought. 3. Unless I'm missing something, the plot is frustratingly shallow. For me, it was one of those films that left me with an empty feeling. The whole premise is a mass murderer who has a particular dislike for people with afflictions. Why? What was the murderer trying to accomplish by murdering them?Sorry, this one doesn't rate highly with me. "},{"Title":"Hurricane Katrina, Gothic Style","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" With her large, expressive eyes and rather plain features, Dorothy Mc Guire is perfect for the mute servant girl in this superb Gothic thriller. So is stylish noir director Robert Siodmak who really knows how to translate troubled inner worlds into complex camera effects. Together, they transform the hoary elements of a maniacal killer, a spooky old mansion, and a houseful of suspects, into a memorable movie experience. I particularly like the opening sequence where a 1900's audience sits watching an early feature length film, The Kiss. The rest of the audience sits stoically, not knowing what to make of the new-fangled experience. However, Mc Guire's simple servant girl sits enraptured, absolutely transfixed, her luminous eyes suffering along with the endangered heroine, whose predicament curiously foreshadows Mc Guire's own plight yet to come. I doubt that any actress has won over an audience any faster than during those few seconds. Credit should also go to that terrific RKO tandem of art director Albert D'Agostino and set director Darrel Silvera, whose artistic eye helped lift that studio into the pantheon of 1940's black & white. Together, they manage to keep a single set, the old house, from becoming boring to look at, while perfectly complementing Siodmak's own Gothic sensibilities. Still, there is a downside. Poor Kent Smith plays the young doctor. Technically, he's a competent enough actor; however, his charisma factor registers somewhere between dull gray and dried cement. Here his rather smarmy physician appears to have wandered over from the set of Young Doctor Kildare. Fortunately, his screen time is limited. In compensation are the wonderfully daffy Elsa Lanchester as the cook, and Carleton the dog as Carleton the dog, perhaps the most beautifully ugly face in the history of canine thespians. Also, making an impressive appearance is an apparent forerunner of hurricane Katrina , howling and thundering for the entire ninety minutes in true Gothic fashion. Then too, there's the spooky close-up of the eye peering out, waiting to pounce. Seeing that simple frame on the big theatre screen haunted my dreams for years. Just goes to show, in my little book, how misplaced so many of today's extravagant special effects are in unnerving an audience.Anyhow, this is a genuinely artistic suspenser from RKO's golden period, proving once again why Hollywood's eventual stampede to Technicolor was not an unmixed blessing. "},{"Title":"The Silence Of The (Sacrificial) Lamb","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Having just seen this - at a 'cinema du quartier' in Paris that offers old black and white movies at 10 a.m. on Saturdays only for 3 euros - and noted the obvious symbolism I turned to this board under the impression that everyone would have made the same observations I did but no one in the dozen or so I read mentioned it so here goes. The movie was released in 1946, one year after the end of the second world war and director Robert Siodmak was a German who went to America along with people like Billy Wilder (who touched on a similar theme in his own The Emporer Waltz within a couple of years of TSS) shortly after Hitler came to power - Wilder and Siodmak famously worked together in Germany on People On Sunday, Menschen am Sonntag. The murderer in The Spiral Staircase selects victims who are 'imperfect' in some way and if that isn't a veiled reference to a fuhrer who killed millions of people because of PERCEIVED imperfections, Jewishness, homosexuality, etc then I don't know what is. Of course by setting it in 1906 it was carefully 'distanced' from events in Germany but George Brent as the murderer invariably wore a moustache in his films, albeit slightly different than the fuhrer's and here he is even given a hint of cowlick. On the other hand this would be a stylish thriller even without the coded reference to the Holacaust and Siodmak borrows freely - the use of shadow and light for example - from the German Expressionist school to achieve his effects. Even after 60 years it still works as a psychological thriller so that you're prepared to forgive the occasional boob - it's unrealistic for instance to suppose that in the midst of a raging storm the Constable would distinguish the sound of Helen banging on the window even less likely he'd attribute it to a swinging gate inasmuch as 1) the two sounds are distinctly different and 2) the gate was much nearer to him than the window which would further differentiate the two sounds - and the - at the time - obligatory scene where the murderer, instead of getting on with the job takes time out to tell his helpless victim how he murdered her predecessors. These cavils to one side it remains an excellent film of its time. "},{"Title":"Spiraling into Fear","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a kid, I remember being badly frightened by a black and white movie Stormy weather, violent murders of women, a peering eye, looking out of knot holes or through shadows, upon an intended victim. I was scared to death, but didn't remember much about the movie, not even the title.Recently I came across a promising movie possibility on the satellite. I am not a fan of scary movies, but the description reminded me of something A strangler follows a speechless maid through an old New England Mansion. I had to see the movie so I set it to record. I was so glad I did.Seeing The Spiral Staircase brought up a lot of memories of the movie I had seen in the far distant past. A mute woman, as a child, I didn't understand that, menaced in a house of a beloved matriarch, and challenged in many ways by the impending terror of a murderer. This film brought back some of those childhood feelings, and kept me on edge.It was worth seeing and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Effective, spooky, Victorian murder mystery.","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Dorothy McGuire plays Helen, a mute maid in the Victorian mansion owned by the ailing, bed-bound Ethel Barrymore. It's never a good time to be mute, but this is a particularly bad period because someone is going around in the nearby town and killing young women with imperfections. The constable comes around to warn that the clues seem to point to Barrymore's mansion, so look out.There are plenty of people in the mansion to look out for. There are Barrymore's two sons -- the older professor, George Brent, and the young cocky womanizer, Gordon Oliver. There's the ravishing Rhonda Fleming, of whom Oliver remarks, I never realized your hands were so strong. There's the hefty, bitter nurse, Sara Allgood, who never has a good word for anybody. There's Elsa Lanchester as a charwoman who spends most of her time dead drunk or planning to get so. There's her husband, Rhys Williams, uncouth, unkempt, menacing. And then there's Barrymore's doctor, Kent Smith, who falls in love with McGuire, while she reciprocates. Yes, plenty to go around. This is a big mansion.It's a NEAT mansion too, come to think of it. Daryll Silvera was the set dresser and he seems to have gotten everything just right -- the ugly portraits on the walls, the overstuffed furniture, the kerosene lamps, the ugly kitchens, the cobweb-ridden cellar, the potted palms, the elaborately curved dark wood of the paneling and the artfully gnarled staircase. It's even better when there's an electrical storm raging outside and the wind blows out the candles.We soon conclude that someone in the house is doing all these murders -- but which one of them? Certainly not McGuire. She's the requisite woman-in-jeopardy. Ethel Barrymore is glum and seems to be hiding something, but she's bed-bound. (Or is she?) The professor? He's aloof, true, but he reacts with sensible concern to portentous news. There's the vain and imperious Rhonda Fleming, but she's eliminated as a suspect simply by means of transition to victimhood. The arrogant younger son, then? Much too obvious. Ditto for Rhys Williams and, unless she's faking it, the bibulous Elsa Lanchester.Well, how about Kent Smith, as Dr. Parry? Oh, he LOOKS benign enough, placid of countenance, pacific of demeanor, soothing of voice. But at one point, he tells the younger brother that he'd like to break his neck. Is that a hint of suppressed violence? Probably not. Kent Smith is the long-suffering husband of Simone Simon in The Cat People. His specialty is passivity. He could never kill anybody. Besides, he's a Harvard man and it would be rude.When this film was released, it was accompanied in advertisements by a warning that young people shouldn't attend. They might be too frightened. Today, that should give us quite a laugh. It's a dark and brooding murder mystery set in an old house and although there's a good deal of suspense, there is no violence to speak of. Nicely atmospheric film, though I don't know that that would appeal to some in today's audience who would be impatiently waiting for the ax to appear. "},{"Title":"A great sleeper film--and not to be missed by lovers of suspense","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I picked up the Leonard Maltin Guide, it compared this film to a Hitchcock suspense and so I thought I'd give it a try. In many ways, though, I liked this film much more than many of Hitchcock's 1940s films. It was far more suspenseful and well-written than I'd expected and I found myself really getting sucked into the film.Dorothy McGuire plays a mute who cannot talk because of a hysterical reaction to a trauma she experienced as a child. Despite being unable to talk, she seems very well-liked by those around her because she is a fundamentally decent person. However, some of these friends are terribly concerned for her, as an at-large maniac has just recently murdered three people--seemingly because they had some disability. In particular, a nice doctor (Kent Smith) and her employer (Ethel Barrymore) urge her to move out of town. In addition, Smith wants to take her to Boston to have a specialist see her about her inability to speak.Throughout the film, excellent camera-work (with lots of great angles and shadows), music, direction and writing serve to create a lot of believable tension and suspense. About the only possible negative is that because there is a relatively small cast, it isn't all that hard to guess which one is the maniac--though I must say this was still handled quite well. A top-notch movie that has somehow gotten overlooked--it's every bit as good or better as such contemporary Hitchcock films as SHADOW OF A DOUBT, ROPE or THE SABOTEUR. "},{"Title":"A Well-Crafted Thriller","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is a dark & stormy night. The old mansion stands alone in the driving rain. Inside wait eight people, driven apart by their animosities & fears. For they have much to be frightened about. Somewhere out in the storm there lurks a maniacal killer of young handicapped women - a murderer who has slain before & is ready to strike again. The pretty mute maid knows this. But does she know what is watching - and waiting - in the shadows of THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE?This is a very fine chiller, most effective in the mood of mounting terror which it builds. A Gothic thriller of this sort is rather rare in the second half of the 1940's when, after the War, a new realism had settled on Hollywood. The performers do very nicely with their roles Dorothy McGuire, young & vulnerable as the girl who hasn't spoken since witnessing her parents' horrific deaths; Kent Smith as the gallant doctor who wants to protect her; George Brent & Gordon Oliver as the two half-brothers of the household, mistrustful & envious of each other's position; wonderful old Ethel Barrymore, the dying matriarch, acid-tongued & suspicious of nearly everyone; Sara Allgood as her nurse, resentful of her mistreatment; Rhonda Fleming, the beautiful secretary, who may arouse passions once too often; Elsa Lanchester & Rhys Williams as the domestics, she an alcoholic and he bitter and withdrawn. (Film mavens will spot Ellen Corby as the woman at the boarding house murder scene.)Special mention should be made of the mansion itself. In many ways it becomes a character in its own right. From top floor to cellar, we get to know its rooms & spaces well - with that twisting staircase tying all the nooks & crannies together. "},{"Title":"Talky Melodrama","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Although the visuals are fine, and the interior of that big old Victorian house is something to behold, a poor script sabotages the intended atmospheric effect. For one thing, the plot contains too much hubbub, with people coming and going, and lots of chitchat, all of which dilutes suspense and tension. I wish the script would have downplayed the dialogue and introduced some much needed silence. As is, the film is more talky melodrama than mystery or thriller.Further, all that dialogue contains way too much exposition. And the plot is rather simplistic. It takes place all in one day. The impression is thus conveyed that the story was derived from a stage play. Further, the script reveals the murderer too soon, leaving the ending anticlimactic.I like Dorothy McGuire's performance as a mute girl. With no lines of dialogue she outshines Ethel Barrymore, whom I found annoying. The film's score and title sequence are certainly spooky. Sound effects are good, courtesy of a very long running thunderstorm.Overall, I found this film disappointing. It has terrific B&W lighting. But a too talky and busy plot dilutes the underlying murder mystery premise. "},{"Title":"A predictable thriller that was not so thrilling.","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First off, the one thing that made me think the murderer was someone else was the shots of the man's eye. Take a look at the shots, not the close-ups of the actual pupil, but the facial features around the eye. Now go and closely look at Brent's eyes and face. Brent has dark, and long lashes, low and heavy eyebrows (the shots of the killer did not), and no old-man wrinkles around his eyes. So that aspect threw me off right away since the shots we saw were of an older man and one with very short, if any, lashes. The eyes were also more along the line of the constable, and also someone who was thin, from what little we saw of any facial features. I was thinking maybe the older doctor, but even a cripple could knock that old geezer out of the way. The acting was okay, but I have seen much better from the heavy-hitters in this flick. McGuire was McGuire. Nothing that special, but one could tell she put her heart and soul into the part. Lanchester was a total waste. Barrymore, always good, was the best part of this movie, other than how she kept repeating how she was such a good shot, so we all knew how the murderer would meet his end. And once Blance was killed we knew it was. Process of elimination. I was expecting better, and if in the beginning, and any shots of The Eye, I would have liked this movie better. It was slow, but a lot of thrillers from that time period were. It just was not that suspenseful is all, other than wondering, since who was the killer, about that darn window, and the fact that if there was a stranger in the house the dog would have reacted. A good short movie for an afternoon when you do not want to use too many brain cells. "}{"Title":"You Must Watch","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A serial murderer is on the loose, in a New England town. The killer's latest victim succumbs as maid/companion Dorothy McGuire (as Helen) enjoys one of the town theater's latest silent movie flickers, directed by D.W. Griffith. Her employers, the wealthy Warren family, believe Ms. McGuire's life is in danger, as she is a mute; and, all the victims have suffered from a disability. Their concerns are, of course, dead on.The Spiral Staircase is as unpredictable as the sunrise; and, McGuire's physical condition, (presumably, she's a self-inflicted mute) strains credulity to extreme limits - but, the film's direction, performances, and overall style are so well-done, it doesn't matter. Director Robert Siodmak and star McGuire are beautifully matched. Steadfast George Brent (as Albert Warren) and nipping Elsa Lanchester (as Mrs. Oates) lead the charge, in choice roles. But, Ethel Barrymore (as Mrs. Warren) is especially commanding; she acts up a storm, though confined to a sick bed. Barrymore's cranky, creepy, and perceptive performance is the film's most riveting.By the way, the silent film McGuire sees during the opening murder is not The Kiss, but The Sands of Dee (1912), starring Mae Marsh and Robert Harron. Ms. Marsh does receive a fateful kiss in the old film, but it is not shown. The Spiral Staircase picks up with Marsh being thrown out of the house by her parents, after a fling with a painter. Mr. Harron is the young man who frantically searches for his departed love. Harron was one of the 1910s best actors (perhaps the best); and, the emotions he helps elicit from McGuire's Helen ring true. ******** The Spiral Staircase (12/45) Robert Siodmak ~ Dorothy McGuire, George Brent, Ethel Barrymore "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If we look for something special, here is The Spiral Staircase. A little masterpiece of lights, shadows, camera's movements. Siodmak turns German's classic Expressionism in something different, a sort of look inside and outside human body and soul. The closes-up on killer's eyes, so mad and cruels on big screen, the close-up on contracted hands of the limping girl, during her murder, the close-up on Helen's inexistent mouth (in modern times, we may see a mention of that scene in Matrix), come directly from great movies like Nosferatu, M, Metropolis. Nicholas Musuraca's photography, gives to this movie a sweet touch of pure poetry in thriller. A very great movie. "},{"Title":"Why is this mystery different?","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie distinguishes itself with the way the murders are filmed.The position of the hands and the leering eye give this film a different look.Also, this picture is dominated by Dorothy McGuire as the mute heroine.It is also worth mentioning that the previously invalid Ethel Barrymore character plays a key role in the climax,which takes place on The Spiral Staircase of the title. This is the only point in the picture the staircase proves to be important.The movie also has a killer one wouldn't think did it based on everything that came before.To sum up this isn't great movie but these are some of the things that separates it from others of this type & worth viewing. "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can understand the other commenter's feelings- I suppose we have become desensitized these days. Most of the tricks used to create suspense in this movie have, since it's release, become standard, and have been done better, but not by much. This work is just a gem of skillful movie-making. Set in a time when candles and gas provided the only means of light at night, along with horse-drawn buggies and hand-cranked telephones, you're constantly aware of the lack of, well, electricity, and this adds to the spookiness of the whole story without it being overdone- all the actors seem perfectly accustomed to the technology of the day, which, since the movie was made in 1946, they of course weren't. Some of the acting is better than others, and I agree that the performances of the female cast far outshine those of the males. Dorothy McGuire is excellent. The direction is really well done- the actor's performances don't have that oh, this is an old black and white movie quality to them; they're totally real (especially the women). The constant insertion of little hints and clues throughout keep you wondering who the murderer is. Finally, the look of the whole movie- the lighting, the camera work, the sets; everything is done with an eye to cohesive detail that is superb. The movie makers did an outstanding job.Yes, this movie seems old-fashioned, but after having spent an entire weekend channel surfing (it's snowing outside), this movie ended up being the best thing I saw, so we haven't really improved on this movie that much in the last 60 years. "},{"Title":"A perfect heroine for this scary thriller!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Like many others who remember their first old movie experience from their childhood I remember first seeing this movie when I was about 12 years old.  It was a Saturday evening when I watched this film, my parents had gone away for the evening and I was hurting and sore from having had 4 teeth pulled earlier in the day.  I don't remember being particularly frightened though I might have been at the time.  I just associate this movie with having 4 teeth pulled so will remember it for that reason. I loved the movie when I first saw it and still love it having seen it many times during my life. There is some sort of surreal quality about it that makes it different from other old films at the time.  The eery sounding music, the horrible staring eye and one scene in particular when Helen was coming home from the cinema and was almost to the house, she ran a stick along the fence and the wind and the rain came up so fast that she was almost caught by the murderer before she could run for the house.     My favorite performances in the film were Dorothy McGuire with her wonderfully expressive face and the always perfect Ethel Barrymore and  Elsa Lanchester and Rhys Williams as the servants.   A wonderful old thriller to watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Suspensful, Thriller With Fine Performances","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This will be the first time I'm writing a movie review on the Internet Movie Database. I'm a fan of classic films, being 16-years old, that's unusual. I heard about the film, The Spiral Staircase1946 from my grandmother and from reading about it, but never got the opportunity to see it. It sounded good. AMC American Movie Classicsfinally put it on a couple of months ago and I taped it.The story was set in a small town, where three women were strangled because of their physical and mental disabilities. HelenDorothy McGuireis a mute nurse working in a professor's mansion, caring for his invalid stepmotherEthel Barrymore. Helen's doctor friendKent Smithand the residents of the mansion are worried that Helen may be the next victim of this killer's rage. However, they don't know that the strangler has followed her and is in the house.The film keeps you fascinated till the very end. It also has great performances by Dorothy McGuire, though she doesn't speak throughout the whole movie, Ethel Barrymorean elderly,invalid woman,who's very perceptive and knows that Helen should leave the house immediately, and George Brent as the professor. It only runs 83 minutes, but a lot of things happen. It has a surprise ending, so don't tell anyone how it ends. This film ranks amongst Alfred Hitchcock's finest thrillers. I give it an 8 1/2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Effectively suspenseful film. Wonderfully acted.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the film which made me become a Dorothy MacGuire fan. To be so moving in a role and yet not talk - until the very end - is not an easy accomplishment. An excellent, Hitchcockian type of drama. "},{"Title":"My comments reflect how the film affected me as an 8 year old","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the film as 8 year old. It was one of the two films of the time that really affected me. Until I saw it a few years ago, I remember the horror as if I was 8 years old again. It was something to see it in my late 50's and by seeing it; temper my dread. The most terrifying part was always the eye peeping from the hole in the wall. Until I saw it again, I did not have much memory of the plot or the wonderful roles played by fine actors.  "},{"Title":"Great Cast; Ugly House","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What a great film. Good direction and terrific cast in a spooky gas-lit house in the New England countryside of early 1900s. The house with all its hideous Victorian furniture and bric-a-brac almost becomes another character in this atmospheric thriller.Dorothy McGuire is excellent as the mute servant girl caught in the midst of the action. Ethel Barrymore is also excellent at the bedridden matriarch. Her sons--George Brent and Gordon Oliver--both seems a little weird. Then there's the pretty secretary (Rhonda Fleming) who has been involved with both sons. Sara Allgood is the cranky nurse, Elsa Lanchester is the cook, and Rhys Williams is her husband. The only outwardly good person is the kindly young doctor--Kent Smith--but he's in love with McGuire. Ellen Corby has a small part too.As the town panics over a series of gruesome murders of young women, the folk in the isolated country house get more and more nervous. Barrymore is constantly warning McGuire to leave. The brothers constantly bicker, and Lanchester is always stealing bottles of brandy. Everyone is in a state of unease, and then the killer strikes again! One of the keys to this film is the top-notch cast. The women are uniformly excellent and Brent and Oliver both playing against type give solid performances. Indeed Gordon Oliver, a minor player of many 30s films, is an odd choice for a substantial role in a 1946 thriller. But there is method to the madness here and the casting director was on the money.One of the best scenes is McGuire running for the phone in a terrified panic and not being able to ask for help. She is as helpless as invalid Barrymore upstairs or the drunken Lanchester in the kitchen. The Spiral Staircase was remade in 1975 to no great effect. Stick to the original. "},{"Title":"I knew Whodunnit  from the single eye shot","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I agree with the few discerning negative user comments and I had not seen this film before.Generally I like 1940s films but this was an exception as I found it all rather naive.Firstly, knowing the cast of actors it does not take a genius to identify the murderer almost from the beginning judged by the repeated shot of his single menacing eye.You know it is a man (a careless shot of him wearing trousers is seen and it is a male eye), so all you have to do is logically assess all the male actors' characters and see which one fits the bill.Secondly, I imagine Hitchcock could have produced far more suspense, which was sadly lacking.Thirdly, Dorothy Macguire's character slightly irritated me with all her melodramatic rushing around.If she was mute, she would have had a notepad and pen with her at all times to communicate.Fourthly, it seemed just a filmed stage play as virtually all the action takes place in a Gothic mansion (in a studio).Hitchcock would have included more location shots and built up the suspense better.Much overrated in my humble opinion. "}{"Title":"Creaky plot, but superb direction","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It was a dark and stormy night...this, plus a Gothic-style house of long corridors, staircases and dark, multi-roomed basement, supply the atmosphere for a hoary story of a young woman threatened by an unknown killer. It doesn't take long to figure out who that killer is. However, Robert Siodmak's superb direction still elicits shivers and chills. The rustling in the bushes, the black-gloved figure in the rain, the close-ups of the killer's eye, assessing his victims - Siodmak's use of these elements remain as frightening and effective today as when the movie was new. Dorothy McGuire is very appealing as the voiceless heroine; Elsa Lanchester contributes a comic gem as the housekeeper too fond of brandy; and Ethel Barrymore gives an over-the-top performance as the portentous, bed-ridden matriarch. The men are all '40's standard handsome-and-bland. Opens with an entertaining scene of an early silent-movie screening. "},{"Title":"A beautiful masterpiece of cinematic history","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't make many comments on films but with the Sprial staircase i make the exception. Being a big fan of this genre i admit that i had never heard of this film, but one day being sick from work and feeling sorry for myself i switched on the TV to find the spiral staircase showing, so i decided to give it a go. After five minutes i was hypnotised everything about the film was stunning the location , the acting, the house and the filming make this film almost the perfect film. The directer Robert Siodmak should get a lot of credit for giving this a eerie atmosphere. The sprial staircase deserves more credit than it gets, There are hundreds of slasher films out there with better equipment and a far bigger budget, but still this film stands out a mile. To sum up if you do see this film advertised on TV or for rent at your local video shop my advice would be to watch it because your in for a real treat. "},{"Title":"Danger in the mansion","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase is a very creepy chiller from RKO and I've seen this a couple of times.A serial killer is on the loose who specialises in killing women who are mute etc. One of these mutes is Helen who works as a maid in a creepy mansion and fears she could be his next victim. One night during a thunderstorm, he turns up in the mansion and stalks her. Luckily, she manages to avoid him and all is revealed at the end on who he is...This movie is very creepy in parts, helped by the very eerie music score and thunderstorm. Also, the close up shots of the murderer's eyes.The cast includes Dorothy McGuire as Helen, Ethel Barrymore, George Brent, Rhonda Fleming and Elsa Lanchester (The Bride of Frankenstein). All play excellent parts.So, switch off the lights and have a good fright with The Sprial Staircase.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A very well made thriller!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a typical who-done-it movie. For some odd reason this movie is also at times regarded as an horror-movie and at times even film-noir, this movie however just is a plain good old thriller with a fine, well constructed story, nothing more, nothing less.The movie its story is well constructed and it keeps you guessing till the end who is the serial killer. Every male character is somewhat suspicious, which helps to create a wonderful, mysterious and tense atmosphere. The climax is good and build up very well.Thing I am not so enthusiastic about were the acting performances. Dorothy McGuire was overacting as the mute main character. McGuire is probably best known for playing in Old Yeller and the Elia Kazan movie Gentleman's Agreement, for which so also won an Oscar. Even worse was Ethel Barrymore, she is terrible irritating in her acting just as her two brothers Lionel and John. I can't believe she received an Oscar nomination for her role in this movie! No sorry, guess I am not the biggest Barrymore siblings fan around...For the people who love a good thriller with a typical who-done-it story, this is simply a must see!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Suspense, not horror, but a good one","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Effective thriller about a mute nurse (McGuire) threatened by a psychopathic killer who stalks disabled women.  The photography is excellent, the direction good, but the story is a bit predictable -- the killer turns out to be the only person besides the obvious suspect (who's therefore the last person anyone who's seen any of these films would suspect) who could have done it.  Some scenes of real suspense, made more intense by the heroine's predicament.  Smith is good as her lover, and Barrymore adds some spice as the killer's invalid mother, a true pioneer woman if ever there was one.  She is immobile through most of the film but does effective acting with her face and eyes.  Lanchester is fun as always as the drunken servant. "},{"Title":"Not old fashioned Just Plain Old","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase might almost have been made in the era of silent movies. In terms of plot, acting and cinematography it seems decidedly out of date even when compared with other films of its vintage. Cliché piled on cliché. Lots of foreboding looks and gestures. Dark shadows. The nights are -- literally -- dark and stormy. The cellars lined with cobwebs. Although it has a rather good cast, the acting is extremely broad. One can imagine it being shown today as a cult film after midnight with the audience reciting the lines and roaring in laughter at every turn in the plot. It is also full of cinematic devices lifted from an earlier time. That the woman who is at the center of the plot is mute adds to the illusion that you are watching a movie requiring captions. The plot is utterly predictable, the menace curiously un-involving. Nevertheless, any movie with Ethel Barrymore, George Brent and Elsa Lancaster is worth a look. Ethel chews the scenery a bit, but I don't believe she was ever known for restraint. "},{"Title":"As creaky as the old house","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Every cliché in the book (and too many to mention) dumped into one movie but which unfortunately fails to link them all up. The bedridden old lady (who turns out not to be) with a secret urging her (naturally declining) charge to leave the spooky house. The mute girl target awaiting her hero to take her away. (A hero - naturally an uncorrupted incomer and saintly doctor - who unfathomably is too busy to make it to the denouement.) The sleazy younger son. The jealous older brother and 'professor' of apparently nothing in particular with an unexplained desire to rid the world of lame and even silent women. Oh and the crashing thunderstorm that rattles through the entire film as though the murderer cannot operate in sunny weather. One longs for Hitchock to inject some coherence and expend some flare over all this. "},{"Title":"the epitome of early film noir","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I viewed Spiral Staircase last night, for the first time since I saw it in its initial run, (1946). I have become much more literate in cinema since that time, and two points stood out to me. First, the film clearly embodies many techniques of 1920s German filmmakers such as Wiene and Murnau; for instance the distorted angle shots and the use of shadows. The second is related namely, the effectiveness of black and white photography. The contrasts that were possible with black and white cannot be as effectively conveyed in color. It's no accident that Hitchcock chose black and white for Psycho. The blood in the shower scene might have been more shocking if shown in red, as in some of the contemporary slasher type films; but the director understood that his audience could supply the color as the black blood crept (not gushed) out from the shower. As far as the content of the film is concerned, one can say that the performances were more than adequate, with the exception of stony-faced George Brent, who clearly was not in his element in a film of this genre, and made me wonder why Bette Davis had had a crush on him for many years. Ethel Barrymore is outstanding; as an experienced actress she was able in very few scenes to catch the mood of helplessness in the face of horror that makes her final appearance the more striking. There is not actually much suspense in the working out of the plot. Even though several false hints are dropped as to the identity of the serial killer, his identity should be fairly obvious from the start, for an experienced moviegoer. "},{"Title":"Exciting and brief thriller/film noir","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS HEREINRobert Siodmak is one of my favorite B-film directors.I saw three of his movies which are all very good.The best being The Crimson Pirate (1952) with Burt Lancaster who is number 39 in my all time top 100 list. The second is The Killers also with Burt Lancaster (his smashing acting debut) and also a very good movie.The Spiral Staircase was my third Siodmak movie and again a very entertaining and exciting film.The build up is a classic one yet very watchable.All the characters,possible murderers that is,are one by one introduced to the viewer.The movie itself looks a lot like a game of Cluedo.A minor critical point is the fact that the asassin is not a surprising one and if you are keen on thrillers (like I am) it won't come as a complete surprise,not in the slightest bit.But he,the rest of the movie has a great atmosphere,great settings,great characters and a great score.Siodmak has done it again. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Spooky RKO Chiller With Great Cast And Fantastic Direction","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Helen is a young woman who is mute and works as a nursemaid for the matriarch of a big old house. Following a spate of murders in the town the police tell Helen to be especially careful, but perhaps the killer is already in the house ...I can't help but love the old RKO thrillers - the creepy plots, the beautiful chiaroscuro photography, the damsel in distress suspense. In some senses they are antiques; on purely a technical level they have nothing in common with modern cinema. Watch when anyone goes down to the cellar and all the candle lighting is cleverly faked studio trickery. But in another sense a film like this set a standard which is being repeated to this day - a crazed killer on the loose, a heroine with a disability, startling shocks from jump cuts and hidden angles. The roots of films like Wait Until Dark, Halloween or the work of Dario Argento or M. Night Shyamalan are all here. The story may be a little goofy and one-dimensional but cinematically the movie works perfectly and the suspense and payoff are exhilarating. The cast are a terrific selection of cult players, and all of the women are great. McGuire shows effortlessly how redundant dialogue can often be, creating a whole person purely through movement and expression. Barrymore is terrific in the scary Miss Havisham part, Fleming is as smoking hot as always and Lanchester steals the show as usual as the sot of a housekeeper. Based upon the novel Some Must Watch by Ethel Lina White (who also wrote the book The Lady Vanishes is based on), this is a classic old-time thriller made to be watched on a stormy winter's evening. I think it's my favourite of Siodmak's movies but he made several terrific ones (notably The Dark Mirror and the original version of The Killers). He and his brother Curt, who wrote a bunch of great horror pictures, made some of the best films of the thirties and forties, all of which are worth catching. "}{"Title":"Gothic Thriller Is Short on Thrills","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This instantly forgettable minor Gothic thriller finds Dorothy McGuire as a young woman who's lost both her parents and her voice, living in a country estate and caring for that estate's invalid dowager (Ethel Barrymore). A killer is loose, one who preys on women with disabilities of one kind or another, and most of the action is confined to the creepy hallways and staircases of the house itself. We know the killer is there, we know sooner or later he (or she) wants to get his (or her) hands on McGuire, it's just a matter of when.All I can say is thank God for Ethel Barrymore. Her character, despite being confined to a bed for the majority of the film, is the only one who I cared a thing about. There's a lot of subplot involving dark family secrets, jilted lovers, etc., but none of it is very interesting, and McGuire is such a ninny that you almost end up rooting for the killer.Also starring Elsa Lanchester as (what else?) the family maid.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Not very scary, but engaging enough","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" TCM's Robert Osborne suggested The Spiral Staircase may have scared the wits out of audiences in 1946, but it doesn't pack that punch today. Still, it's a well-executed, well-cast and fairly well-acted film, and the story is engaging enough. And the identity of the murderer is dangled out of reach for most of the film's duration.I find myself biased against movies made in this era that are set in the late Victorian period. For those living in the 1940s, the late Victorian period must have conjured up some nostalgia, or atmosphere, whether people remembered those years or not. It would be like contemporary movies set in the 1930s, I suppose, which give films a ready-made patina of desperation and poverty. But the gas lights, horse-drawn wagons and the like don't cast any spell, at least for me. I would rather have seen it set in 1946. "},{"Title":"Silence Is Golden","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a well-acted Victorian Gothic suspense thriller. Someone is killing women who have imperfections until suddenly, they set their sights on Dorothy McQuire, who plays a girl who has lost her ability to speak. Filled with great actors such as George Brent, Ethel Barrymore and Elsa Lanchester, this is a true gem of a movie. The atmosphere (where it seems to be constantly raining or blustering outside) and the Victorian house complete with a spiral staircase that leads down into the dank, drafty basement still entertains today. The only flaw that I can find is that there are limited possibilities as to who the real killer is. However, knowing who he/she is, you can sit back and watch how they maneuver in and around the suspicions of the members of the household and the police. A great example from the Golden Age of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent thriller about a mute girl (Dorothy McGuire) who is the next victim of a serial killer intent on strangling women with disabilities. Of course, the girl's muteness multiplies the suspense hugely, as she has no way to tell anyone that she's in trouble. The loudest screams are the ones that come out as silence. The production is fine, and Siodmak's direction is pretty much impeccable. The camera glides around effortlessly, and shadows and dark spaces cover the screen strategically. At one point, a strangling victim is completely covered with a splash of shadow, and all we can see are her outspread hands (Nicholas Musuraca is responsible for the masterful photography). The acting is also quite good. McGuire expresses her emotions perfectly through her face. Ethel Barrymore, Gordon Oliver, Elsa Lanchester, and Sara Allgood, among others, make up a great supporting cast. Kent Smith plays McGuire's love interest; he is probably best remembered for his lead role in the Val Lewton vehicle The Cat People (and his reprise of the same character in Curse of the Cat People). I always find him rather adequate, but nothing more. There a couple of things I do dislike. There are a few hackneyed elements in the production, most notably the cliche of the dark and stormy night. The film is also a whodunit, a genre which has some major drawbacks. It seems worthless to me to sit there guessing throughout the film, as some people undoubtedly will. But people should realize that, in a whodunit, it could be any character who has been introduced. The writer doesn't even have to decide until the end if he doesn't want to. There's kind of a slip here, and the killer is revealed at least ten minutes too early if you're paying attention. It would have been better if the serial killer were just some stranger. Ah, I shouldn't end my reviews on flaws, because The Spiral Staircase surpasses them by miles. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Great to watch on a cold rainy winter night when you are home alone!!!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film should be great to watch on a rainy winter night when you are home alone. I saw it at an old movie house, which is also good, since any picture made for the big screen should be seen at the Cinema and not on TV.The Spiral Staircase doesn't resist 100% to the test of time, but it is still great suspense and great direction - especially the beginning and the end. I also liked the actors very much. The only one I didn't enjoy so much was George Brent, but then I never like his acting in any picture. The rest of the cast is perfect.Sometimes the story gets a little boring - most of the times it happens when Ethel Barrymore is talking - but that is, in a way, good, because it gives you that sense of desperation and anxiety. You never know when will the killer attack...The end is not very surprising but it doesn't let you down. The sequence of events is very well planned and filmed.It's a good film and if you see it at a tender age I don't doubt it will scare you. "},{"Title":"Overripe, would-be shocker...","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rather hectic and dull adaptation of Ethel Lina White's book Some Must Watch, a now-outdated mystery-chiller about a small town mute servant girl in 1916 who is terrorized by a serial killer. Grandiose attempts to mine mystery and suspense from this bug-eyed scenario result in exhausted guffaws, not chills. Uneven performances by Dorothy McGuire in the lead, George Brent and Elsa Lanchester in tired supporting roles. It has acquired a favorable reputation through the years, but too much work went into the picture's design, and it is top-heavy with shuddering atmospherics. Not bad, perhaps, for novices who are new to the woman-in-distress genre; film-buffs should know better. Remade in 1975. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The well made studio production","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This chiller is a superb example of the well-made studio production. The studio in question is David O Selznick's and over the years we seem to have forgotten just how good many of the films that came from that particular stable were. Selznick himself had a penchant for high art. Sometimes it stifled the material; at other times it gave tawdry melodramas like this a touch of class, Someone has been killing girls with an affliction. Dorothy McGuire is the mute servant girl holed up in an old mansion with the killer. Suspects include stepbrothers George Brent and Gordon Oliver, good doctor Kent Smith and handyman Rhys Williams. It creaks almost as much as the shutters do during the storm that lasts the whole movie, (it takes place over one night), but director Robert Siodmak knows how to pull out all the stops and it is superbly photographed in true noir style by Nicholas Muscraca. On the acting front Ethel Barrymore steals the film as the invalid matriarch. She spends almost the entire picture in bed yet, flat on her back, acts the rest of the cast off the screen. The plot served as the basis for what may have been one of the very best in 'The Alfred Hitchcock Presents' series, The Unlocked Window. "},{"Title":"The Slow Staircase","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" So, I'll admit right off the bat that I'm probably coming into this movie with a skewed opinion. You see I'm an absolute horror addict and I'm well on my way towards my trek of seeing every horror film ever made (one day, my friends). This film was recommended to me in the excellent book HIDDEN HORROR, so I figured I would give it a shot, knowing that this is not one of my favorite genres.I accept and realize off the bat that this is not straight horror in any way. I was certainly not expecting blood and gore or scary monsters. As a noirish 40s thriller, though, it certainly falls in the extended horror family tree. That's problem number one for me, right there. I'm just not the biggest fan of this subgenre. Censorship and sinking standards had slowly killed the golden age of horror that had come a decade before. It would be another decade before drive-in monsters invaded the genre. The 40s is, probably the low point for horror. You had Universal continuing to pump out the monster sequels, but there was little new material being produced. What was coming out was often this type of film - slow burn thrillers that relied a lot more on shadow and mood than action. The master was Val Lewton, of course, who is another film maker whose films I don't enjoy as much as the larger community.So, what's with the history lesson? I say all of that to point out that I generally don't like this kind of film to begin with, so I will admit I'm not the best judge, but I know that there will be plenty of people who share my opinion, as well, so it's worth putting out there.This is a gorgeous movie at times. Plenty of shadows and spooky basements and the whole film takes place during a thunderstorm, creating a good sense of mood. That's all there really is, though. NOTHING happens in this movie for an hour. We get a little bit of setup at the beginning and a thrilling finale, but the hour in between is talking and more talking, though not from our main character who can't talk at all and spends a lot of time making awkward faces.I do see some early traces of things to come that probably make this an important film. There are subtle foreshadows of the serial killer genre, with the killer stalking victims from closets and a definite sense of the final girl that would come in later movies. We even get a black-gloved killer to predate the work of Bava and the giallo movement. Those curiosities aside, though, I found myself often wondering how much time this movie had left until we would get to something actually happening. "},{"Title":"Didn't do much for me.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Spiral Staircase starts as the dead body of a crippled woman (Myrna Dell) is found in her room, the police are on the case but the murderer is still on the loose. The local police track the killer to a specific part of town & decide to warn Professor Warren (George Brent) who lives in a large house with his stepbrother Steven (Gordon Oliver), their sick mother (Ethel Barrymore) & various servants including a young mute woman named Helen Capel (Dorothy McGuire) who hasn't spoken in years. The police feel that the killer is targeting women with 'imperfections' & that Helen may be their next victim, as a huge thunder storm rages outside the killer is indeed intent on Helen becoming their next victim...Directed by Robert Siodmak this was apparently a bit of a hit when originally released back in '45 but it's also a film which hasn't really been that well remembered or embraced, personally I think it's well overrated & didn't think it was anything special. The script by Mel Dinelli was based on the novel 'Some Must Watch' by Ethel Lina White & alternates between a creaky murder mystery & dull soap opera. Most of the running time is spent on building the character's up, unfortunately it all amounts to very little & the last twenty odd minutes feels like any generic slasher flick as a woman tries to evade the attention of a homicidal killer. It may have been one of the first horror/thriller/murder mystery films but that doesn't automatically make it any good, I just found the melodramatics far too dull & lifeless while the horror mystery side of things don't fare much better as I thought the final 'twist' revelation was far too predictable. On a basic level it's watchable & a few things in it are quite effective but overall I just didn't like that much & it's as simple & straight forward as that.Director Siodmak does OK, there's some wonderfully atmospheric shots of the house in the darkness of night while a thunder storms rages on but are a few nice black and white shots of a house really enough to make The Spiral Staircase a classic? Or even a good film? I don't think so, but that's just my opinion & just about the whole world & it's brother seem to rave about it so what do I know? When it's good it's good but when it's dull it's dull.Technically the film is pretty impressive, the technology & techniques of today obviously weren't available back in the early 40's but The Spiral Staircase still looks good with very effective black and white photography. The acting isn't anything special & I found McGuire to be stiff & unlikable as the heroine.The Spiral Staircase is alright, if you like these old black and white efforts then you'll be as happy as a pig in sh*t but I didn't think it was anything special. Remade twice, once by Warner Bros. as The Spiral Starircase (1975) & then as a made-for-TV film The Spiral Staircase (2000) neither of which are supposed to be as good as the original. "},{"Title":"How do you spell Grade B Movie?","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The most interesting thing about this movie is that someone deemed it valuable enough to put on video. Strictly a B-movie - you have to wonder what Ethel Barrymore is doing in this clunker.  It was a bit like a stage play in that the entire action took place in one evening with the characters saying Helen, I need a word with you in the den, or upstairs, or whatever. The Doctor seemed to go from professional interest in Helen, to marriage in just a few lines of dialogue.  Lets just say it wasn't MGM. "}{"Title":"tries hard, but drags","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I believe Maltin is being far too generous to give this cliche-ridden movie 3 1/2 stars. Perhaps suspenseful in its day, the techniques employed are dated and obvious, right down to the it was a dark and stormy night setting. It may be that this is a sad commentary on how desensitized we have become to horror with the increasingly sensational techniques that began with Psycho. None the less, I found this to be yawner. The women in the cast - McGuire, Barrymore, and Lanchester - far outshine the nondescript efforts of the men. "},{"Title":"Although not spiral, the staircase was the most interesting aspect","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The final half hour of this film was fairly entertaining but it couldn't make up for the deadly dull first hour. This cornball scarefest complete with the neverending thunderstorm never got off the ground for me; probably was spooky 50 years ago but today was merely laughable. I did like the creepy basement. "},{"Title":"pathetic","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  How could Leonard Maltin give this three and half stars. It's not even interesting, the acting is pretty bad and I could care less about any of the characters. I wouldn't even care if all the characters were killed off. A lot of people have compared this to the Val Lewton films of the 40's, yeah right. Richard Sidomark was better at directing movies like crisscross.  "},{"Title":"Great set, shame about the acting","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Film-Noir, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm amazed at the generally favourable comments on this film. I saw it recently, largely on the basis of recommendations, and found it to be execrable. The photography and sets were fine - atmospheric, verging on grand guignol melodramatic - but the acting was uniformly wooden. Most of the dialogue sounded like the actors had only just read it, or that they were reading it (badly) from idiot boards. The plot, such as it was, failed to create any tension, as the identity of the murderer is obvious from a very early stage. Elsa Lanchester in particular, seems to be in almost a semi-drugged state, so lacking in life is her contribution. "}]