[{"Title":"A highly original piece of work that remains impressive, baroque folly, not least for the final scene&#133;","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" King Vidor was a long-serving and much-respected Hollywood grandmaster who took a serious interest in movie-making&#133; Billy the Kid and Duel in the Sun hold an important place in the history of the genre&#133; These two films in particular, along with Northwest Passage, show Vidor's romantic vision of backwoods America and his love of natural landscape; they share, too, an earthy quality which is missing from his more routine action Westerns, The Texas Rangers and Man Without a Star.Photographed in rich color, the visual magnificence of the film was manifested in the shots of the cowboys galloping across the rolling hills; in the spectacular confrontation between the McCanles forces who aimed to defend Spanish Bit with lead and the U.S. Cavalry; in the deep red sunset sequence with Lionel Barymore as the lonely Senator; and in that long shot of the surreptitious meeting between Lewt and his father on the hilltop at sunset&#133; Duel in the Sun is extravagantly and grandiosely passionate and romantic and its characters are much larger than life&#133; A poignant scene was the tremendous moment between two legendary actors (Lionel Barrymore & Lillian Gish) when Laura Belle said to her husband I'm a nuisance to you even to the end. It's the first time you've been in this room since that night./I loved you, Laura Belle. Yes, sir, I loved you. Now, when a single movie offers murder, rape, attempted fratricide, train wreck, fiery sensual dance, drunkenness, religion, range wars, prostitution, sacred and profane love and sex as the principal motivation and not as an incidental subplot, and all that against an epic background of empire-building, well, it is for the first time in a Western in such a big scale&#133; The film featured the story of Pearl Chavez whose past is dark as her coca-stained skin and who loves everybody but loves bad Lewt most often&#133;Gregory Peck character as Lewt is barbaric, undisciplined, untamed, overwhelming&#133; He is a bad man, all bad, but he is also the lowest, dirtiest, meanest and cool, and he knows how to laugh and have a good time&#133; Jennifer Jones as Pearl, is the 'prettiest girl ever to set foot on Spanish Bit.' She is a marvelous overwrought minx, wild and sexy&#133;Joseph Cotton is the calm, educated, refined, pleasant son Jesse who ultimately sides with the railroad against his father&#133;He even threatens to cut the fence wire promising I'd rather be on the side of the victims than of the murderers. Lionel Barrymore is the invalid Senator Jackson McCanles who orders his son, calling him a Judas, to leave his ranch for as long as he lives&#133; Lillian Gish is the delicate Laura Belle who blames her husband of spoiling Lewt and she let him do so ever since he was a child making him think that rules weren't made for him&#133; Herbert Marshall plays Scott Chavez the condemned Southern aristocrat gentleman who sends his daughter to Laura Belle, his second cousin&#133; Charles Bickford plays Sam Pierce, the boss who gets a little ranch of his own but never run across anybody he wanted to marry&#133; Besides, he never got up nerve enough to ask anybody&#133; Impassions, pulsating, barbaric, and thunderous, the music matches perfectly the fervid emotionalism of the story&#133; The film received only two Academy Awards nominations&#133; "},{"Title":"She's a good girl that Pearl","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" David O. Selznick spent the rest of his life trying to top Gone With the Wind. What other mountains did he have to climb after making the most acclaimed motion picture ever? In addition he had another obsession, his second wife Jennifer Jones. He was going to make her the greatest leading lady in the history of film. Well he didn't succeed at either, but it wasn't for lack of trying. Jones herself was in a peculiar position similar to her husband's. She got an Oscar for her first feature film after she changed her name from Phyllis Isley to Jennifer Jones. Selznick knew that she couldn't play saints all her life as she did in The Song of Bernadette. So for this western answer to Gone With the Wind as Pearl Chavez she plays about as opposite a character from Bernadette Soubirous as you can get.Duel in the Sun got mixed reviews by the critics, but the public ate it up. It's the story of the McCanless family, parents Lionel Barrymore and Lillian Gish and sons Joseph Cotten and Gregory Peck. Cotten is the good son, Peck the bad one. In fact as Lewt McCanless Peck played his worst character until Josef Mengele in Boys from Brazil.A kissing cousin of their's Jennifer Jones comes to live with them. She's the offspring of an old beau of Lillian's, Herbert Marshall and the Indian wife he ran off with back in the day. Lillian and Herbert were kissing cousins also.As Pearl Chavez, Jen gets the McCanless boys testosterone going into overdrive. Take one look at her and you can hardly blame them.One of the not so hidden subtexts of Duel in the Sun is racism. Jennifer's good for a quick roll in the hay, but marriage is out of the question, at least for Gregory Peck. Barrymore's and Peck's racism is overt, the others not quite so, but it's still there. The negotiations with Louis B. Mayer for Lionel Barrymore must have been interesting. Selznick's former wife was Irene Mayer, Louis's daughter.One thing with Selznick, he spared no expense. He got the best in talent for this film. Dimitri Tiomkin did the score, King Vidor the direction, Ray Rennahan the color photography which is absolutely stunning. He even got Bing Crosby to record Gotta Get Me Somebody to Love with Les Paul's guitar. Peck sang it in the film, Crosby's record sold a few platters.He even got Orson Welles to do the off-screen narration if you don't recognize that voice. It misses being a classic mainly because Selznick couldn't keep his hands off it. Sometimes the acting is about as subtle as a sledgehammer from all the performers. I'm willing to bet it's Selznick more than Vidor.Yet it's good entertainment and Duel in the Sun does have its moments. "},{"Title":"Overproduced Western Epic Is A Guilty Pleasure!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"44 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Everything about 'Duel in the Sun' is overripe the music, the photography (those red sunsets a la GWTW), the strong emotions and the climactic duel on a blazing desert sun by the two mismatched lovers. Indeed, the excesses are almost operatic in proportion--and yet, a viewer can get caught up in this sprawling western rightly termed Lust in the Dust by some reviewers. The rampant sensuality of the steamy scenes between Peck and Jones are emphasized by Dimitri Tiomkin's luscious background score which becomes blistering and intense for the climactic shootout. Overproduced, overacted, overwritten--it still entertains and makes us appreciate the genius of David O. Selznick whose hand on all of the material is quite evident. Jennifer Jones was nominated for her tempestuous Pearl Chavez (but lost to Olivia de Havilland for 'To Each His Own'). Lillian Gish deserved her Oscar nomination. And last but not least, let's not forget Walter Huston, who gives the most realistic and enjoyable performance in the entire film as The Sin Killer--a wickedly funny portrayal. Weakest aspect of the film is Gregory Peck's easygoing villain--his whole performance strikes a false note and is not the least bit convincing. He and Joseph Cotten should have switched their roles--Cotten always made a more believable villain than Peck. Selznick obviously was striving to make a western on the level of GWTW--even including Butterfly McQueen for comic relief. All in all, fun to watch if you don't take any of it seriously. Not exactly a work of art--but definitely worth watching. And, oh, that ripe technicolor! "},{"Title":"Loud, boisterous, silly but hugely enjoyable sex Western","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"52 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A half-breed named Pearl (Jennifer Jones) is sent off to live with her second cousins after her parents are killed. She disrupts the household causing problems between two brothers--one named Lewt (Gregory Peck) who's bad and Jesse (Joseph Cotten) who's good. She also is hated by the father (Lionel Barrymore) and protected by the mother (Lillian Gish). Beautifully filmed in Technicolor this is a fun movie. The dialogue is full of howlers and, for it's time, this was pretty strong stuff. The emphasis is on sex and that bothered audiences in the late 40s. An entire dance by Jones was cut out and the release of the film was delayed because of the content! Today it's very tame and pretty funny.Jones is horribly miscast as Pearl. She's very beautiful and wears tight, revealing clothing all through the film, but her acting is terrible. She sneers and glares her way through all her scenes and seems incapable of saying any line believably. Peck is surprisingly very good playing an evil man. Cotten and Gish are stuck with thankless good person roles. Barrymore REALLY chews the scenery. And the opening narration is by Orson Welles!This movie was made by David O. Selznick to showcase his then girlfriend (and future wife) Jones. Purportedly he made this with serious intentions. It was a big hit but most critics dismissed it as trash. Today it's just a true camp classic. Hysterically bad but beautifully filmed and loads of fun. The climax especially is a howler. A great party flick.In it's own way, this is a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"Overblown, but entertaining and essential for Western fans.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In the trade, this film was derisively known as Lust in the Dust and the critics were lukewarm.  The Catholic Film Office rated it C for condemned, presumably due to its smoldering sexuality, and Protestant churches denounced it for Walter Huston's windbag and satirical preacher, The Sinkiller.  Just about the only people who liked it were producer David O. Selznick and the public.  By late 1980's, times had changed so much that Duel in the Sun was shown in the early evening on Baltimore's Channel 24, then a family-oriented station owned by a bible publisher, Thomas Nelson.  It was  available on video at that time from Playhouse Video, a family imprint of CBS-Fox!  Today, nearly sixty years after its release, we can perhaps consider the film objectively.In a filmed interview years later, King Vidor said that he signed on to this film expecting it to be a small scale psychological Western like the later High Noon.  However, producer Selznick, relatively young and already living in the shadow of his Gone With the Wind, consciously or/and unconsciously tried to equal or outdo that film with this one.  The result is a Western epic built upon a non-epic story, making it seem a bit grandiose or overblown.  Tiomkin's grand and beautiful score for this film would seem better suited for a tale about a true epic, such as a story about the cavalry campaigns or the building of the Pacific railroads.Inspite of itself, the core of this film is a fascinating psychological Western based on the interplay of varied and sometimes contrasting characters.  The acting is excellent, a possible exception being Lionel Barrymore's hamming, which burns up the scenery like a prairie fire and is often irritating.  The production values are superb and the scenes of the confrontation with the railroad should be studied by student filmmakers.   "},{"Title":"Hollywood epic filmed in the Southwest","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie is like a painting by an old master that hangs in a museum--we may not be moved by it, but we can still appreciate the artistry. Its most notable feature is the director, King Vidor, master of silent film making. As you might expect, many of the important scenes have little or no dialog. In one scene between Lionel Barrymore and Lillian Gish, he rambles on about their life together, while she strains to get out of her sickbed and crosses slowly to him, the entire distance transfigured by the depth of her love for him. Gish was a great star of silent film, with a wonderful, expressive face, full of compassion and grace. In another scene that happens under quite different circumstances, Jennifer Jones crawls to Gregory Peck, the man she loves, also without words, evincing great sorrow and quiet dignity. In both cases, the women prove they are far more noble than the men who love them so badly. Jones also has a mobile face, together with a beautiful, resonant voice. No film that has these two ladies at its center should be missed. In addition, the film has two marvelous scenes that, at the time of its making, would have been just as impressive as some of today's special effects wonders In the first, about 20 armed horsemen face a crowd of railway workers, including some chinese, clothed in authentic period dress, with a steam engine in the background. As the tensions mount, a troop of mounted cavalry, about 100 strong, ride onto the set, filmed on location (judging by the saguarros and ocatillos) in Arizona. This was a tour de force of filmmaking at a time when shooting on location was rare. In the second scene, a train under a full head of steam jumps the tracks and plows down an embankment. Filmed in early technicolor, this movie has lush exteriors and panoramas of rich desert color. Two more character actors should be mentioned, both of whom steal every scene they enter Butterfly McQueen, the maid whose comments are both simple and profound, and Walter Huston, as the crusty sheriff who doubles as a preacher during a funeral. "},{"Title":"More Drama Than Western","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" For those who prefer soap operas instead of horse operas, this western might be for you. If you prefer the normal action-packed western you'll still might enjoy this if you have the patience to go past the first hour. The second half of the this far more interesting.Jennifer Jones, who became famous playing some wholesome roles in the '40s, was the definition of sultry in this movie. She really demonstrates the weakness of the flesh that human beings deal with many times. She wants to be good, but succumbs quickly to temptations almost every time.Gregory Peck also plays against type, playing an arrogant pig in this movie. It was the first time I had ever seen him play the bad guy, and it looked strange. Lionel Barrymore also shines as the bigoted tyrant-type father. Who was the good guy? Joseph Cotten, who almost always gives a good performance as the other actors just named. Add Herbert Marshall, Lillian Gish, Walter Huston and Charles Bickford and you have some cast!Some of the cinematography is nice, too, reminiscent of film noirs with the shadows and light and a number of night scenes.Yet, despite all these positive things going for it, it is not a film I would watch many times because it drags in spots and is too long (app. 2 hours, 20 minutes). It also gave a cheap shot to the traveling lay preacher in here, but that's nothing new in films.All in all, not one of my favorites. I guess I would rather see Jones and Peck play good guys. "},{"Title":"Just remember, don't call her Honey.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  PURE OPERA. From the scenic backdrops seething in passionate colors to Jennifer Jones' over-ripe performance and Dimitri Tiomkin's tempestuous score...'Duel In The Sun' isn't just another soapy oater, it is the ultimate soapy oater. Brimming with more bad taste than any screenwriter could possibly misconceive, this Selznick classic is the penultimate guilty viewing pleasure...if you like you're Westerns on the sleazy side that is!The performances are all unapologetically over-the-top, with Ms. Jones, in an Oscar winning performance no less, as Pearl Chavez, the 'half-breed' vixen torn between lust for Gregory Peck's Lewt McCanles, the bad-boy brother gone badder, and the 'save-me-from-myself' brand of love for Joseph Cotten's Jesse McCanles, the good brother with not-a-whole-heck-of-alot of sex appeal going for him. In between all this indecision, Ms. Jones sets fire to the scenery with as many sultry leers and poses as, I suppose, the censors of the time would permit her. I'm TRASH, TRASH, TRASH, Pearl exclaims. And that about sums it all up. In spades! I should also make mention of the other Oscar winning performance, that by the venerable Lillian Gish as Laura Belle McCanles who, in perhaps the most painfully rapturous sequence, resurrects her silent film training in a tour-de-force of physical acting that, in less capable hands, would only be embarrassing. Not that you won't be tempted to laugh mind you, even Grand Opera, at the best of times, isn't this exquisitely sublime. And then there is Butterfly McQueen...as the befuddled maid (what else)...in the only role written for obvious comedic effect, whose long-winded sincerity couldn't be the more perfect foil for a hurried house full of whitees with nothing but sex on the brain...On the technical side, it is an unquestionably ravishing film to look at. In glorious Technicolor, the 'Old West' never looked more mythic or more prone to tragedy...the 'campy' side that is. And, yet once more, Dimitri Tiomkin finesses our ears with a resounding melody of wide open spaces and of still bigger ambitions and desires, culminating in a symphonic tempest for two ill-fated (or over-sexed) lovers who could only be united in death.WOW, this picture is right off the Harlequin Romance map! And I enjoyed every minute of it. "},{"Title":"A Unique Film Work","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The restored Road Show DVD of David O. Selznick's production of Duel in the Sun is a most impressive experience.  What this restoration has done is to place the viewer back to 1946 at the premiere itself.Selznick's vision was huge, romantic, and sumptuous.  He had the means to spare no expense or effort in realizing this grandiose concept.  The result is a sweeping drama set in the west, yet rising above the normal trappings of most movie westerns.First a trio of photographers headed by the peerless Lee Garmes, and assisted by Ray Rennahan and Hal Rosson, provided a rich and colorful canvas of romantic artistry and beauty.  Then a screenplay by producer Selznick emphasized the Gothic and overripe emotions with great relish.  If you're going to do it, do it, was the attitude.  Let the trash explode on the screen.  Added to this formidable group of artists came director King Vidor, beautifully directing a carefully chosen and extremely talented cast, and creating some magnificent and memorable set pieces.Lastly came the legendary composer, Dimitri Tiomkin, crafting a superb score, exuding the pent up and released emotions of the characters and painting the hot and sultry essence of the desert setting.  The way to fully experience the Selznick vision is to take the time to position one's self before the DVD monitor, adjust the sound volume to near peak level, and absorb the score from the first note of the 15-minute Prelude, the 5-minute Overture, through the 144-minute drama, and continue until the final, crashing chord of the 5-minute Postlude (Exit Music).  Only then will the true meaning and power of Duel in the Sun be realized.It's a one-of-a-kind film work, and a lasting tribute to that mad, disorganized, titanic and great genius of film production, Selznick. "},{"Title":"Bawdy, Overacted Sexual Western","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"29 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Well, it's no Gone With The Wind.  Selznick, again, features his wife, Jennifer Jones, in a different role than the usual wholesome roles she was expected to do.  Portrait Of Jennie, Since You Went Away and Song of Bernadette.  Jones has a bad habit of over-acting if allowed to do so.  Example is Tender Is The Night, Man In A Grey Flannel Suit, Ruby Gentry and Love Letters.   It takes a strong director to tone her down.  King Vidor lost control of her in this or Selznick had too much control.  Her performance consisted of a low gutteral voice and a sashaying walk.  Not much else.On the other hand, excellent supporting roles were played by Lionel Barrymore and Lilian Gish.  They stole the picture in this viewer's opinion.  Gregory Peck and Joseph Cotton went through the paces of what they were asked to do as rivalry brothers.  But you kind of knew their hearts weren't in it.   Then there was the presence of Butterfly McQueen in her usual Gone With The Wind type performance.  Charles Bickford in an undistinguished role was wasted as was Herbert Marshall and Sidney Blackner all good actors.  An impressive cast when the titles came on, but what followed was not what you wanted to see.I got tired of seeing Jennifer Jones strutting about making faces of some indian half-breed.  Boring.  Oh, I liked the horse the pinto that she rode.  He was terrific.  Best to see this on video.  Doesn't come off that bad.  But it is a cornball western farce. "}{"Title":"Flawed, to be sure, but what a movie!!","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I find the best films are not necessarily those considered the great classics (Citizen Kane, All About Eve, although they ARE great). There are many forgotten, maligned, critically misunderstood and perhaps flawed masterpieces out there which maybe did not reach the grand heights the artists were striving for, but achieved greater heights than most other films for trying! An example of a film which reached for the stars and instead became a disappointment in many peoples' opinion is DUEL IN THE SUN.At first glance, it appears Jennifer Jones is woefully miscast and overacting terribly. However, as the film wears on, her performance becomes more and more believable and enthralling. You simply cannot look away from her when she is on the screen--flashing eyes and all. She did receive an Oscar nomination for the role, after all! As the character was part Native American, she was excluded from polite society of the time and her tempestuousness was a sign of her frustration. It suited the character extremely well; not overacting at all, but an expression of the primitive natural drives of a woman uneducated and uncultured.Gregory Peck is especially fine as Lewt, who on the surface appears to be the villain of the story. Digging deeper, the story reveals his father as the primary villain--spoiling Lewt and teaching him prejudice and intolerance. Lewt was torn between his father's (Lionel Barrymore) intolerance of the half-Indian girl and his own love for her. This lead him to act out in a variety of ways which express his own frustration, including killing the man she is intended to marry after he spurns her. Jessie (Joseph Cotten) is the good brother who tries to help the girl make a better life for herself, but is opposed by Lewt who threatens his life until the girl decides to take matters into her own hands--and then we have the duel in the sun! The film really packs a punch. The cast is dizzyingly star-studded and effective. Especially good are Butterfly McQueen, as the lonely maid who no one ever listens to. Lillian Gish is terrific as the wife with a heart of gold, who takes the Indian girl under her wing. Barrymore, great as always, plays a very selfish, closed-minded husband, but even he turns out all right in the end.If there is one theme which runs through the story it is frustration--sexual, romantic, and otherwise. The other two prevailing themes are, believe it or not, sexism and prejudice! Very rare for a 1946 film, to be sure, but they are everywhere. Pay close attention to the way the African American maid (Butterfly McQueen) is ignored, or the way the girl is shunned because she is half-Native American. These are all presented as roots of problems in the story. The girl's frustration is brought on primarily by the mistreatment she receives from men; she is even raped by Lewt in one scene. This brings up a theme of inequality because of sexism. When Lewt rapes her, Jessie is no longer interested. In the time the story took place, rape was unheard of really. If a woman was subject to a man's advances, she was a whore, not a victim. Of course, people were much smarter in 1946, but the theme is presented in the story through characters reactions just as if it was actually taking place in the 1800s and not more enlightened times. It is a very fascinating angle to take; rarely is a film so daring as to present an era exactly as it was in terms of social beliefs!King Vidor was a master director. DUEL IN THE SUN definitely has the King Vidor influence. Many of his films contain that undercurrent of frustration (Beyond the Forest, for example). The film starts out slow, gains momentum and becomes more involving as the story progressing. By the time the stunning ending comes along, be prepared because the film really packs a punch! Contrived, slightly. Hokey, yeah a bit. But a great movie? Absolutely! "},{"Title":"Selznick's attempt to top GWTW","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Say you're 44-year-old Hollywood producer David O. Selznick and it's been seven years and a World War since your last Technicolor feature, Gone with the Wind, which beat out not only The Wizard of Oz but Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, Stagecoach and Wuthering Heights for the Best Picture Oscar of 1939. How does a nice Jewish boy from Pittsburgh top that? Why, with Duel in the Sun, so overblown and grandiose that it's acquired the nickname Lust in the Dust. The screenplay was written by Niven Busch, whose wife was Teresa Wright, for whom the female lead role was intended as a departure from her terminally wholesome image, but in a spectacular piece of bad timing, she became pregnant early in production and had to drop out. Selznick then offered the role to his 27-year-old gorgeous Gentile girlfriend Jennifer Jones (the former Phyllis Walker), whom he later married. I don't know if the film's historical background is accurate, but the action is set against the coming of the railroad to the Texas ranchlands and the opposition of the ranchers to the government's appropriation of rights-of-way by eminent domain for their cronies, the railroad magnates. Jones plays Pearl Chavez, a half-breed, whose father kills Pearl's mother and her lover and is sentenced to death. Pearl goes to live with distant relatives on a ranch in Spanish Bit, Texas, and the sultry beauty's arrival immediately stirs up trouble in the already dysfunctional household, aggravating tensions between the brothers Jesse and Lewt (like lewd, get it?) McCanles. Jesse (Joseph Cotten) is the good but gutless son and Lewt (a very young Gregory Peck) is handsome and charming but also arrogant, insecure and violent. Intrigue, treachery and murder follow in Pearl's wake, friends and family take sides, and Pearl is torn between the two brothers who are well-defined good and bad characters. An attempted fratricide ensues, leading up to a climactic confrontation at Squaw's Head Rock in the Mexican desert (the lust in the dust part).This is film-making at its best and worst. The best The sets, costumes, outdoor locations and cinematography are magnificent, except for one or two inexplicable goofs such as a brief scene where Lionel Barrymore, in the center foreground, is perceptibly out of focus. I've seen this film both in a theater and on TV, and the richness of Technicolor comes through even on a TV screen. Even the computer-enhanced color effects of modern films can't surpass the brilliance and subtlety of the old 3-strip Technicolor process. There has just never been anything like it. The director was that old veteran of both silents and talkies, King Vidor. The location shooting, unusual in those days when productions rarely ventured off the studio backlot, is spectacular. Some scenes, such as the lineup of the U.S. cavalry across from a line of angry ranchers on horseback along a stretch of unfinished railroad track, and the derailing of a train on a hillside, are breathtaking even today. You do notice certain differences in the old technology; for example, there is a tracking shot of Pearl and Lewt on horseback where it may have been impractical to lay track for the camera, which jiggles up and down in a way that you never see in these days of the Steadicam.The worst The overheated, baroque, melodramatic plot and the operatic, stylized dialogue that had them on the edge of their seats in the 1940s will have you rolling in the aisles (either with mirth or in severe intestinal distress) in the 2000s. The casting is often equally absurd The Tulsa-born Jennifer Jones in brown body makeup playing a half-breed. The London-born Herbert Marshall playing her father, a Texas Creole. The Vienna-born Tilly Losch, also in brown body makeup, playing Pearl's mother, an Indian. Gregory Peck does his best, and maybe it's because of my memory of his later, generally sympathetic roles, but he is only marginally believable as the bad son Lewt.Lionel Barrymore had for a number of years been confined to a wheelchair because of crippling arthritis, but that didn't stop him from working, and he supplies his usual hammy, melodramatic performance. Joseph Cotten does a serviceable job as Jesse although he seems too old for the part, and in fact he was about the same age as Selznick, so maybe there was symbolism there. Lillian Gish is excellent and the always brilliant Walter Houston chews up the scenery every chance he gets in his small role. No big, splashy Western would be complete without Charles Bickford and Harry Carey, and they look and act their parts perfectly here. The score by the legendary film composer Dmitri Tiomkin resembles the work of John Williams in that it more than makes up in enthusiasm what it lacks in subtlety. "},{"Title":"Overheated Fandango","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" No need to recap the plot.One thing about this overblown fandango&#x97; once seeing it, you won't forget it. How could anyone when everything is done to such tasteless excess. Poor Pearl (Jones). Apparently, Jones was told her part was that of a hot-blooded wench, which she unfortunately took to mean parboiled. It's hard not to laugh at the first hour when she acts like a nympho on steroids, tossing hair and leering wildly like pampas grass in a windstorm. Not far behind is that vintage ham Lionel Barrymore doing his usual blustery bit, like we won't get his hard-bitten patriarch unless he takes it into hyper speed. And who could have guessed that the usually constricted and constrained Gregory Peck could actually over-act. I think it was his first and last time&#x97;good thing, too.It's possible to go on about the unrelenting excess&#x97; the sunsets that appear to hemorrhage, a musical score that's as necessary as sugar on molasses, and a loony ending that defies parody. But you get the idea. Too bad so much money and effort went into such a generally overheated result. Only Cotten, Gish and the black stallion come through unscathed. I'm thinking RKO could have made a dozen worthwhile programmers on the same budget. As things turned out, Selznick did his beloved Jones no favors with this one. It's hard to believe the man responsible for Gone with the Wind (1939) is also responsible for this swollen mess. "},{"Title":"Magnificent and Colorful Western; It Works as Drama and Tragedy Both","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" More critical nonsense has perhaps been written about Duel in the Sun than about any other U.S. made film. It is a big, intelligent and well-acted western. It had the great King Vido as the director for much of its beautiful footage,, plus contributions by several other very-fine directors. it was adapted from a good little novel by Niven Busch, with a script credited to Oliver H.P. Garrett as adaptation to the screen and to Ben Hecht and David Selznick for the screenplay. Th sterling cinematography was done by the great lee Garmes, Harodl Rosson and Ray Rennahan, with production design by J. McMillan Johnson and art direction by James Basevi. Costumes were the work of famous designer Walter Punkett. Dimitri Tiomkin did the music and producer Selznick spared no expense to make this project work. He also quarreled with Vidor over the production, and is probably responsible for the literate but needless fatality element and narrated prologue that alter the production a bit but do not harm it badly. The argument by so-called critics has been about scale. Selznick, trying to repeat his triumph with Gone With the Wind they argued, kept trying to make his films 'bigger'--as if that were the key to an even-greater achievement in cinema for Selznick. But in this novel, the author is the one who suggested that the saloon in which the central character's mother dances was very large; I believe Selznick took this and the size of the desolate country within which the action takes place as cues for him to increase the physical scale of the drama. And for the most part, his decision seems to me to have been unarguably a good one. Many of the shots from Vidor and the other directors are legendary--riders racing along the tops of hills in silhouette against colorful skies, spacious interiors at the Spanish Bit ranch, the sump-hole sequence, the great dance sequence that ignites the action at the film's beginning, the train wreck disasters and many more... The story-line can actually be stated rather swiftly. Pearl Chavez is the daughter of an exotic female who dances and is married to a ne'er-do-well cultured fellow, a distant cousin of the wife of Senator McCanles, owner of a huge ranch in the 1880s. After her father kills his mother over a lover, and is hanged, Pearl is sent to live with the McCanles family. From the first, one son, Jesse, a lawyer, is attracted to her and she to Lewton, the wild cowboy scion of the family. She worries a lot about sin, but to no avail, since the viewer never sees any. What happens is a land dispute, which alienates Jesse from the senator and sends Lewt on a rampage against the railroad who has challenged his father's empire of cattle and dictatorial pseudo-benevolent despotism. he is also angry that Pearl has sent him away after being his lover. Realizing that she is as responsible as anyone for what Lewt has become, blaming her own sexuality for his wrongness, she goes after him and they shoot each other to rags on a desolate hillside, as they were perhaps fated to do in a U.S. mental environment of pseudo-Christian surrealism that helped make the Judge, Lewt and Pearl what they felt they had to be--and also set Jesse, the normative mind in the piece, as an outsider watching the dissolution of their hopes. The critics who have called the film never-dull, bizarre and a product of Selznick's tampering with the script have all been obviously correct; but as some have noted, when it is big the film is very good and memorable. From the great theme song to the powerful scenes, much of this re-engineered-fatalistic drama works. In the leads, Gregory Peck is handsome and showy, which he needs to be, to outshine his attractive but less-charismatic brother, very ably portrayed by Joseph Cotten. Lionel Barrymore does well as the dictatorial senator, and Lillian Gish as his wife proves to be very skilled indeed. Herbert Marshall as Scott Chavez and Tilly Losch are extremely fine; other very able supporting actors in the large cast who show to advantage include Walter Huston as a sin-killing preacher, Charles Bickford, Sidney Blackmer, Butterfly McQueen, Joan Tetzel, Scott McKay, Harray Caray and Otto Kruger. The central performer in the film is Jennifer Jones. I found her quiet and intelligent portrayal to be outstanding in every regard; she was lovely, repressed, sensual, bright, feral and tormented by turns. If Selznick intended this film as a showcase for his wife's wide range of acting abilities, I suggest it worked just about as intended. What is 'bizarre' about the film as a project, I suggest, apart from Selznick's torturing a simple melodrama into an epic drama and very cleverly too is that he then tried to reduce his splendid project to a diatribe against sensuality in order to turn its ending into a work of fate, or a commentary on human weakness. The two strains work against one another in the film at certain times, diminishing however only a little of the film's unusual power, only channeling it toward occasional exaggeration. A splendid piece of film-making by Vidor and every one of the actors and creators involved in its realization "},{"Title":"A Whole New Concept of True, Intense Love - Courtesy of David Selznick and Nevin Busch","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It is common for people to say that DUEL IN THE SUN was an attempt (one of several) for David Selznick to repeat his greatest production success in Hollywood. He had produced GONE WITH THE WIND, and tried repeatedly to duplicate it. It was impossible. I feel the closes he got was with SINCE YOU WENT AWAY, which is still a very moving film showing the alterations World War II caused on the home front. But his films with Hitchcock (including REBECCA and SUSPICION and NOTORIOUS and SPELLBOUND) and DUEL IN THE SUN and A FAREWELL TO ARMS all fall short. This does not mean the films are negligible. Most of the Hitchcock-Selznick partnership films are damned good, and one finds even A FAREWELL TO ARMS worth watching. But GONE WITH THE WIND, despite the stereotypes Margaret Mitchell put into it, showed the collapse of a whole way of life in this country a century earlier due to the Civil War. It can't be reproduced in a western - the west was an entirely different problem of survival in a hostile atmosphere - not one that had built up a set of institutions (unfortunately including slavery) and traditions that were just destroyed.Still DUEL IN THE SUN tries hard, and succeeds to some extent. The story is one of racism in 19th Century Texas. The McCandless Family (Lionel Barrymore, Lillian Gish, Joseph Cotton, and Gregory Peck) are Texas royalty (in a sense) with a huge estate. It is supposed to be the equivalent of Tara in GONE WITH THE WIND. Into their world comes Lillian's cousin, Jennifer Jones, whose father was Mexican (the father was Herbert Marshall). Marshall kills his wife and her lover at the start of the film, and is hanged (his execution scene is very moving actually, as he willingly accepts his death but regrets the loss of his contact with his daughter). Barrymore hates the girl - she is part Mexican and part Indian (he refers to her as Pocahontas at one point), and he hates her dead father, who may have had an affair with Gish. Barrymore favors his son Peck over the more civilized Cotton, and the latter is aware of this. Peck is quite charismatic, but he is also quite a murderous type. Luke McCandless was the wickedness villain Peck played prior to the film THE BOYS FROM BRAZIL thirty years later. Jones' Pearl Chavez is also wicked in her ways, using her attractiveness to destroy men (Cotton and Peck are both interested in her, as is Charles Bickford). She likes Cotton, but her inner sense realizes that she and Peck are very much the same, and she wishes to win him. But Peck is too uncontrollable, and he and Jones rarely get their chemistry together properly.There are some good moments the death of Gish, when she confronts Barrymore on her death bed and the wind and rain push her porch rocking chair back and forth as she leaves this world. Or when Peck destroys a railroad track with dynamite, and starts humming, I've Been Working On The Railroad!The film got the nickname (since taken by a comedy that starred Divine and Tab Hunter back in the 1980s) of LUST IN THE DUST. This was due to the odd conclusion of the film. 1946/47 was a year where twice men and women killed each other in films. Orson Welles (who narrates the start of this film) would direct THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI the following year, wherein Rita Hayward and Everett Sloane shoot each other in a crazy house hall of mirrors. But they really hated each other in that film. Here a desperate Jones shoots Peck to prevent him from killing Cotton, and he returns the favor. Both bleeding to death from multiple wounds they crawl to each other and die in a final embrace. The mutual shooting has been subject to much interpretation. My guess is that the two characters were just so super-sexed that it was impossible to imagine them riding off together into married bliss. Possibly they just had to destroy each other - certainly nobody else could have satisfied their desires. Whatever the reason, it was the final reason that the film remains so memorable to this day. "},{"Title":"Under that heathen blanket there's a full-blossomed woman built by the Devil to drive men crazy!","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A half-Indian girl named Pearl Chavez (Jennifer Jones) is torn between the two sons of a wealthy cattle baron. Jesse (Joseph Cotten) is the educated, mannered 'nice' one. Lewt (Gregory Peck) is a ladies' man and a bad boy. We can tell which is which because the good one typically wears lighter colors and the bad one wears darker colors. Helpful. Pearl just can't resist Lewt no matter how bad he treats her. Leave your political correctness at the door, folks. This one's got a little something to offend almost everybody.Extravagant epic western from David O. Selznick was an attempt to achieve the same success of Gone with the Wind. It's pure tawdry hokum. Yet another starring vehicle for Selznick's protégé (and future wife), Jennifer Jones. I've never been a huge fan of hers. She's certainly attractive enough, with her high cheekbones and radiant smile. I even find her lisp endearing. But she was a very limited actress. Usually she was cast in sensitive parts where she spoke most of her lines in a whispery tone while soft music played. Here she plays to the rafters, hamming it up so loudly she makes Hedy Lamarr's performance in White Cargo seem subtle. Starring with Jones are Gregory Peck and her frequent costar, Joseph Cotten, one of the few male leads the jealous Selznick trusted around his lady love. Cotten is perfect (when wasn't he?) but Peck is miscast and overacts even worse than Jones. The absurd ending with those two is justifiably infamous. The rest of the cast is made up of exceptional talents like Lionel Barrymore, Lillian Gish, Walter Huston, Harry Carey, and Herbert Marshall. The Dimitri Tiomkin score is fantastic. The sets and costumes are lavish, as they should be given the high production values this one had. The Technicolor is gorgeous. The script is laughably awful. Some of the dialogue these poor people have to say is just cringeworthy. Overall, it's a movie low on substance but high on spectacle. It keeps you interested throughout, despite its flaws (and maybe because of them). Definitely warrants a look but not everybody's cup of tea, for sure. "},{"Title":"Epic Western with great success dealing with a passionate  rivalry among two different  brothers","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This lavish film focuses a passionate drama between a half-breed Indian girl named Pearl Chavez and Lewt , son of a powerful baron land . Gorgeous Mestiza Pearl Chavez (Jennifer Jones who had Academy Award nomination) becomes the ward of her dead daddy (Herbert Marshall)'s first love (Lillian Gish) and finds herself torn between her sons, one good guy (Joseph Cotten) and the other bad guy ( untypically cast as baddie , Gregory Peck). Living on a powerful dynastic ranch in Spanish Bit , Texas , and ruled by racist Senator McCanles (Lionel Barrymore) ; she incites the two brothers to conflict . The picture is full of largest-of-life characters as vivacious Perla Chavez built by the devil to drive men crazy ; Lewt McCanles (Gregory Peck) violent as the wind-swept prairie with blood-spilled on his hands ; Jesse (Joseph Cotten) , rebelling against the tyranny of his father ; Senator McCanles (Lionel Barrymore), rich , proud , master of a million of acres ; Raoul Chavez (Herbert Marshall) , ill-fated son of Creole aristocracy ; Laura Belle (Lillian Gish) as martyred mother of a strange brood ; , the pastor (Walter Huston) as the Sinkiller , lusty philosopher of the far-flying prairie . This stirring drama Western plenty of lyric images deals with victory of civilization and defeat of feudal spirit represented by the proud Senator .Selznick's last lusty effort at outdoing his big hit ¨Gone with the wind¨ , he spend almost 5 million of this epic Western and over-budgeted the classic film of the 30s . Sensational main cast as a beautiful spitfire Jennifer Jones at her best , Gregory Peck as rebellious and violent son and Josep Cotten as fine lawyer ; all of them backed by extraordinary secondary cast as Lionel Barrymore as the magnate owner , Walter Huston as fanatic pastor and Lillian Gish who win Oscar nomination , among others . Impressive scenes on the raid with lots of riders towards railway and cavalry arrival . The movie had quite a few problems with censorship caused for frank loving relations between Pearl and Lewt ; it aroused great controversy , US religious organizations protested about the lack ethic and morals and the lots of bloodletting , however it ensured success at box-office and awesome critics . Passionate screenplay by the same producer , David O'Selznick suggested by Niven Busch's novel . Filmed nearly Tucson , Arizona and California , including spectacular landscapes photographed by three cameramen , Lee Garmes , Roy Rennahan ,and Hal Rosson . The motion picture is very well realized by King Vidor , though he was missed by David O'Selznick (Jennifer Jones's husband) , being completed by six directors as Otto Brower (2ª unit) ,William Dieterle , Breezy Reeves Eason (second unit), and minor collaboration from Joseph Von Stenberg and William Cameron Menzies . Rating  Better than average . Essential and indispensable seeing . "},{"Title":"BIG, SPRAWLING WESTERN WITH A HUGH CAST AND GOOD STORY.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  When this movie was made 1946) I was 16 years old and in love with Jennifer Jones, so any movie that she was in was all right with me.  I enjoyed the movie than and I still enjoy it every time I see it,even though the  story line is trite and at times a little corny.  (I just finished watching it on Turner Classic Movies)   "},{"Title":"Blood Red and Saddle Sore","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Selznick-Vidor production Duel In the Sun was camp even before the word was invented, and as such holds up remarkably well. At times I sense that I'm laughing with rather than at the actors (such as racist Lionel Barrymore referring to Jennifer Jones' half-breed as Pocahontas, Minnehaha,--Minnie Ha Ha!). The story revolves around Miss Jones' character of Pearl Chavez, a half-Indian girl who comes to stay with some distant relatives, and who inadvertently turns their place upside down by having affairs with both sons of paterfamilias Barrymore! There are murders, shoot-outs, a train wreck, a lot of fast horse riding and some very orange, almost bloody Texas sky, with most of the action taking place on a ranch that makes the one in Giant look puny by comparison. Some of the casting is more than a bit peculiar, such as Charles Bickford's love-struck ranch foreman, and Lillian Gish's over-refined frontier ma, but these are minor quibbles. Gregory Peck, as the bad son, looks right and handles himself well on a horse, though he lacks the electricity of a young Gable I sense that he and producer David Selznick were aiming for. Joseph Cotten fares better as the sanctimonious good son, while Barrymore is, as noted earlier, a riot, and gives the most satisfying performance in the movie. Dimitri Tiomkin's score punctuates the action with a pulsating sensuality, and the western vistas are breathtaking. For lovers of forties kitsch this one is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Camp Classic!!!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Duel In The Sun has to rank as one of the worse films I have ever seen, but different from a lot of other dreadful films, this one is so awful it's brilliant!! David O. Selznick clearly tried to do another Gone With The Wind and threw a massive chunk of money at the project, which is why it looks so spectacular. However on the human side, he ended up with was one of the most ridiculous melodramas of all time. Jennifer Jones is half-breed Indian, Pearl, expect she's caked in make up and makes Scarlett O'Hara look calm. After her father is hanged for murder she goes to live on grouchy Senator Barrymore's ranch and falls in love with both his sons callous cowboy Peck and calm lawyer Cotton. Except she can never bring herself to love Cotton fully, while her relationship with Peck is extremely love-hate that tragedy strikes several times. All this sounds like it could have made a serious and stirring epic, except it that the script and direction are so dreadful that from beginning to end it's soap-opera mush, except most soaps aren't as silly! However everyone to do with it, the actors in particular are going at it hammer and tongs, (clearly under the illusion that they ARE making Gone With The Wind), that it's perversely compelling stuff all the way. Even if you spend most of the time laughing, especially the spectacularly ludicrous finale, perhaps the most memorably awful in cinema history. Thank you Michael Sauter, author of The Worst Movies Of All Time, who yet again introduced my to yet another pricelessly bad gem! "}{"Title":"big budget trashy film","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I really disliked this movie. Although this was a pet project by the normally successful David O. Selznick, this film featuring his mistress (Jennifer Jones) just seems stupid. Yes, stupid. It's hard to imagine having that big a budget and such wonderful actors and still having a 2nd-rate film. That's because Joseph Cotton, Gregory Peck, Lillian Gish, Lionel Barrymore and Charles Bickford and all the rest of this fine cast couldn't overcome the basic fact that the script is silly and trashy. Now I do not mean trashy as in dirty--I mean it more like a cheap dime novel with a lot of innuendo and sass. While this might have worked well as a B-picture, as a first-tier film it just looks all wrong. As a result, the characters some of the stars must play are 2-dimensional and stupid--and completely miscast. Jennifer Jones as a sex kitten? No way could she pull this off--remember, folks, this is the same actress that played St. Bernadette! And Gregory Peck as a whore-mongering evil son? Nah,...he just seems like he's too nice a guy to play such a jerk. Unless you are a die-hard fan, this movie is imminently skip-able. This film only barely merits 4 stars because it is pretty to look at, the ending is very good and a few of the performances are excellent (such as Joseph Cotton as the good son). "},{"Title":"Beautiful girl faces adversity when her father dies, and joins a rich rancher's clan","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I read somewhere that the production costs of Duel in the Sun were very high, so I scratched my head through the overblown scenes wondering surely, you didn't pay a mountain of money for this acting?  Of course, that really isn't fair.  Gregory Peck, Jennifer Jones, and the rest deliver a pretty intriguing, suspenseful drama.  Eventually the production costs become evident  Hundreds of mounted cowboys face off against an army brigade; the construction of a railroad line where realism was equated with Big; the consistently excellent cinematography and no costs spared sets -  this film took some deep pockets.  Peck and Jones stand out as the bizarre lovers. Peck plays a brutal, spoiled son of a dictatorial rancher (Lionel Barrymore), both father and son dead set against the railroad bringing immigrants (and subsequent taxes) to their paradise.  Jone's Pearl is sincere and full of emotion -- worthy of the lust of every fella on the ranch.  The film's simple-minded views of women, half-breeds, and anything that isn't white and male is obnoxious and almost sinks the film.  Joseph Cotten, the designated good guy and defender of more sophisticated ideas is compromised badly by his blood relation to the villains, and offers no real counter to the film's bigotry.  The rape and subsequent love story between Peck and Pearl is reminiscent of Rhett Butler and Scarlets' love in Gone With the Wind, and makes the film worthwhile.  The famous ending doesn't have much punch any more, but it's still fun.  Lillian Gish, who played the mother, has a death scene reminiscent of her silent film days. "},{"Title":"Worth it for Jennifer Jones and Lillian Gish.","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Synopsis Pearl Chavez, (Jennifer Jones), the half-breed daughter of Scott Chavez, (an American), and his Native American wife, (Tilly Losch), is left orphaned when her father shoots her mother and her mother's lover after they blatantly flaunt their affair in public. As Pearl's father is about to be hanged for these murders, he tells Pearl that he has made arrangements for her to live with his second cousin, Laura Belle McCanles, (Lillian Gish), and hopefully she will be given all the chances to improve her lot in life that she deserves. Laura Belle and Scott were once in love, but Laura Belle chose to marry a rich Texan, Senator Jackson McCanles, (Lionel Barrymore), in stead, and said Senator is not too happy to have Pearl in his house because she is a half-breed and the daughter of his wife's great love. The Senator and Laura Belle have two sons, Jesse, (Joseph Cotton), and Lewton, (Gregory Peck). Jesse is a lawyer and is very thoughtful while Lewton is a violent, spoiled man-boy. Pearl immediately falls for Jesse, but Lewton wants her for his own. Pearl struggles with her emotional attraction to Jesse and her physical attraction to Lewton. Neither one will marry her, (for different reasons), and her confusion and actions become more erratic as her love/lust and inevitable disappointment grows. Pearl tries to break free from her situation, but is never able to. This all leads to a tragic shootout where death seems to be the only salvation.Recommendations Legendary director, King Vidor, creates an epic western more in line with Gone With The Wind than Stagecoach. He masterfully directs and frames each shot in beautiful Technicolor. The acting is very good from the usual suspects, Gregory Peck, Lionel Barrymore, Herbert Marshall, Joseph Cotton, Walter Huston, (as the Preacher/Sinkiller), Charles Bickford, (as Sam Pierce the man who may be Pearl's last chance at happiness), Harry Carey, (as Lem Smoot, an old friend of the Senator's), and Butterfly McQueen, (as Vashti the maid). With all that talent around I still must state that it is Jennifer Jones and Lillian Gish that make this epic worth watching. Jennifer Jones does a brilliant job with one of the most complex characters I have ever seen put to film and Lillian Gish, especially in her final seen with Lionel Barrymore, is so exceptional that words escape me. I can not imagine these two performances ever being replicated or improved upon. A visually stunning film with two great performances to sweeten the entire experience. Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"A melodramatic film of excess","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This melodramatic film should have been a silent! The sexually excessive acting of Jennifer Jones became very tedious, and her movements should belong in the silent era.Ms Jones was not the only one who was stereotyped in this film, the old man McCanles is a representation of the old attitudes of the pioneers, and is explicitly racist.The landscape shots came straight out of 'Gone With the Wind'( how could Selznick top it?) The film followed obvious Western conventions, including the representation of what it means to be an Indian. This threat however, comes from other Western texts, yet in the opening sequence, Pearl's dancer mother represents the erotic 'other' based on that presumtion, and we know that Pearl will follow suit, when we see her dancing outside the saloon to some children. Above all,the excessive spectacle moments,the over-erotizising of Pearl, and far too many red sunsets had me rolling in the isles! "},{"Title":"Lust In The Dust With THAT Girl Pearl","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" 'Duel In The Sun' is surely one of the most enjoyable, guilty-pleasure films of all time. It's joyously overdone, ridiculously sexed-up, full of sappy dialogue, yet I absolutely LOVE it. I've heard from many that it's bad, but I've never heard it described as boring. It's glorious entertainment.Jennifer Jones is miscast as Pearl Chavez, an exotic half-breed girl who comes to live with the McCanles family on their sprawling Texas ranch. She quickly comes between the two McCanles sons- quiet, dependable Jesse (Joseph Cotten), and the dangerous, womanizing, yet exciting Lewt (Gregory Peck, in a rare bad-guy role). Jones was nominated for an Oscar for her role, and although it certainly wasn't her best work, she does a great job with what she's given. Jones has to deliver some pretty hokey dialogue, and is barely visible under a thick layer of brown face paint (to make her look more 'native'), yet she has many genuinely affecting scenes and displays her formidable acting range. This film was an image change for her, and the marketing ran something like this 'From Saint To Sinner In Under Two Years!'. Yes, our girl Pearl is a world away from Bernadette.Peck is surprisingly very, very good as bad-boy Lewt. He's also so damn HOT that it's hard to take your eyes off him! Jones and Peck have undeniable chemistry as the hateful lovers, and that's a definite plus for the production. I'm surprised a lot of their scenes together (lots of implied sex AND an implied rape) made it past the censors, as they are very suggestive. Catch the dialogue about horse-riding ('I can ride him, Lewt', breathes a sultry Pearl), Jones' nude swim at the sump and all that gun play substituting for foreplay (particularly in the last scene). The two also look great together, with their amazing physical beauty.Jones' Pearl is a revelation for the 40's- she's raw, sensual and full of earthy sex appeal. From writhing in the dirt, suggestively chewing an apple while propositioning Peck, or pointing a gun at his face, Jones is a world away from the general wholesomeness of the decade. The guys will get plenty of eye-candy from Jones as she wears...well, not very much, in many scenes. There's a lot of flesh, a lot of sex and a healthy dose of humour in Jones' performance.Cotten is good in a role that is written rather poorly. He doesn't have much to do, and fades into the background eventually. He does convey his hurt and anger at Pearl's suggested liaison with Lewt very well, and adds his quite, steady hand to an over-the-top production. Lillian Gish, a brilliant silent film actress who played character roles in the talkies, also has a one-dimensional role as the mother of the two warring sons. She does get to display some of her considerable acting talent in a number of key scenes, and it is interesting to watch her interact with the great Lionel Barrymore, who plays her racist, gruff, wheelchair-bound husband.One thing that may bother modern viewers are the racist, politically-incorrect elements that so often abound in the film. Pearl is often referred to as 'Pocohontus', 'Bobcat' and other demeaning names that make her pout and scowl with anger. One has to remember that the film is very much a product of it's times, when racism was accepted as the norm, so don't judge too harshly. There are also hints of incest (or is it just my train of thought?) between Pearl and her father.Often referred to as a Sex Western (the whole thing is about sex, anyway), Duel In The Sun was Selznick's attempt to outdo his own Gone With The Wind. Pearl Chavez is indeed more of a low-rent, racially impure Scarlett O'Hara than anything else, and Peck gets the rascally Rhett Butler role as Lewt. But this plays more like a silent film than anything else. Director King Vidor was basically renowned for his silent work, and this film and it's plot could fit in very well with the 20's. I could just see a hot-blooded filly like Nita Naldi posturing as Pearl, and a mustached seducer figure (Valentino, possibly? Gilbert?)making bad, sweet love to her. Certainly Jones' own posturing is exaggerated, and her turns of anger and emotional outbursts are very 'Silent Queen'-like.Still, for all it's faults, this is damn enjoyable film that is a lot better than any you'll see today. The whole production is as fake as that sped-up erotic horse-riding and red sunsets, but you'll love it's camp appeal anyway. From Orson Welles' (yep, Welles with that distinctive voice)prologue to the final orgasmic shoot-out between Peck and Jones (with some laughingly stupid dialogue) full of blood, sweat and tears, I was hooked. I don't usually condone over-produced stuff like this, but we are all allowed our little vices. And 'Duel In The Sun' is one of mine. Hell, I'll take it over Bergman or Fellini any day, for pure entertainment value.8/10. "},{"Title":"Overblown with the Wind","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Hot half-breed Jennifer Jones (as Pearl Chavez) goes to live with her family of Caucasian cousins, after her parents' passionate demise. At the Texas ranch, Ms. Jones' low-cut dresses and shimmering tresses immediately arouse the McCanles brothers nasty Gregory Peck (as Lewt) and nice Joseph Cotten (as Jesse). Kindly matriarch Lillian Gish (as Laura Belle McCanles) accepts, and comforts, Jones; she once had a passion for Jones' father. Wheelchair-bound patriarch Lionel Barrymore (as Jackson McCanles) thinks Jones is trashy, due to her mixed race. And, Jones agrees...In Duel in the Sun, producer David O. Selznick's slip is showing; and, it is firmly attached to Jennifer Jones. The actress, with her body make-up and florescent teeth, looks lovely but ludicrous. Playing the film's central character, Jones needed to be more convincing than overwrought. Suffering less among the all-star cast are Ms. Gish and Mr. Peck. Gish, consistent and convincing, fits the film like a glove; and, she looks like she should be playing more passionate, leading roles. Peck is uneven, but valiant throughout; and, he does a great Clark Gable impression when he catches Jones swimming...Star-studded and overproduced, with a killer ending; Duel in the Sun is, on that level, a lot of fun. Albeit unintentional, it's a classic send-up of its type. ******* Duel in the Sun (12/31/46) King Vidor ~ Jennifer Jones, Gregory Peck, Lillian Gish, Joseph Cotten "},{"Title":"Overblown, but entertaining and essential for Western fans.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In the trade, this film was derisively known as Lust in the Dust and the critics were lukewarm.  The Catholic Film Office rated it C for condemned, presumably due to its smoldering sexuality, and Protestant churches denounced it for Walter Huston's windbag and satirical preacher, The Sinkiller.  Just about the only people who liked it were producer David O. Selznick and the public.  By late 1980's, times had changed so much that Duel in the Sun was shown in the early evening on Baltimore's Channel 24, then a family-oriented station owned by a bible publisher, Thomas Nelson.  It was  available on video at that time from Playhouse Video, a family imprint of CBS-Fox!  Today, nearly sixty years after its release, we can perhaps consider the film objectively.In a filmed interview years later, King Vidor said that he signed on to this film expecting it to be a small scale psychological Western like the later High Noon.  However, producer Selznick, relatively young and already living in the shadow of his Gone With the Wind, consciously or/and unconsciously tried to equal or outdo that film with this one.  The result is a Western epic built upon a non-epic story, making it seem a bit grandiose or overblown.  Tiomkin's grand and beautiful score for this film would seem better suited for a tale about a true epic, such as a story about the cavalry campaigns or the building of the Pacific railroads.Inspite of itself, the core of this film is a fascinating psychological Western based on the interplay of varied and sometimes contrasting characters.  The acting is excellent, a possible exception being Lionel Barrymore's hamming, which burns up the scenery like a prairie fire and is often irritating.  The production values are superb and the scenes of the confrontation with the railroad should be studied by student filmmakers.   "},{"Title":"Re Duel in the Sun","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One of the most memorable I have seen.  Great music score, terrific cast and the scenic beauty and drama stays in my mind.  I have never forgotten this movie. Gregory Peck and Jennifer Jones just sizzled on the screen and Lionel Barrymore was the crochety codger as always.  Lillian Gish a sweetheart and Joseph Cotten the gentlemen. Just a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Lots of talent, hidden well","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Well, it's obvious that Selznick was trying his best to recapture that GWTW magic...but this is an unbelievably inept failure.    Here's what you can expect from this overblown sex-western--Jennifer Jones (in pancake make-up so orange that she put me more in mind of an Oompa-Loompa than the half-breed we're supposed to see)  apparently directed to act as though she's Scarlett O'Hara with a lobotomy and bad grammar.--Gregory Peck as rogue murdering rapist and the apple of his daddy's eye.  At one point even doing a pretty decent vocal imitation of Clark Gable -- too bad it's just the voice.--Lionel Barrymore lazily repeating his It's a Wonderful Life role from the same year -- wheelchair & grumpiness standing in for effort.--Butterfly McQueen as kerchiefed ditzy maid.  Hmmm, wonder where they got that idea?All in all, a miserable movie experience.  You'd think that since they cribbed from the best it'd have turned out better!  Go figure.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  But it's a real departure from your classic western formula. Jennifer Jones sizzles as a hot little half-breed that wants to be a good girl but just can't resist all those wicked urges. Gregory Peck missed his calling..he is fantastic as the ultimate bad boy who just takes what he wants, and kills who he wants without remorse all the while getting atta-boys from the old man with Lionel Barrymore in a familiar role of rich curmudgeon. Yeah, it's over the top melodrama and literally everything is way overdone but I still love it. Too bad the Lewt character didn't carry over to The Gunfighter, another western soap opera that has lent itself to over-analyzation. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Campy, hammy, trashy, operatic(soap), overblown, all  of these","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Really, really bad movie, but kinda fun to watch as pure, original camp that started it all for the epic westerns like Giant and The Big Country that came later which copied the strong patriarch ranch owner role that Lionel Barrymore chewed to little tiny pieces in this one. What a total hambone he was here!Lillian Gish as the mother was by far the best thing in the film and she was nearly the only one who played it straight, along with her son Joe Cotton in another good guy role. Her other son Greg Peck as a bad guy, sensual Jennifer Jones as his sexpot half-breed lover, and Walter Huston in a small role as a preacher/sheriff, all played it as ultra-soap opera as they could get away with, with writer/director David O. Selznick(records say King Vidor was the director but this film has the Selznick stamp all over it; much falsification in those days about who did what) probably clapping and urging them on to greater depths and shamelessness. His other and much more successful soaper Gone With The Wind was the original that he tried to almost copy here with its gigantic scope and overbearing and melodramatic scoring backing every single scene with overblown operatic passion. In contrast, the restored Technicolor was truly great, and looked as modern as today(or even better. Technicolor was and is the best). Really beautiful color and the very best thing(the only great thing)in the entire film.The story was so trivial and ridiculous in its view of love and barely cloaked sex, and was also an hour too long and nearly as moronic as could be at the end, as the I love you, I hate you, I shot you, oh no, I shot you and then you shot me excuse for dialog made me laugh out loud and wonder what they were smoking when the actors said it and the bosses approved it. Most viewers laughed at it and panned it too when it premiered, but due to its gigantic scope for the era it did help lead Hollywood into the huge epic western films of the '50s. So, it did do something right, albeit indirectly and unintentionally.The obvious man-made, totally fake howl of a coyote near the end summed it all up for me... fake coyote howl, fake Southern California and Arizona locations standing in for Texas, fake sunsets and rain clouds painted in, fake horseback riding.....all typical effects for that day, yes, but they appeared really cheesy in a super expensive film that proved that Selznick/Vidor could not see these detractions for what they were and could not make a realistic film to save his life, no matter how much he spent. Thus, Selznick made a cartoon dud starring his truly gorgeous girlfriend(he was married), the beautiful Ms. Jones. "},{"Title":"Doodie in the Sun","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Rarely does such a great cast turn in such a terrible performance.  The acting borders on parody most of the movie, and in truth, this film is almost fodder for the bots on MST3000.* The great actress, Lillian Gish, is relegated to playing a Southern belle. Her death scene was almost too painful to watch.* Lionel Barrymore is never out of character, even when the role calls for it.  He utters the lines that signify mood changes, but you don't believe them for a minute.* Joseph Cotton plays a southern dandy - on a ranch in Texas no less - and looks utterly bored the entire time.* Gregory Peck is supposed to be the bad son, but the writers couldn't seem to make up their minds whether to make him a sympathetic character of not. He winds up acting goofy instead.* Jennifer Jones is buried in awful makeup and plays dumb most of the movie.* Charles Bickford appears suddenly, falls in love with Jones, asks her to marry him - again, you don't believe it for a minute - and is gunned down, all in the space of about ten minutes.* Walter Huston has a bit role as a preacher, and hams up the few scenes he appears in.* Butterfly McQueen appears way too much and is so annoying you want to strangle her.By far the best acting performance is turned in by Dice, the horse Peck gives to Jones early in the film. "},{"Title":"When racism was okay in movies...","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Let me tell you about a funny little movie. In 1946, producer David O. Selznick had the on-paper great idea to make a quasi-sequel to his big hit Gone with the Wind, another sprawling Western with intrigue, love, and gorgeous vistas and women. So he set out to make what would become Duel in the Sun, about an orphaned half-breed (the film's words), who is left in the care of her father's long-ago love on a giant cattle ranch in Texas in the 1800s. She's immediately drawn to each of the sons of the cattle baron who rules the land (Lionel Barrymore) &#x96; the intelligent, kind Jesse (Joseph Cotten) and his brawling, sneering brother Lewt (Gregory Peck). Danger surely will follow.It was a movie that effectively ended Selznick's career as a producer, as the unheard-of budget of $2 million ballooned to $8 million, and even though there were Oscar nominations, the movie didn't fare too well at the box office, with most of the gross coming from rentals later in the century. Selznick was a known micromanager, going through as many as seven (!) directors for the film, including himself, before King Vidor stepped in and somehow made it work. Sort of.Aside from the main plot of poor Pearl Chavez (Jennifer Jones, who later married Selznick, no coincidence there) and her loves and her (naturally) Spanish passion, there is a subplot about how the US government is trying to build its railroad across the country, but Senator McCanles (Barrymore) will be doggoned if he'll let them there Yankees run through his huge, huge, huge holdings.One look at the posters and other artwork for this movie and you'd think you were in for a romance film, something based on a Harlequin book. Jones on her back, hand raised to protect herself both from the glare of the sun and the actions of the man before her, Peck. And maybe you'd think that with such a great cast (including Lillian Gish, Herbert Marshall, Walter Huston, and Butterfly McQueen) and such a beautiful setting, it might be worthwhile. After all, duel is right there in the title, so surely there's action. Oh, boy.There's hardly any. Almost every scene in which Jones appears ends with her storming off or crying out in desperation, hand held to forehead. Her character isn't shown as a strong role model, she's shown as fiesty, which is code for not knowing her place as a plaything; Pearl is played with by Lewt, for the most part, so naturally she's fond of him. Aren't most women in favor of the bad boy? Ahead of its time, Duel in the Sun talks quite a bit about sex without really mentioning it.Aside from the morally debatable issues with Pearl's character as a woman, there's the relentless racism. Every pejorative you can think of for Native American is tossed out there and then laughed off. That's in addition to the stereotyping of Mexicans as people who just can't control their temper. It doesn't take long for it to get old and a little sickening. Pearl's not permitted to be her own person, just one who's owned.To top it off, this almost could have worked were it not for Jones' performance (although Oscar nominated). She vamps it up in the campiest way possible; perhaps she thought she was doing a soap-opera stint. Her acting is laughable nearly the entire way through. Cotten makes a terrific good guy, and Peck is commanding as the amoral, takes-what-he-wants Lewt. Lionel Barrymore, of course, plays the senator just like he would play mean Mr. Potter in It's a Wonderful Life, which is to say much like he played many of his one-dimensional characters. Gish is a sweet delight as always.Oh, and the duel? Yes, it happens, and yes it happens in the sun &#x96; on the side of a mountain, no less, but perhaps not between the two people you'd expect. Still, every moment of the so-called duel is excruciating to watch; you want them to hurry up and get on with it already. How long can high noon last? Rhetorical question.Duel in the Sun is a dated movie that's way too long, sells it characters short, stars a miscast heroine, and never tugs at any heartstrings like it wishes it could. Understandably, it was nicknamed Lust in the Dust during production, prompting a parody movie decades later. I don't know if moviegoers in 1946 thought they were watching something cutting edge, but this is one dated relic. "},{"Title":"Finally Watched this One","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It has been on my shelf for quite some time but on this rainy Saturday night I finally watched Duel in the Sun. I didn't think this was my kind of 40's western (Oxbow Incident, Red River, My Darling Clementine, Fort Apache, etc) and I was right. A definite offspring of GWTW in terms of look and feel with a dash of color-noir thrown in, all I had ever seen was the ridiculous shootout at the end when it was lifted for various documentaries on the western. I couldn't imagine a plot that would get me to such an unlikely conclusion.Still can't.But I found myself enjoying this obvious attempt to entertain on an epic scale without the aid of a grand backdrop like the Civil War. The personal duels in the sun are interesting to watch father and mother; two rival sons; ranchers and the railroad; and finally the mutually destructive finale. It seems that underlying most of these duels are the hormonal drives of young people and their parents. If honesty and self restraint (which are hinted at as life goals by just about everyone except the evil Gregory Peck)had been introduced early on in the story the movie would have no reason to exist. Perhaps the heat of passion and pleasure and ambition is the sun bringing all these duels to the boiling point.This film is overdone in every possible way but that seems somehow appropriate, after all the film itself can be seen as a duel with GWTW. It is gorgeous to look at and fascinating to listen to, but much more a soap opera than a western. The cast overacts at almost every opportunity and that is part of the fun. Today's film acting can't be half as much fun as this was for these guys.How did Gregory Peck ever bounce back to his heroic screen persona after this left turn? So, roll out the hormones and watch people destroy each other with lust and prejudice and ambition before anyone even draws a sixgun or shoulders a rifle.KlassicKlector Steve "},{"Title":"All The Old Time Greatest Actors","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a young girl and it left  quite an impression on me. Usually when this happens and you grow up you wonder why, but not with Duel in the Sun. I have it on video tape, and one of the very few that I take out often to watch again and again. I thought the story and the acting both were great,  especially Jennifer Jones. However, I can't leave out  the full cast of players because they were some of the finest in movie history in this one film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful color for absurd lust in the dust","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" David O. Selznick's misguided attempt to recreate the success of GWTW in a western setting. The film has pleasures to be sure but also some woefully terrible parts. On the plus side the cinematography is gorgeous and some of the supporting performances are good, Lillian Gish and Charles Bickford come off best. However there are some fatal flaws a meager story to pin two and a half hours of film on and an overly earnest tone are two big deficits but what really hurts the film the most is the complete miscasting of the two leads. Gregory Peck was a fine actor but he was also an icon of resolute decency, whereas other actors with that persona like Henry Fonda could occasionally play a villain convincingly Peck could not. His casting alone would not be so bad if it wasn't paired against the absurdity of Jennifer Jones as Pearl. While I'll admit to never being a fan of hers within a limited range she could be an okay actress when the role wasn't too demanding, for instance The Towering Inferno. Pearl Chavez is far outside that scope, the part isn't really that good to begin with, even an actress as skillful as Vivien Leigh would probably been hard pressed to make her real although Ava Gardner with her raw sensuality probably could have made her if not necessarily real at least convincing but Jones mistakes over emphasis with depth and Vidor's florid style of direction doesn't help her. Part of the blame probably rests with Selznick's famed smothering control and that fact he was determined to make Jones the greatest of all stars which resulted often in putting her in material for which she was not suited and away from her strengths as a performer. The film is entertaining in an often campy way but one viewing should be enough. "},{"Title":"Pearl, you're curved in the flesh of temptation.","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Duel in the Sun is predominantly directed by King Vidor and is produced and written by David O. Selznick who adapts (with help from H.P. Garrett & Ben Hecht) from Niven Busch's novel. It stars Jennifer Jones, Joseph Cotten, Gregory Peck, Lillian Gish and Lionel Barrymore; with a huge support cast list that contains the likes of Herbert Marshall, Walter Huston, Charles Bickford & Harry Carey. The plot centres around Pearl Chavez (Jones), a half Indian girl who is orphaned after her father kills her mother and her lover. Pearl is sent to live with an old sweetheart and friend of her fathers, Laura Belle McCanles (Gish), here she becomes involved in prejudice and forbidden love that turns the McCanles family inside out.David O. Selznick had hoped to recreate, even surpass, the success he had had with Gone With the Wind 7 years previously, only in a Western setting. Plagued with controversy both on and off the screen, the film, in spite of poor reviews, was a box office hit. Tho it's believed that due to high production costs and a cash driven advertising campaign, that the film ultimately only broke about even. The controversy on the screen stemmed from the sexual nature of the story, something that earned the film its famous Lust In The Dust nickname. Yet were it not for the Hays Code censors and religious review boards, the film would have been far more controversial, out went rape and a downplaying of the overt sexuality that existed prior to the cuts. Off screen controversy came in the form Selznick's relationship with Jones, a coupling that would break up both their respective marriages. The role of Pearl was originally meant for Hedy Lamarr, and even Teresa Wright was lined up too, but both women fell pregnant. Thus Selznick got the chance to shoehorn in his love and push her to the forefront of the movie with almost tyrannical urgings. 8 directors, 3 writers, 3 cinematographers & 4 editors would ultimately be used (that we know of). While bad weather, strikes and illness to Jones would also plague production. It's a wonder the film got finished at all.It's an odd film in many ways, but one that appears now to have been very harshly treated by the critics of the day. That's not to say it's a masterpiece of classic Oater cinema, because it's not. But if viewed as a fun Horse Opera with Selznick getting away with as much as he can, then it's not half bad at all. Certainly the cast seem to be playing it as a fun piece of work, especially the wonderful Huston as OTT minister man, The Sinkiller. So viewed without expectation of serious melodrama, Duel In The Sun delivers some fun entertainment. Granted not all of it is intentional; the ending for one is preposterous and mirthful when really it shouldn't be. But the fact remains that the film is entertaining. Action wise it scores well, with stand out scenes including Jones on a runaway horse, hundreds of mounted horsemen riding to defend grumpy Jackson McCanles' (Barrymore) land against railroad incursion, and Peck (playing a sexual rebel type) taming a sex crazed stallion (even the horse knows what is expected of it here!).Then there's the vast scope of the Western vistas, that are in turn dripping with lurid Technicolor. The terms beautiful and sordid spring to mind, now that is surely two words that aptly apply to the film as a whole? For the best performances one needs to look into the support cast, where Bickford, the afore mentioned Huston, Gish and the always enjoyable Butterfly McQueen, all deliver stoic like performances. Jones is a touch miscast, saddled with being the epicentre of the film (and Selznick's attentions), she at least deserves credit for trying to make the so-so writing work. She certainly looks beautiful and in the more quiet moments for her character the good actress threatens to break out. Peck, in a role originally meant for John Wayne-who balked at the sexiness of the plot, gives it gusto supreme, but whilst acknowledging it being an unusual role for him-so thus a brave choice, he never once convinces as a sexual dynamo. Cotton gets the short straw in that the role is badly underwritten, which when one considers that the story is essentially a Cain & Abel based story; he deserved better. While Barrymore is solidly doing what he does best and his only failing here is to not be as good as his on screen wife. Musically, Dimitri Tiomkin provides a competent if unmemorable score.Fun, sexy and with little snatches of daring in the plot, Duel In The Sun is better than some would have you believe. But maybe, just maybe, it needs to be viewed with a glint in the eye and the tongue firmly planted in cheek? 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pearl...a wildflower...sprung from the hard clay...quick to blossom...and early to die!","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Ridiculous, choppy western with raging hormones. Half-breed girl in the 1880s is left orphaned after her white father kills her Indian mother in a crime of passion; he hangs, and she goes to live with relatives in Texas, immediately boiling the blood of two brothers, one a cowboy and the other a lawyer. Producer David O. Selznick, who also worked heavily on the script and direction, charges through Niven Busch's book like a bull in a china shop, and his film is sloppy, unsubtle, and not all that engrossing as a result. The narrative doesn't flow right (complicated further by shots that don't match up and the shadow of the camera looming over the actors). Jennifer Jones displays horniness by glowering in close-up, smirking like a smug teenager, her teased chestnut hair falling over her exposed shoulders; she's something to see, but this character is one we cannot get a grip on (she sashays about, but she's no Scarlett O'Hara). As the battling brothers, Gregory Peck and Joseph Cotten are distilled into black and white, good and bad, and the cliché is a worn one (why can't these disparate siblings one-up each other in the bad-ass department?). Cotten has played this washcloth role more than once, but Peck gets his dander up and, while he's hardly convincing turning outlaw, he has fine moments. The art direction and music scoring are both florid (and the real stars of this piece); but, as to the storytelling, the picture really lands with a thud. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Surprisingly engrossing melodrama","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's everything you expect, and yet it's still pretty good. I was expecting to be bored to tears with this. It is in fact an Overproduced, Overacted, Over- the-top O. Selznick melodrama with cheesy dialog. It tells the story of a vixen with always- flawless makeup who's torn between the white hat good brother and the black hat bad brother, and has the inevitable showdown. And yet, despite all of that, despite it's predictable, formulaic construction and contrived situations, somehow it still draws you in the way the best Golden Age Hollywood films do.At nearly two and a half hours long, you better have nothing else to do for the afternoon, but once you're wrapped up in it, you'll hardly even notice the length. While 'Duel In The Sun' falls way short of greatness, for all the reasons noted above, it is nevertheless an entertaining ride. "},{"Title":"As campy as they get! (Spoilers....yeah, like I'm spoiling!)","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There are scenes so brilliant in this movie they rank alongside some of the best moments of filmmaking history. Unfortunately, there are moments that are just soooo awful I seriously have to give a low rating to this one. (SPOILERS) I swear, by the time they showed Jennifer Jones pushing a Jelly sandwich in Gregory Peck's face that really did it for me. Lionel Barrymore gives a particularly over-the-top performance as well. I just felt like the filmmakers wanted the audience to feel sympathy for the Jennifer Jones character. Yet, after her husband gets shot by Gregory Peck, and, when the right man in her life gets shot by Peck again, you wouldn't even think that she would have the slightest bit of sympathy for him right after she pumps his guts full of lead! Well guess what... she does ... right after he shoots her (!) All I can say is that the ending was pretty interesting since it makes both characters even more unlikable! Nevertheless, there are some good aspects the music is good, the photography is amazing, and Joseph Cotten is good, as always. But overall, a miss! "}{"Title":"On a par with Gone With the Wind - with more passion!!","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The intensity of the colours of this exquisitely produced dark Western romance is reflected in the intensity of the drama. Wild horses stampede across open plains with equal ferocity to the love scenes between Gregory Peck and Jennifer Jones. The music swells with every incident, and Selznick's name is on every shot. A piece of Old Hollywood to savour. "},{"Title":"if remade","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The only way this movie could be remade gracefully is if John Ford had done it, himself. It is so bombastic and romantic that when compared to this masterful director, Ford, it is, in a way, laughable right down to the stereotypical appearance of the cavalry just in the nick of time.Almost every actor chosen for their part, especially Barrymore, seem like they were deemed to be the perfect fit. I would have thought the cinematographer went on to work for Disney later and did the Painted Desert series. The single file rider scenes against the sky background look like a Thomas Hart Benton style of painting, but this is where Ford was the master. He could make every scene look like a major photographic still that could stand alone as art, even without movement. This movie has almost every western cliché imaginable in it. In spite of an all star cast, I could never stomach watching it for more than 20 minutes and that's only because I can hardly stand to turn a western off. "},{"Title":"Great Cast enhances a weak script!","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" First of all, you can't ask for a better cast of actors and actresses including Joseph Cotten, Gregory Peck, Lillian Gish, Jennifer Jones and others. The film is typically a mix of Western drama with rifles, horses, ranches, and drama including the beautiful Jennifer Jones caught in a love triangle with Gregory Peck. Anyway, the cast makes up for a weak script. Gish's dying scene is almost laughable. Peck and Jones are believable as a couple. Of course, Jones' character Pearl Chavez is an interesting character and a first in mainstream cinema. This film was supposed to be the equivalent of Gone with the Wind but it doesn't go that far to be that memorable. It's still a beautiful film but the script is weak but your cast is strong and brilliant to overcome such odd. "},{"Title":"The source of Sergio Leone Westerns","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A Western soap opera with forced performances, especially from producer David Selznick's wife would-be, Jennifer Jones.Still, it's interesting to see how many things in it are copied by Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Westerns in the 1960. Among those are the gunshot on the movie title; Gregory Peck's ruthless behavior, the way he lights his cigarette, and shooting defenseless people in cold blood; and, of course, the poncho on Lionel Barrymore would later be an important part of Clint Eastwood's outfit. The spectacular railroad building scene would be seen in Leone's ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST. Also, Jennifer's screen persona is clearly reflected by Claudia Cardinale in the same film.Intended to make the movie a vehicle for Jennifer, Selznick rewrote the script himself constantly. When he began to interfere with the director's authority on the set, King Vidor walked off the picture. Most of the interior scenes were completed by uncredited William Dieterle, including the well-staged party sequence.Although Selznick and the actors tried hard to squeeze as much emotion as possible into each scene, the audience remains indifferent throughout the picture, chiefly because the characters are too phony to be identified with. Perhaps it wouldn't be so ridiculous if it starred Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour. "},{"Title":"Dud in the Mud","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Selznick's attempt to create another Gone with the Wind in the form of an epic Western is a complete disaster. The sets are cheesy, the script is uninteresting, and the direction is atrocious. Peck gives the worst performance of his career and is matched on the hamminess scale by Barrymore and Huston. However, Jones takes the cake. Has there ever been a worse performance by a star in a major motion picture? This movie can be viewed as a great comedy except all the laughs are unintentional. It goes on way too long and the score is overdone. The ending has to be one of the worst in all of moviedom. It only gets a rating of 3 because of some decent cinematography and the acting of Cotten and Gish. "},{"Title":"Broken review for a broken western.","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I would say, bluntly, that this film has aged terribly and had better not to show anymore, such an old Hollywood actress. The ambition of Selznick, his sickly pursuit of Oscars, his Gone with the Wind 2 fever, forces production to sink in an outdated grandiloquence, which could impress the backward audience at the time but fails to delight cinephiles from today. Duel in the Sun offers a clumsy thematic treatment, grotesque characters, and a hell of Tiomkin score worthy of a Max Steiner's brass band. As for the direction, this is a dire rigidity and a drought that casts despair over the aficionado of this highly fertile cinematographic genre. The film is more a piece of crap than a western. "},{"Title":"An Above Average But Uneven Western Spectacle","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Producer David O. Selznick sought to surpass his blockbuster epic Gone with the Wind with director King Vidor's lavish but tawdry western Duel in the Sun. This oater takes place on the sprawling Texas ranch known as Spanish Bit and concerns a half-breed Native American damsel, Pearl Chavez (Jennifer Jones of Since You Went Away), who stays in distress throughout the film's drawn out 129 minute running time. No, this sagebrusher is another white man versus the red man saga, but a white versus white with a lot of racism in the boil. Our poor heroine is the product of miscegenation. Inexplicably, her snobbish father Scott Chavez (Herbert Marshall) took an Indian squaw as his wife during a moment of weakness and has since regretted the act. Although she is pretty, the wife has an adulterous streak that pervades her personality like a cancer, and Scott refuses to tolerate her indiscretions. At the outset of the action, Scott catches his wife with another man and shoots both of them in cold blood. After he turns himself into the authorities, Scott suggests that not only should they hang him because he has confessed to the crime but also because he would have rather die than live in shame for the remainder of his life. This sets the stage for the rest of the action, and Pearl's journey of hardship that ultimately ends on a rugged stretch of parched desert with her lover and she shooting it out.While he sits in the calaboose awaiting his date with the hangman's noose, Scott learns that his gracious second cousin Laura Belle McCanles (Lillian Gish of Intolerance) is willing to take Pearl in as one of her own. Pearl is surprisingly beautiful but extremely naïve about the ways of the world and from the moment that we see her first, you know that her life is going to end rather like her doomed mother. When she arrives at the sprawling McCanles ranch, she finds herself caught between Laura Belle's debonair oldest son, Jesse (Joseph Cotton of Citizen Kane), and the rowdy youngest son, Lewt (Gregory Peck of The Yearling) as they compete for her attention. Of course, Lewt takes advantage of Pearl before Jesse can, and their torrid romance plays out to a disastrous conclusion in the desert, hence the title Duel in the Sun. From the moment that Pearl arrives at Spanish Bit, the name of the McCanles' Ranch, she must contend with Lewt's lusty behavior and Lewt's father's racist comments about her ancestry. Laura Belle dotes on her and Jesse has nothing but kind words for her, but she struggles to fit in as one of the clan. The cinematography, credited to lensers Lee Garmers, Ray Rennahan, and Harold Rossen, is spectacular! The long shots of riding crossing the horizon are breathtaking. The art direction and set design are just as impressive. Selznick literally spared nothing for this production. Composer Dimitri Tiomkin wrote a marvelous orchestral soundtrack the underscores the drama and the tragedy. The cast is great, too, with Lionel Barrymore playing Senator McCanles, Walter Huston as the Sin-Killer, Harry Carey as Lem Smoot, and Charles Bickford as Sam Pierce. Duel in the Sun isn't a bad western. Epic moments occur throughout the action. The opening scene in a dance hall where Pearl's mother dances looks like a miniature production itself with loads of atmosphere. The showdown between Senator McCanles army of cattle drovers and the cavalry over the intrusion of the railway into his property is suspenseful as is his later accident. The problem is that none of the character is sympathetic. Pearl is essentially a hopeless victim, while Lewt is a worthless, no-account dastard, particularly after he guns down the one decent man who wants to marry Pearl. Nothing about Lionel Barrymore's patriarchal is sympathetic. He is a thorough-going bastard and a racist, too. Lillian Gish is sweet but she is confined largely to the house. Joseph Cotton's Jesse is admirable, but he never gets to show off his finer qualifies and seems more effete than effective. The finale between Pearl and a desperate Lewt is hardly the stuff of duels. Despite first-rate production values and a top-notch cast, Duel in the Sun ranks as an above-average but uneven oater. "},{"Title":"Melodrama with feminist subtext","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a rather unusual Western. It has one of the most excruciatingly ignorant main characters I've ever seen in a movie. I know that the idea is that she hasn't had much education but I don't understand how anyone her age could possibly be as stupid as she is, especially given her close relationship with her supposedly well-educated father. The other interesting thing about the film is that it portrays the traditional masculine cowboy in a negative light, instead favoring this character's non-violent intellectual brother.So at first I was annoyed by how stupid Pearl is but eventually I started to understand where they were taking this idea. We're meant to see her develop from a typically weak and powerless female living in a pre-feminist society to an empowered but conflicted heroine. I still think that exaggerating her ignorance to such a degree was a big mistake on the part of the filmmakers and actually even her development feels like what it is, a contrivance of the plot to lead to a climactic showdown.Lewton McCanles fits into the typical hard-riding alpha male archetype that's so familiar from countless other Westerns. Instead of possessing a rough hewn morality, though, he's really a terrible person who seems to delight in causing trouble for others. The real problem with this character is that he has no nuance, he's very predictable and uninspired. His brother also falls into an unsurprising pattern fairly quickly but his role as the one truly admirable character is surprising given his lack of willingness to do whatever it takes to beat the villain. This is where the snubbed heroine's interesting side comes in as she eventually seems to realize that she has to put a stop to the villain's reign of terror before he makes things even worse than they already are.What I really liked about this film was the sense of the inescapability of the past of the characters. Mrs. McCanles's choice of husband pretty much destroys her life and her unresolved feelings for another man sow the destruction of her family both from the conflict within the nuclear family itself and without from her other suitor's daughter. This film is nearly as epic as the oddly long prelude leads you to expect it to be. "},{"Title":"Just like a parable.","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The final sequence of Duel in the sun is probably one of the most popular of all times. Jennifer Jones and Gregory Peck dying under and unmerciful sun... That's cinema!! The movie itself is one of those old school dramas, so tragic... With sort of a biblical plot. Two brothers fighting for the love of a woman. The good against the bad, the gentleman against the womanizer. Joseph Cotten vs. Gregory Peck. And the apple of discord Jennifer Jones, playing a defenseless beautiful orphan. There're tons of counterpoints in the story, as usual in this kind of movies.So, once we recover from the impression of seeing Jennifer disguised as a Mexican (!!!!) we can sit back and enjoy this true icon of the Seventh Art.*My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Terrific Cast Saves the Film","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Duel in the Sun (1946) *** (out of 4)Now legendary Western has half-breed Pearl (Jennifer Jones) going to live with a rich family after her father is killed. Once at the place Pearl's beauty attracts the older, kinder brother Jesse (Joseph Cotten) as well as the young, more violent Lewt (Gregory Peck). Soon the two brothers are at odds over the woman as both take different paths in their lives but each will wind back up with the girl. It's no secret that producer-writer David O. Selznick wanted this to match his GONE WITH THE WIND. It's no secret that this film fell well short of that but while it never reaches the greatness it should have you can't help but admire the film and its many faults. I've read that the original cut of this thing was over ten-hours and I'd believe this because watching it today it seems as there's all sorts of stuff missing as the story jumps around quite a bit and characters go through certain changes that are never really discussed or shown. The Cotten character goes through a whole lot of changes after being kicked out of the house and when he returns it's as if an entire life span had gone by yet we never really learn what he was doing in this time. Even the change in Peck's character seems to come out of nowhere. The greatest thing the film has going for it is the amazing cast that really makes this thing stand out. For starters, Jones is downright brilliant in her role as she perfectly handles the seduction side of the character but also the characters confusion about who she is and how she's destroying this family. Peck and Cotten are both terrific in their parts but it's Peck that really sticks out as the villain. It's a wonder he didn't get the chance to play too many bad guys in his career because he did a great job with this one. Lillian Gish plays the boy's mother and as you'd expect she does a great job and really pulls off the sentimental character. Lionel Barrymore is the mean-as-snakes father and he does his usual great job of screaming and playing a creep. The final sequence with Barrymore and Gish is quite effective. We even get Walter Huston playing a fast-wired preacher who tries to save Jones from her sins. What really makes this film stand out from the other Westerns from this era is its sexuality, which is very high and it's amazing that they got so much past the censors. The rape scenes with Peck and Jones are effective and the burning lust their characters show on screen is certainly something we didn't see everyday. Even with all the good things, DUEL IN THE SUN still comes up short in terms of greatness. The film never reaches the levels of GONE WITH THE WIND but there's enough here to make it worth viewing and especially if you're fans of the stars. "}{"Title":"Duel is dull most of the way.","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Producer David Selznick's attempt at Gone with the Wind Two must have looked mighty promising on paper with its big budget, all star cast, top shelf director and provocative story line of sex and violence in the old West. The finished product however is a dismal attempt at epic storytelling.After half breed Pearl's father kills his wild and unfaithful wife and in turn is hung for it she is sent off to live with distant relatives on a Texas mega ranch of where she garners the interest of a Cain and Abel brother act. Decent brother Jesse (Joseph Cotton) is clumsy and unsure in his approach but wild Lewt (Gregory Peck) shows no hesitance and is soon bedding the hotblooded Pearl creating a familial crisis with the parents as well as she drives a wedge between the sympathetic mother (Lillian Gish) and domineering father (Lionel Barrymore).Duel in the Sun has a superb opening dance hall sequence that sets the stage for the film. Edited with energy and suspense it builds to a powerful crescendo which unfortunately never attains again for the duration of the film. Among its roster of stars only Gregory Peck as reckless Lewt acquits himself with distinction displaying an iniquitous and irresistible charm. Jenniffer Jones Pearl has a smoldering sensuality about her but is all breathy (making me wonder whether Marylyn Monroe patterned her acting style after this character) and out of her depth as she alternates wreaking havoc on the McCanless family, passionate interludes with Lewt and crying jags that she comes out of none the wiser. Joe Cotton is drab, Lionel Barrymore bullheaded and cantankerous and Lillian Gish wispy and saint like in generic roles. Butterfly McQueen is on board once again in the racially insensitive role of a moronic maid while Herbert Marshall lends nobility to the character of Pearl's father and Walter Huston as six gun toting Reverend Sinkiller owns every scene he is in.King Vidor get's the blame for the direction though half a dozen including Selznick worked at pasting something plausible together as the film was cut down to just over two hours. Dimitri Tiomkin lends his big sound to the visuals to let us know where looking at a big picture but ultimately the entire project is a faint echo of GWTW and Selznick's dream. Duel in the Sun is indeed a sprawling western but it's sprawl is more akin to a drunken cowpoke lying face down on a bar room floor. "},{"Title":"Glossy western story showcases Jennifer Jones","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This lavish film is a tale of two sons and a wild half-breed woman in an entertaining and colorful western drama. Gregory Peck is great as he plays a character against the type of his stellar career. Peck's tempestuous affair with and mistreatment of Jennifer Jones is the entire story of the production. Joseph Cotten is Peck's decent brother, the one Jones should desire but he lacks Peck's fire and toughness and Jones feels that she can eventually tame him. The film also highlights a cattle baron's fight against a railroad's right of way across his land which puts brothers Cotten and Peck on opposite sides of the law. Lionel Barrymore, Lillian Gish and Herbert Marshall, the latter in a brief role, make this western soap opera worth watching. "},{"Title":"A big, unintentional hilariously epic tragedy!","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I had wanted to see this film for years, but I couldn't find this film in my local BlockBuster video store or Hollywood video store.  To my joy, I saw that this movie was playing on PBS on TV!  I had heard that this was a bad movie, but I found it hard to believe, because after all, it was a David O. Selznick film, the same guy that did Gone with the Wind.  How bad could it be?Boy, was it bad!  The storyline was bad, the characters were practically all one dimensional, and all the main actors did their best to chew up the scenery!  This is the movie they should show to drama students on how NOT to act!I had a great time time watching this film.  Heck, I love campy films and this film really takes the cake!The only thing that is quality about this film are the music, the scenery and the hot sexual chemistry between Jennifer Jones and Gregory Peck.I'd give it a grade A for pure camp!  I'd give it an F for the bad storyline. "},{"Title":"The ingredients of a great movie...","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ..But it was mixed all wrong.This film has all the earmarks of something that has been micromanaged, and it has been suggested that the micromanager was Selznick, and it appears that the subject of micromanagement was the character of Pearl played by Jenny Jones. I do not believe she was miscast as Pearl Chavez, and they did a great job with makeup on her, but we simply have a hard time swallowing her character.This film was practice for her great part as Madame Bovary.If King Vidor has just been able to do what he had done previously Make a great movie.As it stands, the script is very weak, making no sense in certain places. It is also very difficult to believe in the badness of Lewt played by Gregory Peck- Sorry, No, Nope, he is just not mean enough, not rotten enough, does not make me believe he is as bad as he is supposed to be, and because of this, We have a lot of difficulty believing the co-dependent relationship of Pearl and Lewt. Also, Jesse's (Played by Joe Cotton) is pretty weak in expressing his own self when standing against The Senator (Played by Lionel Barrymore, excellently) and Lewt.However, this film does have great spots in it, just be being directed by Vidor- And the two elders of the cast, Barrymore and Gish, have absolutely no trouble making us believe in their characters, Barrymore being probably the greatest character actor of the 20th Century. Butterfly Mqueen is very good in this one, I like her less screechy than she was in Gone with The Wind, and she also sings a few lines of some songs, revealing she had a great voice Which should have been capitalized on a bit more for this film.If Jones had not used the little girl mannerisms she displayed in Since you Went Away and Portrait of Jenny... Had Peck made us believe his Bad Boy as well as he later played Josef Mengele...Then this film I would have rated 10 and maybe it would have been worth all the trouble that had gone into it.If Only Selznick had just relegated himself to the role of Producer, rather than Micromanager...This film would have been as good as Gone with The Wind. "},{"Title":"Big Budget Fuss In the Frontier Dust","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The phrase over the top catches this film in its shadow. As a soap opera it would be still on the air there are Actors instead of pretty people posing, but the whole big stew of this film is all spice and no substance. The gunshots in the opening credits makes you think at first this is going to be one of the super westerns Warner Brothers had been putting out escalating in scale gunfights to a final massive gun battle between the opposing hordes, larger than life Hero an almost sympathetic Boss Gunman,and a spunky Heroine. San Antonio with Erroll Flynn and Alexis Smith as example. What do we sagebrush action junkies get, the destruction of a railroad bridge and a train (representing the Evil Eastern Interests and Progress) and then the gathering of the cowboy hordes in a potentially great set piece, to swoop down and ride over the railroad camp, and what happens,stunt men getting a workout, horses falling riders tumbling,railroad workers ran down,gunned down,throwing down with, rifles, pistols and mallets,the intervention of a regiment of US cavalry? NO. IT is the main fault of this film, it builds you up then pop it's over and your saying like Peggy Lee Is that all there is? I lump this western with The Outlaw as biggest to do's about nothing oaters. Selnick and Jennifer Jones struck out on this one,Gregory Peck enjoyed playing a coyote in heat,Lionel Barrymore looks like a butch Truman Capote in the Ride Sequence, Joseph Cotton was bored in his thankless bland part, Ms. Gish and Ms. McQueen were sharing some kind of frontier hallucinogen. Instead of Duel in the Sun it should be called Big Fuss in the Dust. "},{"Title":"overly-long Western soap opera","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  David O. Selznick fails to recapture the epic grandeur of Gone with the Wind in this Western soap opera about a half-Indian girl who comes between two brothers.  It's interesting to see Gregory Peck as a bad boy and the sight of the bare-shouldered, bare-legged Jennifer Jones wrapped in a blanket is almost worth the price of admission, but the movie is 40 minutes too long and the interminable final scene, with a melodramatic score by Dimitri Tiomkin, unintentionally borders on pure camp.  Maybe worth catching on cable, but not something you'll want to see twice.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"new elements for the western  sex and no good guy as the hero.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Gregory Peck is Lewt, a product of all the impossible high expectations of his domineering father and the conventions of a society that he is not able to resist. The fact that he falls for Jennifer Jones, who in his father's point of view is not approved, creates a response in him totally out of balance. Jennifer gets revolted, and their love-hate relationship is what this film is all about. Their love affair follows a destructive path unconsciously aiming at a situation where they will be free of all obstacles that make their love impossible. This film is a good example of the evolution of the western at the end of the forties and the fifties that brought all kinds of elements that were not used before. Niven Busch's story brought sex and also the absence of a good guy as the hero. David O. Selznick realized the potential he had in this story and in his search for perfection, ended up with one of the most costly films ever made ($5255000,00 in 1945).Many directors worked on this movie, including William Dieterle, and Selznick himself, not counting Von Sternberg, as a second unit director, but who took the final credit even though he directed a bit less than half the movie was King Vidor. All this effort paid up because 'Duel in the Sun' is one of the top box office hits of all times. "},{"Title":"The Kiss of Death.","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The hero of this glitzy and gigantic Western is not the well-intentioned but ultimately slutty Jennifer Jones, not the dull, morally upright figure of Joseph Cotton, not the roguish but psychopathic Gregory Peck, but rather the composer of the musical score, Dmitri Tiompkin.You never heard such bombast. There's a prelude that seems to last half an hour, followed by a scarcely shorter overture. Tiompkin has used cowbells before. Here, the head honcho of Spanish Bit, Lionel Barrymore, signals his men to mount up by ringing a church bell. The church bell is joined by more church bells, one after another, all in harmony, until the ears ring as well as the bells. I must say, though, that I missed the flatulence of the trombones that appeared in his later work, a kind of punctuation made of loud BLATTS like a dozen elephants farting in tune.And every character and every emotion has its own leitmotif. They're all euphonious, easy to listen to, like Grofé's Grand Canyon Suite. Poor, sentimental old Lillian Gish, whether defiant or dying, gets only Beautiful Dreamer. Producer David O. Selznick, high on benzedrine, must have been taking a crack at the epic that made him famous and rich in Hollywood, Gone With the Wind. You know -- a real BIG one. It's not too hard to spot the isomorphisms. Jennifer Jones, whose heart leads her astray, is Scarlett O'Hara. Joseph Cotton is assigned the role of the weak gentleman. Peck is the feckless cynic who sees through everybody, like Rhett Butler.Gone With the Wind was so overblown that some of the dramatic incidents were actually funny, easily parodied. It's known as bathos. This one is even more bloated, only without any good tag lines. Jennifer Jones, who cannot conquer her half-breed nature, is toothsome. She has dark make up and crimson lip stick, so when she gapes or smiles, her blinding white teeth resemble the plastic ones you might buy in a novelty shop to go with your Dracula costume.The whole affair is a Grand Guignol of lust. There's an extra-familial conflict Barrymore as the owner of a huge ranch on the one hand, and the railroad that needs to cut through his land on the other. Not nearly enough time is given to it. Instead we have Gregory Peck repeated seducing and raping Jennifer Jones, when it's not the other way round. "},{"Title":"You AND the state of Texas","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" David O. Selznick, strong-willed producer and hard-headed self-publicist, didn't believe in thinking small. Like the considerably more modest Irving Thalberg before him, he didn't just believe in making money, he believed in making good product. After overseeing the ultimate box office behemoth Gone with the Wind, it was inevitable he would try to top his own Magnum Opus. But Gone with the Wind is nothing if not a hard act to follow.Duel in the Sun has a lot in common with other Selznick pictures, being a woman's story in a man's world. Selznick often picked such material, perhaps in the hope it would appeal to both genders in the audience. But Duel in the Sun crucially lacks the grand sweep and evocative historicity of its epic predecessor, and has far less sincerity in its melodramatics. The problem here in all likelihood is that the screenplay did not go through nearly as rigorous a process of refinement as Gone with the Wind's did.Duel in the Sun was however just as troubled with directors coming and going. I'm not entirely certain who directed what, although to me the early shots of Jennifer Jones dancing look like the work of Joseph von Sternberg, whereas those of her mother dancing were almost certainly done by Vidor. I would estimate Vidor (who was the only one to be credited) was to be responsible for at least three-quarters of the finished film, and he was really a great choice. He certainly conjures up the vast scope of the plains like no-one else does, and emphasises their impact by making the earlier shots in the town rather confined, with no visible depths. He also gives his unmistakable surreal, mystical feel to the images, which nicely complements the references to Native American mythology.But it appears Selznick was disappointingly unimaginative in his casting this time round. The original choice for Pearl Chavez was Theresa Wright, and with her goody-goody image she would have been interesting at the very least. Jennifer Jones is great, especially in her quieter moments, but the role doesn't really demand enough of her. Joseph Cotton was never the most inspiring actor, and his appearance here as the good brother is predictable. The only times Cotton ever impressed me were in Shadow of a Doubt and The Hellbenders, where he played lead men who were less than clean-cut. Lionel Barrymore is the usual grumpy ham, and adds little. On the other hand, Gregory Peck is the very image of a dust-dirtied cowboy, and the very epitome of arrogant masculinity. Quite an achievement for someone usually cast as professors, lawyers and the like. However the biggest treat in the line-up is surely Lillian Gish. She is perfect for a role in which she often hovers behind the men, wordlessly reacting to situations, and as in her silent days makes some great expressive use of props.You can see Selznick was trying to aim for something pretty grand, from the blaring score he commissioned from Dimitri Tiomkin (an anomaly in the work of this normally subtle composer) to the awe-inspiring sight of a cowboy cavalry charge. But despite the handful of eye-catching set-pieces, this is all-in-all a rather bland offering. Selznick was clearly still aiming high, but now it appeared the best he could achieve was mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Pearl, you're curved in the flesh of temptation","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" With 'Duel in the Sun (1946),' David O. Selznick was obviously trying to emulate the massive success of his 'Gone With the Wind (1939),' and, though the picture is now widely regarded as a failure, I found it remarkably entertaining. This overcooked multi-million-dollar Western epic is dripping with its excesses &#150; the music is loud and sweeping, the melodrama is almost operatic, and the dazzling Technicolor palette is a feast for the eyes. When Selznick gives us a sunset, he damn well gives us a SUNSET! Such an achievement, guided by the producer's fastidious tastes, demanded the efforts of no less than seven directors, including Selznick himself, though only King Vidor received on screen credit; William Dieterle, Josef von Sternberg and William Cameron Menzies were among the filmmakers whose efforts were disposed of during the course of production. 'Duel in the Sun' might also be the most epic two-hour film I've ever seen. The story covers an extraordinary amount of ground, and the vivid cinematic style, making copious use of close-ups, is occasionally prescient of Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Westerns.Then there's the cast, of course. Jennifer Jones plays Pearl Chavez, a half-breed Injun who is invited to live on a respected Texas ranch after her father (Herbert Marshall) murders his unfaithful wife and her lover. Pearl's ethnicity is shamelessly exploited to perpetuate the stereotype that Native Americans inherently possess some sort of uncontrollable base sexuality; Pearl spends most of the film fighting to keep her clothes on, and she is instinctively drawn to Lewt (Gregory Peck), a downright bastard with almost adolescent sexual urges. Joseph Cotten plays the selfless McCanles brother, and Lillian Gish and Lionel Barrymore (probably the only Hollywood actor to carry on a prolific career from a wheelchair) are excellent as the owners of the ranch. The cast is rounded off nicely by Charles Bickford as a genial rancher, and Walter Huston, who hilariously overplays his role as a preacher (The Sinkiller) and steals every scene. Indeed, most of the performers overplay their roles, perhaps recognising that the story (adapted from a novel by Niven Busch) would not work if played entirely straight.What I found most interesting about 'Duel in the Sun' is how, even as early as 1946, it subverted the traditional notions of honour and nobility that formed the backbone of the Western genre. Joseph Cotten's character remains the film's only decent male, and yet he is dismissed mid-way through the film, and must settle on marrying a woman who is far less sensuous and exciting than Pearl Chavez. The film's climax involves two lascivious lovers scrambling through the dirt to each other's arms, only seconds after mortally wounding each other with bullets (inspiring the film's derisive nickname Lust in the Dust). Their attraction is purely physical &#150; Pearl is disgusted by Lewt's moral decadence, and yet is inexplicably drawn to his embrace, even after sealing his demise. If the film's intention was to present Pearl's struggle for acceptance into honourable white society, then she nevertheless ends the film as she started, stranded between conflicting instincts and emotions that she can't control. Her bid for nobility has failed. Perhaps this is the birth of the Revisionist Western. "}{"Title":"Lurid but not lurid enough western Wind wannabe.","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I'm trash, I tells ya! TRASH! There sits the reputation of David O. Selznick and King Vidor's hot-blooded western Duel in the Sun. Consciously attempting to emulate the Great American Success, Gone with the Wind, Duel in the Sun is a deep-hued Southern-fried western imbued with too much overwrought silliness for you to possibly care any about these characters. Unfortunately, it doesn't have nearly enough of this weepy hilarity to make it too much of a camp classic, as far too much of the film features plodding side stores and a whole bunch of ancillary characters that no one gives a damn about, as well as far too much bland talk in the main story, and an awkwardly structured love triangle (Joseph Cotton, supposedly one of the three prongs, is absent for the entire middle of the film).Jennifer Jones brings to mind nothing less than Barbara Stanwyck in Double Indemnity. Not for her acting prowess so much as the fact that Duel in the Sun presents a chance for us to see an attractive woman dolled up to a hideous extent, and she sure as hell doesn't measure up to Stanwyck in the acting department. I was always fairly ambivalent about Jones as an actress, and this doesn't convince me any further. Joseph Cotten as the good brother is as bland as Joseph Cotton can be. Gregory Peck brings some much-needed charisma to the proceedings, playing the part of the smoldering bastard well enough that you understand her attraction as much as her hatred.The overcooked melodrama promised by the film's reputation finally comes into focus in the gloriously robust finale, with doomed, misbegotten lovers on sweeping mountain vistas, crawling on the ground in staggered, extreme close-ups after they've shot one another, and it finally made me interest in an adverse way than they wanted, but sadly, it's far too little too late. Selznick intended to improve on Gone with the Wind, but with Duel in the Sun, instead made a film that was one-quarter hilarious and three-quarters boring, and further proved that with Gone with the Wind, lightning struck, and you know what they say about lightning...Grade 5.5 (C) / #14 (of 15) of 1946 "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Western Unlike Any Other","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A truly spectacular motion picture the likes of which simply aren't made today. Selznick produced an unforgettable cinema experience with a vision so majestic it is almost too much to endure. Starting with a script that smolders with raw passion, King Vidor gets ultimate credit for directing what is simply a masterpiece after other directors proved to be overwhelmed by the scope of this project. The cast is uniformly superb and a group of finer actors, giving performances as grand as the movie itself, could never be imagined. Tiomkin's score is masterful in conveying the savage emotions that run wild across the screen and the cinematography is incredibly beautiful, with burning sunsets and stunning prairies, purple rocks bursting with color, and fiery, flashing gunplay. This is cinema as it was meant to be, alive and flaming, depicting the adventure and violence of the Old West in a way no other motion picture has ever equaled. The characters are simmering with emotion until the untamed hearts of the era finally explode, no longer contained by the flimsy restraints of civilization that are not yet strong enough for the wild wilderness. This is man at his most primitive, clashing with a law that is meaningless to him. Thundering posses of thousands are merciless as they try to bring order to chaotic vistas against which showdowns are illuminated. The mighty magnificence of Duel In the Sun is everything the West was and what we want it to be. This is a place where gunfire is the only language spoken by both men and women, the only words listened to coming from the barrel of a gun, with epitaphs written on the head of a bullet. Passions are laid bare in the dunes of sunbaked sand and love and hate blur into one. This is Duel In the Sun! It stands as an everlasting monument to a Hollywood that was once populated by producers and directors both bold and unafraid to make big motion pictures with huge themes and giant stars. "},{"Title":"all you would want in a classic western","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The scenery was beautiful, Dimitri Tiomkin was an excellent music director, King Vidor proved his capability as the movie's director, David O. Selznick...who produced Gone With the Wind...did an equally capable job... there was good acting, and there was plenty of excitement, including three gunfights and a train explosion. The only place where the movie got in trouble was being too libidinous in places. The veteran movie actors Lillian Gish and Lionel Barrymore showed the general viewing public their outstanding acting ability as, respectively, a weak waif and a mean, hard-hearted man. Jennifer Jones knew how to make people give her sympathy by playing the part of a beautiful, but horribly mistreated and unhappy half-breed. Herbert Marshall was his proper self, though himself hard when he believed he had to be. Butterfly McQueen made me want to laugh, as did the sin killer Walter Huston. Joseph Cotton was definitely a caring man in this movie. Gregory Peck, though excellent in his acting in this classic western, was definitely out of character he was not a kind, polite, caring gentleman, but was, rather, nothing but a mean, horrible, heartless outlaw who loved being the crook he was. Good acting, beautiful scenery, excitement, and some romance. What more could anyone have wanted in this GWTW of westerns? "},{"Title":"Honest attempt at antic classics difficult adaptation, with some flaws in","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" That movie wears almost enough poetic and religious make-up to hide its philosophical contents there is something luminous in the beautiful lovers on the screen, one should say, the flames of inferno &#150; besides, all the deadly sins are portrayed along the whole story. One can see the train as the Trojan horse that brings civilization into the egoist ranch society while in the same time delivering the fox to the hen house deserted by the guarding dogs&#133; But the events and characters are too close to reality for literary comfort. Only the character Mr Peck plays could be straight out of a rapist profile in a criminal study book, so straightly he becomes a fairy tale evil one. The mother spotting his offspring's lack of education as the ground for his crimes would do fine as a barrister in front of court stating the fact that guilt can't be stated on the basis that the accused hasn't the basic knowledge of the price his deeds should cost him, hence, no will of his own into the matter&#133; And, considering the end, say, too much poetic justice is poetry overkill. (But I'm not a Romantic enthusiast -in the classical sense, so it might just be me.)Dante's Comedy and Homer's Odyssey are just painted over Plutarch's Erotikos. This semantic influence is the only obvious thing that can explain the Lust in the dust and Hump in the sump nicknames the film was provided with by the critics. (The antic writer had been called a cicada on Plato's tree. Plato by was nowhere near rational about sex and female beauty. It shows on screen) Anybody dopey enough to buy the film on kinky prospects deserves to get disappointed on the viewing of it.As it comes to tragedy, I assume this could be a trial version of one of Eurypides' lost plays mentioned in Plutarch on the topic of subversion and censorship, Melanippos(Dark horse*). (One of the best attempts of the sort has been made by a famous man of the name of&#133;er&#133; Shakespeare, so why would have all those stars -who all act great in the picture- turned their nose upon the movie ?) The sexist and racist tones of the film are said to be products of the time of its issue. As a matter of fact, they are the basic themes discussed in the philosophical work. To underline that, one has to keep in mind that antique Greek citizenship was grounded on ethnic prejudices and that the notion of self was probably a crime against the gods, precisely one goddess of very short temper, Artemis.The deathbed scene doesn't belong the novel, though it can be seen as a fair equivalent of the breakdown the novelist gives the patriarch in the book- it leaves the moved audience almost unaware that the train has brought back the character it took away in the beginning, spoiling the narration's efficiency. But the most surprising thing comes from the Oldest son's bride the movie gives to Jesse. She is not quite the opposite of the one the novel's writer chooses. Though, Besides the fact that it erases most of Jesse's psychology and heroic deeds, it also makes it difficult to understand what all the Indian slant is about. By the time the movie was on screens, the man in Europe who had ruled out aliens was dead, when the novel was written in 1941. Now, I just don't know. I wasn't there. Em * Dunno when there's a connection, but for horses enthusiasts, Mr Peck gives a fine piece of stunt with a dancing dark horse, and one palomino is just pure fun watching ) "},{"Title":"The most politically INCORRECT western ever made","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Producer David O. Selznick was seeking another Gone with the Wind, in other words, a mammoth production with a hint of sex, a feisty heroine (Jennifer Jones), and not one but two leading men (Gregory Peck and Joseph Cotten) seeking her attention. Filmed in glorious Technicolor, the film sports some nifty scenes, along with some embarrassingly bad dialog and situations. Lionel Barrymore plays what has to be one of the most racist characters ever to don the big screen and Lillian Gish is a wee bit too mousy to contend with his overbearing persona.The casting of Peck and Cotten was also a stretch, in that neither of the actors possess the ruggedness to portray cowboys. One can't imagine that the spitfire that Jones plays could find any interest in either one of them.But that aside, the film is worth a look, just to see how bad bad film-making can be. "},{"Title":"It's in the bloodline.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Another lavish David O. Selznick epic. King Vidor leads a team of directors guiding this over-the-top sex-western. A young half-breed temptress(Jennifer Jones)after witnessing her father kill her mother and her mother's lover is forced to live with distant relatives in wide open Texas. Then under a blazing sun and the demonstrative Dimitri Tiomkin's background music unfolds a bitter rivalry between brothers(Joseph Cotten and Gregory Peck)brought on by their tempting distant cousin. Colorful scenery and an all-star cast that also features Lilian Gish, Lionel Barrymore and Walter Huston.  "},{"Title":"Confluence of bad directing, bad acting and bad casting","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If you wish to see an example of how high production values, a great cast and a lot of effort can wind up a complete mess of a movie, by all means catch this one next time it comes around.The kernel of the actual story has a reasonable shot here. It's racial bigotry this time put in the old west with Old Man McCandeles as the heavy (literally since it's Barrymore playing the role) - an old time settler who hates Indians. So cue the cute Indian - remarkably poorly played by Jennifer Jones wearing heavy 'egyptian' makeup for most of the movie to darken her up some. OK, she's a 'half breed' Indian, but that's good enough for Barrymore's son, incredibly poorly performed by Peck, to fall in love with her. Peck tries to play a cross between Brando and James Dean failing miserably in the only role I've ever seen him fail at. Well, when he falls, he falls with a huge thud.Then you have Joe Cotton who is the unfavored but 'good' son, Lillian Gish as the weepy ineffective mommie and a whole cast of Hollywood highlights none of who can save this plodder.The problem isn't with the theme of racial tension. It's with the execution. Jones' entire role seems to consist if illogical behaviors punctuated by falling on her face and throwing a tantrum. Count on this one maybe once every 3 minutes. She needs to choose between bad boy Peck and good boy Cotton. Of course she gets it wrong which works out wonderfully for Old Joe who moves on with his life finding himself a much more reasonable fiancé.Much of the outside the bedroom twists around the coming of the railroad. A huge cattle baron like Barrymore should welcome it but he doesn't. This leads to a range war lead up which fizzles. Around then, whatever cohesion the picture had unravels in one illogical move after another interspersed with over heated crying jags - usually by Jones but with Gish having her silly cry and even Barrymore trying for the Crusty Guy's Cry.In the end, one guy (remember this is the Old West) gets shot in the intestinal area but recovers - thus making medical history or a miracle. Another character gets shot in the upper left quadrant of their thorax. This causes the character to lose the use of their legs but retain the use of their arm including the left one.I suppose, that's no more senseless than the rest of this mess. "},{"Title":"A marvelously entertaining western","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" King Vidor's Duel in the Sun is arguably a great western and perhaps the most entertaining westerns I have ever seen before, as well as one of the best David O. Selznick productions I have seen since Hitchcock's Spellbound (1945), and Victor Fleming's Gone with the Wind (1939). The movie stars Jennifer Jones (in an Oscar nominated performance) as Pearl Chavez a young woman from Mexico whose mother dies and her father (played by Herbert Marshall) ends up getting hanged for the murder of her mother, and Pearl feels bad about the whole thing and has to live at a relative's house in Texas where she is welcomed into her new home by an older woman named Laura Belle McCanles (played by Lillian Gish in an Oscar nominated performance) and her husband Jackson (played by Lionel Barrymore) and their two sons one who is the oldest brother and happens to be a lawyer named Jesse (played by Joseph Cotten), and the younger immature Lewton (or Lewt, who was played by Gregory Peck) which at first Pearl was in love with Jesse and then after he left she started to have a complicated relationship with Lewton. The movie also has an excellent supporting cast let alone Gish and Barrymore but it also includes Walter Huston as the local priest, and Charles Bickford as a middle aged man who wants to marry Pearl but the marriage ends before it could possibly begin. The movie has a lot of good technical aspects to it as well for example all the costumes are perfect, the cinematography by Harold Rosson, Lee Garmes, and Ray Rennahan is shot brilliantly. as well as the music by Dimitri Tiomkin is just beautiful to listen to. Another good thing about the movie was David O. Selznick's screenplay is has nothing short of great dialogue throughout the entire film, as well as the production. This movie was a western film experience that I will treasure and never forget this is one of 1946's best films. "},{"Title":"Excellent melodrama","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Self-destructive passion, political ambition, family jealousy and pride -- all these sort of heavy melodrama elements come into play in King Vidor's stylish western Duel in the Sun. Personally I can't help but see the film as a silent masterpiece with un-needed sound added in. Much of the dialog is just as pointless as the opening narration by Orson Welles. What silent master director Vidor has done, aided by some of the best actors of the silent era including Lillian Gish and Lionel Barrymore, is to create a truly stunning motion picture that has many individual frames of incredible beauty that could stand alone almost as portraiture, but which combine in a heady and dramatically implausible way into a moving and sometimes rambling topography of the western United States of myth and fantasy.The real acting weight of the picture is carried, surprisingly enough, by Gregory Peck as the ill-mannered brother who's as close as this film comes to a villain. It makes me feel like a lot of his talent was wasted in the vast majority of his roles as his career developed. Here he is natural and even graceful where ordinarily he is stiff and mannered. Cotten seems dull by comparison, and Jennifer Jones' performance is fascinating but for the most part unsuccessful. Only in the final moments of the film does she really take control of her role and her presence. Barrymore has no fear of chewing up every frame, but he's so good (and well-cast) in this film that it doesn't matter. Gish brings all her innate tenderness to bear in a role that's more pathetic than sympathetic.In fact one of the most striking things about Duel in the Sun is the way that the film equivocates about its characters, the ambiguity in so many of them. The Walter Huston character, for example, is taken very far almost into the territory of parody but without any explicit textual condemnation nor any dramatic consequences for his hypocrisy. The Peck character is so heinous at times that we long for his punishment and death, and yet he remains the most vital and appealing character in so many other ways. With its almost overbearing style, the film seems to be saying that these dramatic conventions don't really matter; that any scenario can be forced and pushed into the rough form of the convention without approaching any closer to dramatic or intuitive human truth. The film itself seems to be saying as much about its main character, Pearl Chavez as performed by Jones -- that her wild spirit can be stuffed into corsets and fine lace, but never in a comfortable or totally convincing way. Thus does the film form an uneasy argument that is both conservative and anti-establishment -- it seems to condemn the establishment figures, particularly the Gish character, for their very good intentions. "},{"Title":"Irresistible","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Preposterous and pretentious, grandiose and greatly over produced, this is an example of Hollywood opulence and decadence. The only apology here is in the beginning where the Narrator tells us while condescending to the Audience that the Preacher here is not a slander on Religion, because good God fearing Folk recognized these Charlatans for what they were.Sorry, but that ham fisted cop-out is immediately discarded as the good Christian Guardian calls in the Sin Killer at the first sign of wayward behavior. This was the Hollywood that always struggled when presenting something, like sex and violence, that made them uncomfortable, not because of any moral considerations, but fear they could lose ticket sales.This Film is joyful, trashy fun that echoed lurid Paperbacks and Pulps. Erskine Caldwell kind of stuff that sold in the Gazillions. It is so enticing to look at. The glorious color and fiery landscapes that jump at you like the best Cover and Poster Art. The Characters here are all straight out of dumbed-down proletariat publications. It is lush and lascivious with its broad based bombastic buffoons and the scantily clad curves and enormous cheekbones of the Femme Fatale.This is a must see for lovers of the Art of Cinema. This one dramatically drips and oozes with so much energy and is as ambitious as they come. It is unique in its unbridled lust in the Genre (save for maybe The Outlaw (1943). It is never profound, just proudly Politically Incorrect and an in your face attempt to make the screen come alive with what they did best, this one with as much money as possible...that irresistible Hollywood Hokum. "}{"Title":"So Bad I Didn't Want It to End","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If you can suspend disbelief long enough to swallow Jennifer Jones -- in spray-on tan and flamenco outfits -- as a half-breed Indian girl, then you're on your way to enjoying this quite bad but embarrassingly entertaining howler.Jones goes to live with her distant relatives after her father is hanged for shooting her mother in a jealous rage. The ranch she ends up on is run by a hammy Lionel Barrymore and a soft-spoken Lillian Gish. It's not long before the two sons who live on the ranch -- brooding and dangerous Gregory Peck and bookish lawyer Joseph Cotten -- are fighting over Jones and her overdone snarl. The duel of the film's title comes at the finale, and boy what a finale it is. Let's just say the duel is not between the two characters you might expect it to be, and you've never seen worse acting than the sorry display Jones puts on.Director King Vidor films everything in over-saturated, feverish color, and the results are quite striking and endlessly fascinating. I couldn't quite decide whether or not Vidor might have been attempting to make a bad cult classic all along, but intentional or not, that's exactly what this film is. It's ridiculous, over long, corny and even somewhat pointless, and I couldn't get enough of it.Along with the big-time names that headline the cast, the supporting players include Herbert Marshall, Charles Bickford, Harry Carey and notably Walter Huston, as a slimy preacher.Grade B "},{"Title":"Over the top and then some.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Delirious nonsense. Jennifer Jones is the half-breed Pearl Chavez, writhing in unrequited, and then requited, lust over Gregory Peck's 'Lewt' McCanles, (he's a bad boy in this one). He's one of the two sons of rancher Lionell Barrymore, huffing and puffing for all he's worth. The other is Joseph Cotton, bland as milk. He loves Pearl but Pearl doesn't know where she stands. Her heart goes out to Cotton but her heaving bosoms are all Peck's.David O Selznick conceived this large scale western as a follow-up to Gone with the Wind and he wanted to outdo it in terms of spectacle and artistry (some hope). He put so much of himself into the picture that eventually he took over directorial control from King Vidor, though it is still possible to see some of Vidor's flourishes on display. (William Dieterle, Sidney Franklin and Josef von Sternberg are also said to have a hand in it). Selznick is also said to have taken over the adaptation of Niven Busch's novel and the dialogue is banal in that terrible pulp fiction kind of way.The cast is certainly full of names. Lillian Gish, Walter Huston, Charles Bickford, Herbert Marshall and Butterfly McQueen (Prissy 11?) are there too, and it looks gorgeous. (Lee Garmes, Ray Rennahan and Hal Rosson are the Directors of Photography).In the same year as playing the baddie here, Peck also played the wholesome, decent backwoodsman in The Yearling, but neither role points to his versatility. He seems to sleepwalk through both films. "},{"Title":"Gone With the Wind 2 (spoilers throughout)","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Duel in the Sun is David O.Selznick's attempt to top Gone With the Wind. Like that film it sticks to the formula of breathtaking visuals, lavish production values and bright shining stars. But like Gone With the Wind it also contains a heroine so annoying, so exaggerated, so overwhelmingly vile and shallow that the film doesn't move the viewer one iota. In fact, the whole film is so ridiculous that it's best viewed as a quaint piece of kitsch. It's certainly impossible to take it seriously.What kills the film right from the outset is Jennifer Jones. Her acting is atrocious. Everything she does is exaggerated. She turns her back on people she doesn't agree with, she arches her eyebrows like Roger Moore and she seems like she's perpetually on the verge of going catatonic. Plus she doesn't look the least bit Mexican. She's supposed to be a 'half-breed' but it merely looks like someone has covered her in Ronseal, or that she's modelling George Hamilton's latest range of fake tans. And what makes it even more ridiculous is how bright her teeth are. They're almost luminous. She's a brown Scartlett O'Hara with pearly whites that glow in the dark.Speaking of Scartlett O'Hara, I have to say that while I'm no fan of her character, finding her one of the most reprehensible heroines in cinema, Pearl is just as bad. As she says, she's trash (trash, trash, trash, trash). Just look at the way she treats the nicer of the two brothers that are fighting over her. She flirts with him, she gives him eyes and she goes for strolls, but all the while she's engaged in a torrid affair with Lewt &#150; a swaggering cowboy who thinks rape is an effective flirting technique. But Lewt is proved right. Pearl falls for him. It just shows there's nothing sexier, nothing more appealing and nothing more romantic than forcing yourself on a woman.Not that I feel particularly sorry for Jesse. He may lose Pearl, but the wife he picks up later is infinitely more attractive. Good going. Still, he can't help but get into a fight with his brother over the infuriating Pearl. Not that it ends up as much of a fight. Always one to prove himself with phallic symbols, Lewt proves he's the straight shooter in the family by shooting his brother in the gut.Lewt also proves himself with stallions &#150; not only can he handle a big gun but he can handle a large horse. These scenes are so subtle that he might as well just drop his trousers and show how well endowed he is. And then there's Pearl's request to ride his horse and later to 'ride him some more'. What on Earth could they mean? However, Lewt isn't the only one that feels that he has to prove his manhood. The disabled Senator, to prove that he still has it, demands to be ride his horse into battle against the rail gangs. It's a rather pathetic show of masculinity from a man who is fantastically horrid. All through the film he mumbles racist insults and all through the film he praises his randy son Lewt while shunning the thoughtful Jessie. He's also particularly horrid to his wife. Basically he's a conservative capitalist that is friendlier towards murderers than he is to liberals. Yet when his wife dies he sees the error of his ways and we're supposed to be moved by the change in him. Well, it's too little too late as far as I'm concerned.But back to the sexual imagery in the film, the opening scenes are quite amusing. At the beginning you see Pearl's mother, a shameless floozy, dancing for the pleasure of a bar full of cowboys. To show their delight, and to perhaps express their inner feelings, they shoot their guns into the air in a collective orgasm. The message is quite clear. In this world men only want women for the pleasure they give them, for their sexuality. They're objects.Yet Pearl's father perhaps shows that there might be some hope, that there are some decent men out there, men whose minds are more expansive and less Neolithic. But while Pearl's father is more gentlemanly &#150; there's nothing more gentlemanly than killing your ex and her lover and then asking for the death penalty &#150; he does have a rather worrying relationship with his daughter. The two seem like lovers. Although having said this, the excessive affection seems to come from the daughter's side. She clings onto her daddy for dear life, smothering him in kisses and later guarding his photo and memory with her life. Perhaps she's looking for that one man that can measure up to her dear old pa.Therefore, seeing that her dad seemed like a decent sort of guy, it's infuriating that the dumb girl falls for such a sleazy piece of work like Lewt. She could have had Jesse, a man that would have treated her well and would have been loaded. But no, yet again, just like in real life, the woman chooses the scumbag. Yet instead of learning her lesson and moving on, she gets herself killed.The final scene is rather amusing in an over the top way. Pearl and Lewt decide to shoot each other to death. It's a final sex act. They're penetrating each other with bullets. But rather than end their torrid love affair with hate and malice they end up kissing and dying almost simultaneously. If it's supposed to be a tragic ending, one filled with depth and meaning, then the filmmakers were seriously mistaken. It's just an over the top conclusion to an overripe story about a couple of people who should have just found a quiet corner, had lots of sex and got their lust out of their system. The horn isn't worth dying for. "},{"Title":"Every western should be like this!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I love this movie.  Gregory Peck is excellent in the part of Lewt McCanles, a very different part for him.  Jennifer Jones is also great as the half-breed, Pearl Chavez.  And my favorite player is Joseph Cotten, Lewt's older and wiser brother Jesse.  Also great performances by Lillian Gish, Charles Bickford, and Lionel Barrymore as the cruel Senator McCanles.  A 10/10 all the way! "},{"Title":"I watched them film this movie.  It was so bad its now Great!   really.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" You have to been there. We lived in Tuscan AZ when the movie crew came in with stars arriving later. Hollywood had arrived and we didn't know quite what to think. Our (Davis Monthen ) Air Force base hosted a cast party, with my parents. (A year before the 1947 Crash in Roswell by the UFOs)Westerns were Horse Operas the bad guys wore black and the good guys wore white, the daughter and rancher lost the ranch to the bank, the villain, came to take over and make the rancher's daughter his trophy wife. Stranger arrives, fights the villain, wins the ranch back from the bank, wins the respect of the town, daughter and rancher. Kisses his horse and leaves them all behind as he rides into the sunset.Dual in the Sun was so bad it was good. Do you get my drift? The script smelled in Hollywood, but Selznick like Howard Hughes, liked it that way. Over the years it has gained an underground following, and has become a Great moment in Film History.Jennifer Jones was married to Selznick at the time, so she would do anything he thought would make her a big star. She may have forced him to make this film for her, who knows. Ask her, she still lives in Pasadena with her Millions. I love her and she never made a bad film.Look at the cast, the production costs, the money they threw at this at this turkey and it is now on DVD and is discussed in film class to date.You got to have a sense of humor about this film. We loved seeing our stars, playing this junk with straight faces and the music was just icing on this cake. What do you expect, its a dry run for Giant.I am sure Peck and Jones, Cotton, Barrymore and Gish, must have laughed on the set and were scolded for not following the script. I bet the drinks flowed at night, to keep this turkey from dying. Great Turkey mind you.Imagine the work, the artistic academic drama techniques, they all had to remind themselves to use, to keep this Emotional Glider in the air and make it fly no matter what. ha. God Bless them.Herbert Marshall got out early and must have spent the rest of his life, explaining in a dark saloon, how the money made him do this film?Like Madame Bovary another Jennifier Jones film, it too was so bad, with great moments, like the ball room window breaking scene, that make this film, make it on to DVD. I was pleased to see this film is on DVD. Turkey films need love too, and can be GREAT, if you have compassion and patience with the film industry of the 1940s? Both are worth seeing again and again, as sweet memories of the 1940s and how desperate we were for amusement after the WW2 depression. Go back to 1943, and look at Jennifer in Since you Went Away with Joesph Cotton. Dream of Jenny and The Letters all with Cotton. Jennifer Jones is wonderful with Cotton. Then we have Duel in the Sun and you have to love them to sit thru it. Gregory Peck said this was one of his favorite roles, next to To Kill A Mockingbird Jennifer later did Man in the Grey Flannel Suit with Peck. They must have had a hell of a good time making Duel. VSS "},{"Title":"Don't You See What's Going On?","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It just startles and surprises me that,given the fact that this happens to be Selznick production,that nobody,so far has commented on the fact that he's tried to repeat Gone With The Wind.We've got a large,lavish production,a huge cast,no expenses spared in terms of props,scenery,etc.,and took 2 years to produce.The problem is that they didn't have anything good to work with.Now,Mitchell's book was highly biased,as she presented a highly unrealistic version of the antebellum South,complete with childlike and docile blacks who required adequate parenting from the whites.But,otherwise,it was highly and completely researched.And the characters in Wind,were all presented as individuals of strength,courage,and integrity.(OK,so Scarlett lacked integrity;but she WAS true to herself.)But this piece of tripe lacks adequate research,an important historical backdrop,and the main characters have the integrity of the House of Atreus.What a generally despicable outfit!And the villains(Lewt,Sid,etc.)lack the manly qualities that give a villain grandeur.The folks who aren't detestable are so pathetic and inadequate as to be unbelievable-at least,for the purposes of this film.I get the impression that Selznick made this turkey just to show off his fiancé's good looks,and figure.Wanted people to know as to what he was going to be enjoying. "},{"Title":"An internal familiar fight in the context of a Western","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The title of the film is plenty of sensationalism and with its famous and excellent actors and actresses make you think that the film is something extraordinary. The plot is not as good as one can expect, and the film is saved by the acting of some good actors starting with Gregory Peck, Joseph Cotten, Lionel Barrymore, Harry Carey and Charles Bickford. It is true that Peck had more acting scenes (perhaps twice of three times more) than any of the rest mentioned. I cannot say the same about the ladies, Lilian Gish was nothing extraordinary, really poor acting, while Jennifer Jones was extremely artificial and over-acted. The main argument in the film is that two brothers fight for the love of a half breed Indian lady (Jones). One of them is a villain (Peck) while the other (Cotten) is a good guy always ready to help the rest. Jennifer was a temperamental woman, who wanted crazy sex with Peck being at the same time loves Cotten's generosity (???). Incredibly Peck, doing what he wanted with the Indian lady, decided to kill his brother when the latter decided to take her to his home. Previously Peck killed an old man (Bickford) who was ready to marry the lady. The decision for this marriage came quickly as a revenge of the Indian lady against his lover, Peck, who refused to marry her.  Only in films one can see these simplicities.               "},{"Title":"A unique Western","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have to admit that this film is a bit melodramatic and outdated, but I still love it.  Despite its semi-long running time, it never fails to be entertaining.  And everyone in the cast turns in a great performance - especially Gregory Peck, in a rare departure from his nice-guy on-screen persona.  Also, Dmitri Tiomkin's score is fabulous, and I love that early technicolor!   "},{"Title":"One of the greatest westerns ever seen","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I bought the DVD of DUEL IN THE SUN a few days ago,then, the only thing I can say is that King Vidor is one of the greatest filmakers of the History. It is a different western,the dramatic and sentimental aspects makes you enjoining from the first minute to the fantastic end. "},{"Title":"This movie is trash, just plain trash!!!","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I can't believe I sat through this lurid melodrama.Since there are no positives, I'll got straight to the negatives- Jennifer Jones' performance is perhaps the worst acting job in history, certainly the worst ever in a Western.- Check that. This is not a Western. It's Gone With The Wind with spurs.- Gregory Peck as a larger than life back slapping frat boy? Based on his performance, I'd say he made a very shrewd move playing mostly bottled up anal retentives the rest of his career.- What's with the black servant comic relief? Shows you how gratuitous and insincere the anti-racism theme was. I guess the irony was lost on most audiences back then.- I had to re watch the ending a couple of times. I couldn't believe my eyes. Two ex-lovers seriously wound each other in a gunfight, then realize how much they really love each other, and die in each others arms. I've heard of make up sex, but make up death???? "}{"Title":"Grandly amusing footnote to Selznick's burning and fatal desire to top 'Gone With The Wind'","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Producer David O. Selznick never thought small. Dreaming of a magnum opus on the same titanic scale as Gone with the Wind and, perhaps a little bit self-conscious of the fact that his recent affair with Jennifer Jones had yielded only one stellar performance from the starlet &#150; and not even in a film he had produced &#150; Selznick's driving ambition to make Jones a star on par with the likes of Vivien Leigh, led him to handcraft Duel in the Sun. It's an extravagant Technicolor western epic full of lurid depictions and smoldering sensuality. All about a doomed mulatto (Jones) and her rabid love affair with the ruthless son, Lewt (Gregory Peck, in an uncharacteristic part of the villain) of a bigoted rancher (Lionel Barrymore). Buttressed by the fiery backdrop of colliding sensibilities and the true Northern ambitions to tame the wild, wild west, this film ultimately became an overblown melodrama that seemed almost a garish lampoon of Gone With The Wind rather than its valiant successor. It did respectable box office, but little to advance Jennifer Jones into the echelons of super stardom. The elephantine cast also includes Lillian Gish, Walter Huston, Harry Carey, Herbert Marshall, Charles Bickford and Butterfly McQueen &#150; replaying her dimwitted maid role Fiddle-dee-dee!TRANSFER This film has previously been made available through Anchor Bay in a stunning road show edition. MGM's reissue is the truncated theatrical version. Colors are well balanced though more dated than the rich and vibrant colors on the Anchor Bay version. Black levels are good but fine detail is lost in many darkly lit scenes. There's also more noticeable film grain on this version than the Anchor Bay edition. The audio is remixed to stereo but only marginally appealing, sounding rather forced and re-channeled. EXTRAS None. BOTTOM LINE There's nothing to stand up and cheer about here. If you are a die hard fan of the film, or westerns, then you will definitely want to look up the out of print copy from Anchor Bay over this reissue. Aside from being longer, the Anchor Bay version also tends to be a better visual presentation overall. "},{"Title":"Lust in the Dust","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  David Selznick takes Gone With the Wind out west and winds up with a high-camp oater. Hundreds of cowboys, cows, horse soldiers, bar flies, you name it. Jennifer Jones is sexy in Max Factor #14 and Greg Peck tries to act menacing. Mr. Selznick even put Butterfly McQueen in this one. You'll have a great time with DITS, but you won't know whether to laugh or cry. "},{"Title":"Alas, No Jewel","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The first time I saw this dog was on television around twenty years ago. I recall squirming in embarrassment but when I saw it on sale at a giveaway price I figured I'd give it another chance. I shouldn't have bothered. I'm struggling to find just ONE good thing either in it or about it. I've always admired Gregory Peck but this has to be his worst performance ever. As much as I've always admired Peck I've always disliked Jennifer Jones who seemed to specialize in overripe Gloria Grahame type roles that always made her seem she was sporting soiled underwear. Most of the 'names' in the cast - Herbert Marshall, Charles Bickford etc - are given little more than cameos and only Lillian Gish comes out of it with any dignity. It's slightly reminiscent of High, Wide, And Handsome, another entry where they try to cram everything but the kitchen sink into an overwrought plot. On the DVD in an 'extra', Peck states that King Vidor was fired and the film was finished by William Diertle. You could have fooled me, I thought it was Ed Wood. "},{"Title":" Power House of Hollywood's Greatest Actors !","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"                    David O. Selznick who was one of the director's of this picture and was uncredited for his fantastic directing abilities, was also married once to Jennifer Jones(Pearl Chavez), Love Is A Many-Splendored Thing,'55, Pearl was a very young attractive and sexy American Native, or so called mixed-breed in this picture.  She was looking for love and unable to find or hold on to the right guy, Joseph Cotten(Jesse McCanles),Niagara,'53, loved her but ran off to the East for a political career.  His brother, Gregory Peck(Lewton,Lewt McCanles,The Omen,'76 made torrid romantic scenes with Pearl and tried to break his brother's heart and everyone he came into contact with.  His only friend was his father, (Lionel Barrymore,(Senator, Jackson McCanles), Key Largo,'48 who was a very stubborn hard headed Texan who hated the Railroad invading his land and even stood up to the US CALVARY nose to nose and almost fell off his horse.  Lillian Gish,(Laura McCanles),The Whales of August,'87, was the wife of the Senator and became a broken hearted mom due to the wild son Lewt and a husband who blamed his wife for the accident to his legs that put him in a wheel chair.   Walter Houston(The Preacher),The Devil & Daniel Webster,41 was father of John Houston, the actor and director, gave a very outstanding performance along with Butterfly McQueen, as a black servant with a very high pitched voice, famous for her acting in Gone With The Wind,'39, she was a great actress and will be remembered for future Generations.  If you look close, you will find Otto Kruger,Saboteur '42, who was a railroad baron and played a good guy role in this film for a change.  Last but not least was Sidney Blackmer,Rosemary's Baby,'68.   Everytime I view this film, I marvel at the great talents of all the famous actors and the wonderful gifts they have given to the movie industry and all the people who appreciate great Classic and dramatic GIANTS OF THE SILVER SCREEN !    "},{"Title":"Offensive bombast","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Duel in the Sun (2 out of 10)Sickening and pathetic Selznick bombast, worthy only of a Mystery Western Theater 3000 treatment, only I was too offended by its racism and misogyny to laugh. Brutal and profoundly misguided.  "},{"Title":"Duel In The Sun (1946)","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I am not a big fan of westerns, so I'm hardly going to give this a good review. Sorry. It basically follows the plot of a mixed race woman and a white man having a relationship together. That's about as good as the plot is. It seems to add in a western style background just for the hell of it. Rating 1/5 "},{"Title":"Why this Film is a half-failure","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Because David O Selxnick felled in love with a good-pussy bad-actress.On top of that, the script is badly structured. Only on the later part of the dialog are we presented with the reason(?) why the Senator has married Mrs. La Belle. One can assume that he married a good woman from an upper-crust family to achieve social status. But it is not sure...King Vidor (what's is this guy's real name?) seems to care only about photographing sunsets..Jennifer Jones could not interpret, and probably was ignorant of the Opera Carmen written and staged in 1875, upon which the script is quite loosely based.Americans, except the Jews, or linear Jewish descendants, do not know what classical art is all about..It is not new is History. The Roman Empire collapsed, also, when it lost their Greek heritage and the Emperors become German, and, later, Bizantine.By 2200 AC the memories of the American civilization(?), Will be wiped-out from the Museums... The remaining will be the ones directed by Europeans and Jews.. "}]