[{"Title":"A Silenced Song","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"251 out of 270 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" For its time, a time when segregation was still aggressively enforced in the United States, 'Song of the South' was likely a progressive film, a major family film many of whose main characters were black, and whose animated characters were voiced by a black performer. Now, of course, 'Song of the South' is considered problematic due to its depiction of black slaves as happy and complacent, and its portrayal of them as Uncle Tom stereotypes.Look closer, however, and you'll see a fine family film, warmhearted and gentle, both a technical landmark and a dazzling series of fables as told by Uncle Remus, the movie itself serving up a number of its own morals -- like the fact that a parent's good intentions can unwittingly stifle their child, or that storytelling is key to one's moral and social development.None of this matters, of course. Walt Disney has now chosen to ignore the film on the basis of its reportedly offensive depiction of African-Americans in the post-Civil War era. For one, this film was not intended as propaganda or considered offensive at the time, and was merely the product of American perceptions of the 1940s; it's not any worse than the scores of westerns that depicted Native Americans as savage Injuns. Of course, Native Americans were and continue to be a marginalized group while African-Americans have maintained a desire to assimilate and have. Being that African-Americans have been far more vocal in their rejection of the injustices committed against them, it goes without saying that white-on-black bigotry is a far more sensitive issue than white-on-Indian bigotry (despite the fact that the Native Americans have suffered just as greatly at the hand of The Man as African-Americans), and therefore, we're less willing to excuse movies like 'Song of the South' than we are films like 'The Searchers.'But then why is 'Gone With the Wind' still given the green-light and not 'Song of the South'? Well, the answer is simple The Walt Disney Corporation. Walt Disney will go to any length to keep its reputation clean, and 'Song of the South' is construed as a serious threat to it -- therefore, placing the film on moratorium and making it unavailable simply deters controversy. They can't undo it, but they can certainly hide it. It matters not the value of the film. In a heartbeat, Disney would withdraw something as beloved as the 'The Little Mermaid' if it were one day decided that the film was unfair or offensive in its depiction of mermaids. In 'Song of the South,' one sees an innocence and warmth. In current Disney films, one sees a lot more of the cynicism and calculation of a soulless capitalistic corporate entity.The depiction of blacks in current cinema is a lot more shameful and offensive than anything in 'Song of the South.' Consider personalities like Chris Tucker, Martin Lawrence, and films such as 'Phat Beach' and 'Friday,' which depict African-Americans as lazy, dope-smoking ne'er-do-wells who treat women badly and have no morals. I guess the fact that these films are largely created by African-Americans for African-American audiences gives them a dubious seal of authenticity, being that African-American entertainers are, ostensibly, no longer being exploited by the white man and have developed their own independent voice. If that's true, why is it so much more difficult for black filmmakers such as Charles Burnett and Julie Dash, filmmakers with a truly independent voice, to either find financing for their films, or be met with commercial acceptance? 'Song of the South' might be inaccurate in its depiction of slavery, but it never makes a point of being *about* slavery, and it's no more inaccurate than hundreds of Hollywood's historical epics and costume dramas. By making 'Song of the South' unavailable, Disney is doing a disservice to those involved in the film and, more importantly, to the millions who harbor fond memories of it. "},{"Title":"Think it over before you react","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"207 out of 225 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This film will never receive a clean bill of political correctness, but neither will any film made before the 1960s. In fact, Song of the South presents some of the least offensive portraits of African Americans you can find from the time. If you really need to compare, go find any other film starring Hattie McDaniel &#150; start with Gone With the Wind &#150; and note how much more dignity she has in the Disney movie. Uncle Remus (James Baskett, who is utterly, utterly exceptional) is perhaps the most charming character you'll find. He's much more stereotypical of an elderly man than a black man. A smart man with strong morals and a clever way of delivering them, he seems to see things more clearly than anyone else in the film. No, Uncle Remus is a kind man who loves humanity, and this love is infectious. The movie made me very happy to be alive. A more politically correct version of the film would have him rebelling against white society with violence. It's kind of sad that we can't abide blacks and whites actually getting along, preaching brotherhood. The live action bits are very good (although I think Bobby Driscoll is a bit weak in the lead), but it is the animated pieces (and the live action/animation sequences) that make Song of the South great. Br'er Rabbit, Fox, and Bear are wonderful characters, and these three segments represent some of the best animation Disney ever did. The mixed scenes are amazing (was this the first time it was done?). I especially liked when Uncle Remus went fishing with Br'er Frog. Uncle Remus lights his pipe with an animated flame, and blows an animated smoke ring that turns into a square (which is, of course, also politically incorrect). I suspect that the biggest reason this film stirs so many negative emotions is the black dialect used in the film. I think that bugs people a lot. Really, though, blacks from the rural South have and have had their own accents and ways of speaking just as they have and have had in any other region. While the accents in this film are somewhat fabricated, I'm sure, I think that it would be a far cry to think of them as harmful to anybody. The hurt that people feel over this movie is the real fabrication, induced by PC thugs who seem to want to cause rifts between peoples. I think that a re-release of Song of the South could possibly have a beneficial effect on race relations in the United States, as it does depict dear friendships and respect between the races, something that I think we quite need at the moment.  "},{"Title":"Wow, what a shame.  One of Disney's BEST films. Period.","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"179 out of 194 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I recently viewed 'Song of the South' after not having seen it for at least 15 years if not longer. The last time that I had seen this wonderful family film was when I was around nine years old during one of its several theatrical re-issues in the early 1980's. OK, some say that this film is politically incorrect. No, it isn't. Let me explain and let's look at the positive messages before jumping to conclusions please This film is not ABOUT SLAVERY. It is a film that has slavery in it, yes, but it is not the subject of the film. The subject of the film is the friendship between an elderly kind man (he's a African-American!!!!) and a nice little boy (he's Caucasian!) This little boy looks up to Uncle Remus as if Remus is god-like. For a 1946 film to treat a subject in this way is commendable. Tell you what if you want to get angry at a film try a myriad of other 1940's films and see the negative portrayals of black actors in them; you'll find none of that here. At all. My opinion and quite frankly a truthful one. Now, enough with the 2004 cynical comments and on with the show.I will say this right now It is deplorable that Disney has not released this film when movies like 'Gone With The Wind' and 'The Charlie Chan Collection' are being released by major studios with disclaimers, etc. dealing with the views of some political groups who get their shorts in an uproar over the most benign issues and should focus their powers elsewhere and leave a beloved family film with a great message alone.This film has several genuinely touching moments that culminate in the innovative technique of combing animation (the amazing 'Brer Rabbit sequences) with live-action actors. Disney was the George Lucas of his day and he has managed to do what some have thought lacking in the recent Star Wars films; connect to an audience with animated characters! There's heart and soul in this film. Bottom line--Disney, a good company, is depriving itself of a goldmine because people are still paying to get copies of this film from outside resources and would gladly plunk down hard-earned ca$h for an anniversary edition, with as many disclaimers as Disney would like to stamp on it, make it a net-exclusive or something...it's depressing to think that this will never be released on video here in the United States. Really, what is the worse that would happen? There'd be a minor stink and then guess what? I'd have 'Song of The South' on my DVD shelf along with other lovers of great films and we'd all move on to the next thing and have a zip-a-dee-doo-dah Day!  "},{"Title":"Censorship It's A Dirty Job, But Everybody Wants To Do It...","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"139 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" ...Or, Queuing Up At The Outlaw Cinema.In China and Saudi Arabia, the government has absolute and frightening authority to bury whatever films or music or publications it considers unacceptable. In the dollar-driven U.S., we let cowardly mega-corporations (which either can't blow their nose without ten rounds of focus groups pummeling the life out of what may have been a decent idea once, or are run by megalomaniacs who attend to every detail of everything, whether they are capable or not) suppress our art for us. So while I guess it's par for the course that the studio that financed Song of the South is scared to death to touch this film, and in fact refuses to acknowledge that it exists, this situation leaves me wondering whether this means that those focus group studies held in South Central L.A. didn't turn out like they planned. &#150; Or is the they who buried this film The Big E himself? Anybody?Let me spell out the specifics of this despised and incendiary censored object It is good-hearted and sweet in the extreme. It was lovingly crafted to be a sentimental family film in a time that was far more hospitable to sentimental, family-oriented entertainment than we are today. But the acid test that it passes, for me, is that as you watch it, you find yourself wanting to be Remus. &#150; Or to be a person with the stature, the imagination and the moral strength of Remus. He's lovable, wise, good, and possessed of immense natural wit. He has the smartest way with words of any film character of the 40s. James Basket is absolutely brilliant. His Remus is fully endowed with dignity, warmth and depth, even more so than most characters in mainstream films of this period.Oh the humanity! How dare they put out something like this!?Seeing it for the first time in 2004, you will likely be stunned that some bumbling corporate bureaucrats have decided that you shouldn't see this. The part that gives these people a problem is, I am guessing, that ex-slaves ('ex' because this is well after the Civil War) are shown here as (outwardly) well-adjusted people. This is kept off to the side, depicted (or really NOT depicted) by mostly dark, atmosphere-setting, long shot scenes of itinerant laborers ambling toward the work field, group-singing or sitting around fires, singing and telling stories. The fact that they are not on-their-sleeve embittered revolutionaries/guerrillas is apparently the deal-breaker for the PC inclined.I give this film ten stars. (For the record, I got my copy of this film from on line, in a sparkling-clean D.V.D. transfer. They're out there, and well worth your bargain dollar. Just watch who you buy from.) "},{"Title":"Political Correctness at Its Worst","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"145 out of 164 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  When I was about five years old, I saw this film with my older cousins who were in their twenties at the time and I don't remember hearing them saying anything negative about it.  This is ironic, because I am African-American.  Everyone must remember that this film was released in the 1940's before the civil rights movement and before Roots.  Now because of political correctness, we have all but forgotten this classic film, which was one of the first to combine live action and animation.  Even though I do agree that this film does show slavery in a positive light you also should look at the fact that it dared to show the friendship between an African-American and a Caucasian, something that would never have even been thought about in those days.  Next thing you know, someone might get the bright idea to ban The Cosby Show because it supposedly doesn't portray how the average black person really lives. "},{"Title":"Segregation Disney-style","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"118 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  When the marriage of his parents goes through a crisis, Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) moves with his mom to the Southern mansion of his grandmother. Distraught over the absence of his father, he strikes up a friendship with Uncle Remus (James Baskett), an old black man who tells him stories of rabbits, foxes and bears.Driscoll is obnoxiously cute, but James Baskett delivers a fine performance as Remus and the animated sections with Br'er Rabbit are fun.But is it racist? Well, it has no overt depictions of racism and therein lies the problem Song of the South presents life in the Southern states after the civil war as idyllic and harmonious, a place where white people live in their mansions, black people in their cabins, everybody knows their place and is happy in it. Yes sir, things are lookin' mighty satisfactual says Uncle Remus and his Br'er Rabbit stories convey the same social conservatism leaving your home (to a non-segregated North for instance) is pointless because You can't run away from trouble. There ain't no place that far. This movie can't imagine a single reason why a black man living in the post-slavery South wouldn't be happy with the way things were.Yet, these are the gripes of an adult and Song of the South is a children's film. With our modern-day knowledge of American history, it's obvious that the film is far removed from harsh reality, but can you really blame a kiddie-movie for presenting a fantasy-world? It is a musical with animated sequences, does it make sense to demand or expect realism? The stories and songs, however sanitized and Disney-fied they may be, are based on Afro-American folk-tales and music, which means that the movie at least acknowledges the existence of an Afro-American culture. That's actually an improvement over Gone With the Wind.Song of the South certainly has its faults, but I find Disney's self-censorship misplaced at its simplest, most basic level, this is a movie about a white kid befriending a black man who is portrayed as intelligent, compassionate and kind. How harmful could that be?  "},{"Title":"Enough already. Release the film.","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"107 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South is a beautiful piece of film art. I acknowledge that some of the scenes are ignorant towards the plight of African Americans in the Civil War and Reconstruction era but I can't imagine a child who loves this movie coming away feeling racial prejudice or insensitivity towards African Americans. We should remember that this is a children's film and generally, people are happy in Disney movies. Should Birth of a Nation be banned because it champions the KKK? Of course not. We learn from our mistakes in the appreciation of our past. This isn't Nazi Germany. It was an Oscar winning film for petes sake. Please release Song of the South now. "},{"Title":"This Disney Classic Deserves To Be Re-issued!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"108 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I think it's a great shame that the 1946 Walt Disney classic, Song Of The South, has been banned in the U.S. because some civil rights groups **15 years ago** complained that the movie was racist and they did not want it to be shown anymore. And Disney, not wanting to offend anyone, bowed down to their demands and yanked the film from public viewing in North America, where it has not been seen since. The only way you can watch Song Of The South now is if you still own a laserdisc player and you're willing to spring for a costly Japanese import disc, OR if you manage to track down a UK VHS copy of the film released in 1997 and have it transferred. Well, having viewed a transferred VHS copy of Song Of The South recently, I can honestly say that this is a marvelous Disney movie that is NOT racist and does NOT deserve to be hidden away. While I can certainly understand the concerns of the civil rights groups over Song Of The South, the fact that the movie is set during the turn-of-the-century South when many blacks served subservient roles is NOT a good enough reason to hide the film away from the public. This is not an issue of racism, it is simply a historical fact. Furthermore, the black characters in Song Of The South are all treated with respect. They are not treated badly, nor are they spoken to badly. Further still, are we going to destroy all copies of Gone With The Wind just because it features a black maid? Think about it.What also upsets me about the shunning of Song Of The South in the U.S. is that most Americans will now never get to see anymore the marvelous performance of James Baskett as the loveable storyteller Uncle Remus (and Baskett DID win an Honorary Oscar for his fine work in this film, lest we forget). Nor will Americans ever get to see again the wonderful Disney artistry on display in Song Of The South that perfectly blends live action with animation (the very first film to do so, if I'm not mistaken). They won't get to enjoy the hilarious adventures of Brer Rabbit ever again. Nor will they be able to sing along with the Oscar-winning song, Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah anymore. All of this, in my opinion, is very, very shameful.I strongly implore Walt Disney Productions to reconsider re-issuing Song Of The South in North America, if *only* for a limited time on home video, so anybody Stateside who wants the film can finally have it. And with all due respect to the civil rights groups who complained about Song Of The South back in 1986, I strongly implore them to seriously rethink the ban that they had Disney place upon the film. On the Grammy telecast this past year, just before mega-controversial rapper Eminem took the stage to perform Stan, the Grammy president came onstage to give a little pep talk about freedom of speech & freedom of expression. He said that we cannot ban certain artists and their work just because it makes certain people uncomfortable. The EXACT same thing can be said for Walt Disney's Song Of The South. "},{"Title":"A very effective blend of live-action and animation that is sadly unavailable in the US.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"67 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw this on one of it's re-releases when I was very young and it has stayed with me.  It is one of Disney's best efforts and I'd love to see it again.  Unfortunately, Disney is loathe to offend anyone and it therefore seems that this film will be consigned to the vaults because Disney is unwilling to risk any heat.  It's too bad, because the film teachs tolerance among other lessons.  Recommended, if you can see it at all. "},{"Title":"I just finished watching, and there are tears in my eyes.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South is a beautiful film, with fine values -- fine moral values as well as exceptional production values. The animation is state of the art, the songs humable - Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah is a classic. But many Black people find it painful to watch, painful to the extent that Disney fears a boycott of its other films if it releases this one. Corporations are in the business of making money -- not art. We are lucky when art is an incidental by product, as it is in this case.The DVD I watched is from Buddha Video Co in Taiwan. Their telephone number if 886-2-2571337. Unlike some VHS releases, the Chinese subtitles can be turned off. The company logo appears briefly but annoyingly in several scenes, but that is a minor irritation. The transfer is better than VHS, though far from the pristine transfer we can wish far, in a happier time, when the old racial hate becomes as remote as the wars between Athens and Sparta. The box has a professional look -- the only strange thing is the absence of any mention of Walt Disney.Of course, I cannot view this film the way a Black person would, but I hope that Black viewers at least realize both the good intent and the good effect this movie had. Evidentally not all do -- there are posts to this board that accuse the film of racism. It is obvious to anyone who lived though real racism that the message of the film is one of respect.When I first saw the movie, I was a young white boy growing up in the Deep South, and I think this movie, and movies like it, led me to reject the racism of the adults around me. In much the same way, the TV show I Spy opened the minds of the generation that came after mine.The potential to offend is in all great art, and the offended are often moved to try to suppress what causes them pain. Song of the South is in the same class with Huckleberry Finn, Showboat, Gone With the Wind, and The African Queen -- offensive to some, loved by many, good in both intent and effect on society, but unacceptable today to those who do not want to be reminded of the truth about the past.Modern films, which invariably show Black people in the past as able to treat all whites like equals and not get lynched, are pure fantasy, but they are a fantasy that those who would rather forget history demand. But there were many close friendships across racial lines. Friendships such as the one shown in Song of the South between the grandmother and Uncle Remus did happen.One final comment, addressed to those who wish the horrors of Reconstruction were explicit in the film -- there are horrors enough hovering around the edges. The father, for example, is clearly risking his life by publishing a progressive newspaper in Atlanta. The mother, while she is not a racist, looks down on the lower class. But these things are, rightly, kept to one side. This is a children's film, after all, about love, intelligence, and the healing power stories. "}{"Title":"An embarrassment for the Disney people, but not to anyone who enjoys great movies","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Political correctness having been pounded into our heads by the media, I can understand the underlying racial issues that have blunted this Disney film's reputation--no one really wants to be reminded of this particular era (the post-Civil War) when rich Southern white folks called the shots and the black folk did all the hard work--but I can't imagine any film-goer of any color passing up the chance to see James Baskett as Uncle Remus (this was his swan song, dying about a year after this film's original release and just a few months after winning a special Oscar for his contribution). I saw this in the 1970s at a drive-in theater and the experience was magical, it stuck with me for years. It's an emotional, lovely movie about childhood, the friendship between kids and adults, and the confusion about right and wrong. There are no issues here about white and black, but then, this isn't the proper film to address those issues. It is the South at the turn of the century, and in that regard it's not much different from Gone With The Wind. There are beautiful animated interludes and a handful of terrific songs, Brer Bear is a riotous Disney character, and the live-action youngsters (Bobby Driscoll and Luana Patten) are wonderful--the scene where he gives her his fancy collar is quite poignant. Driscoll and Patten were later teamed in Disney's So Dear To My Heart, which is also worth finding. Song of the South is a film with a great big heart that needs to come out of the vaults. Let viewers judge for themselves. "},{"Title":"Everybody's got a laughing place!","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" By far, my favorite film from the Disney vault is this cherished classic. When first released in 1946, this film was one of Walt Disneys' first forays into mixing live-action with animation. Using the classic Uncle Remus stories by Joel Chandler Harris, the Disney studios present the characters of Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, and Brer Bear in one hilarious predicament after another. From the Tar Baby episode to The Laughing Place, the laughs are sure to come from young and old alike. Unfortunately, an unnecessary controversy has cast a dark cloud on this beautiful film. The live-action sequences involve a number of black characters (namely Uncle Remus) who, by todays standards may be seen as stereotypical or degrading. I beg to differ, Uncle Remus is not portrayed as a demeaning Uncle Tom. He is, in fact, simply polite. Walt Disney could have avoided much of the controversy by simply stating what year the film took place, before or after the Civil War. The film is clearly after the war as it shows Uncle Remus leaving the plantation of his own free will AND no one is trying to capture him as a runaway. This film has not yet been released in the US home video/DVD market due to its undeserved reputation, but rumors persist that a 2006 release (60th anniversary) may be on the horizon. "},{"Title":"This movie kicks butt!!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this movie in the theaters in the mid to late 1980s. My grandparents took me, and now, after understanding the reasoning behind the unavailability of this movie in the US, I was always wondering why grandpa didn't have a problem with it. I always figured that if the NAACP had a problem with a movie, a minister would have some sort of problem with it too. My grandparents are now both deceased, and I found a little notebook that my grandma used to write in when she and my grandfather first started dating. When she started going with Johnnie Powell the first date they went on after that was to see this movie. (This was back in the 40s when Disney 1st released it...they were married in 1948.) This just goes to show you that the love one person has for a movie (this movie)doesn't fade in regard to one's position and or career. I fell in love with this movie when I saw it on the big screen, and this is the movie that was the turning point for my love of Disney. I still love it to this day. I now own a copy that I found at auction/flea market. My one wish is that I can actually burn the bootleg copy and give Disney/Buena Vista the money that they deserve for such a classic story. "},{"Title":"A True Piece of Disney History","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" In the past few years, Disney has gone though great trouble to re-release many movies onto DVD as 'collectors' editions. They've even released the old cartoons shorts onto DVD with collector tins, numbered, the whole shebang...but yet, they have yet to release Song of the South. It's a shame that such a large piece of Disney History must remain buried for only hard core fans to buy from third parties.This movie may have a racial undertone (although a child probably wouldn't see it), and it's a shame that there are those who are so easily offended at a piece of American history (slavery, not the movie) that they can't even sit down to watch (or not watch and just accept the release of Song of the South). It's as if it's PC to pretend slavery never happened by not releasing a movie that contains it. I'm sure Roots was a big mistake.This movie provides audiences with some of Disney's MOST famous songs including The Laughing Place and Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Da. If you were to ask someone where Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Da chances are they won't know. (and saying Disney isn't a fair answer.) It's shocking how Disney has become so famous for a song that was never allowed to be released in the US. (Not to mention one of the most famous rides at Disneyland is based on this movie. Didn't you ever wonder about those animals during the Splash Mountain log ride?) All in all, this is a GOOD movie and anyone who loves Disney or cartoons should see it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, moving, compassionate and wise","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have just seen Song of the South for the first time in 35 years. I first saw it when I was a young child and loved it. I was one of the fortunate to be raised colour-blind and indeed seriously considered joining the busing protests of the 1960s. Having seen this wonderful motion picture again on DVD today it certainly affects me on different levels from the viewings of long ago. Uncle Remus reminds me more than anything else of the wise Chinese sages epitomized by Kung Fu's Master Po. He has wisdom far beyond that of all around him yet is human; his protégé adores him; he is misunderstood by significant other characters; he possesses a praeternatural wisdom, sagacity, compassion and love. James Baskett richly deserved his Oscar for his performance. Technically Song of the South prefigures the far less moving Roger Rabbit by decades the melding of live action and cartoon was amazing at the time and is impressive even today. The supporting cast is very good to excellent. The musical score stands up even today, and the songs not only please and stay in the mind - for a lifetime. For adults and children, even in these cynical times, there can hardly be a better motion picture. But above it all stands the majestic James Baskett as the Eternal Sage, Uncle Remus. Would that we could all open our hearts to learn from him! "},{"Title":"The True Meaning of Song of the South","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I am a lifelong Southerner. No one can gainsay that slavery was a terrible thing. It is our great national sin. But to dump all of that on these delightful folk stories seems to me a bit much.I saw Song of the South as a small child. I didn't once think how dumb Uncle Remus was; I thought how dumb the smart aleck fox was! According to the foreword in my copy of Joel Chandler Harris' volume, these stories came from Africa originally where the characters were the lion, the jackal and whatever else they used. They are the Aesop's fables of a whole culture and they deal with how one who is weak and powerless--say a slave or a small child trying to survive his parents' problems--can deal with a world and come out with a whole skin. The race is not always to the swift nor the battle to the strong is the whole theme of the Uncle Remus tales. And everybody's gotta have a laughing place if they want to stay sane in this old world.Good on you, Uncle Remus! Good on you! "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Children and All Open-Minded Adults","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Some may view Song of the South as politically incorrect. Not me. I think the show is very enjoyable for children and all open-minded adults. The villains are two white trash boys. The hero is Uncle Remus. Slavery is shown as idealized - but it is shown the way it was (assuming the Masta' was compassionate).The acting is excellent. It is one of the earliest Technicolor movies.Hope no one is upset at the Southern Talk.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding film.  One of Disneys best ever","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I cannot understand why Disney studios will not release this film in the USA. Uncle Remus is a natural, lovable black man who cares about people and tells the Brer Rabbit stories with such warmth and joy. How could anyone not love this movie which I rank right up there with Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Pinochio. It's a real gem, and it should not be withheld from the American people. All the characters in this film do a fantastic job. Hattie McDaniel portrays a warm wonderful character, and it is a shame that she did not make more films during her career. Bobby Driscoll is a delightful child and his performance is also very special. I Love this film. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I can't even tell you how old I was when I saw this movie but I was pretty young. I would love to get a copy of that movie now. I don't understand why it's locked in a vault,if it was worth making it should be worth viewing. The stories in this movie are unforgettable, the song I sing nearly everyday of my life and I don't believe that anyone should be deprived from seeing this wonderful movie. I don't see anything offensive in this movie and it's a pity that anyone would.I love Disney, I love Disney movies, I really wish that Disney would put this film out for those of us who would, and those who could, enjoy it. It is sad that Disney fears offending people now, when it wasn't an issue nearly 60 years ago. It's just as good a movie now as it was then. It's like Disney is saying they didn't care what they did then but they do now. They should be the same and realize that you can't take it back, so let the people see it! "},{"Title":"Brilliant.  Mark Twain would have been proud.","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The comments by bartman_9 reflect the ignorance of so many people in trying to define racism. Song of the South portrays life as it WAS in the old South. It does not condone racism. I don't condone racism, then or now. I DO value rich history presented in this motion picture. I saw it as a young person and it did not turn me into a raving racist.Son of the South is a beautiful portrayal of a part of Negro history. To call it racist is to demean it and misrepresent it. Even a person in Belgium should be able to discern that! I don't apologize for the racism in the United States, then or now. We are perhaps the most racist country in the world. But don't put Song of the South in that category.I don't know if bartman_9 has ever read Huckleberry Finn but I imagine he'd label that as racist also. Nothing could be further from the truth. It is Mark Twain's brilliant depiction of how a young boy raised in prejudice is able to finally see that people are PEOPLE. Even a black person.Perhaps bartman_9 should re-read some of his European history. He'll find plenty of REAL racism there. Take the blinders off and see things as they are. "}{"Title":"An unjustly maligned film","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I am really annoyed by Disney's decision to withhold Song of the South from release.  They seem to think that by banning this film they could appease the charge of spreading racism.  In fact, by banning this film they have given the false impression that Song of the South is a racist film that would corrupt children.As a previous viewer pointed out, the film does NOT depict slavery.  It takes place in the years following the civil war.  Yes, it shows blacks as servants of whites, but this did indeed occur didn't it?  Nor does it depict blacks as entirely submissive servants to whites.  Look at the way Uncle Remus defies Johnny's mother by covering for him.  Uncle Remus has his own subtle ways of rebelling against his white employers.  What's more, Uncle Remus is not a racist caracature.  He is a kind and smart man with a lot of common sense.The film even takes on race relations in the friendship Johnny strikes up with Uncle Remus and a black boy.  We end of disapproving of Johnny's mother's narrow minded attitude toward their relationship.  This is probably the closest the non-political Disney studios could come to making a liberal film.It's incredible therefore that it is the NAACP that protested this film whenever it was released instead of the KKK.  The NAACP reminds me more of little Johnny's white prejudiced mother than campaigners for racial equality.I am even more angered by Disney's decision to keep this film off the video shelves.  They probably could have gotten Song of the South out on video after it's 1986 release with minimal controversy.  Instead, by banning this film they have helped to harden opinions on both sides between those who want to keep this film off the video shelves (many of whom probably haven't even seen it), and those who want it released.  They have made a political firestorm of their own creation. "},{"Title":"song of the south 1946","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when I was six years old. I went to the theater with my Grandfather. For the next couple of days I walked around singing Zip-a-dee-do-dah, and I still, 59 years later sing the song to my own 8 year old grand daughter and she laughs. But now, I want to get the movie, either DVD or VHl, or whatever, except reel to reel, but i cannot find it. Can you tell me where I can get a copy to show my granddaughter, of Song of the South? Song of the South was much more entertaining than The Headless Horseman, that my grandfather also took me to, as I was scared to death on the ride home after seeing that movie and not singing a word. I hope you can help me find a copy of Song of the South,for my and my granddaughters sake. Thanks, Arnold. "},{"Title":"Classic Disney Melodrama From Uncle Remus & Brer Rabbit Stories","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" In the deep Georgia countryside of the late nineteenth century, a young boy whose parents are living apart is befriended by the kindly Uncle Remus, who entrances him with stories of the countryside and the critters that live there.This is a charming, evocative adaptation of the Brer Rabbit stories of Joel Chandler Harris, brilliantly adapted for the screen with their wonderful patois. It is simply dripping with the atmosphere of the American south, and brilliantly photographed in colour by the great Gregg Toland. The animation sequences, directed by Wilfred Jackson, are funny and terrific (the tar-baby story is particularly memorable) and are melded beautifully into the live action. There is an incredible moment when Uncle Remus shares his pipe with a frog, and as he strikes a match and casts his fishing-rod the action flares from reality to fantasy. The movie is also full of wonderful music; the classic Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah number, but also a plethora of traditional negro melodies - no less than ten songwriters are credited. Baskett is simply unforgettable as the big-hearted Remus (he also does the voice of Brer Fox), and the kids (Driscoll, Leedy and Patten) are great. This movie has some narrow-minded detractors who would cite it as racist. They are completely wrong - this is a movie set in a time of racism, but which transcends bigotry with its story of friendship, love and compassion. "},{"Title":"The Wisdom of Uncle Remus","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South made its debut in 1946 the year before your's truly made his debut on earth. My mom had a real liking for the Uncle Remus stories and I remember as a toddler her reading them to me and I liked them.Still do to some degree although I acknowledge the defects of the culture where they were created.I rather liked the idea of the rabbit using his wits and guile to make fools of the bigger and predatory fox. Of course the animals talk in the black southern dialect of the time, but that's OK too because Joel Chandler Harris who collected these stories from the black sharecroppers he knew as a child heard them talk that way and recorded it faithfully.Some other reviewer described the black people as employees. No they are not employees, they are sharecroppers and sharecroppers then as now eke out a meager living from the soil. Sharecroppers can be both white and black and it was certainly convenient to use race and the history of the recent Civil War to pit them against each other. Otherwise they might realize they have a lot more in common than they think. Don't think so. I'd suggest checking out Places in the Heart which is a better picture albeit in a later time period of the conditions in the old Confederacy.Song of the South isn't even that original in terms of blending a live action story with animation. A year before Gene Kelly won an Oscar for doing just that in MGM's Anchor's Aweigh. But no one did animation quite like Disney and it's technically a good film.But it's the animation that dominates here. Those portions of the film have been released as cartoons, I remember seeing them on Walt Disney Presents back in the day. And other than the black dialect, was Brer Rabbit all that different from Bug Bunny? It's not Amos and Andy because here it is black performers doing the voices.Should it be re-released? Hard to answer that question. But I sure wouldn't mind seeing some of the practical wisdom about bettering your stronger and swifter predators that that sly old rabbit might impart. "},{"Title":"on the topic of racism","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Having read most of the comments here, I just might be the first to offer a dissenting opinion. While I don't think the film is one of Disney's best, I still believe it should be given a legitimate DVD release - but I can understand Disney's reluctance to do so. Having recently viewed the film, I can see that it is something of an embarrassment due to the dated racial elements in the movie, which is an unfortunate aspect of just about any pre-1960 film involving black people in the south. Many people here have said that the film should not be considered racist because it presents positive portrayals of blacks. Racism is not always negative. Any racial stereotype can be considered racist - even positive images. Consider, for instance, the racial stereotype of the Asian who excels at math. This is a positive image, but can still be as damaging as a negative one. Why? Because it reduces the race and culture to a patronizing false image that limits society's view of that race and makes broad assumptions about everyone that is a part of that race or culture. In other words, it encourages and reinforces ignorance. It tends to dehumanize its subject, even though that is not the intention.Yes, although well meaning, Song of the South qualifies as racist. But so does much of great US cinema prior to the civil rights movement of the '60s. This includes films like Gone with the Wind, Green Pastures, Birth of a Nation, and aspects of other Disney films (Dumbo has been mentioned). These films are not/should not be banned, but instead be presented in a historical light, noting that times and attitudes have changed, and there is no reason why Song of the South shouldn't join these films with a legitimate release. Disney will probably not do it anytime soon, because they are sensitive to the race issue. Call it bowing to PC, if you want to, but there are good reasons for a great many people to be offended by the portrayal of blacks in this film (I am more embarrassed than offended), and their objections should not be dismissed lightly. But Song of the South is a film of its time, complete with naive views of race relations in the South, and there is no reason why Disney's artistry should suffer because of this. I just think Disney hasn't yet figured out the right way to market this film today, and calling them PC cowards and railing against the NAACP is not the way to get them to change their minds. "},{"Title":"A great flick for kids and adults","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" We just ordered a remastered DVD off the internet. Yes, you can get a copy if you really look around. I was told long ago that it was available overseas so I asked my brother (while traveling) to look into getting a copy. Easier said than done.We just ordered a remastered DVD off the internet. Yes, you can get a copy if you really look around. I was told long ago that it was available overseas so I asked my brother (while traveling) to look into getting a copy. Easier said than done.The film version we received was the complete movie along with some extras. I could not be sure that it was officially sanctioned by Disney and it did not have the common Disney intro - but the included theatrical trailers did. We visited Magic Kingdom in Orlando some years ago. My oldest son noted that every ride had a strong alignment with a Disney classic animation and could not place Splash Mountain - which is a great ride with all the characters from this film. I had seen the film many years before as a child, so this ride was particularly rich for me. But for him - it was lost - the little animals running around us were meaningless and childish - although perfectly executed. I spoke of the film as we were moving through the ride and he felt like he'd really missed something. How was I to know that finding a copy of it would be so difficult?In most modern films, the dynamics would play on the suspicions between the cultural leaders players. We'd see dark machinery and legal actions &#150; certainly darker content in the dialogue. This entire film is lighthearted and celebrates the innocence of youth and the wisdom of the elderly while still honoring parents &#150; everyone is trying to do the best for the boy. With the exception of two brothers that are malcontents no matter what &#150; even here we see the elderly man equipping the boy with tools to deal with a harsh situation. The people who made this film took the high road and depicted multi-faceted cultural relationships in a way that in today's films would be hollow and shallow - but would also be diametrically different in depiction and outcome.This is masterful storytelling - simply done. We are rooting for everyone by the end of the story because everyone wants the best for the kid and nobody questions their motives otherwise. You don't often find this kind of power in modern scripts - especially scripts that are this simple and straightforward - there is no pretense or agenda machinery - it's not trying to make a case, make a point, offer an agenda or prove anything - it's just a story about love - a song and a summer in a place that a child should and would never forget.In the end of the film, the children have all embraced and immersed into the wonderful world created by Uncle Remus. They are happy, singing and engaging each other in a picture of healthy fun, clean, crisp air surrounded by a harmless, healthy and exciting environment. The kids actually see B'rer Rabbit and the Blue Bird. In today's films - Remus would be under investigation by the FBI for creating a personality cult and roping impressionable kids into a fantasy existence, a Pied-Piper-like following that encourages irresponsibility and denial of reality. I've noted that a lot of modern films like to make their settings in the far past - half a century or more - so they can tell their story without it being lost in a modern cultural quagmire. Movies set in today's time frame are often high-CGI action/body/count movies - culture is not on the radar because James Bond's underwater submarine is on the sonar &#150; and we give the main character a pass if he is politically incorrect with anyone because harsh language is a form of mercy when his tendency is to spray bullets instead. Short answer to everyone - lighten up. Accept it in the spirit within which it was intended - enjoy the movie - it's one of Disney's best works and a jewel in America's cultural crown. "},{"Title":"You can't run away from trouble. There ain't no place that far.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I will be the first to agree that Disney is slowly loosing its grasp on the pulse of children's cinema with their recent flops and horrid strands of marketing, but after watching Song of the South I don't think they need to worry about any backlash with this film. I agree that the vision of slavery is extremely skewed, with the truths hidden and the darkness completely removed, but this Disney animation/live-action film is no different, no more racist, than Gone with the Wind. There I have said it. I recently had the opportunity to watch Gone with the Wind and completely disliked it because it is such an American favorite, yet it is utterly racist. Those that argue that it depicts honesty for the time, I will agree with, but it doesn't have to be such a staple to our film community. With this film constantly getting new DVD face-lifts and awards, I cannot help but wonder why Song of the South continues to be the poster child of evil. When I watched Song of the South I saw nothing different than what I saw when I watched Gone with the Wind (sans the animated characters). So is it alright to like Gone with the Wind and not Song of the South? While I do admire films that challenge me, I do find myself a bit more indulgent in children's films because they are a step away from the overbearing nature of adult cinema. As I watched Song of the South, I was impressed with the steps that it took in the direction and imagination in creating live-action with animation. It wasn't until really Cool World and Who Framed Roger Rabbit? (and maybe Puff the Magic Dragon) that we saw this combination again. So, on the side of creativity I have to give this film credit. I also liked the stories that Remus today and enjoyed how it seemed that Johnny connected with these stories to use in his own life. In future Disney films, I don't think that this would be such a big point because they tend to focus a bit more on the animation than the supposed story, but it was a breath of fresh air in this one. I also enjoyed the stories that Remus told. They were uplifting, honest, and simple. No convoluted tale to frighten or upset just simple stories that could relate to anyone's lifestyle. I believe the stories that Remus told in this film could be relevant in today's society, the idea of using your mind instead of your brawn is again, a lesson not taught often enough in cinema. Song of the South was creative, but it also felt a bit bland. It is due to the film's inability to stand fully up during its songs or core characters, that I couldn't fully admit that this was Disney's best.What upset me the most about this film, again, wasn't the racism, but the sporadic scenes, flat acting by everyone outside of Remus, and the choice of actors to put behind the words of the animated critters. Don't get me wrong, I liked the animated bits, but I just didn't like the actors chosen to voice Br'er Rabbit, Fox, or Bear. I believe this is the core of the racism discussion. For me, they just didn't seem to fit the personalities of the animated characters. There wasn't enough separation between Remus' real life at the plantation to that of the animated segments. I wanted to be taken away from the plantation and away from the debacle of slavery, but I just didn't get it with this film. The animated characters sounded too much like Remus, and that bothered me a bit. The next issue surrounds the actors like Bobby Driscoll, Ruth Warrick, Lucile Watson, and Erik Rolf who never quite congealed into a family dynamic at all. Bobby Driscoll felt like he had taken ten years a Julliard by the age of four, and I continually felt that when the director yelled CUT, Driscoll would curse, bring out a huge cigar, and have a deep raspy voice. He was good, but overly good. At times Driscoll's Johnny made me sick to my stomach. Then there were the scenes between Hattie and Remus which hinted towards something, but never quite developed. The conflicts between Ginny, Johnny, and the Favers boys just seemed too cliché and completely overdrawn, especially for a children's film. There wasn't enough reason for the two boys to constantly harass Johnny &#133; again more development would have been nice. It was just these smaller segments of this film that transformed this Disney cult classic into a mediocre film.While I utterly agree that slavery is the darkest cloud in this nation, this film is not going to suddenly bring people up in arms. I will also agree that it paints a false picture of slavery for those watching it, but I don't think it is going to confuse children. What I believe needs to happen is that groups need to look past the fake-slavery/plantation owner moments and see this film for what it truly is &#133; one that could have the potential to educate children to use their minds instead of their brawn. I believe there are even deeper meanings in this film that children would enjoy more than the big car chases, explosions, and bathroom humor allowed in so many other films deemed quality children's cinema. Song of the South fails at painting an accurate portrait of the south, but honestly people, can we not agree that Disney has never painted an accurate picture of anything in their films. This is just another glossed image of reality that Disney has maintained throughout the course of its film career.Overall, I thought it was a fun film to watch, but don't know if I could watch it again.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"I'll decide, thank you!  (possible DVD release in 2006!)","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" It seems that several reviewers would lock this film up and not allow anyone to see it. I have just purchased one of the bootleg editions from eBay because I have never had an opportunity to see it in any form.Disney, along with most filmmakers of the era, was guilty of stereotyping minorities. The crows in Dumbo, the Native Americans in Peter Pan and the Siamese cat in The Aristocats. Even Fantasia had some racist elements excised from the Beethoven sequence.As a cultural curiosity I would like to make up my own mind on this film and not have it done by would be censors. We're not talking about graphic violence or strong sexual content. I would like to judge what I believe was a well-intentioned effort at promoting positive race relations. If I find it to be offensive and degrading I will not allow my children to view it until they are mature enough to decide for themselves.On another note, it has been reported by more than one Internet source that Disney is planning a 2-disc release of this film in the fall of 2006 to coincide with its 60th anniversary. Google the title and learn the details! "},{"Title":"Memories of SOTS...and how they affect modern perspectives.","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I recall seeing only one theatrical showing of Song Of The South, and it's one of many nostalgic movie-going memories I cherish with deep affection. It was the 1981 theatrical reissue, unspooled at the Colonial Theatre in downtown Elmira, NY.The Colonial (like many of its kind) was closed in the 1980s due to poor business, operation expenses, and poor maintenance. It's a sorrowful cultural loss. It had classic American Movie Palace interior embellishments balcony, orchestra pit and stage, ornate interior decoration, and a curtain illustrated with elks and mythical Greek figures. For a brief period in the late 80s, the Colonial operated as a revival house cinema, and there had been vague discussion of reopening it as a performing arts venue. Instead, it was demolished to accommodate construction of a Coach USA indoor arena.Another fond Colonial memory of mine was attending a brief reopening and retrospective screening of 16mm shorts produced by Hal Roach, Sr., back in Elmira for a hotly publicized hometown return (he was born there in 1892). As a 14 year old classic film fanatic, I had the pleasure of (briefly) shaking hands with one of the last (then)living links to the era of silent comedy.And what does any of this have to do with SOTS? Time, distance, and memory clouds judgement.My mother bought a VHS copy of SOTS's British PAL-C release. I watched parts of it again three months ago while visiting. Allegations of racism (viewed from the context of 1946) are overblown, but the stereotypical depictions (both black and white Southerners)are still hard to take. More relevantly....aside from isolated vigniettes (Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah, et al) and James Baskett's magnificent performance (the sole compelling reason to bother viewing it today), it isn't a very good film. Mediocre Disney at best, in both live action and animation departments; the characters are shallow, unsympathetic, and uninteresting, and the Brer Rabbit segments painfully unfunny.Worse, the print quality was poor, due to Disney's intentional neglect of the surviving nitrate materials. Nonavailability in the USA seems largely an issue of Disney's indecision on how best to please its stockholders, since Disney is a corporate megolith, with stakes in global mass media, real estate, and god knows what else (yes, Darth Eisner is a despicable rat-bastard, but he isn't solely to blame with the Mouse's ranks for SOTS's supression).Perhaps Disney should allow the film's copyright to expire, and wash its hands of responsibly marketing it for video release? I think the advent of DVD (multiple extra features, low costs) might save SOTS from Bootleg Purgatory and future nonexistence. It should be at minimum 3-disc set, packaged (along with the usual games and links)with separate well-indexed documentaries containing commentary from opposing ideological and historical sources.Topics should include the history of the Joel Chandler Harris stories (positive and negative aspects), racist depictions of African Americans in 19th and 20th century American pop culture (and global animation), the harsh realities of black life in the antebellum South, black perspectives on folklore and cinema, the film's making (and subsequent release problems), a biography of James Baskett, and many more crucial details in confronting the film's troubling depictions of Southern black sharecroppers and former slaves (many of whom were lynched, castrated, or kept in servile labor throughout post-Emancipation times).SOTS deserves to be widely seen again, but in a contextualized format, ethically distinct from the innocuous, candy-colored children's entertainment that Disney touts itself as a world leader in providing. "},{"Title":"the best disney movie ever made","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  A few of my buddies and I went on the ride splash mountain at disneyworld.  All of us were enchanted by the characters and setting of the ride and thought it was the best.  This made us desperately wanting to see Song of the South since we all were to young to ever see the film due to it's ban on U. S. video.  Our parents said that it was good and would like to see it again.  Finally, we found certain copies of it from England and it was being sold on an internet auctions.  After we got it converted to NTSC, we got to experience one of the greatest movies of all time and what a great pleasure it was.  I have never seen anything so entertaining in all my life and I think that it is the 2nd best movie of all time (Psycho being #1 of course).  The animation sequences are the best disney has ever made.  I was discouraged by the fact that disney might cut out the tar baby scene.  That segment is one of the best in film history.  I certainly do hope they bring it out to the U. S. in video or in theatres (it will make a lot of money, I gurantee it) since a tremendous amount of people want to see it again.  So, disney, bring out your greatest movie again so that more generations can relive or experience the joy that I have experienced from this movie. Thank you. "}{"Title":"Zippity Doo Dah!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I remembered seeing this film when I was a child.  I don't remember when but it had to be a reissue in the 60's (I wasn't born until the late 50's and the movie was released in '46). I remembered Brer Rabbit and Brer Fox but not the movie in whole. I was determined to find a copy of this movie knowing that it had been released in Europe on VHS (Disney pulled all overseas tapes in 1997).  So it was a challenge to find one.  I now have a copy and recently have seen it again.  WOW, WHAT A MOVIE! This is the best Disney movie ever made! It is extremely wholesome and quite a shame the youth of today will never have a chance to view it. It's double the shame that Disney has no plans to release this film in the U.S. because of political pressure. One of the few films that plays on all emotional levels.   "},{"Title":"I think this is the best movie ever made!!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  There is no other movie that will ever top this one! I haven't seen it since 1987, the last time it was released. The story  is very touching and the bond between the little boy and Uncle Remus still gets me. I wish they would release it on video! No child should miss seeing this classic.  "},{"Title":"Unfairly Criticized","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" This is a very good movie. In all honesty I think that if James Baskett (Uncle Remus) felt in any way this movie was racist then he would have never accepted the role (just my opinion). And he was so wonderful as the story-teller Uncle Remus! Uncle Remus is really is a wholesome character, with good morals and a wonderful teacher.Segregation was alive and well during the time of this film - and what is so good about the film - it shows how people of different races and backgrounds can come together. There *might be* an underlying and deeper message to this film - we can desegregate ourselves and live in peace with one another.On a lighter note - there is a fun yet meaningful cartoon withing the live-action picture. Plus this film contains one of Disney's most popular and famous songs 'Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah 8/10 "},{"Title":"Song of the South (1946)","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The sad truth is this movie is part of our American History and yet because of labeling for no legitimate reason the movie is not sanctioned by those like the NAACP. The irony is movies that are offensive to other Americans are granted free license for distribution because there is a double standard.Song of the South is merely a tale like many fairy tales told prior to the 1960s. This tale is told from a perspective of the South that is closer to the truth of our culture at that time than some want to reflect on. As a child I saw this movie and it did not skewer my ideas about any people in the movie at all. It was the animals and the music that are the true entertainment. I hope some day everyone of every color will appreciate that and stop censoring anything they don't think reflects them as perfection throughout history. "},{"Title":"Great old film","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" A story of the time. Characters are traditional, sympathetic. Uncle Remus is wise. An adult portrayal of a thoughtful man. Disneys position on this film is wrong regarding sale in this country. I have an English tape (different format)and am always happy to run it for friends.Purchase this film to view it's gentle relationships between the characters. The cartoon characters use a vernacular of the time the film was made. The changes in terminology from then to now is an excellent subject for discussion in family situation settings. I would actually suggest this film as an educational tool in mixed racial school film classes. Discussion in that setting could help students gain an understanding of the conditioning each ethnic group deals with every day. Needs a wise teacher. "},{"Title":"Walt Disney's Great Forbidden Classic","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" When I was 8 years old, Walt Disney created this great and enduring classic, his first picture to include live actors and to mix them with animation. It was one of the very few pictures in that era to employ Black actors, and the undisputed hero of the film was a Black man. The film portrays a pervasive tone of positive values, and incidentally the best portrayal of interactions between Whites and Blacks of any film I've ever seen. There are no slaves in the movie, and I doubt Walt Disney gave any thought to slavery since there weren't any slaves in the post-Civil War South. Still, Michael Eisner and other latter-day Disney executives have relegated this classic to the vaults.Easily one of Walt Disney's top 5 movies, anyone ought to acquire this wonderful picture for their family library. Since the film was on the market in the UK for a few weeks before being pulled-off forever, you can buy one on eBay (from other sellers, not me). Mine cost me over $100; a small price for Freedom of Speech; a small price for a true classic not otherwise available. "},{"Title":"I saw it as a kid, and I want to see it again","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I haven't seen this movie since I was very young, maybe 10. My kids are all grown, but my grandchildren might like to see it. I have only fond memories, but then again I am not African American. I believe the black characters are tender and caring people and that this comes out in the movie. If Birth of a Nation manages to survive in our cultural as ART, why not something that I recall as positive and precious be allowed to be viewed by the public. I think they should release the movie and let it be an opportunity to talk about the cultural difference of the those times and the present. Make it a learning experience. Disney released it in Japan, so if it was so bad, why let the Japonese think that we are bigots and racists. If it is so terrible, why has Disney released it to other countries? I would just like to see it again. "},{"Title":"I cried, I sang, I loved this movie","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 4 years old in 1946. 60 years later I still love this movie. We have a VHS of the songs on a Disney sing-a-long. Please put Song of the South on DVD!! I have read all the postings and yes the black child or care-minder of Johnny is troubling. (also true to the time period many black children were the caregivers of white children in the 1800's) IS Racism that reason Disney keeps it off the market? What about Gone with Wind? It has the KKK.(the political meeting?) Uncle R is like Mammy from GWTW the most noble person in the story. (Both these actors won Awards) The two brothers (white) are mean and dumb. Racism? Johnny's grandma and Uncle R speak as equals, she wants Uncle R to help Johnny. When Johny is hurt by the bull I cried. When his father goes away trying to find work in the city I cried. Then the sweetest Uncle R comes to the rescue. I sang all the songs they are great. Zip Zip Zip day. I would love to have my grandchildren to see this movie. It's an American-African-Aeasop stories. "},{"Title":"Disney's hidden live action-cartoon mix","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  So, finally the much maligned 'Song of the South' gets a TV airing - all we have to be content with at the moment as Disney don't have this on their video/DVD release list.  In this kid's film, James Baskett is a joy as Uncle Remus, the storyteller who sees life as 'mighty satisfaction', and who brings to life the wonderful stories Joel Chandler Harris wrote about Brer Rabbit.  Hopefully children still have these stories to amuse them as they grow up as they surely are classics.The film itself is inevitably dated in its attitudes but not enough to mean it should be hidden from view - a musical cartoon about the need to rely on others and be inventive in the way you deal with whatever life throws at you.  Have things really changed that much that this kind of advice isn't needed?  The mix of live action and cartoon was at an early stage here and would be done much more convincingly later, but 'Zip a Dee Doo Dah' is still charming, and Bobby Driscoll was such a cute and talented child - things would not turn out well for him and he'd die a drug addict at 31, but here and in Treasure Island he is excellent and ensures he'll be remembered. "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind to this old Disney favourite, but it still has its moments.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song Of The South is mainly a live-action film but some of its sequences are animated, and some are a mix of live and animated action at the same time. For a movie produced way back in 1946, the visual trickery required to make it appear like real people and cartoon people are sharing the same space is rather impressive. However, in other aspects the film has not dated well and to enjoy it you have to bear in mind the time when it was made.Young Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) arrives at his granny's Deep South mansion accompanied by his mother and father. Father drops a bombshell by telling Johnny that he must return to his job in Atlanta, and that he won't be around for a while. The young boy is devastated. To help him to cope with the absence of his father, he befriends a kind, old story-telling black, Uncle Remus (James Baskett), who is loved by children from miles around for his mesmerising stories about Brer Rabbit.Driscoll was a gifted young actor and he gives a lovely performance here (right up there with his work in other classics, like So Dear To My Heart, The Window and Treasure Island). Baskett is splendid too, delivering Uncle Remus's lines with spellbinding poetry. The other actors are rather stilted, especially Ruth Warwick as Johnny's mother, who churns out her lines as if she's reading them from a dummy-card. The moral of the story is very simple and doesn't lend itself to a 90-minute film.... at times, the film is so thin in terms of plot and incident that it seems to be running out of places to go. Still, Song Of The South is a fondly remembered Disney flick and deserves to be seen at least once just so that you can reaffirm its place in cinema history. It's a hard film to get hold of nowadays, but if you're lucky enough to find it then it is probably worth a look. "}{"Title":"I saw it in 1946, My children saw it in 1971 and my grandchildren saw it in 2001.","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Wow, what a great story.  I loved it when I was a youngster of 7 years and still today at 65 still enjoy seeing this one.  A classic by any standard.  My kids and grandkids have enjoyed watching it also.  The main character, played by Bobby Driscoll, may he rest in peace, was one of innocence.  All the characters such as Uncle Remus, with his tales, were on a par with Aesop.  Joel Chandler Harris, the author, from whom the story emanated, had a clear vision of his day and time.  Some have likened the story to race, slavery and discrimination, but I see a story of men, women and children expressing their love for one another regardless of their station in life.  God is color blind.  "},{"Title":"Reminds of youth","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Of course times were different then, I was small and enjoyed this movie so much. And still do. I had never forgotten the famous song zippedy-doo-dah and when I found the movie on tape couldn't resist buying it. There is a simplicity about it, that is touching. The rabbit, bear and the tar baby all came back to me. Well, it's not for today's young people but I sure was happy to get it on tape. Really cannot understand at all why it isn't available in the US. Accept the past and let's be happy at least some of it has changed a little. "},{"Title":"It's a pitty this film is not available today.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  When I was a young boy my Dad spoke about this film and we refered to the Zippadee-doo-da song as the traveling song. My dad was from the South and as we would return to visit family members we would sing the song.Then he took all of us kids to see the film and it touched me in a special way as I could see that it was special to my dad. I feel that I have been robbed of a great oppertunity to pass on was given to me as a boy. I visited Disneyland this year with my wife and son and saw some of the characters from the movie as well as hearing the song, I even have a picture frame in front of me with some of the characters on it and it brings back happy memories of days past. My dad is gone now and I miss him, but through this movie some of my favorite memories live on. I will not give uo my persuit to watch this film with my family someday. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!!!!!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"      My mother asked me to get her a copy of this movie when she heard that it would never be released in the U.S. (for Disney felt that it might offend African Americans). It took me some time, but I finally found a way to get a copy for her.     She told me how she loved this movie and explained how wonderful it was, but because I knew that it contained animation (of which I loathe) I did not believe that I would appreciate it. I watched it to see what she was so excited about and Boy was I in for a surprise!!!  This movie is one of the most touching features I have ever seen!     I just wanted to know if I was mistaken or if Disney had a point, so I let an African American woman watch it and asked her to give me her opinion about it.  What she said was I enjoyed this movie, but I can understand how some black people might be offended by it..  I want to ask one question...  Do we refuse to show, watch, or allow other Americans to make their choice to do so because We MIGHT offend??    By the way, after watching this movie, I have a GREATER respect for African Americans than I did before!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Why is this movie disowned by Disney?","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night for essentially the first time (I saw it when it was released in 1986 but I must have been about four at the time and I don't remember seeing it) and honestly I'm hard pressed to find a better children's movie. I love the final shot of the three children walking along side Uncle Remus as they walk into the sunset. Disney's lack of courage when called upon to defend their work from the past is really troubling. I am still annoyed that they bent to the will of some angry feminists and changed The Pirates of the Caribbean because they found the idea of those pirates chasing women to be offensive. While I can see why this movie would be offensive to some, I still am unable to see why this movie should be unavailable to those who love it and want a copy of their own to cherish. One thing that sticks out in mind is that while the Walt Disney Company seems to think that America shouldn't be able to view this beloved movie, they still use characters from it in their advertising, as themes for rides (Splash Mountain for those who don't know, because I didn't up till a few years ago) and as toys for Happy Meals. If Disney doesn't want us to be able to have the movie for ourselves, why do they continue to allow characters from Song of the South to be used at all. One would thing the characters are half the reason for the self-imposed ban. While this movie can be seen as derogatory or offensive, one should remember when this movie was made. It was not made now or even 30 years ago, it was made in the 40's. Should we punish a wonderful movie with many important messages (one being racial equality in that all the children play together as equals) simply because it is a reflection of the time it was made? If that's the case then why not get Gone With the Wind banned or many other movies from a time long since passed which certain political groups might consider offensive. So please go find yourself a copy because even though it is fairly difficult to find a copy it really is a wonderful movie that can be enjoyed by people of all ages, it truly is one of the Disney studio's best work. And strictly as an after though why, if this movie is so offensive, are there only two negative reviews of the movie on the whole of the Users Comments section...think about it.  "},{"Title":"The ONLY Disney flick that is banned from video","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Out of all the Disney films that came out during that time,and those that went straight to video including the original Fantasia and Dumbo,and others to name a few,the ONLY flick that was seen at the movies was Song Of The South. The title song is a true classic,indeed but the movie itself was something more. Due to its stereotypical portrayal of African-Americans here,the only place you can see it is in a movie theater or in other words,I got the chance to see it during an African-American studies class at a local university. The last time it was shown in theatres was back in the early 1970's,and from there never heard from again due to the outlash of several groups including the NAACP,and other organizations. About the movie itself for a moment...... I loved the stories as a child about the characters liked Uncle Remus, Brer Rabbit and Brer Fox,but I had a warm fuzzy feeling about it when I saw it with my parents at the Northgate Theater back in the early to mid 1970's,and again with I was in college under very certain circumstances. Again,the ONLY way to see it in its entirely would be to catch it at a university or if it ever gets the chance to come to TV....  "},{"Title":"A work of art too long gone.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  A love of mine as a child, my children and grandchildren are missing a terrific movie.  What a shame they have been denied this wonderful story. I can still hear Ber Rabbit and Ber Fox to this day, I wish my children and grandchildren could know that joy.It should be re-released. "},{"Title":"Ive seen this movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  What a great movie, and possibly one of Disney's best ever.We watched this pleasure and enjoyed every minute of it - it took us long enough to get hold of one, now I treasure it completing the collection )A must see if you can ! "},{"Title":"A Victim of Political Correctness!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This charming film, full of humor and love, will never be released in the United States as long as Michael Eisner heads Disney.  There is noting evil in this lovely story of an old man and a young boy, neither of whom see skin color as a reason not to care deeply for each other and to reach out to each other.  As long as people bend to those who would impose their politically correct views on the rest of us we will live in a society where popular culture is censored.  One has only to review a catalog of Touchstone Films to realize that Eisner's fastidious sensibilities don't extend to all segments of our society.  Song of the South is a wonderful film but it is being held hostage.  That is a real tragedy! "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST DISNEY MOVIES EVER MADE","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I recall seeing this movie for the first time as a child in the 1950's at the local movie theater. It's warmth and human spirit left a profound impression on me that I have to this day. I thoroughly enjoyed showing this to my own kids when it became available on laserdisc from Japan. I wish Disney would reconsider releasing it in the United States on DVD in a remastered version. It certainly isn't nasty toward any race since Uncle Remus is the hero of the whole movie. The time period depicted in the movie must have been during the reconstruction period of our nation since Uncle Remus was getting on the wagon and leaving the plantation to go to Atlanta toward the end of the movie.  I've seen situation comedies on television today that are much more demeaning than this movie could ever be.  I believe all people would see the heartfelt messages in this movie in a favorable light if Disney released it in America.  I've showed the movie to African American friends of mine that are younger than I am and they thoroughly enjoyed it.  They don't see what the big deal about political correctness is.  Frankly, I don't either. "}{"Title":"I've been trying to find this politically incorrect film","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I grew up in the south and did not realize I should be shocked at this film's assumptions about African Americans until I was 10 years older. My parents took us to every Disney film, and I recall this as one of the most charming of them. It's full of catchy music and images to spark a child's imagination, but doesn't play down to kids. I sure would like to be able to reevaluate it as an adult, and show it to my kids as a part of my personal journey. "},{"Title":"Childhood Memories & Adult Realities","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  One of the sweetest memories I have of my childhood in Virginia is Song of the South.  I still remember the words to Zippity Doo Dah, but only small bits of the movie.  I would dearly love to see it again and add it to my movie collection. I notice that there is some controversy over the film's lack of political correctness. I would like the opportunity to judge that for myself, as the aware adult that I am today.  I believe that any form of artistic creation can be viewed and criticized on many levels.  We may each experience the flaws in different ways but we would lose so much of value by banning works that don't pass the PC test.  We should take advantage of the opportunity to learn from our own mistakes and the mistakes of others. So let it be.     "},{"Title":"The best Disney movie you'll never see...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I remember, when I was a kid growing up in Atlanta, getting to go to the Wren's Nest, the home of Joel Chandler Harris. I had the big, hardcover Disney book of his stories, and it was quite a thrill getting to see the home of a man whose stories I had read and loved, and the authentic briar patch of Br'er Rabbit hisself! Yes, I loved the movie as a child. Yes, I know that the movie is hardly politically correct. But think about it; if Disney had to remove every non-PC movie, they'd have to get rid of Dumbo (the black crows), Peter Pan (the portrayal of Native Americans), Jungle Book (jive-talking monkeys), and probably some others that escape me right now... So, will someone please explain to me why this movie is banned, but Gone With the Wind is not? I mean, talk about racial stereotyping....What makes Hattie McDaniel's role in Song of the South less PC than in GWTW? Or even worse, D. W. Griffith's Birth of a Nation? (Number 44 on the AFI's 100 Greatest Movies of all time! list). I can go down to Blockbuster and rent one of the most racist, hateful, and black-stereotyping movies ever made, a film that glorifies the KKK. Why is Birth of a Nation glorified as one of the 100 greatest movies of all time, yet Song of the South is considered too racist to re-release? I think this is a valid point... I certainly hope Disney re-releases this movie, since I see no logical reason why it was banned in the first place.... "},{"Title":"I have never forgotten!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I absolutely adored this movie, and would like to get a copy of it on video or DVD. I saw this movie 29 years ago and have wanted it since then. Song of the South left a warm feeling in my heart for all these years. I think that it is the best wholesome family movie that I have ever seen!! "},{"Title":"My favorite Live-Action/Animated film.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  What a fun movie!!! A great moral of the story is... kind of story. There just aren't many movies being made these days that can compete with this one. Not even by Disney, themselves. A wonderful way to experience the racial boundaries being crossed and humanity rising up to meet the occasion with open arms. Especially, in a time when anger and hatred were so prevalent (a.k.a. the Civil War Era). You've really got to see this film - J.Harden.  "},{"Title":"The Best Film You've Never Seen","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  A wonderful adaptation of Joel Chandler Harris'Tales of Uncle Remus. This film was the first to employ live action with animated sequences, a feat not equaled until Mary Poppins in 1965.  A story of a young boy's attempt to deal with his parents impending divorce, by escaping into the fantasy world of Brer Rabbit, Fox and Bear, while learning some valuable lessons during his journeys.Unfortunately, this movie is not available on home video, as it was never released in the U.S. due to heavy opposition from various political groups.  "},{"Title":"Fond memories of this tuneful film","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I've seen it twice, during its reissues of the 1960s and '70s. I once had a storybook based on it which I particularly enjoyed as a boy in the 1960s. The Tar-Baby has as strong a grip on my childhood recollections as he had on poor old Br'er Rabbit.It seems funny now that a rare Disney feature used to mean The Three Caballeros, to name one, a film I was thrilled to have a chance to see in Spain in 1983 even if it was dubbed in Spanish. Rare never meant Song of the South. Now Three Caballeros is available in every corner rental shop, but where alas are Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear?  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  One of the most fun-filled and wonderful movies ever made. It is a tragedy this movie is not available. Come on Disney! Give it up!!!! This movie is pure gold next to the dross put out now. So much love is shown here during a troubled time in history. We may never see the like of it again. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This Movie, in my opinion, is Disney's best movie of all time. And one of the best of every movie in history. This is the first Disney movie I can remember crying in, when Johnny was injured, and Uncle Remus told that tale. I cried, I did. And I know that this movie never got nearly as much credit as it should. I was extremely sad when learning that it was kicked out of the USA. "},{"Title":"Shame on those who work so hard to find offense where there is none!","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" It disgusts me that people would look at Song of the South as an example of racism in American Culture.Why does every production covering slaves have to be like Roots? Why do people think that every slave was like Kunta Kinte? What was wrong with the slaves singing happy songs as they worked? Why do people look at the relationship between Johnny and Toby as an example of racism. Toby was a slave, Johnny wasn't. It isn't so far fetched to think that Toby would be assigned the tasks he did for Johnny. Guess what folks, no matter where you go, kids are kids... Which means that there is no reason to imagine that many of the kids of slave owners and the slave kids were friends. Being friends though, they also knew their place. In a society where slavery is legal and kids are raised by the slave women... knowing ones place was survival... not racism.If you want to talk about racism and Hollywood, ask those bigots why it took so long for them to allow Black actors to have their own dressing rooms. Ask those bigots why it was they scheduled the premier for Song of the South in a theater they knew wouldn't allow James Bassett in.If you ask me, the ones pointing their stinky little fingers at Song of the South are the biggest racists of all. "}{"Title":"Great non-racist film","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I don't know what the fuss is about. I've only seen this movie a few times, but I don't see it as anything racist. Nowadays you can only get this movie in Japan, but with Japanese subtitles during the songs.This is one of the best movies ever, and the song, Zip-a-dee-doo-dah is part of a Disney theme park attraction. I really like the ride, but the movie where it came from is better, partly because it's longer, and it has a story behind it.The little boy named Johnny has a friend named Sally, and Uncle Remus, who is a former slave, tells them several stories, that help Johnny cope with his separated parents.Don't for one minute think this movie is racist, because it isn't.My Score 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Classic Tale","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" This is a story of the south before the civil war. It shows slavery, one of the most shameful parts of American history. To ignore this film because of that fact is to miss out on one of the most beautiful stories ever told. I will always remember the first time I saw this (in the 1960's - yes I'm old!) and how much it made me want to be like Uncle Remus. Political correctness has gone too far; this is history, not today. This story should be seen and discussed, not hidden away. Keep an open mind, remember this was created in the 1940's and try to imagine a time before television, the internet and terrorists - a time when families and values meant something. "},{"Title":"what a shame","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I just had the pleasure to watch this film, and there is no logic in it never to be release again for future generations to enjoy it is no more racist than Gone with the wind so that cannot be the reason the only one I can see is that some do gooder made a fuss over the fact that a elderly gentleman befriends a young boy and his friends well I fear for the future of film making and other classics such has the Wizard of OZ, There you got a young girl walking along a road on her speaking to strangers that could be classed has un P.C.what these people do not realised are taking away the magic of story telling we will get people banning the three little pigs because it will offend vegetarian's,or Jack in the bean stalk cause it might offend tall people well let really be silly and and ban Hansel and Grentle Snow White and the 7 Dwarfs, has they all involve children and people of a evil nature they actually want to kill the children.since this P.C came out it has got sillier and sillier but to pick on a classic like songs of the south is beyond the clever way they joined animation with real people and remember this was 1946 it should cherish not disregarded I say bring it back and see what the sales say "},{"Title":"A white person's reaction","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Actually, I am of Irish/German heritage. I would have been only two years old when this film was originally released, but probably saw it later as a young child and don't remember specifically. I think that the fact that I never saw a racial aspect to this movie back then, is really the point - it is not about the African American experience, or about slavery, it is the story of a young boy who is deeply troubled by the problems his parents were having and turned to an old man for companionship. Uncle Remus could just as easily have been Uncle Fred, and a person of European decent, but the decision as to race was an artistic one for Disney.Because the character of Remus is an African American, his voicing and portrayal of some of the animated characters is a cartoonish stereotype of poor blacks, and in this context, I can see where this would be offensive and embarrassing to intelligent African American viewers - I was troubled by this after viewing it as an adult.This movie certainly does show African Americans happy and singing on their way to/from the field, but I find it impossible to believe that for the entire duration of the reconstruction era, that African Americans never smiled, or sang on their way to or from the fields, or their chores elsewhere - they would have made the best of a terrible situation. The reconstruction era in America was marked by such grievous wrongs as Dred Scott, and the so-called black laws, which I can think of now with nothing but abhorrence and embarrassment. But the film cannot be judged to be racist unless it attempts to inaccurately portray the situation in American during this period, simply including African American characters does not qualify.The point is, that although there are African Americans portrayed, the movie simply does not address their situation, since it is not part of the story - incidentally, there are also poor whites portrayed whose situation is equally vague.Although this movie is in fact available on DVD in the United States via the internet, it should be officially released by Disney in this country to let the people decide. To bow to pressure not to release, is censorship - this is not what we are about in America. "},{"Title":"Hey NAACP Shut up, get real and get a life!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie as a kid and I loved it!  Its just a fun filled children's  story about a gentle-hearted African-American man who enjoys telling children the stories of brer rabbit, brer fox, and brer bear and the adventures they have.  Just a good natured child's story, right? But NOOOOOOO! The NAACP(National Association of Always Complaining People!) whined just enough to flat out have it banned!  Why?  Just what in the hell is so racist about this movie!  And why has Disney bowed down to these idiots?  I dont have too much respect for Disney anymore for doing that! There is nothing racist about this movie!  If so, where is the racism!IT IS HISTORY!!!!!!!!  Too bad Disney is losing out moneywise.  If Disney released it tomorrow, I know it would sell like wildfire!  "},{"Title":"Dumb Dumb Disney","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  The NAACP should be ashamed of themselves and Disney should as well. As a person of color I was not offended by what was shown on the video. What next Turner bans Gone With The Wind? I'm more offended by Prissy than anything in this film. I was in London recently and found a used PAL copy for sale cheap. Lucky for me I work in the entertainment industry and had the ability to convert the film and sat down and watched it. What a sweet wonderful film I loved it. I've since been making copies (free) for all of my family and my neices and newphews have watched it every day. Ti hear them all singing Zippy Do Dah made it worth it. Now all my friends are begging for copies. So for the cost of the tape and time and wear and tear on my machines I've been making them copies. I feel like giving one to everyoine in the world. This movie should never have been banned!!! "},{"Title":"The unjust shunning of this classic.","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Disney won't give an American re-release SONG OF THE SOUTH, one of their best animated cartoons.  Feeling, this film will offend blacks, they have shelved the film.   The only way I can see how it offends blacks is that the plantation slaves, who make up at least half the cast, seem content and happy as slaves.  The film tells how an older black man, Uncle Remus, befriends his massas little boy, (a wonderful performance by Bobby Driscoll) by telling him storties about foolish animals getting in and out of trouble.  The morale of these stories are simple You can not run away from trouble.  There is no place far enough.  (What a wonderful and realistic message you can give to children.)  If anything SONG OF THE SOUTH shows, it's how healthy and fun it is to make friends with people of different color and/or ethnic background.  The ending puts a lump in my throat.    The perfect film for a rainy day or when you are feeling down.         "},{"Title":"I can't understand why Disney pulled this classically-fabulous film from further distribution!?!?","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I cannot understand why this movie is so despised by Blacks!?!?Besides being set in slavery times (as MANY other movies are), everything about this movie is lovely! The music is great; the performances by James Basket and Hattie McDaniel are both great and charming; the storyline is perfect; the animation is A++; and...everything else here is just so great!This movie has two Black actors who, at the time, were big stars - James Baskett became the first African-American male performer to receive an Academy Award; the very first African-American to win an Oscar was Hattie McDaniel for her performance in Gone with the Wind (1939). McDaniel also appears in Song of the South (1946).If I was either of these two magnificent performers, or, any other Black in this, and, my own race banned my movie...I'd be very, very upset!I just cannot understand what all the controversy is about!?!? Roots wasn't banned; neither was Mandingo. Neither were all of the other slavery movies made over the years...not even Birth Of A Nation which was so racist that White actors portrayed Blacks.This movie never hurt anyone anymore than The Teletubbies when some clown claimed that the 'purple' Teletubbie is gay!?!? SO WHAT! Do children care about such trifles? NO! Only adults whine about such things!There have been a lot of movies I could belly-ache over -A.) Where the Vikings are all depicted as murderers (I'm Scandinavian);B.) Where the Germans are all thought of as Nazis (I'm German);C.) Where Christians are concerned as we orchestrated the Inquisitions and witch hunts that killed millions;and,D.) Where Christians were once treated by the Romans much as Blacks were by the slave owners...but, I don't whine - it's history that can never be changed!I love historically-based movies, and, this is one of my favorites...controversy be damned, as with Blood Diamond; Zulu; Holocaust; Mark of the Devil; The Man Who Would Be King; and, so many others. It's all part of history.What children see in this movie is a kind, storytelling and singing man who everyone seems to love, especially children and animals. "},{"Title":"Everybody's got a Laughing Place.","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" A young boy (Bobby Driscoll) goes with his mother to live on his grandmother's plantation in Reconstruction-Era Georgia. There he is befriended by a warmhearted old man named Uncle Remus (James Baskett), who teaches the boy life lessons through stories about a wily rabbit that gets in (and out of) trouble with a fox and a bear.The most controversial Disney movie ever made. It's never been released on home video in the US due to Disney's cowardice. When you actually see it, you'll probably wonder what all the fuss is about. There are no racial slurs, no violence against blacks, no hate anywhere to be found. The racism charges are mainly due to the black people in the film speaking with a dialect that is offensive to some and the lie that the film portrays happy slaves. The film actually takes place after slavery has been abolished. The people in the film working as servants and laborers are allowed to come & go as they please and are treated respectfully. Most definitely not slaves. Uncle Remus in particular is shown great respect by all the white people in the movie, excepting for the two little kids who are villains and the main boy's mother who wrongly worries Remus' stories are having a bad influence on her son. I'm not saying that there is nothing a modern viewer might find offensive. I'm sure some will be offended; some always are. Rather than release the movie and allow people to make up their own minds, Disney is withholding it and allowing rumor and hearsay to distort the film's reputation as something on the level of Birth of a Nation depicting the KKK as heroes. Disgusting and a real disservice to all those who worked on the film, especially James Baskett. This was the role of his career (he died just two years later) and he deservedly received a special Oscar for his wonderful performance.Controversies aside, it's a simple, warm family film with an upbeat tone and positive message. The songs are fun and the animated segments nice. It's not currently easy to find this if you live in the US but maybe someday soon Disney will pull its head from its rear and release it. But considering this is the company that still removes cigarettes and guns from its old cartoons, I wouldn't hold my breath. If that day ever comes, it will be mighty satisfactual. "},{"Title":"Excellent Disney film! Should be release on DVD in the USA","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I had the chance to view Song of the South from a Chinese laser disk, and the film is excellent It's just too bad the film isn't getting released on DVD in the USA. The film is perfect Disney. The live action scenes are excellent, the acting is excellent the cast is excellent. Probably my favorite part of the film is the animated parts. The voice acting is great, and the animation is spot on. The whole animated sequences are excellently told. I just loved this film. I don't care how racial it can be taken as. Get over it, we were who we were back then. This film should not have to suffer in the vaults. If there is any film that should be kept in a vault in would be the ones with sex, violence all of this. But yet they are all out in the markets, being in the theaters and Song Of The South a sweet family film is being kept away. Give me a break Disney release the film already! "}{"Title":"Not a Cult Movie, should be seen as another classic Disney kids film.","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I believe it has been about 30 years since I've seen this film. One may think this banned Disney feature with only some portions of it animated would have a cult status. The ban is by Disney itself, and it is not a cult film because on it's own it is just another nice children's film. Watching for the first time as a grown adult, I could identify the signature weepy music and somewhat adult undertones. The animation was fine, the rabbit reminded me of the rabbit in Winnie the Pooh.The happy tone is what you expect for a children's film, offset by upsets, such as a Mother denying a child's wish to have a puppy. But the absence of this film in recent memory left a hole in my childhood recollections. Having been able to view a great transfer recently, I could appreciate the innovative mix of live action and animation (for only half of the running time). The effect looked very clean for the time period, and this digital copy made all the live characters very vivid.The character Uncle Remus won the actor an Academy Award, portraying a gentle and caring man, who becomes a surrogate father while the boy is staying at a southern plantation. That warm feeling is part of what the Disney 'magic' was all about back then. Ultimately, this film is geared for too young of an audience to be as solid of a classic as their many more popular films. But it has a right to be a part of our memories, and banning the film dishonors the performances and the art of this classic. "},{"Title":"A film that deserves to be seen.","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South has been unavailable in the United States for many years. Apart from a re-release in the mid-1980s, Walt Disney has not released the film in the US on video or DVD. I was only able to see it because it was released in Japan on laser disc. Why you might wonder. Well, because there are a lot of offensive themes due to changing sensibilities. Back in the 1940s, showing happy blacks living like slaves in the South was quite acceptable&#x97;now folks naturally see these sorts of portrayals as racist. Still, because the movie is so good, I really wish Disney would release it and provide some sort of prologue (such as the ones Leonard Maltin has done with some of the offensive Disney shorts in their recent DVD releases) explaining changing times, attitudes and how the film can be appreciated despite its flaws.The film's star is clearly Uncle Remus (James Baskett). The acting of Basket Is terrific and he provided the voices of the animated characters (Brer Fox, Rabbit and Bear). And, his singing was just wonderful. Because of this alone, it's a darn shame Disney his sitting on this film.Uncle Remus is a happy ex-slave (the film takes place around 1870) and he regales a lonely boy (Bobby Driscoll) with wonderful folk tales meant to cheer him up and teach important life lessons. When he tells these tales, they come to life through colorful animation. The best parts, in my opinion, are when Remus himself enters these animated scenes&#x97;long before this was done with Who Framed Roger Rabbit?. I also adored the animation in general, as the characters were hilarious. In addition, you have a nice supporting performance by Hattie McDaniel as Aunt Tempe as well as Fay Bainter as the boy's grandmother.So is the film worth seeing? You betcha&#x97;provided you can find a copy. My attitude is that by shelving the film, you neglect a fine, fine performance by James Baskett and also ignore an important part of our heritage. After all, films on Turner Classic Movies or Shirley Temple DVDs are widely available and they often contain terribly dated and more offensive stereotypes. Plus, in the case of the Temple films, if you shelve them because one might have an offensive performance by Steppin Fetchit, you'll also lose the WONDERFUL dancing of one of the great dancers, Bill 'Bojangles' Robinson! Disney&#x85;.re-release this film! "},{"Title":"An excellent film if you understand the culture of the time.","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Just finished watching Song of The South, the Movie (based on a play based on a book) that inspired Splash Mountain. It's been criticized in times past for being racist, in that it ignores the violence and mistreatment of slavery, which it does. But at that time, those topics couldn't be discussed socially or in media. It was the curse of the times.What it does teach is the travesty of emotional dismissal of those below you in social status, regardless of race, and the lessons that can be learned from opening your mind and heart to people of all color and position. I truly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Mix of Animation and Live Action","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South (1946) *** (out of 4) Young Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) goes to a plantation for the summer where he becomes friends with a young girl (Ruth Warrick). There on the plantation he meets Uncle Remus (James Baskett) who tells him stories of Br'er Rabbit and his adventures with Br'er Bear and Br'er Fox. SONG OF THE SOUTH is now a controversial film but when you really look at it you have to think that Uncle Remus is one of the most positive images of a black person from this era. Now I understand some are going to be offended by the stereotypes as well as some of the animation but I think the film still works well for adults. I think the best stuff involves the animation including the three animals. I thought all three of them were very well done and for the most part the animation is top-notch. I really liked the adventures of the three as Fox and Bear are constantly trying to catch Rabbit who always manages to out-smart them. The highlight of the film deals with a bee hive and this sequence is extremely funny. Another major plus is the performance of Baskett as Uncle Remis. I wasn't completely won over by all the live action stuff but there's no question that Baskett steals the picture as the soft-hearted Remis. The actor does an extremely good job bringing the charm and you just can't help but feel this character was one of the best roles for a black actor at this time period. Again, I'm sure many people are going to cry foul due to some of the material (Tar Baby for one) but at the same time it's always important to remember when this film was made. If someone doesn't want to watch the film because they find it offensive then that's fine. Pulling it from viewing on the other hand isn't fine because it does kill a chance for education but I'm sure this is something most people don't want because of their dimwitted views. "},{"Title":"Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Sometime after the US Civil War, cute little Bobby Driscoll (as Johnny) is taken to live on his grandmother's plantation near Atlanta. In the city, young Driscoll's father writes controversial newspaper articles. Unhappy because his parents appear to be separating, Driscoll decides to run away from home. He doesn't get far after meeting joyful storyteller James Baskett (as Uncle Remus), who entertains children of all ages with animated tales of Br'er Rabbit. Mr. Baskett and others dressed in shabby clothing are unfazed by the Emancipation Proclamation which freed the slaves. They are sho' nuff retainers...Song of the South celebrates those who know their place and are happy with their (subservient) lot in life. Uncle Remus is not uppity. His sunny disposition is best exemplified when Baskett launches into the song Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah - a great tune which managed to escape the confines of racism. Ironically, there is an attempt, herein, to avoid controversy as this production displays evidence of the Disney studio's effort to make the story acceptable to everyone - the Old Confederacy included, of course. Villains are permitted in a poor white trash family. All the colored folk are all real nice...The inserted cartoons are skillfully presented and the plantation is beautifully constructed. Yet, noting really combines to make Song of the South great. This may be another reason for the Disney studio's reluctance to make it more available to the public. The movie goes for long periods of time being unavailable. The number of bootleg copies and views on youtude indicate there are millions of dollars not being collected - some of which could go to the estates of those who contributed to the film. When you consider the amount of offensive material out there for kids today, it's time to let this one out.***** Song of the South (11/12/46) Harve Foster ~ James Baskett, Bobby Driscoll, Ruth Warrick, Luana Patten "},{"Title":"A Disney-fied Version Of The Old South Is Both Fun And A Bit Troubling","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Apparently the Walt Disney Corporation itself doesn't much care for this movie anymore, and it's easy to understand the sensitivities once you see the movie. I wasn't entirely clear on whether Song Of The South is set before or after the Civil War. Nothing in the movie makes that absolutely clear. For the most part the black actors in the film look like slaves - they don't only work the fields but they serve as house servants, etc. On the other hand, Uncle Remus can just up and decide to leave for Atlanta. Either way - slaves or sharecroppers (neither of whom were treated very well) - I can see that the portrayal of the black characters as happy folks singing happy songs and being treated just like part of the white family who either owned or controlled them (depending on the era) could be troubling to 21st century eyes. But surely you have to keep this in perspective. The movie is a product of its time and it had a clear purpose which it basically accomplished - to be a family movie filled with fun fairy tales offering solid morals about life.The story revolves around Uncle Remus (James Baskett) whose delightful stories about Br'er Rabbit and Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear help young Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) through a troubled time in his family's life. The movie might be dated, but one can't really argue with the basic lessons that are being taught by this. (I don't know if there was any direct relationship, but the relationship between Br'er Rabbit and Br'er Fox struck me as a bit similar to that which was later portrayed between the Road Runner and Wile E. Coyote.) The movie is full of fun songs - including the now famous and 1947 Oscar-winner Zip A Dee Doo Dah - and it's an early example of a blend of live action and animation, as Remus from time to time interacts with his characters as he sings his songs. The movie manages to end on a rather cute and somewhat unexpected note as Br'er Rabbit starts to appear to Johnny and his friends Ginny and Toby while Uncle Remus watches and rubs his eyes in disbelief.The troubling aspects of this movie have to be kept in perspective. It's not being deliberately racist. In fact, apparently Disney went to some lengths to try to ensure that it wasn't racist - but it's definitely a product of its time and to 21st century eyes it would look like a less than honest portrayal of the lives of southern blacks in whatever era it's set in - antebellum or immediate post-bellum. But it does what it sets out to do and it's a technical triumph, and, of course, it's also introduced one of the most delightful songs ever into popular culture. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Worth Uncovering","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I've never really bought into the alleged racism of Song of the South. While there are some black stereotypes caricatured to a questionable degree, it's no more insensitive than the Italian stereotypes in The Lady and the Tramp and Pinocchio or the crows in Dumbo, and when compared to some Golden Age films that seem to get off scot-free on racism claims (I'm looking at you, Gone with the Wind) it's actually one of the more progressive portrayals of blacks in a mainstream film from the period. It's certainly less objectionable than Coal Black and the Sebben Dwarfs. Uncle Remus is a very likable and wise character, and to even show a white child looking up to an African-American who essentially tells stories about how to trick the stupid white men actually strikes me as the opposite of racist toward blacks.Since my focus is on the animation in Disney's films, I'll skip analyzing the hub plot. Every so often, we break into Remus' tales about Brear Rabbit with animation to tell us the story. Milt Kahl always spoke with pride of the way in which Disney's animators gave the three main characters of these sections particularly strong personalities, and he's right to. Brer Rabbit is a whiny klutz without much intelligence who always stumbled into trouble, but can always whip up a crafty plan at the spur of the moment. Brer Fox is smarter, but lacks the spontaneity or outside the box thinking to ever catch his prey. Brer Bear is a dumb henchman who could overpower either if he had the brains to. It's a small cast of characters, but there's chemistry between the lot of them that makes every second an entertaining one. Marc Davis and Milt Kahl do a lot of the best stuff. "},{"Title":"An early 'Mary Poppins'... almost 20 years before 'Mary Poppins'?","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Before I say more, I didn't know about all the controversy around this movie and that, just because some folks consider it offensive or racist, Disney hides its own work. Seriously, that is ridiculous, to say the least. For one thing, I don't see anything racist or offensive in this movie. And no, I don't need any new lens for my glasses. Plus, Disney certainly had much hard work to put into this film and instead of allowing people to see it and appreciate it, they hide it? Disney is sealing this movie's doom (and its own doom) by putting up with certain opinions. People should definitely get over these absurd stereotypes. It's not like we live in the Stone Age or something...'Song of the South' is, in some ways, a movie ahead of its time. It is one of the first colored live-action films, in a time when films in black & white were so common. It has also the honor of being one of the first films mixing live-action and animation.The combination of live-action and animation is successful. In fact, the artwork, animation and even the drawings have unquestionable similarities with the later 'Mary Poppins'. So, this was the 'Mary Poppins' of its time. Besides the good artwork, it has comical tales of Br'er Rabbit, Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear (what kind of name is Br'er anyway?). Br'er Rabbit is smart, while Br'er Fox and especially poor dumb Br'er Bear are completely stupid. All of their tales are hilarious. The Tar Baby fable seems to have created some controversy, but it's actually one of the funniest bits. However, the funniest of all is the last one, Br'er Rabbit's Laughing Place. That one is hysterical because of the bits with the bees! The first fable, Br'er Rabbit Runs Away, has one of the funniest lines of all «Ya not makin' a dolla a minute! Ya makin' a fool of yaself!», by Br'er Fox. His accent and the quickness he says that is priceless!These fables are told by Uncle Remus. His stories are a real delight for the good kids of the film (especially Johnny, who seems him almost as a father figure).Bobby Driscoll and Luana Patten make a perfect chemistry as much as Matthew Garber and Karen Dotrice in their movies. It's always a pleasure to see any of them in a film. James Baskett is great both as Uncle Remus and as the voice of Br'er Fox. As Br'er Fox his voice is so different and fast that you wouldn't tell it was him.Despite the hilarious fables, the movie's not all comedy. The purpose of these fables is to be a comic relief. The movie is a drama, touching and has great sensibility. Some scenes are depressing, even devastating. Near the ending, for example, there is a harsh scene when Johnny is attacked and injured by a bull, but the story has a happy ending.Overall, an okay movie, but 'So Dear To My Heart' is much, much better. "},{"Title":"Not racist","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" In the Old South Uncle Remus (James Baskett) a black slave tells stories to white Johnny (Bobby Driscoll). They're shown in animated form...beautifully done by Disney.OK--this film is NOT racist and Disney is being stupid by not releasing it. The last time I saw it was in its last (I believe) theatrical reissue back in the 1980s. I don't remember anybody complaining about it being racist back then. Yes, the slaves are shown as being SO happy and love working for the white people...but Gone With the Wind had the same view and I don't see MGM keeping it from being shown or anyone complaining about it. There's nothing wrong with being politically correct but Disney really overdoes it. Hell--they changed ONE LINE from a song in Aladdin because one group complained about it! Idiots.Back to the movie. The print I saw was in bright beautiful color with a crystal clear picture and sound. The animated segments were just great--there was one fantastic moment when Baskett started singing Dippidy Doo Dah and the background burst into animation. The chances of anyone seeing this are slim but, if you can, take a look. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Historical Value","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The social status of African-American people was kept artificially low by social conservatives for reasons of Tradition. Song of the South reminds us, as do many theatrical cartoons of the period, of attitudes among social conservatives and, in fact, others as well, at that time. It is well to have available, for reference, works of art that were created in that milieu. I'm sure Disney executives could couch the re-release in genuine terms that acknowledge the historically perceived offensive nature of Song of the South, with commentary from prominent African-Americans. The thing is charming, with pleasant songs, and the film itself evokes a time of movie making unlike that which exists today. The TV series Amos & Andy suffered a similar fate during the 1960s when black activists insisted that the show instructed white people how black people behave. Yet, that show exhibited outstanding performances by many African-American actors. Nowadays, the races mingle freely. Everybody knows how everybody else behaves. We don't need media to instruct us. And ancient films and TV shows will do no harm. "}{"Title":"When will we be human enough to show this again to the world....","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I was privileged enough to have seen Song of the South when I was 10 years old. While, we seem to live in this overly conscious politically correct world today, we should be able to overlook the negative angles of slavery and focus on the positive aspects of this brilliant film. This is NOT about slavery, but about an African-American man helping a young while youth to adjust to his changing world (the parents divorce and his new life on the plantation). The first of it's kind to combine live action and animation (40 years before Roger Rabbit) and to allow black and white to interact as equals. It has a lovely and heart warming story to tell, with God's will, perhaps we will all be allowed to see it without malice and prejudice. "},{"Title":"Everything is MIGHTY satisfactual!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I just saw this film. It is AMAZING! As of this very moment, it is my ALL-TIME FAVORITE Disney FILM. The acting is solid, the animation is brisk, flowing, and engaging (not to mention, hilarious), and the story is wonderfully told from all it's perspectives. Let me break it down.James Baskett is the best part of this picture. He becomes Uncle Remus to the point where you just want to reach out, shake his hand, and take him out for a beer. It's a shame he didn't appear in many other films, especially for the fact that he passed away two years following this picture at the age of 46. I haven't read the Remus books, nor have I known much about them prior to seeing this film, but even without that knowledge, Baskett's portrayal brings Remus past character form. The character becomes real, like your own next door neighbor. He's gentle, sincere, and a very good listener. He would do anything for a friend. As a character, he holds everyone together, and... well, I'm not here to give plot details. Find the movie wherever you can and SEE IT! EVERYBODY SHOULD SEE THIS PICTURE! IT IS A DELIGHT FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS ALIKE OF ANY GENDER, RACE, CREED, RELIGION, WHATEVER! IT IS JUST FANTABULOUS! Even with statements like that, I know Disney will never release this film on home video in the US. They are being stubborn about releasing it because of some so-called racist elements that pollute the screen for 90 minutes and continue to let it rot on the shelf.HIDING THAT SO-CALLED RACIST MATERIAL, WHICH ISN'T RACIST, IS WORSE THAN REVEALING ACTUAL RACIST MATERIAL. ARE YOU READING THIS Disney, OR DO I NEED TO TRANSLATE IT FOR YOU FURTHER? Whew... now if you'll excuse me, I have to go to my laughing place! "},{"Title":"Song of the South","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this movie for the first and only time when I was about 8 years old in a downtown movie theater in Mobile, Alabama. I only remember a few lines from my favorite song from the movie, Zippadee (?) Doo Dah. Maybe I was too young, but I don't recall this movie being racist or having racist undertones. Are they there? Is there anything to suggest that this movie derides the plight or position of the African American? Can we not discover that for ourselves? I know a lot of blacks who have never seen the movie and many more who have never even heard of it. If this movie has not already be re-released, it should be. There is always room for a good storyline, which, to the best of my recollection, this one has. In summary, we should all be allowed to make our own decisions about what we watch and what we allow our children to watch. I remember singing, little bluebirds, and much happiness. What could be better in times like these? "},{"Title":"Excellent Family Fare","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" My wife, who is several years younger than I, has never seen this movie, but has read the story (from an old Golden Books) and saw some of the Brer Rabbit cartoons on Wonderful World of Disney in the '50's. She has wanted to see the picture and signed up for a proposed release from Diney Studios a couple of years ago, but that never happened.It's too sad.Song of the South is one of the sweet memories from my childhood. I saw it when I was about six and never forgot the characters, the cartoons, the songs, and especially Uncle Remus.This movie is excellent family fare. If you have children, or if you just like really good, wholesome entertainment, get a copy. "},{"Title":"SONG OF THE SOUTH (Harve Foster and Wilfred Jackson, 1946) ***","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I recorded this notorious Disney film off Italian TV (only the second time I recall it ever being shown over the years) on the strength of the heated online discussions which turn up from time to time in such Forums as this one and, in fact, I immediately sat down to watch it when I came home from work to see what all the fuss was about. Well, in my modest opinion, this is yet another case of much ado about nothing... True, the film (including most of the songs) was dubbed in Italian so, I guess, some of the offending racist content has necessarily been toned down as a result but, having watched it, I don't buy into the objection that the film minimizes - or even glorifies in any way - the hardships of black slavery inflicted by their Southern masters. If anything, the character of Uncle Remus (perfectly essayed by Honorary Oscar recipient James Baskett) is depicted as being an intelligent, literate and even independent soul with a terrific imagination in his dreaming up the world of Brer Rabbit and his cronies (enacted in the film in cartoon form). Where is the offence? Is the Uncle Remus character any less formidable or any less representative of his people than Rex Ingram in THE GREEN PASTURES (1936) and Hattie McDaniel in GONE WITH THE WIND (1939)? And yet those two movies have never been subjected to all the fuss - not to mention withdrawal from public view - made over this film... In any case, the film is a pleasant, folksy tale which is highlighted by the animation sequences (directed by frequent Disney animator Wilfred Jackson), superb color cinematography by the legendary Gregg Toland, a catchy Oscar-winning song, Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah and is also notable for introducing young Bobby Driscoll to the Disney stable. "},{"Title":"One of best Disney movies ever...","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I saw it once when I was perhaps five and though I forgot the storyline over the years (until my husband got me a copy from Ebay!) I always remembered what a good story it was and how much I loved it.Johnny and Ginny are two of the cutest kids I've ever seen and they were perfect for their roles. Uncle Remus was phenomenal and the rest of the characters were perfectly cast.A lot of older movies are cheesy to the new generation of children. This one manages to be touching, heart felt and very real through the ages despite the time and society differences. I am honored to have a copy of this fine film and will make sure my kids will be able to watch it as many times as they want.Everyone else feels they have to comment on how unfair it is that some people are offended by this film because of race and because of that it is lost to most of this generation of youth. Two words  E Bay. Get it. Enjoy it. Share it. Don't let the idiots of this world stop you from enjoying this beautiful and touching film. "},{"Title":"Disney's loss...not mine","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I couldn't care less what civil rights groups think. I have a copy of this movie and so can anyone who wants one. NAACP is mad because it doesn't show the evils of slavery. The movie is a folk-tale! Hello! It was never anything else. Roots is designed to show that. If that is what you want to see then go watch that. Some groups have nothing better to do than beat the bushes for something to get offended over. No wonder they are not taken seriously, suffer scandals and snickered at.Let Disney lose out on the sales. I and my family will enjoy this movie and the wonderful people who star in it for years to come. The hate groups that dislike this movie can go jump in de mill pond. "},{"Title":"Zippy childhood memories","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw this film in 1947 shortly after World War 11 had ended when living in Great Britain was still difficult and for a child extremely gloomy.The characters, the storyline and the music were inspirational to a generation of children and Zipadee doodah could be heard ringing through school playgrounds for many months after the film had gone from the screens.The film had everything to enchant the viewer as well as a story line that made you reflect on life and how it was for others who were different to yourself. Viewing the film was and still is a source of great joy for children of all ages. I would be amongst the first to purchase a DVD should it ever be released. In my opinion song of the South is one of the very best films ever made by the Disney Organisation.  "},{"Title":"Disney Should Release This On DVD!!!!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie is a testament to what Walt Disney and his fellow animators stood for. The movie is one of the earlier true Walt Disney films and it's a shame that the company will no longer release it. Walt Disney made this movie to show that people from all walks of life need a friend, and that it doesn't matter what color skin you have or how old you are, this applies to everyone. This movie might encourage a child to listen to a story from a elderly person in their own life or make a friend from a different ethnic background, which the child might not have done before seeing this movie which would be beneficial to both parties. I think that Uncle Remus's stories teach valuable life lessons to kids that kids nowadays can relate to. This movie won an Academy Award, making it not only a Disney movie, but a movie that should be preserved for future generations to enjoy. This was one of my favorite Disney movies as a child, plus I went on Splash Mountain at Disneyland even though I'm scared of heights due to having seen this movie. If Disney can make money on the Splash Mountain ride which has these characters, than they should allow the movie that it's based on to be released. I think it's a shame children go on the attraction not knowing what movie these characters are from. In closing, I hope Disney will give this film the respect it deserves by putting it on DVD for fans old and young alike.  "},{"Title":"Classic in Hiding","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Actually to clarify some of the previous poster's comments - this movie is not banned per se. It simply hasn't been released on video in the U.S. by Disney's choice. Also, Disney did re-release SOTS in 1986 for a theater run. I know because I went to see it. It was just as I remembered. One of my favorite movies from childhood, which I first saw at a campfire movie at the Fort Wilderness Campground in Walt Disney World, circa 1976. As for the controversy that surrounds it? There are a lot more racially volatile topics that have been the subject of movies in recent years. Releasing Song of the South on DVD in America is not going to hurt anyone. "}{"Title":"If the Passion Of The Christ can be seen then....","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I had never seen this film before, but I've heard both how racist it was and how beautiful a film it was. A fellow co-worker of mine had gotten a copy of a copy of Song Of The South, so I asked if I may borrow it. I took it home and though it was kinda blurry it was still watchable. I just LOVED it! The cinematography is fantastic. The acting and storyline were good. Just to see this on DVD would be great. I did not find this racist at all, though I can see why some would, but it WAS filmed in 1946! It was also a period piece from the 1800's, just like Gone With The Wind, though Gone was never shelved. Remember, these were the days when if Hollywood showed Blacks in a positive light those scenes would be cut out by different theaters(meaning less money made). An example is Lena Horne's scenes in the musical Till The Clouds Roll By(1946) were cut by certain theaters where she was performing songs from Show Boat. Why? I don't know, but some people found it offensive. Even now in this Politically Correct world of ours, somebody is going to be upset with the way something is presented. There are people saying that The Passion Of The Christ should not be shown because some find it anti-semitic. There are people who say this is a masterpiece and it should be seen by everyone. I know that Passion is a religious film and Song is a period film but isn't film much like art. We all view art differently. Some think Van Gogh is weird, others marvel at the beauty. Some find Picasso offensive and others find it shockingly brilliant. Most of us are good people. People who know right from wrong, and know it's only a movie. With that, I see no reason to hide this film from the public.If you go to Amazon.com, you can log in your email address so they can put you on a list that they will present to Disney to show how many of their customers are waiting for a DVD release. It's a long shot but it's worth trying. "},{"Title":"Another Win for Political Correctness......","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  It is now 2004..............we are in the age of DON'T CENSOR THIS,  DON'T CENSOR THAT........DON'T CENSOR ME....DON'T  CENSOR ME.........but the underlying message is DON'TCENSOR ANYTHING (unless we, the politically correct disagreewith what is being said).............It used to be that if someone saidsomething racist they didn't have to resign their position......theyjust  looked like the idiots that their ignorance proved them tobe...........In regards to Song Of The South........it should be released   and if the politically correct don't like it........they don't have to buy  it, rent it or watch it!  Sadly, I believe the day is coming in Americawhen we will not be able to get a hold of classic movies like Gone  With The Wind due to the way the African American charactersare portrayed...........there is no stopping this politically correctmachine. "},{"Title":"You Cast Your Own Stone ...","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw it in its re-release in the early '70s and I literally just got finished watching it again now with my 6 year old. It's a fun film, and really got me in a good mood, the same way Mary Poppins did oh, about 8 hours ago!I've read Disney had little to do with the actual production of it but he was well aware of the Uncle Remus stories. Obviously, if the man thought poorly of the protagonists in this film, he wouldn't have bothered to make this film at all.I'm not blind, but I choose to look past the racial elements ( such as the tar baby scene ) NOT to give Disney or the production team the benefit of the doubt but to give the film a chance to tell the story and it's just a simple collection of fables told in an entertaining fashion. You can't run away from trouble, 'cuz there's no place that far is an example of the philosophy that is directed towards children, not cynical adults.Cheers One of Disney's best.Caveats WARNING Overtly racist. Very dated. "},{"Title":"So sad that our children will never see this film.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  What a shame that the beautiful story and music in this film will never be seen by our children. This movie is not racist in any way and it is a learning experience for all ages. Hopefully, many people will protest and it will be re-released. Tell Disney and everyone else that you would like it released so your children can see this beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"The importance of being Dopey","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I have recently discovered thet Song of the South has been somewhat disowned by Disney. It has never been released on DVD or video in America, supposedly for being too racist. The film has, however, been released various times on video in England. The first time was in 1991, when it was released for the first time along with The Little Mermaid. The following year, it was rereleased, along with Alice in Wonderland, Dumbo and the Sword in the Stone. In 2000, it was yet again given a third video rerelease, along with Pete's Dragon. It has also been shown on the BBC television channels several times, therefore I recorded it.The film follows the story of Jonny, the grandson of a rich plantation owneress, who is going through a large crisis (for 1946 standards anyway). His parents have had a fall out! His little girlfiend's bent brothers bully him! Who's he going to call? Not the Ghostbusters, but Uncle Remus, a mysterious old plantation worker famous for his stories about the Brer Animals. Through animated versions of these stories, Jonny copes through his social problems.I am annnoyed to see the way Song of the South has been treated. The film is a happy one, the animated parts are incredible and I personally feel that it is not 100% unpolitically correct. We must remember that a lot of Disney/Buena Vista films can be racist/stereotypical without one noticing it. Aladdin, Sister Act, Mary Poppins and Lady and the Tramp are prime examples. When are you going to ban them, eh? "},{"Title":"Excellent movie one that I would love for my children to watch.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Uncle Remus is loved by everyone.  The way he tells a story brings the story alive.  Our children and grandchildren should be able to see this movie and read his books.  This is a great way for our children to learn how it was back in the day.  lol Well before my time anyway. "},{"Title":"When we will really know that bigotry is behind us","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  There are certain books and certain movies that capture a period of time in film.  Sometimes the period of time isn't what we wish it had been now, but that doesn't change facts.  They have recently wanted to rewrite some of the Hardy Boy's Mysteries because of words that are not thought not acceptable. And Disney has completely removed Song of the South from circulation because it shows African-American's in a place and time that some people do not wish to comprehend.Song Of The South is a rather joyous film.  I think everybody really needs to study the times back then.  The slaves did sing, they partied, had children, and had a lighter side.  It is within the heart of humanity to be joyful, if possible, regardless of the situation. Song of the South is a depiction of those time that does not concentrate on the ugliness; it attempts to show the good of the black's existance. The good was the songs, the tales, the joyful humanity that was in the heart of the African-American. That is, in fact, where the joyous African-American culture came from. Nobody wants to go back to those times, but there are things that should be remembered.  The story has a lot of humanity in it. It deserves to be available. "},{"Title":"cheerful sing along","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  i have just finished watching this movie(it was on tely)and i really enjoyed it, i loved the cartoon shorts and i loved how they blended the two into each other(live action and cartoon). quite sad to hear about what happened to the boy who played johnny and as appalled to hear that disney has banned it, Compared to the s*** they churn out today this film was a masterpiece five out of five definetely "},{"Title":"Disney's first combined live action/animation. A classic gem.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I've been fortunate to rescreen this movie since the last time I saw it 55 years ago. It is classic Disney of its period, the first time the studio expanded from animation to include live action in a seamless integration. Integration, of course, is the key reason why Disney has not reissued this movie since 1986 - but it is a fictional story set in the Gone With the Wind era and what it is really about is the art of storytelling. Uncle Remus, played by James Baskett, recounts the moralistic tales of Br'er Rabbit, Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear to children.This was James Baskett's first leading movie role, for which he received a special Academy Award, and it was his last. He died two years after Song of the South was released.I don't know how many millions of people in the world have glimmerings of memories of this movie, and I advise them to pester Disney to reissue it. Everything is a product of its time; that is no reason to bury a gifted, entertaining and inspiring film. "},{"Title":"Good movie, cartoon violence only, no oppression","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Just got the movie from moviehunter.org.  Yes, it has stereotypical roles of black servants.  But there is no anger shown by anyone.  When the storyteller tells a story, the story is shown in animation, with typical cartoon violence.  The little kid is upset by his father leaving.  Some of the early scenes of the tape have a soft focus (third or fourth generation film for this portion?).  Good movie.  "}{"Title":"One of Disney's Best","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Song of the South banned from public distribution by Disney itself. Well, it seems that perhaps hateful stereotypes of negroes (NBA, NFL, gangsta rappers, etc.) are ok, but loveable ones aren't. Perhaps showing the South as a warm, loving environment prior to the war is the most offensive to the easily offended.Oh, well...ANYWAY, Song of the South is one of the most endearing of Disney's animations.  A simple plot set up early in the film gets out of the way quickly enough so we might enjoy Uncle Remus' tales.The songs are all keepers and the characters stay with you forever. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Example of Good Heartfelt American Entertainment","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This has always been a top movie for me as it is pure American and the story is heartfelt.  Joel Chandler Harris' basic stories reflect the wonder of children and their purity with no prejudice toward anyone or anything.Why this movie is not put back on the market for the general public does relfect a severe anti-American feeling from the owners of the copyright. I am so lucky to own a copy of the movie.The characters, both human and cartoon, are superb.  I recommend this movie for any and all children---especially for those that need to develop the imagination.       "},{"Title":"disney seems to be pandering to the thought police","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  i was fortunate enough to see song of the south when it was released after world war II. it is a joy to see and hear! my children, however, have been deprived of the pleasure of this animated feature gem. a few years ago i telephoned the disney corporate headquarters and asked an office administrator why song of the south was/is being withheld from the american market. she told me that the movie simply had not been formatted for video release even though many of the songs are available on the sing along series. later i received a bag full of disney buttons, stickers and decals!  it's hard to believe that disney would market a film like scream but keep song of the south locked away. those opposed to the film are of the same mentality as whose who demand that barbershop be edited because it offends them. how sad. "},{"Title":"Please release the movie","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I seen this movie as a child and loved it.  Wanted my children to see the movie but unable to do to so, because of it no longer being available to the public.  A child's movie that does not portray bigotry or racist ideals, but song and laughter.  It had songs that were easy to remember and people of my generation could remember singing as we left the movie theater. It did not have violence, vulgarity, nudity or death and destruction. Its' to bad that because of a national group of ADULTS, all children of the USA will not be able to see such a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Slaves???","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I thought for years that Disney must have been really terrible with this movie to ban it. My sister recently got it and I saw it. I LOVE that movie! And let me tell you, I'm not against any race. Because it's not the race, it's the individual. I found that maybe the part where African Americans were singing as they worked might be where the controvercy was. But they sang to pass the time by, it's not like they sang because they were having fun.It was a very touching movie! I Give 5 stars! (The highest- I think. LOL) It was the best movie I ever saw, it had everything. Lesson after lesson to learn from. Why Disney banned it is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sure as you're born.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I was very curious about this movie. Disney seems to have disowned it, but they also take pride in creating Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah. I have been trying to watch this movie for a long time, and after seeing it, I think it's about time Disney releases it, because it's a shame that today's kids don't get to see it. For one thing, this movie should NOT offend African Americans. They'd sooner get offended by Barbershop than they would at this movie.The movie itself teaches kids the value of friendship and being a kid. There are some kids who just can't wait to grow up, but this movie teaches us that being a kid isn't all bad. You can tell that Uncle Remus himself is almost a kid in an old man's body. This movie also shows friendships between a boy and a girl, and friendships between cultures. Sure, there's a little bit of stereotyping, but there are many movies that throw in some racial stereotyping. In fact, racial tolerance is another value they teach us in this movie.Let's not forget the lovable Brer Rabbit stories. You can tell this movie was ahead of its time by mixing animation in with live action. There was a scene where it does look a bit weird, but then there are other scenes where Uncle Remus blends in with the cartoon environment.I'm sure that there are many people who have not seen this movie. If you haven't, find a way to watch it. Find a copy on eBay or something. This movie was excellent, and despite what kept Disney from releasing it in the 40s, it should cause little controversy today.  "},{"Title":"Great movie that is a part of American History","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  What controversy?  This movie is historically important and wonderful entertainment.  IMHO it is a real stretch for someone to be offended by this movie. The music in this movie is timeless.  Great entertainment for the whole family!! "},{"Title":"I grew up loving this movie and singing the songs; I want my kids to experience it.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This Disney movie is one of my favorite childhood movies.  I loved the songs and the characters, especially Uncle Remus, he was so wise. I hate the fact that my children are missing out on this wonderful fable.  I purchased the book, from Barnes and Nobel, but it is just not the same. "},{"Title":"I like this movie.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I read the copyright date on books. What is not proper now, may have been proper at the time the item was done.  Birth of a Nation is a racial movie. But at the time it was make, no big deal.  South of the South is one of those type of movie.  Do we want to save our children from this type of stuff. NO, they are going to be seeing and hearing it. I just want to be there so I can discuss it with them.A great movie.  Too much fun.  "},{"Title":"The best movie you will never see if you live in the land of the free.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Song of the South is one of the cherished memories of my childhood.  To this day, the song Zippity Do-Da is one of my favorite songs from childhood.  It is a great disappointment that neither my children or grandchildren will get to experience this movie.  Disney Studios should be ashamed of themselves as deeming this movie inappropriate for today's movie goers.  I for one do not like being told what I can and can't see. "}{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  My interest in the movie Song of the South came from the Disneyland's, and Disney World's attraction, Splash Mountain.  This has become my favorite ride at the parks. Anyway, I was very curious on seeing the movie, but soon found out that it was no longer being printed in the U.S.  So a couple years ago, I got it for my birthday, converted to VHS. This movie is pretty good. The animated part, with Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, and my favorite, Brer Bear, was the best part of the movie.  The only problem was the live-action.  That part was okay, but some of it was kind of corny. But, I do realize it was kind of early; 1946.  If they would redo it today, I think it could be alot better. Other than the corny part of the movie, I would recommend it to almost any Disney lover. I would rate this movie, ****-*****     "},{"Title":"I Want This One Released Again!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I love this movie, I saw it for the first time in 1952, I was six years old. I found a copy in London and had to have it converted to our VHS. A little exspensive but worth it to me. I had fond memories of this movie, and they were awakened again. It is a charming and sweet movie. I'd like to see it re-released, and eventually on DVD. Everyone should have the opportunity to see it. Zip-a-dee Do-dah Zip-a-dee Yea!!! "},{"Title":"Play.  Rewind.  Play Again.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Where does one start when commenting on this Disney classic?  I had never seen this movie in its entirety until I found a copy in England Don't try looking for it in the U.S. - or anywhere else now, for that matter. Sensitive subject matters and political-correctness have conspired to rob the viewing public of a true motion picture treasure.  As my friend, Andy, once said, It's a little TOO Southern... - meaning that Disney has deemed that showing/distributing a film that acknowledges slavery but does not condemn it would not dovetail with its wholesome image.  It was probably the right decision, but unless this movie reappears in some form or other, it will eventually be lost for future generations.  Whether it's James Baskett's mesmerizing and moving performance, the vivid cinematography, or the morality-driven Harris short-stories, this movie hits you from all angles.  I remember after seeing this film that I wished I had an Uncle Remus to guide me through life's obstacles (as a family member/friend and certainly not as a slave).  Do not discount James Baskett's performance. He made the character his own.  Even Mr. Harris would probably acknowledge that this was the best person for the role as it seemed to be written with Baskett in mind.  I could not possibly imagine anyone else in the role of Uncle Remus.  The animation was typical Disney brilliance and the juxtaposition of animation and live-action looks great even when measured against today's technologically-enhanced magic.  The only caraway seed in this slice of brilliance was Johnny, who looked like he was complaining even when he wasn't talking.  I could watch this movie over and over again, but will resist wearing out my tape so that my children can enjoy it for years to come, too. "},{"Title":"I wonder why I can't choose for myself","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie, like many of you, years ago.  I came away from the experience with warm feelings about black people, white people and the portrayal of a time I'll never know.  You know, a full movie experience. And I, like many of you, would love to have a copy for my video collection. Now I find out that I live in a country where that will never happen. Talk about banned in Boston.  But I can forgo my disappointment and buy rap music; always positive, uplifting, and non offensive; yeah right! "},{"Title":"Of Course It's That Great!!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie was made back when people didn't have to worry about being politically correct and you could just enjoy a movie for what it was, pure entertainment. No racial slurs, or put-downs, just a reflection of that time period. No need to explain the movie, everyone else done that. This comment is mainly for Disney to see and for others who really want a copy of this movie. Yes, you can buy a PAL version off the internet. They'll come from England, Canada, or even the US. You can then can get it converted to a NTSC video and it will play on any US VCR. So what's the point Disney? Your not stopping anyone from getting this movie, you just make it take a little longer and cost a little more. You're not making a penny off of the sales and just think off all the MILLIONS of dollars that you could get if you'd just release it in VHS format or even better, as a DVD. You couldn't make them fast enough!! I can even see a retail price of $39.95 being paid! In the meantime, people who really love this movie and remember it as part of their childhood or parents who want their children to experience a wonderful (and harmless) movie will still be able to buy a copy. I just did it, it was a great price, and the tape arrived today, it plays perfectly and I've already watched it twice today! And Disney, you would make more money off of this than any other movie you have released in decades! OK everyone......go get your own copy! "},{"Title":"The Original Masterpiece","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Okay, I have seen this on BBC 1 before Disney issued their worldwide ban. I can honestly say that there is NOTHING the matter with this movie! To all of you complainers, the word massa is never said or implied. The boy's grandmother is very kind to her slaves and treats them pretty much as equals. If anything, this movie preserves the African-American traditions and folklore that they should be proud of! Uncle Remus's simple wisdom shines through, and important lessons are learned by Johnny and his turbulent family.I wish Disney would put this one back on the shelves. The dialect used is not offensive, it's historical! And the stereotypes are not meant to be insulting at all. Disney has done many things that are morally objectionable in modern family movies and TV shows, but they shouldn't have to suffer for this innocent movie. "},{"Title":"Taking the good with the bad...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Taking the good with the bad An analysis of racism in Song of the SouthNote I tried to be vague, not giving away any plot points, but there may be some spoilers...I think it is a shame that a great movie with so many classic moments has been lost on a generation. I find it obscene that people can't look at both the good and the bad when analyzing this movie. All in all, it's a very positive movie.Yes, there are ignorant slaves. Yes, there is a white supremist air with certain characters and themes. However, 3 key points are lost on people...1) The children ignore the race barrier. This is the key to the movie. In spite of certain stereotypes, the kids didn't care. They played together as equals. The only time you saw inequity was when an adult addressed the issue.2) In the end, when all was said and done, Uncle Remus was not only the hero, but also the one who showed everyone appearances can be deceiving. It was his so-called nonsense and stories that united everyone, and his love for others and the love for him that won in the end. He was the one that saw the problem, knew what needed to be done, and went and did it. Not the boy's mom, grandma, or any other real family member. It was this ignorant slave. In the end, it was his actions that gained him acceptance and the rejection by the adults were dismissed.3) Also, did anyone care to notice that the boy's father always had a great respect for Uncle Remus? While other adults dismissed Uncle Remus, the father had grown with him as a boy, and remembered that this loveable man brought him joy and showed him the beauty of life.Yes, it was a different time back then. Yes, certain stereotypes were more acceptable then than now. But in spite of all of it, the message in the end is positive, and bridges the barrier between the races. Isn't that the point? The path may be dark by today's standards, but it's the message at the end we walk away with.It is a shame that pressure from groups like the NAACP and others see fit to pressure Disney to suppress this movie in the US. I think if this movie was truly as racist as people claim, it wouldn't even have made it to be released everywhere else in the world.I can think of a dozen other movies that contained much more racist characters without the benefit of a positive message that are in general release today. Even that great classic Showboat has similar elements of racism, and that is one of the most widely available musicals, although once again, there was some positive with the negative there.OK. The Tar Baby is a potential hot point. I won't say the movie was perfect, but again, which is more important... The conclusion, or the path you take? I think most would agree that the conclusion is the most important point. May Disney find it in their collective corporate wisdom to release this movie again.  "},{"Title":"my all time favorite movie","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I first saw this movie as a small child and have seen it every time it has been released since.  To my knowledge the last release was in 1986.  I believe it is a beautiful story with entertainment and history.  I don't belive that slavery was shown as a hard time in that movie although I do not believe in slavery and belive it was wrong.  Uncle Remus is such a wonderful warm and loveable character.  I would love to have this on DVD to watch over and over again and to share with the young children in my family.  Disney has so many wonderful movies and I've loved them all, the old and new but to me there will never be one that means as much to me as Song Of The South. "},{"Title":"THIS FILM CAN BE HAD IN THE U.S.","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I viewed this film last night on a Video that was purchased for me by my Daughter  (who bought 4 of them) at a SCV Convention in Virginia this year. This Video is a very clean copy, in a Disney-like case with the two children and James Baskett (Unce Remus) on the cover.  As far as I know, these conventions are the only place you can get them in the U.S., and it is shame that such a wonderful Family Film cannot be enjoyed by more people, instead of the limited people who attend these Conventions. My estimation is that a block of these Videos were purchased by the SCV in the UK, and then they  had the format changed to VHS to distribute in the States at the Conventions. So all I can tell you, is keep you eyes open for the next SCV Convention in your area and maybe you will get lucky if you attend and be able to buy one ($24.00 + tax).Babe Hardy "},{"Title":"best disney movie ever","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  One of my fondest childhood memories. I saw it again in Texas in early 70's and then it disappeared.I found So Dear To My Heart on video and anxiously awaited Song Of The South to be issued. What a sad day when I learned that it would never be seen again in this country. Of all the movies out there, this one gets banned, am I missing something here. I don't get it. Disney, please bring it back! "}{"Title":"I saw this movie and loved it!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Song of the South is one of Disney's best live-action/animation films. I love nearly every single thing about it. It was innovative for its time in combining live-action with animation. The animated sequences with Br`er Rabbit, Br`er Fox, and Br`er Bear are so funny, delightful, and charming. The characters are just as memorable, with Johnny Bobby Driscoll and Uncle Remus James Baskett being my favorites. I wish Disney would release this film to the public, because this is a film that deserves to be seen to be believed. I would really love to see a Special Edition DVD of this film released, with chock-full of extras, including deleted footage, cast and crew bios, theatrical trailers, and a TV introduction by Walt Disney himself. Bobby Driscoll and Luana Patten Johnny and Ginny were the first actors put under contract at the Disney studios. Disney was proud of them and it's not hard to imagine why. Watching them together in this film and So Dear to My Heart is a joy for me. They're so refreshing, expressive, and lively that I can't help but smile real big. I could go on and on about how great they are and how great this film is. I hope that someday Disney will come to their senses and bring back this film for a new generation of children and adults to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Availabilty","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Though not available in North America, this movie is carried by Amazon UK in Great Britain and can then be converted from PAL format to VHS. Not ideal, but nevertheless a chance to own a copy of one of my favorite  childhood memories "},{"Title":"I wish Disney would release this on video!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This is one of my favorites from Disney.  It's a pity that people see it as racially inappropriate.  There are so many movies out there that are much more inappropriate in other areas, and no one has a problem with them! This is a classic Disney film, and ought to be released to the home video market.  If I were to complain about the obscenity shown on television, people would tell me to simply not watch.  So if there are those who object to the subject matter of Song of the South, don't buy the video (if indeed it is ever released)! "},{"Title":"Time for it to be enjoyed again","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I just watched it for the first time two days ago. This has been on my to-see list for a long time, but it's almost impossible to locate. How did I obtain a copy? I moved into a new neighborhood not long ago, and while looking up titles housed at the local library, I discovered that SONG OF THE SOUTH was in the county system and I could request it from a nearby branch. It took two months to get it, because I was fifth on the list requesting it. I was beginning to wonder if I'd ever see it. But then I received an email last weekend that it had arrived and I went on Monday to pick it up. The minute I got home I put it in the DVD player and sat down and watched it.And just so people know, this was no bootleg copy. It was a disc manufactured by Disney (just not available for sale in the U.S.). On the back of the case, I could see that it had been printed and distributed in Australia under a division of Disney based in London.The disc had bonus features which helped me understand some of the film's screening history. It was originally released in 1946 and advertised heavily on radio and in newspapers. It eventually aired on television in the early 1970s as part of The Wonderful World of Disney. Then, as evidenced by a trailer included on the disc, it was re-released to theatres in 1986 throughout the United States. I guess the mid-to-late 1980s (the Reagan era) were the last days before political correctness took hold of the country.Anyway, as I pressed play and started watching the film, I was expecting it to be totally offensive and cringe-worthy. It is not. In fact, it is very integrated the way the black and white children get along (it seems very progressive for a motion picture produced in 1946). I thought it admirable the way the white boy played by Bobby Driscoll looks up to Uncle Remus (James Baskett) and Aunt Tempy (Hattie McDaniel). It's a beautiful film, told in the usual heart-warming classic Disney way.The Uncle Remus character does not seem like a negative stereotype at all. He has extraordinary value the way he entertains (enthralls) the children with his delightful stories of Br'er Rabbit, and in the way he helps Driscoll's character deal with having an absent father. In fact, when the boy is injured near the end of the film, it is the plantation-owning grandmother (brilliantly played by character actress Lucile Watson) who brings Uncle Remus inside the house to see her grandson. She seems to think very highly of this man at the end of the film. She sees him as much more than a slave. If she can look past the limitations of her close-minded society, then why can't we? Why can't we enjoy this lovely and heartwarming film the way Walt Disney intended it to be enjoyed? "},{"Title":"Summary Author Joel Chandler Harris' version of the folk tales of early  American black folk are narrated by a live actor and presented as animation.","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have seen this movie and it is hardly racist; actually all African Americans depicted are sympathetic characters. If it has any effect upon the social consciousness of children, particularly with regard to their view of people of color in America, it will be a positive one. Diney's political correctness in not releasing the DVD probably has a more adverse effect on U.S. race relations. Too bad. However, the animated characters in the movie are part of this country's folklore. Ber Rabbit, Ber Fox, and Ber Bear are at least as well known as Hanzel and Gretel or Snow White (the latter name, Snow While, seems somewhat politically charged, doesn't it???) Disney would be,figuratively speaking, thrown into a brier patch of politics if they chose to make the film available. Ber Rabbit knows that such a patch is a safe place! "},{"Title":"The digitized version is out","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" My future son-in-law placed a present under the tree that he said I would like very much knowing I am a old film buff. IMDb has listed this film as only available on VHS from outside the U.S. To my surprise it was a digitized DVD version. It is perfect. Still not believing it was the original film, I had to view the film immediately with the family. My daughters whose ages range from 33 to 43 had never seen the film but I had always sang and tried to mimic the characters in the story that I remembered. There wasn't a dry eye in the group after this film viewing. Now their children will enjoy this wonderful film. My daughters had heard it was racial but after viewing it with four very independent-minded, successful professionals, they all agreed that the actor and his portrayal of Uncle Remus was beautiful. The life lessons are portrayed by stories of fascinating cartoon animals by an old knowledgeable and graying man that children will feel he is their special UNCLE. Children will always remember the stories far into adulthood and never think it was racial. "},{"Title":"A fine movie, harmless and I feel politically and historically correct.","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I bet Mr. Disney is turning over in his grave for the way his corporation has handled this political issue. Fie on his heirs. I know of no other Disney classic that has been abused this badly.It is a true shame that I have had to wait almost 60 years to be able to again see my favorite movie. It is a loving, harmless movie combining the Disney animation talents along with very capable live talents. It is also a shame to allow the corporate world to be dictated to by a few that see this movie as something to be ashamed of, politically. Why do the Japanese get to see this movie and not the country that created such a classic? This is censorship at its worst. I have been trying for 10 years to procure a copy for my library and was about to spend the fortune for the Laser Disc version that the DVD is copied from. I now suppose Disney, Inc. will be coming after me for buying the DVD copy. Let 'em come. I'll be dead by the time they get here.Regards, John Bonnett "},{"Title":"Sweet Childhood Memories","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I used to watch this movie a lot when I was younger. My grandmother, somehow or other, had a copy of it on VHS. It was one of my all time favourite movies for a long, long time . I have such fond memories of wanting to watch it all the time every time I visited my Grandmother. A Childhood Classic if ever there was one. Although I remember very little of the actual plot of the movie (I still know the majority of the words to 'Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah') and I can remember it being full of very uplifting music. The cartoon characters were a very vibrant part of the movie, interacting with the human actors in a very convincing way for the period the movie was made in. I think that it is a great shame that Disney have chosen to forget about this-one of their very best movies in my opinion- classic little gem. Highly recommend it to everybody! "},{"Title":"A film ahead of its time.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I remember when the film, Who Framed Roger Rabbit, came out - and how filmgoers went gaga over its intertwining of cartoon and real-life characters - as if the film invented it. Sorry, those honors go to Song of the South. The film's heart surrounds the art of storytelling ... and the storyteller in this film is Uncle Remus, played masterfully by James Baskett. Through his stories, the children he meets learn important lessons about how life should be lived. Joel Chandler Harris, the person who edited (not authored) the Uncle Remus stories during turn-of-the-century (19th/20th) America, considered the stories told by former slaves to be equal in importance to Aesop's Tales and endeavored to collect them for posterity. Former slaves like George Terrell (whom he called Uncle George), Old Harbert, and other former slaves were the real originators of Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, Brer Bear, and other characters in the Briar Patch. Harris' only contribution to this collection of stories was to invent the name 'Uncle Remus' - to represent the many former slaves with many names, none of which were their real 'African' names lost during that sad period of history.It is this heart that makes the film great. Unfortunately, the film suffers from inaccurate stereotypes surrounding the lifestyle of African-Americans in post-Civil War America. This is why Disney Studios has withheld the film from North American home video for so long. It's somewhat of an embarrassment to them.One note. In the beginning of the film, we see John (Eric Rolf) and Sally (Ruth Warrick) traveling by buggy to the home of Sally's mother (Lucile Watson) with their son Johnny (Bobby Driscoll). Because the film doesn't indicate the reason why they're taking the trip, some film watchers speculate that John and Sally are getting ready to divorce. This speculation is fueled by the fact that, in real life, Eric Rolf and Ruth Warrick were married for 8 years when they divorced the same year the film was released. But, I have a different speculation.John makes it a point to reveal he's a journalist. And his son makes it a point to suggest that many people don't like the things he writes about. I suspect that the character 'John' was created in deference to Joel Chandler Harris who himself was an abolitionist. And I suspect that John was taking Johnny and Sally to her mother's house to get them out of harm's way ... since John intended to return to Atlanta to keep writing his articles. It was a very dangerous time in the South to be an abolitionist ... before and after the war.In any case, this is a classic film that deserves to see the light of day on DVD shelves. For a more in-depth (and more opinionated, hehe) take on that, read my comment in the IMDb forum areahttp//imdb.com/title/tt0038969/board/thread/39057973 "},{"Title":"Song of the South","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" When I was a kid this used to be one of my favourite animated musical films from Walt Disney Pictures. A little boy named Johnny has his Dad go away for a while and he obviously didn't want him to go. Johnny runs away and meets up with a new friend, Uncle Reemus (Honorary Oscar winning James Baskett). He tells Johnny many wonderful stories about a magical place where Br'er Rabbit lives. He tells him all the adventures that Br'er Rabbit has escaping from Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear. Johnny obviously keeps going back to him with his friends. Johnny's Mother obviously doesn't like Uncle Reemus being with Johnny. A good film with some good cartoon sequences and quite a good ending. The guy that plays Uncle Reemus is really good, he also does Br'er Fox pretty well too. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Daniele Amfitheatrof, Paul J. Smith and Charles Wolcott. It was number 47 on 100 Years, 100 Songs for the Oscar winning Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" A gentle, family-friendly story about a boy's adventures in rural Georgia, Song Of The South blends animation segments with live action. Though the protagonist is a seven year old boy named Johnny (Bobby Driscoll), the heart and soul of the film belongs to an elderly Black man, named Uncle Remus (James Baskett). Animated characters include Br'er Rabbit, Br'er Fox, and the Tar Baby, and are used by Uncle Remus to teach Johnny truths about life. The most frequently mentioned truth, and the underlying theme of the film, is that You can't run away from trouble.It's an unfortunate truth that the film itself can't seem to run away from trouble, as it has been branded racist almost from the beginning. Owing to pressure from the politically correct crowd, the Walt Disney Corporation still refuses a broad release of the film in its entirety here in the U.S., concerned as it is with its public image and its financial bottom line.Such selfish censorship is deplorable. The story's setting is post-Civil War America, not the antebellum era. Further, the use of Black dialect is wonderfully genuine, and teaches us a truthful history. And the character of Uncle Remus is as admirable and magnanimous, or more so, as any contemporary story protagonist of any race.If I had to render a criticism of the film, it would be the sound and its visuals. On the copy I watched the sound was a tad muffled, probably due to antiquated sound equipment. And the color cinematography at times seemed blurry and had poor lighting contrast.Ideally, this film would be removed from Disney Corporation's control, and placed in the public domain. That's unrealistic. But, nevertheless, viewers can still find ways around the pious censorship.With its upbeat signature song. Zip-a Dee-Doo-Dah and its Oscar worthy performance by James Baskett, Song Of The South makes for great viewing by people from age 3 to 103 of all races. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie banned???","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I'm 30 years old, and before today I had never even heard of Song of the South. After learning of it I knew that I had to see it, and judge it for myself. Well, I did, and I thought it was a pretty good movie. Is it the best Disney has to offer? In my opinion, no, but had I been allowed to see it as a child I might have viewed it more highly than I do as an adult. For the life of me I can't understand why Disney banned it. Because it portrays slaves as happy? Because it portrays them at all? It's a kids movie, and one that was made when segregation was still prevalent for that matter. Frankly, I'm surprised a movie like this got made at all in 1946. With everybody up in arms over political correctness these days, I feel Song of the South hasn't got a chance of getting an updated release, and it's a shame. My four year old watched part of it with me, and he thought the animated scenes with Br're Rabbit were hilarious. I'd love to see a version of this movie cleaned up and restored as the version I saw was pretty dark, and some parts were hard to make out. It baffles me how James Baskett could win an honorary Oscar for his role as Remus, and Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah could win for original song, and then Disney pretend that this movie never even existed. How does this happen? It's a disgrace that more children aren't given the chance to see Song of the South. I hope one day that changes, but for now I'm not going to hold my breath, and just be glad I was fortunate enough to see it at all. "},{"Title":"CLASSIC Disney FILM","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" A Classic Disney film with wonderful songs, fantastic script and an outstanding cast in Bobby Driscoll, James Baskett, Hattie McDaniel, Glenn Leedy, Ruth Warrick and Luana Patten. Pure Disney Magic. Love the scenery and set, costumes and music. Bobby Driscoll shines as Johnny Hattie McDaniel is wonderful as Aunt Tempy Ruth Warrick and Lucille Watson are glorious as mother and grandmother Love the live action and the cartoon features The stories of Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox and Brer Bear are still wonderful James Baskett so well cast as Uncle Remus. The Negro spirituals sung by a very moving chorus are outstanding especially the solo's. I have downloaded the soundtrack and play it in my car on a regular basis. It's about time this classic film was released worldwide on DVD for millions to enjoy Disney at it's very best. "},{"Title":"Everybodys Got a Laughing Place.","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South has not been released to DVD or VHS. I was lucky enough to see it and knew that there were reasons that they did not release it pertaining to racism and other issues. Overall I found this film pretty good and entertaining and was glad I got to see it, especially with how rare it is.The story is about a little boy who travels to the south with his mom and dad. His dad has to leave for work related reasons and so the boy learns many lessons from an older African American man named Uncle Remus. Uncle Remus tells him about Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, and Brer Bear teaching the young boy important lessons.I know that this film was considered racist for how it depicts the slaves and how they talk in this film. I understand where they are coming from, but I don't see anything that bad in my opinion unless people have problems with the dialog that the slaves speak in. I have heard that Disney just wanted to avoid problems with this film altogether and that is why they just did not release it. I can believe that, as I said I did not find anything overly racist, but that is just my opinion. Its a shame that it was never released though because I found a lot of things in this film to be entertaining.Uncle Remus's stories about Brer Rabbit are the best parts in this film. The animation is well done and also well done with regards that this probably was one of the first films to incorporate live action with animated scenes.The songs are great in this film. They are very catchy and fun to sing along with.I think that some parts of this film are just boring too though. Especially the scenes without Uncle Remus involving the young boy and his mother. Those scenes don't do anything for me.Overall I thought this film was good. Glad I got to see it considering how rare it is. I would say see it if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"Wonderful animated segments, but the live-action segments are rather underwhelming","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South may be renowned today as the film Disney wants you to forget about, with no official DVD or Blu-Ray release. However, the complete stance against the film has only fairly recently been imposed outside the US. In the UK, it was available on VHS throughout the 90s, and it was also shown from time to time on the BBC2 channel. I was therefore able to watch this film growing up, and have both a taped-off-TV version and an official release I managed to find for 99p in a charity shop.Concerning the live-action parts, while pleasant enough, they are not all that well realised on the whole. With regards to the film being racist, I wouldn't label it as such. However, the race relations in the film are handled incredibly naively, which makes them indirectly insensitive as a result. However, the animated segments more than make up for the rather dull live-action parts. They're certainly among the best animated things Disney produced after 1942, with some great characterisation and animation. And of course, there are some wonderful Disney songs, including the famous Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah, easily one of the most joyful songs ever composed.Though I understand the controversy surrounding it, it would be nice if it were given a commercial release, even if it were only advertised to collectors. Though the film overall may not exactly be a true classic, the animated segments certainly are. "},{"Title":"A Movie For the Young at Heart","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Considering the time when the Folk Tales were put to paper and considering the time when Song of the South was made, it was time for the movie. Disney brought a book to life when it should have been brought to life.Joel Chandler Harris a native of Eatonton, Georgia and an American Journalist, fiction writer, and folklorist authored in 1881 during the post-Civil War and during the Post-Reconstruction period in Atlanta, Georgia a collection of Folk tales based on African-American oral traditions and Cherokee folk tales. The compilation of these stories was titled Uncle Remus. Some chide Harris other praise Harris for his observation of what I have come to view as the plight of slaves under the boot of slave owners in the pre-civil war period. Folk tales have always been a way to pass on knowledge and a way deal with and overcome difficult situations and these stories are parables in the most traditional sense. I have never heard anyone consider that Walt Disney may have produced Song of The South as a protest against Segregation. Social change was in the wind and rapidly coming and the Release by Walt Disney and Howard Hughes and RKO Pictures on November 12th 1946 of Song of The South cannot be coincidental and signaled part of that cultural change,as only a year and a half would pass before President Harry S. Truman on July 31, 1948 desegregated the military. I remember seeing Song of the South as a child and found it to be a wonderfully delightful animated feature film. As an adult and with what I can remember about the movie I am now inclined to believe that Walt Disney was advocating social change and in reality actually poking fun at racism but especially southern racist, he himself having grown up in the segregated southern racist city of Kansas City Missouri, living in what is considered today part of the Black Community and in Mr. Disney's day what may have been considered part of a mixed race area of Kansas City and/or at the very least the Black Community. Walt Disney grew up at 3028 Bellefontaine about six blocks East and nine blocks South or about a mile and one- half from the home field of the World Famous Kansas City Monarch's baseball team from 1923-1950 and the pride of the Baseball Negro League the stadium being located at 20th and Prospect Ave the heart of the Black Community. Given the place that Mr. Disney grew up he must have had a lot of exposure to the black community and he must have been socially conscious and keenly aware of the social injustice associated with Kansas City and its segregationist policies and the inequality of equal rights between blacks and whites.It make me sad to think that the film vaults remain closed to probably one of the first socially conscious anti-segregation films made at a time that preceded President Truman's Desegregation Policy change directed at the Military and Jackie Robinson's career in Baseball . It preceded Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education, it preceded Rosa Parks refusing to give up her seat on the bus, it preceded the sit-ins at the crown room at Emery Bird Thayer yet it somehow has been viewed as a film that is politically incorrect. I disagree. The Film is a protest against racism, if you can get past the film setting and get to the stories within the story.Correct me if I am wrong but did not Uncle Remus tell stories that were based on the black experience and weren't they parables much as Aesop's fables are parables, don't they have a moral lesson, don't they have an African tradition and origin. If in fact they were stories told by a black man then it follows that the stories are also told from the black man's perspective and if they are truly coming out of the black experience, tradition, and history then surely they must have been told in the frame of mind that the hero or protagonist was black and if the hero was black than the antagonist must have been white because white was the only antagonist the slave knew. With that in mind if we examine the characters of the stories then our Protagonist Br'er Rabbit is our hero and I believe Uncle Remus's alter-ego, while Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear were the antagonist of the stories. I remember Uncle Remus as a wise old sage and his stories captivating using humor, wit, and irony weaved into his stories to make a point and maybe even poking fun at whitey and with whitey being to self-absorbed, egocentric, myopic, and the one stupid enough to never get the joke. "},{"Title":"A Bit of Insight Required","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I watched this film on YouTube last night, seeing it for the first time since my childhood days more than 60 years ago.There appears to be some talk about racism regarding this film; I saw lots of it in posts I have read in the past. In fact, I remember the film being picketed during my childhood years.Now having seen it again after all these years (remembering that the sound on YouTube is not the clearest, so maybe there was something I did not pick up),what struck me first of all is that you have a boy who has parents grossly insensitive to his needs, feelings, or desires.When that happens, he will naturally turn elsewhere for some sort of recognition or endorsement, which is what happens here.The mother, seeing into this situation as though a mirror were held up to her, feels very threatened by it; and consequently tells Uncle Remus that she does not want him around her son. (The final answer to her comes when the boy is lying on his bed in a stupor, calling out for his friend rather than his father who has returned.) That must have been difficult to accept. But in today's society, when she would tell him to stay away from her son, he would still have to show the same recognition of her role as parent regardless.I really do not see any explicit or overt racism, and I wish someone would point it out to me. There is plenty of color mixing in the film, and the boy's best friend happens to be black, so I cannot imagine what all the hullabaloo was about. "},{"Title":"Harmless movie, don't deny this wonderful Disney classic a great release","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Growing up I had the classic VHS Disney Sing-A-Long tapes, I'm sure if you were a child of the 80's or 90's, you saw them too. A couple of the tapes had songs from the feature film Song of the South, these songs were catchy and so charming. I re-watched my tapes recently just to feel some good ol' nostalgia, but came to my surprise that I am a self proclaimed Disney addict, yet I never saw Song of the South. I found out the reason being is due to the fact that this film never had a proper release in the US, VHS copies were hard to get and there is no DVD copy in the US. Supposedly it's due to the supposed racism, but I was wondering if Tom and Jerry had a warning in the beginning just stating that this was the time and that's the way people spoke, why not do the same with this movie? But anyways, I digress, my boyfriend's uncle who is a bigger Disney addict than I am burned copies from his VHS tape and gave me the DVD and I finally after all these years got to experience the wonderful film that is Song of the South.Seven-year-old Johnny is excited about what he believes to be a vacation at his grandmother's Georgia plantation with his parents, John and Sally. When they arrive at the plantation, he discovers that his parents will be living apart for a while and he is to live in the country with his mother and grandmother while his father returns to Atlanta to continue his controversial editorship in the city's newspaper. Johnny, distraught because his father has never left him or his mother before, leaves that night under cover of darkness and sets off for Atlanta with only a bundle. As Johnny sneaks away from the plantation, he is attracted by the voice of Uncle Remus, telling tales in his old-timey way of a character named Br'er Rabbit and his wacky pals.Is the film racist? In my opinion, no. There are some edgy moments here and there, some could argue that the ideal relationship between master and slave was a little much which I can understand, but it's a child's film, cut it some slack. The songs are lovely and so is the animation. At the time where films had very good morals for the families, it's a distant memory now where the story lines were innocent and not every family film was silly slap stick with some gross jokes. Uncle Remis is so wonderful and seems like the brightest light in the room, he was so full of life and was lost too soon after this film's release. His stories could easily get anyone hooked into Song of the South. I don't think the film is perfect by any means, the story with the mother could be a little dull at times, it's Uncle Remis who truly steals the show with his animated tales of a crazy rabbit being chased by whacky villains who don't know wither to eat him or knock him on the head. I would recommend this film to anyone, honestly, if it offends you I think you need to remember, this is apart of history and I'm pretty sure meant no harm.9/10 "},{"Title":"what happens next","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I worked at a video store at the time of this movies release. At first i wasn't interested, then as boredom set in I read the back. It sounded different from the average movie(and I've seen a lot). I took it home to watch. I, for the 2 hours of the play, was mesmerized by the transformation Derek Vinyard had to undergo. My comment is more of a question. Its obvious the movie could have gone on for another hour, to explaining what happened or didn't happen. And I think viewers should see this. I am a white male. I have had many black friends. Some of whom have been better friends than most. The problem of racism will go on long after my lifetime. It doesn't just effect blacks. It affects everyone, both sides of the fence. We need to come together. We need...love. "},{"Title":"A Disney Classic, you say?","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I'm sorry I can't put a rating on this movie. It's because I haven't seen it! Who here has actually SEEN this film? I have never seen a clip of this film nor its entirety. Why? Because of stupid Disney execs and groups like the NAACP. This film was not racist whatsoever if it present historical facts. The only reason this film appears racist was because Uncle Remus used to be a slave but he still lived on the plantation. You know what's interesting? Slaves still lived on plantation during Reconstruction because they were trying to get their life started. You think they automatically had jobs in the late 1860s? NO! They had to work for it. Besides, this film isn't about Uncle Remus. It's about Br'er Rabbit, Br'er Bear, and Br'er Fox. THAT'S the story that made this a Disney classic. How Do You Do? and Zip-A-Dee-Do-Dah made this film well known. I love the ride, Splash Mountain and now I would like to see the film which inspired it. All film classic deserve to be seen by everyone. If Glory can still be allowed out there, why can't this film? I think I speak for the silent majority when I say this RE-RELEASE IT ON BLU-RAY AND DVD! "}{"Title":"only okay","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I own this movie on a bootleg VHS because I was eager to view such a rare film. After watching it, i only think it's okay. Besides the racial stuff, it's just okay. The characters were somewhat band, and the live action segments were boring, but the animated parts (what little there were) were pretty good. They were charming, funny, and had that old Disney feeling to them. The racial stuff however, was really, really bad. I can't believe they could get away with making the slavery situation look nice. Oh well. I don't see why everybody who knows about this movie wants to see it, or have an official release. People will be sorely disappointed to watch this okay film. "},{"Title":"A Warm-Hearted and Funny Movie","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I first saw Song of the South when Disney released it in theatres in 1986. I was 9 at the time and loved it.Since then, with the movie available on videotape or DVD, I've always wondered whether the movie contained horrible content that went over my head as a kid.Well now it is 2011, I downloaded the movie on torrent (since Disney won't make it available legally), and I screened it with a few friends. Like many other reviewers here, I was shocked by how harmless and sweet this movie actually is. If you've seen Treasure Island or Mary Poppins, you know the general tone of this movie. Uncle Remus is an awesome character, dignified and creative, and the animated sequences with Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox and Brer Bear are as laugh-out-loud funny as any Loony Tunes cartoon.Yes, the movie presents a dated and saccharine view of life on plantation for African-Americans. Some of the dialects used are stereotypical, though nothing worse than you'll find in a Martin Lawrence or Tyler Perry movie. But while the movie convey common stereotypes of the 1940s, there is nothing racist or mean-spirited here.Disney obviously shouldn't release this as if there is nothing controversial about it. Feel free to install a title card at the beginning explaining that the movie is from the 1940s and contains stereotypes that will appear dated now. But damn, release this movie! It really is a classic tale of imagination and friendship. "},{"Title":"I had to jump through hoops to watch this, and for stupid reasons.","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I do believe the NAACP exists for a good reason, but this is one of a few issues in which they disappoint me. There's this reasoning that it paints a negative picture of Afro-Americans, whereas I get the exact opposite. It does show the unequal turf that existed between blacks and whites in the post-civil war south, and it was many of the southern whites who hampered the progress of the blacks there during the time, but in no way did I feel that these blacks were dimwits. If dialect, as it was spoken here by blacks, is meant to educate me about Negro intelligence, how worried should I be about who watches Deliverance? The whole time I was watching it I thought about how excited I would be if Uncle Remus moved next door to me. Here was an unprejudiced, loving man who cared for everyone around him, and knew he could enrich the people of his town with his fun stories.Just how accurate this movie could be about ethnic relationships in this time period I don't know, but the essence of these characters, and how they dealt with conflicts here make this movie worthy of a '10' rating without question. What gets me in that regard is that the protesters make this movie they're whipping boy with an indication a don't dare attitude when it comes to a movie that did depict amicable slave/master relationships during the civil war---Gone with the Wind. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie!!!","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I was born in 1940 and saw this movie when I was a child...my husband and I both adore it! When our children came along a bunch of watch-dogs decided that it was political incorrect..I say hogwash to that. This was one of the most moving movies I have ever seen. I might go to more; if they had the charm of Song of the South. I still cannot watch it without tears flowing down my cheek. It was so touching. Uncle Remus was such a wonderful character. I remember growing up in Mississippi and my mother had a black lady working for her and taking care of our house and of me. What an amazing person she was...and how we all loved her. She, of course, was not a slave and we were all very close. She was an amazing lady.My son gave us a CD that he found somewhere on the internet and the color and everything is wonderful. He borrowed it and watched it for the first time...and loved it (he was 37 at the time), as did his wife and son. I feel sorry for anyone that has not seen this Classic Movie. It is so much better than anything you will see today...if you see past the differences and enjoy the love it portrays among the black and white families. I never once thought of it as racial. It is FANTASTIC. "},{"Title":"Disney Does Dixie . . .","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Quick name ONE film ever made with even ONE black character, that wasn't racially exploitive. Guess Who's Coming to Dinner? Imitation of Life? Superfly? Now, name ONE film ever made with even ONE white character, that wasn't also exploitive. Psycho? Denigrates matricidal caucasian closet queens. Ben-Hur? Stereotypes Jews and Christians. Tyler Perry's 'Madea' ? Don't ask.The notion that Disney's Song of the South fosters negative black stereotypes fails at first glance. Does it reflect stereotypes? Of course. Foster? No. It's popular entertainment of its day.It was made 65 years ago. 81 years after the Civil War. Or, from our present, nearly a century and a half after the film's period.The truth of this film? It was SUBVERSIVE, for its day, in its casual depiction of warm friendships and loves between a young white boy and blacks. Particularly an old black story-telling man. The only sympathetic white character (besides child-stars Bobby Driscoll and Luana Patton) is Lucile Watson as Granny -- the identical exploitive stereotypical role she played in The Women.ALL the blacks in Song of the South are wonderful and wise and ever-ready to shuck and jive for the grownups, but so what? They're STILL wonderful-er and wiser than 98% of the white cast. And the two white-kid leads (and we) know it.So enough of the criticism of Song of the South on historically myopic racist grounds.You tell me Who's the worst stereotype? Uncle Remus or Blacula?Disney's 1946 Song of the South broke new technical ground for cinema as the first full-length combination of live action and animation.It broke FAR more important (and subversive) ground as the first mainstream (and color film, ironically) with a black lead. SO subversive was building a major motion picture around a black lead that nobody ever mentioned it at the time. Or much since.But there it is. James Baskett delivering Uncle Remus (AND additional character voices) -- and some of the most clichéd and simplistic dialogue ever written -- with all the natural ease and compelling nuance of an Olivier. Without Uncle Remus -- without the lead -- there's no picture.Without James Baskett this collective historic artistic achievement wouldn't exist.Walt Disney knew exactly what he was doing here, in shaping and casting this film. Giving Hattie McDaniel something extra to do to showcase her talents (the Sooner or Later ditty). Hiring the wondrous Bobby Driscoll to register deeper and truer emotions than any child actor of his era.In the end? The interracial live-action kids, holding hands with the animated Br'er Rabbit, pause atop an animated hill for their tried-and-true live-action story-telling buddy, Uncle Remus, to catch up with them, take their hands and zip-a-dee-doo-dah with them into the painted sunset.Black? White? Everybody's the same shade silhouettes. Happy hand-holding silhouettes. It's Disney. It's 1946. Song of the South is revolutionary cinema in more ways than one.That's why kids of all ages love this film.Nobody's taught them bigotry yet.The only people today, of any color, who find Song of the South ideologically objectionable as a work of art, sadly, trivialize and cheapen its historic achievement with their own projected, uh, racism. "},{"Title":"Stilll a great Disney classic","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I just got the classics only version. A public domain print fairly restored. Not released by Disney officially. The print is not sharp and a little smeary but, Although the 1972 trailer has shifted to pink and that needed restoration, both 72 and 86 trailer were sharper than main print. But thats because of the availability of material. This also includes the radio promotion. It starred Disney , Johnney Driscoll and Luann Pattern Johnny mercer and James Baskette. the songs were introduced to promote the movie mostly sang by Johnny mercer. The only problem was that James Baskette was made to stay in character rather than being himself . Hattie Mcdaniel wasn't allowed to be on the radio show ,she was a singer too, to sing a better rendition of the song she sang lightly in the movie. It was still historical. Disneys real reason for not reissuing it officially, thus having a better print, has not been political correctness but more on demand. It's not strong enough by their standards too reissue it yet. "},{"Title":"An inspiring movie, one of the best.","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Anyone who does not like this movie has their head amid the mucus infected regions of the lower track and for their own reasons of which I give no concern to. I enjoyed this movie and those relationships that all humans should endeavor to achieve from those different cultures, faiths and backgrounds. Disney did a wonderful job and both James Baskett and the song Zippity Do Dah won academy awards (though Baskett's was an honorary one) when it was released. Of course Walt Disney would be turning over in his grave if he knew it was being withheld by Disney Company today for fear of stepping on the toes of those true racist that still exist in this country.As far as that era in which the story is depicted, post civil war south, much is truly not known of those times in there entirety and those true reasons why that war took place. I assure you slavery was the least of those reasons. just how all treated those, in many cases considered share croppers, who enabled the south of that time to meet the demand of cotton, tobacco and such will never be known. All cultures have gone through their own slavery; all of them. No one is the exception and to continually beat those dead horses only serves to exacerbate any good relations that could be obtained if we once again show depictions of that such as what this film most certainly does.Yes it is heavy in the accent of he black. Hell that is what the story is about; those stories as many pass those stories down from generation to generation. It does not matter what they are about or whether they are true or not;it is the heart and the manner of  a tellin' of those stories is what matters and the smiles and laughter they bring.I particularly liked the scene where Brer Rabbit is boarding up his home in the brae patch and a leavin' as he looks up at Uncle Remus after he strikes his thumb with a hammer and say's see dah. I laugh myself almost out of my chair at the genius of Disney at the subtle nature of that. Let alone the uplifting theme of the song Uncle Remus sings with that bluebird of his shoulder Zippty Do Dah what a wonderful day. Check out youtube and all the renditions it offers and those comments if you don't believe me. Eisner if you ever read this, get you head out of the sand and re-release that film. You did a great job of releasing Wall-E, now lets do the right thing here and allow something this country sorely needs to see with the humor to boot that does not contain any four letter words. Here is a clip for those of you who have not seen it http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=hqvBIR0k1_oWilliam "},{"Title":"While not Disney's best, it is still an exceedingly charming and worthwhile film!","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I first saw this when I was about 10, and I loved it. Watching it again, while some of its flaws are more noticeable, i couldn't deny that this is such a charming and severely under-appreciated film. The film does look beautiful, even for way back then in 1946. The direction is slick and assured, and the script is on the whole is very good. I also loved the songs, especially Zip A Dee Doo Dah. I also thought the animated parts, based on Uncle Remus's charming stories, were very impressive, the animated character of Brer Rabbit is very likable, and Brer Fox and Brer Bear are suitably dastardly. The main advantage of the film is the superb performance of James Baskett, a performance of warmth, charm and dignity, that I even failed to appreciate when I was little. The film does have two flaws, some of the characters weren't as developed as those of Uncle Remus, and Bobby Driscoll's performance as Johnny, as sweet as he was on the most part, mayn't be to people's tastes, though the scene when he is in bed after being hit by the bull was so sad, with the heart-rending music accompanying it. I thought I read somewhere that some people thought the film was racist, sure it portrays slavery in an optimistic light, but I personally don't think the film is racist at all. There are also criticisms of it being too long, but anyone who's seen Shawshank Redemption or All About Eve, could argue they're even longer, and they are two of the best films ever made in my opinion. All in all, despite its flaws, Song of The South is exceedingly charming and severely under-appreciated. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Heads v. Foots Which Will You Use?","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Once again I rise to the steps of my soapbox for a brief rant. I may as well get it over with first, since the controversy surrounding the film is often the only thing remembered about it, if you are fortunate to have discovered it in the first place.Do I think the characters in Song of the South were racist? Ummm... yes. Does that then make the portrayal in itself racist, or even in poor taste? Absolutely not! What is a far greater cinematic crime is society's current departure in historical accuracy, largely thanks to my old friends, the NAACP and the culturally sensitive Hollywood scene. A drama that even touches on slavery may not be shown without the heroes as devoted abolitionists with an inspiring monologue to boot. Well, guess what. Good people had slaves, and not every slave was demoralized beyond human imagination. Does that make their stance right? No. But for heavens sake, there is more than one dimension available. And I daresay, even a slave was happy once in a blue moon and maybe even *gasp* sang a song or two and *even more shocking* was on amiable terms with the white folk. And anyone who thinks the accents are insulting has obviously never met a Gullah and is in fact more culturally ignorant than those they are attacking.Thank you very much for your indulgence on making it through my little rant, but it so irks me that this film should be branded as racist when it is anything but. Remus is the most charming of the characters on screen and puts his opponents to shame in his common sense and wisdom. And last word on the subject before I shut up- James Baskett became the first African American man to receive any type of Oscar for his work in this film (and was well respected by Walt himself). So suck on that! But I am not here to say this is the greatest film in cinematic history, either. There are abundant flaws, mainly in the live action plots.The child actors are cheesy at best, annoying at worst. All characters except Remus, Grandmother and Tempy lacked anything resembling common sense. The mother was by far the worst, stirring within me a strong passion to kick in her teeth. The plot was not fleshed out well enough- I couldn't figure out what the father was in such a rush to leave for in the first place.But beyond that, the story was heartwarming, especially in recognizing the desperate love a child has for a parent and how necessary their presence is. And more than a story of division, it really is about unity and respect no matter what race you are.And of course, the highlights of the film are the stories of Brer rabbit. Hilarious, witty, and lively, these stories are worthy of standing on their own. I have read, with much difficulty, the original stories and my biggest wish would have been to see more stories and less live action melodrama. And the songs, including the jingly jangle, zip-a-dee-doo-dah are all catchy and fun.Quote of the film Please don't throw me in dat brier patch! "},{"Title":"Racism?","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Huh? This film was exceptional to me as a child (1970 when first viewed) and I have utter disbelief that anyone, including African Americans could or would consider this movie Racist. I recently downloaded it. Watched it. And will continue to keep it in my collection. Shame on you, (African Americans) who contributed in this ban in the USA. Get a grip you people. The Race Card has gone on long enough and is OVER....So get over it. I have never been a person to comment strongly on a movie without commenting on the movie itself or it's content. This movie needs a place back into the populace of greatness. If I may be so bold (whatever), to point out a fact about James Baskett aka, uncle Remus. He was the first African American male to have ever won an Oscar. Look it up and quit sniveling. The past is the past. This movie should be praised not persecuted. Shame shame shame... "}{"Title":"Excellent movie.  Nothing racist or offensive in the film.","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South is a wonderful family classic. It should be on everyone's DVD shelf. Particularly for those fans of the old Disney films and other similar old classics such as myself. In some regards a bit outdated but the animation was the first of it's kind to be intermingled with live actors and was done very well. Amazingly well for the time and technology of that time. Unfortunately Disney still refuses to release this film in the US particularly on DVD. As it stands now it will probably never be released at all. There is merely a VHS UK version region 2 available and even this appears to be an edited version. This forces true fans of the film to look to other options to purchase the film such as the rare and out of print film distributors normally operating out of Asia and working privately from independent websites. I myself have purchased about 9 different copies of the film to find a good collectible version. The best site I have found to date is still http//www.songofthesouthdvdremastered.com. Their version was completely uncut and had the best quality. Even still this appears to be a Japanese version intended to reach the American market, which of course never happened. Although this is as close as you can get to a true American release, I would still like to see an American release happen. Also, in regards to racial issues constantly surrounding the film; All nonsense. The main character of the film is an African American man who is portrayed wonderfully and there is nothing but flattery in regards to his character. This along with the fact that there is absolutely nothing openly racist in the film itself would lend this film to being to the benefit of any and all African Americans. Once again, wonderful film and looking forward to a possible American release in the future. "},{"Title":"What was Walt's intention?","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I agree that the background of the film Song of the South is historically inaccurate, but lets look at the history of the stories. They were written by Joel Chandler Harris who was writing stories that was similar to Assop's Fables. And like Assop, who was not a real person, he created a warm, friendly black man named Uncle Remus who told the stories. And since Joel Chandler Harris lived in the South during the Civil War and it's aftermath he naturally set his stories in that area. Disney, I'm sure was looking for a way to tell these delightful stories and decided to set them during the time period of when these stories were first told. And lets not forget that James Baskett won an HONORARY ACADEMY AWARD for his performance as Uncle Remus (read the citation) "},{"Title":"Despite some stereotypes,  Song of the South can still entertain","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Having not taken the chance to watch Song of the South when it was rereleased in 1980 and 1986, I thought I'd never see this since there have been no further showings in America in neither cinemas, videocassettes, nor DVDs nor on any U.S. TV channels. It wasn't until I discovered the Saturday Morning Blog that I finally found this Disney movie on myspace there. Now, while I understand some objections about the roles of African-Americans in something other than a dignified manner in which they have to kowtow to white Americans and speaking with a dialect that may seem embarrassing today, I don't think that any of them depicted here are treated all that badly even if the roles themselves do lend to some standard stereotypes of the time. And James Baskett, who deserved his special Oscer when the Academy presented it to him, does wonders as the understanding Uncle Remus who brings out the best in positive attitudes to Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) and Ginny (Luana Patten). As Disney's first live-action child stars, Driscoll and Patten are charming in their studio debuts as a rich boy who befriends a poor girl who's two older brothers (Gene Holland and Georgie Nokes who played Little Harry Bailey in my favorite movie, It's a Wonderful Life) do nothing but bully them. Glenn Leedy as black boy Toby also has some good chemistry with Driscoll. I especially liked the scene where they play with a frog. Among other notables in the live-action cast are Lucile Watson as Driscoll's grandmother, Hattie McDaniel as Aunt Tempy, and then real-life husband and wife team of Erik Rolf and Ruth Warrick as Johnny's parents. The best parts though are, of course, the animation of the Remus tales with Baskett voicing Br'er Fox, Nick Stewart as Br'er Bear, and Johnny Lee as Br'er Rabbit, the last two actors familiar to fans of the Amos 'n' Andy radio and TV shows as Lightnin' and Algonquin J. Calhoun, respectively. Seeing Br'er Rabbit trick both Fox and Bear constantly provided so much laughs for me. Kudos to Wilfred Jackson for the direction of such fast-paced scenes. The live-action scenes (by Harve Foster) weren't so bad either and both are fine whenever they're mixed especially during the Baskett Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah number that probably helped get that song the Academy Award that year. Parts of the ending (like the last scene between Johnny and his parents) might have been a bit sugar-coated for my taste but other than that, Song of the South was a very enjoyable family movie for me and it's a shame the Disney studio feels it can't show this anymore here because of political correctness. At least when Warner Bros. put out Cabin in the Sky, Hallelujah!, and The Green Pastures on DVD, they have some disclaimer explaining the context of the material. The Disney Company could do the same here. In summation, I highly recommend Song of the South for anyone willing to tolerate something of another time that still entertains. P.S. I have to mention the fact that Wilfred Jackson and Erik Wolf were both born in my birthtown of Chicago, Ill. "},{"Title":"A Mastercraft in Storytelling and Animation","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I first watched this film when i was, well since i can't remember. Though i know that it was my second Disney film after Fantasia, and it had me equally enthralled. Every time since then that i watch Songs, it takes me back to my childhood at my auntie's house when we sat around in the living room watching the film, and i just give thanks that i live in the UK where it was released ;) For the time, 1946, the melding of animation and live-action has always astonished me, and the perfect link between the Tom & Jerry style story of Brer Rabbit and the warm and mischievously likable Uncle Remus is a match made in heaven. I know that the film received criticism over it's perceived offense towards those with darker skin, however the critics failed to note that said people are not portrayed any differently from the white characters. If anything Pro-Ginger lobbyists should be harrasing this film for it's portrayal of redheads! The fact is, that this was an under-appreciated film which was brought down by a rare case of maddened political correctness during the late 40s. I ask you know, if you are/were of ethnic background, like myself and took offense to the film, please tell me, as i can see no reason to take offense to this charming and heart-warming film. "},{"Title":"What  would it take for Disney to release this film to DVD?","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" What if the PC criteria for not releasing this film were applied to all other classics? We would not have the likes of Gone With the Wind or even To Kill a Mockingbird to watch. I would be willing to sit through a prologue from any spokesperson, explaining that the content was typical of movies circa 1946. What about all the silly films with Eddie Rochester Anderson or the early Our Gang comedies? Many great movies are tainted with stereotypes, even The 10 Commandments and The Jazz Singer(any version). You could even make the case that Snow White portrays Little People in a bad light, yet nobody denies that it is one of Disney's best. I last saw Song of the South (about 15 years ago?) when it was re-released to the theaters for a very short time. I don't recall anyone complaining then; or did they? "},{"Title":"Great memorable songs that I sing today at 70","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Born in Birmingham, Alabama, I know the people in this movie. And it wasn't racist at all, not in the way we commonly think of racism. The only fools in this movie were the white ones. The heroes were black, giving this child the nurturing we all need. I still sing zippy de do da at the age of 70. and I use as metaphor the wonderful tar baby story. For our children's sake, this movie should be brought back out just as it was. I'm sick of the 'politically correct' white-washing, pun intended, our past in the South. And Hurry Sundown is also one of my favorites for the same reason. by the way, I was a civil rights worker in my birthplace, Birmingham, AL and I'm white. "},{"Title":"A very good film, but dated.","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this film back in 1956 as a young boy. I really enjoyed it then as I do now. Only for differen't reasons. Disney in those days would never make a film that would have reflected negatively about anyone. Knowing that this film was made in 1946, I have to look at it from a 1946 viewpoint. Most of christian America in those days was quite bigoted about race and creed as well as any ideology that did'nt agree with the mainstream. This film does play on that a bit. However this film is quite respectful in its' story line with all the characters. It doesn't really reflect the old south accurately at all though. The old south was criminal in its' treatment of anyone except elitist white society. In fact the characterizations touch on what became the silly shallow portrayals of the 50's comedic and dramatic films that are quite laughable by todays standards. In this film, aside with uncle rhemus, the children were better actors than the adults. Even if uncle rhemus character isn't totally realistic, he does win us over as a real favorite uncle-grampa image. Lending to the truth many older people know better and take a much needed relaxed approach to the foibles of life. A lesson we all should pay attention to. I can't see why all the fuss that this film should be banned here in the USA where anything goes??? What would be the reason??? Is it that this film is toooo wholesome???? What a shame!!! I have seen many films that have African Americans in the lead parts that make black people look extremely more ridiculous than anything these folks depicted. Eddie Murphy has done more to damage the image of blacks than uncle rhemus could ever do. I would have thoroughly enjoyed having an uncle like uncle rhemus. It is too bad that there are people who win out in keeping good films out of the reach of impressionable children, and put in their place garbage that is nothing more than filthy language and perverted sex. And they call it cinematic art. What trash. It is toooo bad that the present Disney company bears NOOOO resemblance to what Walt Disney believed in. "},{"Title":"a gem of a movie (possible spoilers)","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" You know it's a shame that this fine movie has never been released in the US. This is a movie that deserves to be shared and watched.I know that the blacks were the workers and the whites didn't work (remember, the white guy dumped his family there to go LOOK for work) however they have to look at the bigger picture.Uncle Remus is the true hero of this story, he's the one that cared, he's the one that taught through stories and song and he's the one that keep the boys on track....both the white and black one...and keep the white boy from running away.This movie taught me that blacks are hard-working caring people when I was growing up. Yes, it may be set in a bad time and portray blacks as the lesser group but it also teaches of love and tolerance and standing up for what you believe in and if that's wrong something's wrong with this world.I was so excited when Disney announced that they were thinking about releasing it for the first time in the US then after that nothing.I hope they realize what a wonderful movie this is it WAY beyond time to release it's magic on the US audience. "},{"Title":"Why hasn't it been released on DVD?","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Please release this on DVD/Blu Ray now!!! I remember seeing this as a kid and it is one of my all time favorite Disney movies. The fact that this masterpiece can't be seen by my kids is a tragedy. I hope others out there feel the way I do and will also be sending Disney/BV/ABC letters to this effect.This movie doesn't deserve the treatment it's gotten. Let it back out there so people can discuss it intelligently.There is a petition out there to get the Disney Company to release it. Google it and sign the petition. Like the movie or not, there is no reason that it should be censored. There are far worse movies out there that have been released. Why is everyone picking on Uncle Remus? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and at least 10 times less racist than 'Norbit'","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South was a groundbreaking film in terms of its production combining live action and animation. That alone makes it a technical marvel. In terms of the film itself, it centers on universal themes of friendship, honesty, and family while demonstrating the value of storytelling. There's also a historical element to how stories are passed on from person to person. Indeed, these original stories were likely culled from Joel Chandler Harris's life. They're told very well on screen combining animation and James Baskett's wondrous performance, incredibly taking on the role of several characters. That its beauty can not be seen in present day is something of a tragedy, but perhaps a necessity in a once again ignorant age.The charge of racism in Song of the South is sadly correct, as it depicts an all too comfortable relationship between slaves (or sharecroppers in post civil war) and their masters. Its true that this relationship was hardly the norm (though by some accounts, did exist). Its true that Uncle Remus is clearly subservient though admired by the white people in the film (something of a paradox there). While Harris clearly supported slavery, the film has merits that should be able to be viewed by modern movie-goers.When I watch the film, some of it does unnerve me, but it is a product of its time. But if we can tolerate Mickey Rooney doing an Asian in a classic like Breakfast at Tiffany's, then a more enlightened age should be able to enjoy the wonderful storytelling in Song of the South, looking past some of the timely elements. But as we are the country that turned Norbit into box office gold, we might not be quite that enlightened by any means. "}{"Title":"Underrated, I love this - despite the portrayal of black people in places.","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have loved this film for a very long time. It is a charming long film that I can sit through without becoming restless and it teaches us important lessons. The most important one is DON'T GO INTO A BULL'S FIELD! The film is about a little boy called Johnny who goes to live with his grandmother, in America while black slaves are still working hard and being treated inhumanely (but you don't see this). He makes a friend there, a slave who is of his age, but becomes upset when his father suddenly leaves to go to his job. When Johnny tries to go after his father, he meets a very kind-hearted story-telling slave called Uncle Remus&#133;As many already know, this film indeed portrays the difference between blacks and whites in the period of history which is set, but luckily the blacks are all portrayed as good characters and Walt does not show them doing particularly hard work. This still remains to be a very delightful film, pretty underrated.The actors (such as James Baskett for Uncle Remus), setting (Hot deciduous forests of south U.S.A) and characters (Uncle Remus, Br'er Rabbit, Toby etc) definitely deserve praise.So when you can, you may want to watch this beautiful film, recommended for Disney and Br'er Rabbit fans! -) "},{"Title":"A Well-known Adaptation of The Tales of Uncle Remus","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of The South is one of my favorite live action/animated movies,along with The Pagemaster and Arthur and The Invisbles. Also I am starting to love The tales of Uncle Remus. And I love Br'er Rabbit, he is cute and he's just like a little boy spirited and often he puts his foot into things. You know, it was hard to choose which of the three stories in the film I love. But I would have to say, I love The Laughing Place story, that always make me laugh. As for the live-action parts, I think Johnny & Ginny are cute kids.You know something, I wouldn't think of this film racial, as I heard said, all over the Internet. That was the way it was in Uncle Remus' time - The Emancipation of The Afro-American slaves in the southern United States. "},{"Title":"'A Landmark Film, and A Walt Disney Classic'","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I first saw this film in 1972, and just saw it for the second time in 2006.Song of the south is a great family movie. It's the first live action movie made by Disney studios. It is also the first to combine live acting with cartoon animation.Outstanding performances by James Baskett (Uncle Remus), and child actor Bobby Driscoll (as Tommy). Although labeled as a racist film by the NAACP, I don't think any kids (as I was when I first saw it) would even know what that means.Some say that Blacks are portrayed as uneducated, plantation workers (Not slaves as some have pointed out). The only scene I wouldn't appreciate if I were black is the 'Tar-baby' reference (considered a racial slur at that time).I still remember the magic I felt in the theater when Uncle Remus started telling the first tale and burst into the cartoon world with all the animated characters singing along with him. It's very sad that Disney won't release it in the US.I recommend this movie to any Disney fan, especially those with young kids. It's a shame that a touching movie with such moral intentions has been banned because a few think otherwise.~Randawg. "},{"Title":"Just watched after 30 years.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I remember this movie as a kid,a nd every time i saw it on television i would ask mom if i could watch it, and she always said Yes...... thank God.I loved this movie then, and i think there is not one thing wrong with it( i am white and non-racist), and i think people are just WAY to uptight. I live here in Florida, and make frequent trips through Alabama, and Georgia to visit family in Pennsylvania, and i tell you what...... you cannot beat the southern hospitality of the African-American, ANNNND Caucasian folks there. People need manners like the folk that live here in the south, and was depicted just as that in that film SOTS, and should not be characterized as politically incorrect. Get the stick out of yer butt, and lay off the starch for a while people/Disney!!!!!! Times have changed for sure, but the film depicted history, and the way people actually were for those times. The people that live in Georgia's country are so kind it's frightening.... almost from another planet when you first meet them. After you get past the fact that you ARE awake, you never want to meet any other folks. God bless you!!!! "},{"Title":"A Matter Of Censorship.","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" In regards to the 60th anniversary of the classic but controversial 1946 Walt Disney picture Song Of The South and Disney apparent refusal to issue it in America on DVD.The movie is a classic film with great music and is a part of motion picture and American history. this movie was nominated for two academy awards and received one for best song  Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah and a special Oscar for James Baskett, making him the first African American actor to receive an Oscar award. In these oh so political correct times, I think it is important to remember the value of our history, right or wrong and to make decisions for ourselves and not let others make them for us. Refusing to release a movie for reasons of political correctness amounts to censorship, let the people decide. "},{"Title":"When is this coming out","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have been searching for many years for this movie and haven't found it at all but still in search for it and won't stop until I find it.. I think it's time for it to come back out again so we can actually purchase a real copy of it. Not some bootleg or some crappy one that someone made. I would love for my kids to see it.. I think it's an excellent movie and remember as a child watching it. I wish back then I would have bought it so I would have it as I grew older for my kids and grandchildren. I did do some research on this and have seen it posted in quite a few different sites that this may be coming out in Novemener 2006. Does anyone know if this is true or not? I sure hope so I think we all have waiting long enough. I also heard that the person who play Uncle Remus passed away as a homeless man living in a park? "},{"Title":"Life in the Movie correlated with life of a young girl.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Any movie we see becomes a part of us; who we are and who we become.  Song of the South was one of those movies that was part of my life.  As a young impressionable girl, I identified with the little girl who was pushed in the mudpuddle, ruining her only party dress on the way to the party. The songs were sung while I helped with housecleaning; made the chores so much easier to do.  The story, every kid wants Uncle Remus to dry their tears and tell them hopeful funny stories when they feel sad or in trouble.  Overall, I am sad that my own daughters have not seen this movie; and will really get on the bandwagon to get it released in any form available--hopefully DVD.  I will buy a LaserPlayer ?? if it comes on LD.  This one is worth fighting for.    "},{"Title":"Where's the Controversy?","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I watched `Song of the South' this week (July 2002) on the Disney Channel in Melbourne. So has Disney relented on the censorship of this movie or are there different rules for Australia?As to the film itself I can only agree with most other opinions that `Song of the South' is charming, delightful and in parts very funny. I can't look at it through African-American eyes but I could certainly find nothing objectionable in their depiction and Uncle Remus is absolutely the wisest character in the story. I actually found more to upset me in the class stereotyping of the Favers family.With a catchy theme song which won Oscar and attractive, if slightly pale Technicolor `Song of the South' is a total pleasure and I hope that it is now freely available for all to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Get the video at all costs!!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best Disney films ever made. With its' ground-breaking live-action and animation mix, it's a brilliant, positive, uplifting film.Sadly, Disney succumbed to pressure from certain groups that didn't like the film so now, if you live in the U.S., you will never see it on the big screen or even be able to buy it in the stores on video.My advice is to do your family a big favor and buy it from some online auction so you can add it to your collection as soon as possible. The film was being sold overseas up until a few years ago and now the remaining copies are being sold in online auctions.I hope that the Disney people come back to their senses and allow new generations to experience the warmth, joy, and inspiring classic that those of us old enough to remember it and smart enough to get our hands on the video, have long since enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Hunt this one up!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Regardless of being banned, this is an excellent family film.  I've heard the reason it was banned in the U.S. was because of racial issues.  If this is true, they're invisible to me (and several of my black friends). Although the blacks depicted in the movie were in subservient roles, this was the norm for the period portrayed.  If anything, the morals of the story would tend to ease racial tensions.As to the content  It's a fun film about a boy with parental problems who visits his grandmother and meets storyteller Remus.  It moves nicely with humourous animated sequences and catchy tunes.  Uncle Remus is a GREAT character.  Hopefully Disney will realise banning this movie was an error.If you're having trouble finding a copy, I believe they can be imported from the U.K. and Japan (we got ours in laserdisc format from Japan).  Or you might check ebay or another online auction. "}{"Title":"A classic hidden from the public","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This is my favorite Disney movie of all time.  I especially love the animated segments with Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, and Brer Bear.  I think everyone should get the chance to see this classic film.  Unfortunately, it doesn't look like this movie will be making its debut on video anytime soon in the U.S.  Disney is afraid of getting complaints from African-American do gooders.  I mean, seriously, these people need to use their common sense.  This movie was made in 1946.  Times have changed since then and we don't use black caricatures in films anymore. I watched this movie from beginning to end and the black people in here are NOT being stereotyped.  They have their own personalities.  Uncle Remus is the old man who tells wonderful stories (notably the ones about Brer Rabbit) that the neighbors enjoy hearing about.  Toby is the mischievous little boy who was ordered to be Johnny's playmate.  To top it all off, they are portrayed by REAL AFRICAN-AMERICANS, NOT WHITE PEOPLE WITH BLACK MAKE-UP ON THEIR FACES.  Slavery existed.  It's a fact and you can't change the past.  These do gooders who complain to the Disney Company obviously have no lives at all and need to GET A LIFE.  This movie has been released on laserdisc, but unfortunately that was only in Japan.  It has been released on video, but only in Europe, which uses the PAL system rather than the VHS system.  I hope that Disney becomes under new management soon.  We need a person who isn't afraid of those sleazy do-gooders.  This way, there will be a good chance that this wonderful classic will be released on video/DVD and aired on television here in the United States.  I just think it's pathetic that a classic work of art such as this should be locked up in the vault. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie , everyone should watch it !","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  It took a lot of trouble to get this movie . I am sure that many people have had to do like myself and purchase this movie over ebay . After I bought the movie , paid to have a converted copy and international shipping , I had close to $100 in the movie . Hopefully Disney will someday re-release this movie ,so it can be enjoyed by all . This is the kind of movie that we need more of today , a good story with a lot of moral content . "},{"Title":"What a great classic!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This has to be one of the best Disney has released but it is sad that most people will never be able to see it. Seems it has been banned. It has alot of values set in the movie but since it was a time when most people want to forget, it will not been seen again. I watch it all the time.  "},{"Title":"A Perfect film!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  It's an absolute shame this film isn't readily available.  I've seen it and showed it to friends many times and it's always a hit.  It was made in the '40s, and at that time, depicting realism in the speech mannerisms of slaves in the old South was commonplace.  Through the years, Disney has taken some heat for it's matter-of-fact way certain characters were portrayed. Still, the characters were honest and very likeable.  It's a story of family and understanding.  The musical / animation sequences won an Academy Award (the Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah song) and an entire ride was created at Disney World themed from the movie (Splash Mountain).  It's time this movie was given another release so everyone can enjoy it all over again. "},{"Title":"Verry good movie","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw this when I was a kid in the late 60s or early 70s. and I liked it. I wish I could get it on vidio.  I think there is alot of worse stuff out there.  I didn't find it racist at all.  We can't deny our history.  Slavery was horrible but it did happen, and We can't change it.  We can't help what out ancestors did.  It's still a good family movie. rchaney101 "},{"Title":"One of the best Disney movies I have seen","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Still cannot believe Disney will not release it for us to see here in the USA. The movie is so good and really deals with friendships and family and was never intended to be politically incorrect for future showings. The move has even be pulled from Europe. I am glad I have a copy of the movie. It is so fun to watch with the kids. It is a fun movie. Email me if you would like more info on the movie.  "},{"Title":"Disney's gem","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  After only one viewing, this film has whizzed straight to the top of my shelf, and I can see why that this is one of Disney's personal favourites. Even as I type, I am still humming the memorable Zip A Dee Doo Dah tune which automatically gets stuck in your head after watching. The girl in the mud scene made me so angry, the scene where Johnny notices the puppy has gone made me want to cry, and the scene with Johnny being chased by the bull sent shivers down my spine and made me whimper. It was considered an outrage back in 1946 to most, but as the years went by, I guess people realized how it depicted reality. Disney's gem. A truly emotional classic.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, wish I could see it again","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Why has this movie been hidden for so many years?  Has our society become so 'politically correct' that we disregard all literature?  This is about the writing's of a great American writer (Joel Chandler Harris).  I saw it in 1946 and was not aware that it had ever been re-released as some of the comments indicate.  It is great family entertainment and it never seemed to belittle or degrade any section of society. If we can accept the morality of current movie's and hide this great film we need to re-examine our society. I can only hope that Disney can summon enough support to issue this film on VHS and DVD soon. "},{"Title":"This is first I saw on the big screen as a child.  Please bring it back on DVD.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  My Dad took me to see Song of the South when he came back from the Pacific after World War Two.  I was only 5 years old and it was my first movie ever. It has special significance for me and my relationship with my Dad who passed away only two months ago.It is a delightful film that should be made available on DVD soon. "},{"Title":"Beautiful music- mixture of fantasy & reality, great stories","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw Song of the South in 1946...  Parts of it have stayed with me all these years.  I loved the movie characters and Uncle Remus' story characters.  The mixture of live performance and animation made them all come alive for me.  (I was 8 years old.) I wish I could obtain a VHS video copy for my library.  I'd like to share it with my children and grandchildren. "}{"Title":"I MISS THIS MOVIE!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  My four grown children have seen this movie as children, but now that we want our 10 - yes 10 - grandchildren to see it and enjoy the beauty and sensitivity of this great movie we can't find it anywhere.  I don't understand the reasoning behind Disney's decision.  I feel movies like Roots are much more racially disturbing than anything in this wonderful movie.  Is there any way we can reach Disney with our pleas to re-instate this movie to the theater or home movies?  "},{"Title":"Most memorable movie I saw as a child","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  It is a shame that the children of today can not enjoy this wonderful movie. Please Disney, release it to the home library.  I can see no reason why it has been withheld from us. It has quality lessons for the children in the stories told my Uncle Remus. Maybe we should picket the studios to get it released. "},{"Title":"Missing It","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Being from the South, originally, this movie is a piece of my heritage, that I can no longer access and share with my own children because to some it is considered politically incorrect. I do not think there is any thing wrong with portraying  a relationship that was entirely possible in that era.Who can object to a story teller connecting to a child? I loved the stories myself and could only share them with my sons through a book obtained at the library. I sorely miss this movie and have tried unsuccessfully to add it to my own movie collection so that in years to come I could share it with my grandchildren. Please Disney, rerelease this treasure to be shared. Allow me my right to my past.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I haven't seen it in years but I remember it as one of my favorite movies as a child. I would love to have a copy to show my grandson. I can't understand why some people can't enjoy a movie like Song of the South without feeling there is some sort of negative message. "},{"Title":"A wonderful family film.  It should be re-released!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  For such a long time I have been searching for a video copy of Disney's Song of the South, a wonderful family film centered around the Joel Chandler Harris/Uncle Remus characters Br'er Rabbit, Br'er Bear, Br'er Fox, et al.  The film featured the Academy Award winning song Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah.  It's my under standing there are no plans to re-release the film to theatres. Roger Ebert states the film will not be re-released due to social/racial stereotyping.  Frankly, I cannot understand why such a classic film should be withheld from the public. How could anyone find fault with a grandfatherly character, Uncle Remus, weaving tales about a feisty rabbit, saucy fox and bumb ling bear from the pen of the talented writer, Joel Chandler Harris?  Considering much of today's film-fare, Song of the South would be an extremely refreshing movie treat!  Please, Walt Disney Studios, reconsider your thinking! "},{"Title":"A great movie for kids of all if you can find it.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I've seen Song of the South twice. Once when I was 8 years old and another time about ten years ago. Objections from minority groups may have been the cause for its short run. Regardless, it appears now that our children will not ever be able to see this beautifully acted, sensitive film about an unhappy boy on a Southern plantation who is befriended by Uncle Remus, a lovable slave who seems to be able to communicate with the boy (Bobby Driscoll) telling him stories about Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox and Brer Bear. A great movie/cartoon combination that is charming and very entertaining. We can only hope that it comes back for us to enjoy and for our children to see. The memorable tune,Zip a Dee Doo Dah won an Acadamy award. I understand that you can get a copy as a Japanese import laserdisc which is, at least, a plus. Hopefully it will be released again in the future as an American video. "},{"Title":"Absolutely charming (in a racist sort of way)","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The excellence of every aspect of this film is beyond dispute. It's melding of animation and live action is brilliant, nearly 20 years prior to Mary Poppins, which always gets such fawning recognition from all the critics for this very thing.The child acting is also impeccable. Ginny is a stunningly beautiful child (who, by the way, never was able to measure up to her childhood good looks as an adult, and died of complications from rheumatoid arthritis and respiratory failure, already a decrepit crone at the age of 57), and a fine child actress. The tragic Billy Driscoll, who died very young, is also impressive, as he always was as a child star. James Basket is so charming and admirable as the iconic Uncle Remus. He instills wisdom, dignity, and integrity in his portrayal. To see his performance as merely a racist caricature is to deny historical reality.Yes, the idyllic nostalgia with which post-civil-war plantation life is portrayed may stick in the craw of many a civil-rights revisionist who would rather we forget such times ever existed; but it is also admirable that the relationships between the plantation owners and the former slaves are presented with familial equality. White children play with black children, Uncle Remus and Aunt Tempy are allowed to respectfully criticize the decisions of their white employers, and former slaves are presented with all the dignity that those newly freed but still dependent people historically possessed.To brand this film as racist is to indulge in racial paranoia and a deluded denial of actual history. To say that poor, uneducated, but wise and dignified people such as Remus and Tempy never existed or are stereotypes that must be forever banned from public consideration shows an unhealthy and obsessed insecurity that is both tyrannical and stifling to authentic creativity. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!  Walt Disney wouldn't cower to the PC Nazis.","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I've loved this movie since I was a child and had several of the Disney story books that came with records (remember those?) to listen to in my room. I grew up in the South with black friends and they felt as charmed by the movie as I did. It is rich with parables and life lessons for everyone. Why has the Political Correctness movement targeted this film this way? I say that it's time for Disney to grow a set and stand up for Walt who would be embarrassed over their capitulation. Uncle Remis is a warm and lovable grandfather-type. The color of his skin was only germane to the story as it was an avenue for stories of a Negro origin. The music is timeless and infectious. I encourage everyone to see this movie if you haven't already and decide for yourself. It's priceless Americana. "},{"Title":"it's not offensive, except to say that it is, in fact, quite dull","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song of the South is not available currently on DVD. The only way to find it is by luck, such as if you live overseas from the US or if one can find a bootleg (as I ultimately did). The indication from it being quasi-banned by its parent company Disney- who as previously as twenty-four years ago released it back in theaters- is that it is offensive and, perhaps, even racist, giving it a kind of stigma that actually Disney films from the 40's still have. Could it really be as in poor taste as people say or its reputation purports? As it turns out, watching the film, no, it's not offensive. It shows post-slaves with some of dem type of words, but it is really tame for today (ironically a much available and classic movie like Dumbo with more questionable black characters in the crows is rougher to see today). It's a silly movie about a cheery black character- let's call him the Magical Negro as is a common cliché in movies- who tells children the stories of Brier Rabbit and all that jazz in the deep south circa late 19th century.So why say it's not worth your time and money and effort to find the movie? Frankly, it's just not a very good effort. While the other Disney movies at the time, more concentrated with being strictly animation, had a better focus with its stories and mixing in some songs, there isn't much of a story or a conflict. There's little things that happen, little moments, things like a gag with a frog one boy hides under his hat, or the plant/payoff with the bull behind the fence. The set-up is what it is, that the little boy is left with his mother while his father is off being a newspaper man, and intermittently Uncle Remus tells his stories about the Brier Rabbit and Fox and the Bear and how the Fox and Bear tried to catch the rascal-rabbit. These, by the way, are the only time the film is animated; the rest of the live action is shot in a sterile form by otherwise great DP Greg Toland.That it was Disney's first real shot at doing something like this, combining animation and live action, shouldn't be discounted at least for its ambition (though only twice really does the film go into this style of mixing the two forms, and at the end it's just ridiculous with characters we haven't seen before). But the results are at best uneven and at worst some of the most boring material in any Disney movie. Even the animated scenes don't have much to them except as small, weakly done stories, and with that they could just as well be the animated Disney shorts of the period by themselves (that the voices aren't convincing- and this is for a voice like a stupid deep-south bear- is one thing), with only a few moments in them that are striking or fun. The Zippedee-doo-da song should be a classic, but that too feels just a wee-bit much.But back to what could or should be offensive. One person might think immediately when hearing that the movie features a tar-baby that it will be awful and racist (it's a term that's been bandied about over the years at black people). It's handled much more innocently than you'd expect, albeit still with a silly-stupid payoff in the context of the Brier Rabbit saga. And the characters of Uncle Remus and the housekeeper played by Hattie MacDaniel are surely not subtle, but there's nothing to them that would cause an uproar, save perhaps that it wouldn't be quite right to screen at a NAACP meeting. Compared to Dumbo or Looney Tunes propaganda cartoons of the time period, it's pretty safe stuff that could be shown to most children. Maybe they would respond most favorably to it, like kids getting a story told to them that intermittently they can ignore (such as those live action scenes) and tune back in for the goofy animated bits.It's really a shame that it's not on DVD just for the reason of its potential offensive nature. The only real crime the movie commits is not being very interesting or dramatic or compelling or funny, at least compared to its ilk at the time of production. It should be re-released if nothing else for historical value. "},{"Title":"Bring It Back","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Note to The Walt Disney Company Bring this classic to DVD, please! The world deserves it. This is one of Disney's crowning achievements. Walt would be appalled that it has been sitting on the shelf for all these years. It has brought nothing but joy to anyone who has ever had the pleasure of viewing it. Forget the critics and the threatened boycotts. Stop treating us like you know what's best for everyone. Let people make up their own mind. We're smarter than you think. Until then, all I can say is Thank God for bootleg copies! They're everywhere. I have mine. And I will continue to purchase them for friends and family as long as I have to. "}{"Title":"A Film No Childhood Should Be Without","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I first watched this film when I was about 6 years old and without the knowledge of any of the controversy surrounding the film, I thought it was amazing, one of my favourite films. Uncle Remus is far from a character the audience is supposed to disregard or pity because of his race, I remember thinking of him as amazing, more like a father figure, and was horrified later in the film as events unfold. Amongst other films, it contains many of the most memorable songs from Disney, its sad that the new DVD generations of young children are going to lose out unless parents hold on of the early copies of VHS. I don't personally see how Disney can justify not bringing the film out on DVD as it can be regarded as sensitive. The situation in South America at the time when the film was set is a part of history which cannot be erased simply but disallowing a children's film out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Fine film, and fine lessons in life","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this wonderful film in the theater when I was 5 years old, and here is my review from that day Uncle Remus is wise, and so kind to those children. he is joyful. He raises my unknowing perception of a black man. He is exotically beautiful. I like him, and I trust him. I wish more men were like him.Brer Bear is so funny. He is truly stupid, but he just can't help it, and I know he's going to lose!Brer Fox is not to be trusted. He could eat the rabbit.The crows are funny, and conniving.Brer Rabbit is a hero. He is smart, and he will survive.I have over the course of my life, drawn on the lessons of this film, and I have always looked up to Uncle Remus. Thanks, Walt, for a real gem! "},{"Title":"First film at a theater, I ever saw!","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" This was the first film that I ever saw at a movie theater (on the big screen), with my Oma (Hungarian Grandmother, now deceased), and I was 4 years old. Back in '72, there were virtually no movies geared towards children.Definitely, not like today! I love this movie, even now. I was fortunate enough to find a very high quality copy to download. My childhood record collection, that my Father still has, contains the LP of the soundtrack of this film. I haven't seen that record in years, but I still remember what it looks like. I used to play it constantly. My Father bought it for me while on a business trip to Detroit. I think that Disney should release it again! People can find fault in anything, if they look hard enough, and have a particular mindset. Today's children are exposed to much more inflammatory subjects, in myopinion, on a daily basis. That means...at home,school, and througthe media! This is an award-winning movie with a great soundtrack, thatwas made in a different era. It may have been offensive to some in 1946, but I feel that it is very tame, by today's standards, and should be enjoyed for what it is! "},{"Title":"I love this movie and always will!","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw this movie twice as a child in the theaters and loved it. It is sad that generations of children have been raised singing Zip a Dee do DA. They have no clue where it comes from or what it means. How can Disney show images of Uncle Remus on its sing-a-long video cover, but refuse to return this classic to the public. I am not caucasian I am a person of color who loves the South. The stories of Brers Rabbit, Fox and Bear are legendary. This movie needs to be seen. It does not offend me anymore than some of the awful things on regular television. Like COPS or Jerry Springer. Are we so shallow that we can't watch things that are entertaining and educational. Slave shacks still exist in the country. In the South you see resorts being built with names like Williamsburg Plantation all of the time. Do we shy away from those? No people pay big money to stay on the plantation. Return this children's movie to the children's viewing section where it belongs. "},{"Title":"Brings back such warm memories","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I just finished watching a friend's copy of SOTS. The last time I saw it was in a theatrical release in 1980 or 1981. I still remember singing Zippity Doo Dah as we were leaving the theater. All the criticisms I hear thrown at this film are absurd. I believe that most people offering up such criticism have not actually seen the film, but are merely parroting other reviewers.First things first. This film is not about slavery. There is no slavery depicted in SOTS. The action takes place on a plantation in Georgia AFTER the Civil War. No characters are mistreated, except for the Favers' brothers, who receive an off camera hiding for being cruel to their sister.The character Uncle Remus is a respected man in the community. Everyone looks up to him, including little Johnny's mother and grandmother. While the living conditions of the workers on the plantation might be considered poor, this was just indicative of the economic conditions of the time, and not a reflection of slave status.On to the movie itself. SOTS depicts a simple story of a small boy and his mother who come to live with their grandmother on a Georgia plantation. Bobby Driscoll is competent as Johnny. Compared to the majority of the juvenile cast, he did a fine job, and is simply adorable on screen. The mother, as played by Ruth Warrick, was the only weak spot to me, as she was just a bit too stiff, but still decent. Finally, James Baskett is delightful as Uncle Remus and carries the movie. He received a special Academy Award for his performance. Such a pity that he died so soon after the release of this film.The blending of animation of live action and animation was cutting edge back in 1946, and it goes over pretty well. Being a Disney film, suspending reality isn't hard to do. The musical numbers are great, and Zippety-Doo-Dah won an Oscar for Best Song.Rumor has it that there will be a DVD release of SOTS in 2006. I hope this is true, as this film deserves the full DVD treatment so a whole generation of kids, heck even adults, can enjoy this great movie. All of the political correct nonsense surrounding this film can be dispelled in the court of public opinion. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Song of the South and Racism","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have a Japanese import Laserdisc of this film, which I have watched many times. It amazes me that this film is available everywhere except the country it was produced in. Why? Because it is supposedly racist. I contend that it is not at all racist, but instead is an uplifting story that depicts Uncle Remus as the hero of the story. If we are all so sensitive to so-called racism, why was there no outcry for the black crows in Dumbo being voiced by black actors? By the same token, we cannot now see Bosco cartoons or the old Amos and Andy television show, both of which were very funny. The reasoning is that these films make black people look stupid. Well, maybe we should also ban The Three Stooges, Laurel and Hardy, Jerry Lewis, et all, because they make white people look stupid! Or maybe, just maybe, we should all grow thicker skin and stop censoring films because some people might become offended.James Baskett did a wonderful job in this movie, playing Uncle Remus and voicing one of the cartoon characters. But because of censorship, his last film role is not available to the general public. That is the real shame. "},{"Title":"A great movie (for families)","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Its a shame that Disney took this movie off the radar. It really is a gem. Its too bad that the great acting in this movie, and intuitive storyline are kept hidden. While the majority of African-American slaves were mistreated or oppressed, not all were. Some lived very well, better than some modern Americans. Why does Disney choose to hide this film. Its wonderful.In no way does the movie ever use the word slave. Obviously they are slaves, but it never makes reference to it. The movie also depicts white, uneducated, non-slaves living in poverty as well. Also, nowhere in the film is anyone mistreated in a way that would suggest oppressive slavery. Whats the deal? This movie only conveys an incredible message that would encourage integration between blacks and whites, and young and old. I can see there concerns, and how somebody could feel upset, I suppose. I would feel much more disturbed watching a movie like Roots though! The fact that Disney pulled this from the shelf is more upsetting than leaving it public. Shame on you Disney, this movie is imaginative, and epic! "},{"Title":"Children are deprived of a great classic","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Well, I could say a lot about this movie, but I see most people have it covered with what I wanted to say. I think that any movie that has been discontinued doesn't improve anything, whatever the problem was, IT STILL REMAINS. A lot of people want books to be banned out of our libraries, well the same goes to them to. MY OPINION YOU DONT LIKE IT, DONT READ OR WATCH IT. THAT SIMPLE!!!! If people were to probably conduct a survey they would find out more people DO LIKE Song Of The South just Disney is probably afraid to tread on sacred grounds. I feel like my children are deprived of a great American classic movie, and sooner or later they will see it. That I think is my right as a parent to chose what I want my children to watch. I also feel my right to make my own decision on this matter has been taken away from me. Next I won't be allowed to read them Tom Sawyer. People need to find other things that can seriously hurt our children than a movie or even books(Such as drugs, but that's a whole other ball game). Being a parent I usually screen all the movies that I am unsure about before I let my children watch them. That will be their right when they of course get older to chose whether or not they want to then, but I will not be a part of depriving them of that right to make a choice because a movie offended me and I had it banned. I think if enough people speak out against banning books and movies they can and will get into the peoples houses again that DO want to own them. I am sorry I get hot-headed over this matter, but freedom to watch and read a book of your own personal choice has been robbed from you. Thanks for your time to read this. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Movie","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The Disney studios gave movie going audiences a gold standard when they made this film. A wonderful combination of live action and animation - along with a perfect cast and a warm, tender storyline. James Baskett, who plays uncle remus is perfect....a warm hearted, kind, tender man with much wisdom and savvy who imparts it to a young boy, Johnny whose father and mother have semi separated in post civil war Georgia. Uncle Remus's tales of brer rabbit, brer bear, brer fox and the tar baby gives young johnny a lesson in understanding the realities of life and how to cope with them. Uncle Remus gently weaves tales of love and compassion to young Johnny and guides him as a young boy whose father has separated from his mother. Even the grandmother, Lucille Watson, realizes the wisdom of uncle Remus and his tales in molding the young boys character and imparts it to his stubborn mother. A darling young Luana Patten shines as Ginny Favors, a poor young girl living near the plantation home of Johnny. They meet and become best of friends - a very warm and tender relationship between the two young children develops. Hattie McDaniel plays aunt Tempe a wise maid who imparts her wisdom nearly as well as uncle Remus. What is there not to like about this film? It is flawless...a real treasure for Americana. Absolutely disgusting that some political groups will try to discredit it for being racist.....this political correctness hysteria is not allowing the Disney studios to release this film theatrically again and on DVD. Hopefully this will change and everyone will rediscover this treasure of a film. Luckily I was able to get a very good copy of this film on DVD on EBay. Our family sings zip-a-dee doo-da occasionally. "},{"Title":"Disney's just being modest.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Disney's Disney. This may be one of it's greatest work, but just because it's a little politically incorrect, they shove it in the shelves in the U.S. Of course, I bought my copy on eBay. Though not everything is perfect about this movie, it is really satisfactual. The songs, the animation, the songs, the characters- did I mention the songs? Anyway, though this may be lost treasure, there are still some quirks- -Ginny sounds like she's been sucking helium. -her brothers are classic 40s kid actors (and not in a good way). -What are the chances of a black guy caring most about a white guy when there are tons of other black people around him?But I don't want to sound like a nitpicker. Let me just say that this movie is worth buying on eBay. "}{"Title":"EVERYBODY Needs A Laughin' Place","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I've seen every Disney Movie in its initial release except for Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.  I saw Snow White in its re-release in 1944 since Snow White and I are the same age.  I came on the scene in September of '37 and she came on the scene the following December.  We look pretty good for our age!Well, during the Second World War Disney couldn't make any of his full length cartoons so it wasn't until the '50's that finally Cinderella was released in the theaters and was an instant success, but before that time there were some Disney movies that were made with half cartoon and half live action such as the wonderful, charming, So Dear to My Heart, and before that was the brilliant Song of the South which our whole family adored!To not bring Song of the South back into the theaters, T.V., and especially Home-Video is insanity!  If this movie is being kept out of release because of all the hull-a-baloo about it setting a bad example for blacks; then why don't we ban Gone With The Wind, or better still how about Dumbo and the scene with the crows singing When I See an Elephant Fly?  Why is this all once sided as regards to Song of the South?Maybe I shouldn't bring this up, but - let's get the facts straight.  When Sidney Portier was on the Acadamy Awards one year, it was announced that he was the first black man to win an Oscar, and when Dianne Carroll was on a T.V. Talk Show she stated that she was the first black woman to have a T.V. Sit-Com, but both statements are not true and to be blunt about it - they lied!Now, if the Acadamy had stated that Sidney Portier was the first black man to win an Oscar for Best Actor of the Year, then they would have been telling the truth, but by stating otherwise, they did not tell the truth, because the first black man to win an Oscar was none other than James Baskett for his portrayl of Uncle Remus in Walt Disney's Song of the South, and this was a special award given to him, and when he was presented his Oscar in his home and when took it in his hands he said, I'm the first black man to ever win the Oscar!  And as far as Dianne Carroll stating she was the first black woman to have a T.V. Sit-Com, that's not true because it was Louise Beavers in her T.V. Sit-Com Beulah!  So, let's get those facts stright right now!So, where's the problem with Song of the South?  Doesn't organizations such as the N.A.A.C.P know of James Baskett being the first black man to win an Oscar for his portrayl of Uncle Remus in Song of the South?  He was wonderful in the movie and could he sing Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah!  A great actor, a great man, and a great singer - an all 'round entertainer!  Also, in the movie was Hattie McDaniel, known for her portrayl as Mammy in Gone With The Wind in which she was the first black actress to win an Oscar, and in South of the South she sings Sooner of Later with Uncle Remus played by Oscar Winner James Baskett!If Disney was smart - they would forget all this nonsense about the film and release it world-wide in all movie theaters, and then when it's released on Video after the theater exhibitions - they'll make a fortune because eveyone is lusting after it!I saw this movie as a kid, and no one was offended in those days, but like I said, if people are offended by the portrayls of blacks in Song of the South, then why don't we go ahead and ban Gone With the Wind and Dumbo, and better still why not the classic Birth of a Nation!When it comes to Song of the South - someone goofed!  "},{"Title":"Get real - it's of its time!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  My Dad took my brother and me to see this movie many, many years ago. It's on British TV as I type. Of course I can understand the offensiveness of the 'Uncle Tom' stereotyping in this movie; and I hate it. People who write here about the slaves singing to pass the time are missing the point of the offensiveness, IMO - it's the slavery itself and the happy acceptance of it that I feel offended by. However, it's a wonderful animation and it's of its time. We can't wipe out the horrors of slavery by banning the movies that don't portray it as it truly was. Personally, I'm far more offended and disgusted by the obscenity of movies like 'Pretty Woman' which show prostitution as a happy hobby. "},{"Title":"Very problematic movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Recently, my wife and I decided we were curious about this movie.  We both have memories of seeing it as very young children. I do not think I would have seen this during the 1986 release as I would have been 16 and I think I went through a phase where I didn't want to admit I loved Disney movies, but I think I must have seen it in the late 70's or early 80's.  It had been so long since I saw it, I decided we'd try to get it and try and figure out what was so controversial.  Well, most readers of any of the other user comments will have determined that the movie is very hard to find. Bootleg NTSC copies of the PAL VHS tape are available from a number of sources at outrageous (for a bootleg) prices, but the only legit licensed NTSC higher quality sources for this movie are the Hong Kong and Japanese import laserdiscs, both of which fetch absurdly high prices on eBay auctions.  I managed to find a source for the Japanese LD and got a copy, and we watched it last night for the first time in (I'd guess) close to 20 years.   I can see why it is considered offensive, but that doesn't change the fact that the movie has a sweetly charming quality to it, and the wonderful songs which many of us know and love.  I wish that there was a way (in today's environment) to salvage this film from the offensive bits but preserve the good bits.  I just don't see it.  Slavery is too sensitive a topic (rightly so) for people to be able to put this film into perspective without getting upset, and Disney, as they are now, would not possibly risk it.I think it's more likely we'll see more rampant bootlegs as time goes on, and I think it's highly unlikely we'll ever see another release of this film from Disney. "},{"Title":"I Am Saddened","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Despite the progress in civil rights over the years, the debate over SONG OF THE SOUTH shows just how far apart we really are. The absolute rage expressed by both sides on the IMDb review section and the message boards is a sad reflection on what should be civil discussion. You can easily see why Disney has buried the film, when anger like this is brewing. African-Americans don't understand why Whites who consider themselves to not be racist can still embrace a movie that depicts stereotyped happy, contented slaves. Whites, on the other hand, don't understand why they are being denounced as evil human beings because they loved the film as children and want to show it to their children, which they cannot do. Disney endured a firestorm of criticism from the film's last theatrical reissue in 1986; nearly two generations of children have come since then, who have never seen the antics of Brer Rabbit (which once seemed unthinkable). When other films with racial stereotypes are still widely seen (the obvious name of GONE WITH THE WIND comes to mind), there is no reason why people who want a copy of this film shouldn't have it. Myself, I saw the film during both of its final theatrical reissues--in 1981 and 1986. Yes, it contains negative racial stereotypes, but today, surely parents can explain the issues to their kids, and also, most White children know African-Americans personally, and so they would surely not be influenced by these images of yore. Censorship in any form is never right, and people who find it commendable that this film is forever buried know not what they are endorsing. "},{"Title":"Over-analysis","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The analysis is over - enjoy the movie, and stop trying to read too much into it! Not only is this the first movie to combine live action with animation, AND the first with a black star who's actually played by a black person; he plays ALLLLL the leading roles live & animated. Sings ALLLLL the songs, too. And it's great! It's disgusting that Disney itself is banning one of the best movies it ever released. Walt would NOT be happy.Slavery? There are no slaves shown. The only bad people shown are 2 white boys, and they're not important characters. Are there poor people & well-off people shown? Yes, as in any movie. Is there racial diversity? Yes, at least one white sharecropper family is shown along with the black sharecroppers. Is it historically accurate? Certainly not close to 100%, but certainly moreso than Pearl Harbor or Titanic. But it's not supposed to be - it's an animated fantasy with some live action.Get over the BS that Disney is using to justify denying us access to this classic, and don't let them sleep until they re-release it! "},{"Title":"Hippo-Critical Political Correctness!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Well isn't it funny how Disney has banned 'Song Of The South' from ever existing in a purchasable format, BUT Splash Mountain is the #1 ride in all of Disney World? And my personal favorite....Let's face it , some black people will always feel like white people owe them something because of what's happened in the past. (I'm White) I didn't live in those days, you didn't either. Slavery was wrong, and It was a mistake, but Some people don't want the world to progress, they just like complaining about it; And as long as we have Political leaders stirring up these feelings, they will never go away! There's no such thing as White Entertainment Television or Ivory Magazine or The White Award Show? Do I Care...No, because if i did I'd be racist...Right? "},{"Title":"Give it a rest......","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Let me get this straight, blacks don't like the way they are portrayed inthis film. Has any white person complained about how stupid whites are portrayed in The Jeffersons and Sanford & Son. This movie is great and I love the cartoon portion...There are tons of movies that have slave era concepts in them, why is this movie different? Whats next, black listing Zorro movies because they show Mexicans taking a siesta, WWII movies because they show the Japanese eating rice and fish... This whole mess is because someone didn't like the mannerisms of Br'er-Fox and Br'er-Bear. "},{"Title":"Please Get Your Facts Correct Before Commenting!","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" It is an All-Too-American thing for people to just run their mouths and say anything & everything & pretend they know everything when in fact they never even are in a position to write an informed comment about something. Too all of you people who saying this film CONTAINS SLAVERY, even those of you who are writing positive reviews, please answer the following questions for you (1)How on earth is it 95% of people on this fictitious plantation on this fantasy children's films are Black, and the only white folks on the plantation are 3 women and 3 children? One is an elderly woman I night add, and over at least 100 black folks! If it did CONTAIN SLAVERY like some of you think it does, it would make sense to have some Strong White guys with a whip walking around watching everyone don't ya think? (2)Why did Uncle Remus get up and leave the plantation and no one stopped him? The Fact is, just like Joel Chandler Harris' book Uncle Remus His Songs & Saying Folklore of the Ols Planation written in 1880, THE STORY TAKES PLACE AFTER THE CIVIL WAR, SO NONE OF THE BLACK CHARACTERS IN THIS FILM ARE SLAVES, but share-croppers & domestic-helpers. PLEASE GET THAT CORRECT! I'm not gonna spoil anything else about this film other than to say this is a very very culturally historic film for the following reasons (1) African-American folklore was brought to the silver screen and presented as American- Folklore.(2) The Hero of this Plantation film set during the reconstructions era IS A BLACK MAN, AND THE NORMAL SMART FOLKS ARE BLACK FOLKS IN THE FILM.(3) It was a racially integrated film, were one of the protagonist of the film, little Johnny two best friends are Uncle Remus, and Toby.(4) Live actions animation(5) The voices of African-American actors being used for cartoon characters give the animation scenes an ALL-BLACK experience. And The Gullah accents really gives it essence, unique culturally & remains loyal to exactly how Mr. Handler Harris himself heard stories being told to him. (6) The Film, if you can just put your personal agenda's aside for one second, and just look at the film for what it was -- you'll have no choice but to come to this conclusion that African-Americans ARE THE SOUTH, AND THE SOUTH IS African-Americans culturally in every sense possible. African Americans REALLY DID IT ALL, THEY DID IT ALL, and everything is culturally rich about the South, is because of African-Americans.(7) The First Two African Americans to win an Academy Award were playing in this film opposite of each other.(8) Disney was so outraged at the racism that existed within the Academy Of Arts & Sciences at the time, that they didn't even nominate James Basket for an Oscar for his role as Ucle Remus, that HE USED THE POWER & MIGHT OF HIS COMPANY & LOBBIED VERY HARD TO MAKE SURE JAMES BASKET GETS AN Oscar FOR HIS PORTRAYAL OF UNCLE REMUS WHICH HAPPENS IN 1948, James Basket receives an Oscar for playing Uncle Remus in Song Of the South.I hope Diseny takes the advice of their African-American Legend Animator Flyod Norman and not only releases this film on DVD-Blu-Ray, but I think they need to do a re-make with Bill Cosby playing Uncle Remus while he is still alive. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment - Unless You're PC","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" This is one of the best family pictures ever made and the first movie I ever saw. Half live action and half animation, it is based on stories by a post-bellum writer who lived in the Old South and wrote the way life was at that time and place. His stories are funny and heart-warming and loaded with vignettes of the locale as well as timeless life lessons.Fast forward one hundred years. Liberal sociologists and other killjoys have decided Chandler's stories are loaded with racial stereotypes and are offensive and counter-culture in nature. They are harmful and insulting and should be banned to prevent exposure to future generations. Liberals, of course, will tolerate no interference with their inflexible ideas which they consider dogma, reflecting an unhealthy mindset. They have no use for historical integrity or authenticity.Song Of The South is a terrific movie fit for all ages. Viewers can experience and learn from the shortcomings of a bygone era in American history while watching first-class entertainment. Hopefully, the day will come when moviegoers can make their own decisions about such matters. "},{"Title":"The myth is getting to be more than the actual film.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" 1. This is post Civil War. After Remus is told never to see Johnny again, he decides to go to Atlanta. How would that be possible pre- Civil war? What are the odds he was a free black? He was old and slow. How could he hide or run from hunters. Show me where the average slave could do this.2. Remus was told not to see Johnny again because his stories were damaging, in Johnny's mothers view. Not for any other reason.3. Toby was told to look after Johnny and make sure he doesn't get into any trouble. The grandmother is putting a black kid in CHARGE of a white kids security! Where does the racism exist here!4. How is poor Ginny and her brothers any different that the poor Remus or the other ex-slaves. Why is it O.K. to show poor whites in the film and not blacks? To my knowledge, there were poor whites back then. Nobody is crying foul for Ginny. Maybe Ginny's family consisted of indentured servants so being white slaves doesn't matter in anybody's eye. 5. Examine the relationship between the grandmother and Remus. These two have known each other for a long time and from what I could tell, seem to have had more that just a owner/slave relationship. Maybe it wasn't intended from the script or actors, but it sure seems that way to me, from the way they look and talk to each other. Take a long look at the two, they greatly respect and love each other. Was this intended by the director?6. What's really sad is that I see people commenting on something they have NEVER watched. "}{"Title":"Enough with the ban already!  Disney is promoting racism by NOT releasing this movie!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" OK first of all I am not racist. I love this movie, I think it is a great movie for everyone and that their is nothing racist about it. Now by Disney banning this movie, well that is actually supporting racism. The few African Americans that do complain about this movie are the true racists! And Disney is catering to them! People like Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson! As far as I am concerned, those two characters are the most racist people I have ever seen in my life! I hate racist people and therefore I hate people like Al Sharpton that always has to promote segregation and singles out black people! Anyone that follows him is seriously brain washed and a danger to society if you ask me! People like this need to just shut up and stop talking about how the white man is always trying to keep the black man down. This is not the case anymore! If there is anyone trying to keep the black people down, it is other black people that are running their loud mouths like Al Sharpton trying to remind everybody on a daily basis how much life sucks for black people! It is baffling! I have seen websites that say spiderman 3 is racist cause the black suit spiderman is evil... Now that to me is just as silly as saying Song of the South is racist.I live in the south and many black people talk like uncle remus does in the movie. It is their culture, the way they choose to talk! It has nothing to do with trying to show blacks as uneducated. They really talk with a lot of slang and that is their own choice! Uncle remus in this movie seemed more educated to me than the rich white mother. So if anything this movie is saying that white people are stupid because they lack basic common sense about life because they let the black people do all their hard work and so therefore the black people learned common sense about life's lessons through actually experiencing life! Uncle Remus stories were amazing! And a lot of them are actually based on real black heritage stories! So if anything this movie promotes culture to the black people.So anyways, this movie is great and Disney is actually promoting racism by not releasing it. They are singling this movie out and everyone talks about it. So now kids can say why can I ride splash mountain, but not watch the movie based on the ride? to which the parents must reply this movie is racist. Which in turn singles out the movie, singles out black people, and continuously reminds small children what the word racist means.... Something that would easily fade out if we stopped calling things racist. If we could stop labeling things in racist, then black and white kids would play together without even thinking twice about color! I mean in the movie the kids playmate was black for goodness sakes! So how exactly is this movie racist? I can list all of the things that make it NOT racist, but I can't find anything racist about it1. Uncle Remus is the smartest man in the movie. 2. Johnny's playmate is black. 3. The boys that are portrayed as hoodlums in the movie happen to be white! 4. Uncle Remus stories have more logic than some of those in the bible! 5. Black people save the day.The list goes on and on.... if anything this is the LEAST racist Disney movie! I have never seen a black princess... They are all white with the exception of princess Jasmine. This is the one Disney movie where the black people actually are the heroes! So by not releasing this movie, that is Disney's secret way of keeping the black man down... Use your head, thats all I have to say! "},{"Title":"Discarding Southern History","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I rarely comment on movies here on IMDb but I feel the need to do so now with this one in particular. Why? Because I feel a great disservice and an extreme insult and deliberate political campaign is being waged to strip the people, black and white, within the south of their history and have it replaced with a diversion from northern hypocrisy.This movie was one I grew up with and enjoyed watching with my little black friend Marcus at a young age. I cant remember many movies from my extreme youth but I DO remember Briar Rabbit and how much I adored this classic movie. Uncle Reemus doesn't represent a stereotypical Black man, he represents the south and the morales and culture we share.On comments concerning Uncle Reemus and his fondness of past times as 'better' I would just point out that the era of post war south reconstruction was indeed a horrible time of military occupation and rule and economic collapse. Anyone who believes the people of the south were not as much on the way to abandoning slavery as the north is blind to the actual history of the south and its relative cultural tolerance in comaprison to the north and its policies during 'reconstruction' that helped bring about racial tension in the south. Like I said... scapegoat. "},{"Title":"A very controversial but important (and ultimately winning) movie in Walt's career.","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" If nothing else, SONG OF THE SOUTH is arguably the most hotly debated Disney production ever made. Released to war-weary audiences in 1946, this movie was another exercise in combining live-action with animation, but simultaneously it happens to be an iconic film in Walt Disney's career. At the time, much of the studio's financial resources were cut off, so it was very expensive to produce a full-length animated feature. Since it was economically feasible to mesh live-action with short cartoons, it's no surprise that SONG OF THE SOUTH ended up becoming one such title.The animated segments, arguably the most appealing aspect of the movie, are based on the famous literature stories of Brer Rabbit, whose habit for getting into and out of trouble makes him an invulnerable target for adversaries Brer Fox and Brer Bear. Walt Disney had always been a fan of these tales, as told by Uncle Remus, and this film was an effort to bring them to the screen. On an aesthetic level, the three cartoons, in which our floppy-eared hero outsmarts his foes through psychology, are some of the most colorful and beautifully executed works to come out of the studio, but as stories in and of themselves, they are very intelligent, clever, and well-written. Who could forget Brer Rabbit getting stuck in the gooey mass of a Tar Baby? Or running away from his home in the Briar Patch? Or even the infamous Laughing Place that turns out to be a beehive? All three of these stories are somehow shoehorned into a live-action narrative in which a kindly old Negro, Uncle Remus (James Baskett, in an amazing performance for which he deserved more than just as special Oscar) uses his tales to help an unhappy little boy, Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) deal with his parents' separation, bullying brothers, the ownership of a dog, and his friendship with a cute little blondie named Ginny (Luana Patten).It is this central story where SONG OF THE SOUTH's roots of controversy lie within. Although obviously meant to be harmless and innocent, the live-action plot sometimes feels intrusive. We never find out the tension between Johnny's parents, nor do we learn anything about the concerns of Uncle Remus. These scenes are also strangely discomforting at times, particularly the depiction of the various African-American characters (and I'm not talking about just Remus). They speak in a surprisingly outrageous dialect and are shown to be quite content with their positions as slaves, going so far as to sing catchy folk songs while going to work. Even though the movie is not intended to put across any such messages, these sequences can be tough to swallow, especially if you're a sensitive viewer.I also found it very bothersome that Remus is treated hideously by Johnny's misguided and arguably *bitchy* mother, who wrongfully believes that the old man's tales are only leading her boy astray. Yet if Remus stands up to the mean-spirited brothers who torment the two leads, then why doesn't he do the same when he's around Johnny's mother? (Granted, this was typical of the post-Civil War South, where this film is presumably set, but it's another source of discomfort that sometimes took me out of the film.) Ironically, it was because of such scenes that SONG OF THE SOUTH was made unavailable to the public for many years. After a very profitable release in 1946 and subsequent reissues, criticisms of the aforementioned live-action sequences, particularly the roles of the African-Americans, skyrocketed so strongly that Disney locked the film away in its vault since 1986. Consequently, the only way for fans of the film to purchase it for themselves was to purchase bootleg copies of a PAL VHS and/or import the laserdisc release from Japan.The criticisms surrounding SONG OF THE SOUTH are not unjustified; it may have trouble finding an audience in today's politically correct society. But stripped of this controversy, is SONG OF THE SOUTH a likable and beautiful movie? Absolutely. The animated sequences, as mentioned, are wonderful, the musical score is very tuneful, particularly the Academy Award winner Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah and the catchy Laughing Place, and, if the live-action narrative seems superfluous (and unintentionally offensive), the performances by a majority of the cast makes it easier to stomach. As mentioned, Baskett's Uncle Remus is portrayed perfectly; just as good are the youngsters, namely Driscoll and Patten, who manage to be both likable and adorable but not saccharinely so. The other adult actors do credible jobs, too, although their roles don't really stand out.On the whole, while the issues over the story and the even more controversial African-American depictions are bothersome, there is no denying that SONG OF THE SOUTH is indeed a lovely, sometimes charming film that has its heart in the right place. Should this movie be released in America on DVD? Definitely, although background information SHOULD be given about the film's slave characters in order to better educate viewers. At this point, though, it seems unlikely that Disney ever will reconsider and bring SONG OF THE SOUTH to a new generation of fans. Shameful, too, because in spite of its flaws, this movie does display positive messages of friendship and psychology... and yes, I have to confess, it's a classic. "},{"Title":"A nice family film without violence and bad language.","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" As a child I remember that brer Bear, Brer Rabbit & Brer Fox was part of the weekly Donald Duck magazine and we enjoyed the stories - never thought of them as being racist but they are now gone as is the lovely movie. Yes the movie is racist since that's how the period was at the time - fact is that white folks kept blacks as slaves or later on as unpaid or very low paid workers. Does the film promote this wrong way of living No - what Disney did in 1946 when The States again as a matter of fact was Racist in The South still - segregation between blacks and whites was norm. This was long before Martin Luther blessed be his name helped the blacks of the States - Disney took a big risk by using stories from the blacks and mixing them with a divorce story - again at a time when this too was a big no no. Disney also mixed animation and live characters in color in the year 1946 - people should say wow and let this film be seen again. We all know now that it was wrong then. "},{"Title":"A Reflection of History and Heritage","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" This is one of the greatest family movies ever produced. Not only is it the first motion picture to integrate humans and animated characters, it is rich in heritage and tradition and brings to life one of the most memorable stories from a great storyteller. The Brer's found here teach children lessons of life that continue to be valuable. The humor is clean and wholesome, so unlike many of the popular films of today, and is appropriate for young and old alike. It is a travesty that Disney chooses to hold back it's DVD release because they consider it to be Politically Incorrect, which is the reason given by the folks at Disney World in Orlando. "},{"Title":"Not racist in the least","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I just received an official copy of the original 1946 SOTS this week. (Hey, it's still released in other English-speaking countries, and you can get it on eBay for $70-90. It's worth it.) These are not slaves in the book. At one point, Johnny's mother forbids Uncle Remus to see Johnny any more, and Uncle Remus leaves the plantation. No one goes after him (except for Johnny). Could a slave do that? Disney is giving into PC garbage to not release this movie in the US.I'm sure I saw this years ago, and it's still an excellent film. The animation and storytelling held my 2 year old's attention, as well as mine. It's an excellent history lesson for some ages as well, and would be an excellent way to bring up race relations in the US for older children. "},{"Title":"I find a lot of movies offensive","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" If we all want to make this a black thing....fine!! I find these movies offensive to the white man, Friday(all of them), Barber Shop(all of them), anything made by Spike Lee, um,Malcolm X, you get the idea. But ya know what? I Found them to all be quiet entertaining. 'Cause I took my head out of my a**.' Stop being so G'damn PC. Does it matter as a white man,that I laugh when George Jefferson calls his neighbor a Honkey??or Archie Bunker uses the N word? Fact. Song of the South is post Civil War. Slavery was not an issue. Unfortunately, slavery is a sad part of our history. This movie is not about that. Put things in perspective. People want to relive their past with this classic. Let it happen. I gotta big shoulder, cry on that. "},{"Title":"A fun movie I saw as a child.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I saw Song of the South when I was about 4 years old. I loved it, and I would like to find a copy of it too. One thing that I am not, is being politically correct. Nor am I a racist. This movie was a fun cartoon with people in it, that taught little lessons. I can still hear the laughter of the characters. It's too bad movies can't just be enjoyed without someone finding some hidden meaning in them. I watch movies to be entertained, be it a comedy, action adventure or a drama. I read books for the same reason. My little pea brain gets taxed enough at work, so to see Song of the South and to hear the songs again would be great fun to me. Well, that's my little 2 cents worth. "},{"Title":"I can watch it whenever I feel like it!","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I just watched this movie last week, and I must say, as for the racist stuff in it, watch it yourself and notice there is NOTHING like that in the movie!Disney is NEVER going to release it in the USBut it has in England!You can find PAL -> VHS copies on eBay, some sometimes sale DVDs, but you'll have to have a DVD player that can play UK DVDs.Yes sir! I have it! And I can watch it WHEVEVER I want too!!  "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  This is indeed a wonderful movie.  I can remember seeing it in theaters as a kid.  Unfortunately there are only bootlegs around.  For those wishing for a re-issue it probably won't happen.  Rumor has it that **** ***** purchased the rights to the flick and will not allow it to be issued because of the racial term tar-baby used in the film.  Although it is used to identify the thing made out of tar by Brier Fox to catch Brier Rabbit, it can be perceived as a racial slur.  Or so I have been led to believe.  Sorry folks. "}{"Title":"Is Song of the South Racist?","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Someone mentioned that it seemed odd that a slave would stay on at a plantation after being freed. And taking orders from the white folks. Well, what I remember from history in school is that it did happen. Quite a few slaves were close to their masters. Take for example a family that was basically the house servants. They might have been treated better than the field slaves. I might add that they might have been treated better than a lot of house servants of today, that are paid employees. Many of them knew no other life and found it hard to move on. Some stayed on as field or house workers for hire. I think slavery is a terrible thing for anyone. But pretending that it never happened doesn't make it go away. The message of this movie had absolutely nothing to do with slavery. Some people are just too politically correct and way too crittical. "},{"Title":"I absolutely loved song of the south and would so much like to have it in my DVD library,  I think Walt Disney Studios should release it on DVD.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Compared to what they put in movies now days, this movie to me had nothing wrong with it, that I could see. It is a wonderful family film, a real tear jerker. And a very good story line. Please release it for posterity onto DVD. So many children of today and yesterday could really benefit from this wonderful movie and the messages it sends. Uncle Remus by using his stories had a good impact on my life. I was about 9 or 10 years of age when I saw it. I loved it then and I would like for my children who now have children of their own to be able to see it. It is one of those pictures that need and will want to be seen over and over again for generations to come. This needs to be right up there with Gone With the Wind, a timeless movie in it's own right. This movie should be re released and made available to all via DVD. "},{"Title":"Ban straw men, not movies.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have not met anyone, of any political leaning, who supports a ban on Song of the South. This includes people of color, and many others with a deep commitment to civil rights. It is important to realize that there is no politically correct cabal behind its unavailability. When this argument is made, that 'civil rights zealots' are behind the suppression of this film, its release becomes less and less compelling. This movie is hard to find because Disney is a giant corporation with no interest in mortifying its shareholders. This is not the greatest movie ever made, as some commenters have (beguilingly) put it, but a good, historically interesting one with some truly iconic images and songs. Scouring the film to prove that it doesn't contain the word massah, or offering lame apologies for its content, does nothing to make this movie comfortable viewing for any normal person. We must ask that, despite the issues surrounding Song of the South, it be released. If I could pass on a suggestion to Disney, I'd recommend that they do it as a 2-disc DVD set, and load the second disc up with scholarly (and, hopefully, interesting) commentary. Meanwhile, download it for free with a file-sharing program. Maybe that will wake them up. "},{"Title":"Risin' above your raisins'","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  It is sad that any movie which depicts slaves as happy with their life and respectful of their masters cannot receive a fair accounting in today's politically correct environment.  Certainly it is true that many slaves were mistreated and abused.  However it must be recognized that some slaves were well cared for and well thought of. Surely the full range of possible human reactions would have resulted from such varying conditions.  While some slaves would have indeed been angry and rebellious (as is the current socially accepted way to depict them), some would have been quite content with their circumstances, and would have even been fond of their owners!This is what Song of the South depicts.  There is a great amount of respect shown between the slaves (or servants actually) and their masters (employers?).  When Remus is chastised by the Mistress of the plantation she seems to be regretful of her words even as she says them. She is only doing what her social position at the time demanded.We must realize that Remus is the hero of this story.  And a wonderful hero he is, too.  He is wise, diplomatic, caring, outgoing, and full of wit and good humour.  Qualities often missing from today's movie heroes. James Baskett is the heart and soul of this film and to not allow it's release is to do him a great disservice.  A wonderful performance by a great African-American artist is denied to the world by the voices of some misguided activists.  Of course, they are only doing what their social position at this time demands.  If only they could rise above their raisins'. "},{"Title":"Zip-a-dee Doo Dah, Zip-a-dee Dayyyyyy, my oh my this is Disney on a bad day.","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Song Of The South. If you don't have any opinion on this Disney movie already, even if you haven't seen it, then you have somehow managed to avoid the many arguments that have developed surrounding the film based around stories told by a kind, elderly, black gentleman (Uncle Remus, played by James Baskett). Protests from both white and black people plagued the initial cinema release and the movie has become one of the easiest to pick on when people want to illustrate how downright ugly and nasty Disney movies could be.Taking away the events of the time, Song Of The South is about as offensive nowadays as Gone With The Wind. Or The Adventures Of Tom Sawyer (with which it bears more than a passing resemblance). It is very much of the time and offends those who look to be offended. Because, let's face it, the nicest character in the whole movie is the benevolent and wise Uncle Remus. The nature of the characters depicted and the speech patterns may seem patronising and mildly racist but, again, no more so than it was in other outings from the time. It was also, at that time, at least slightly accurate in allowing some local dialect in the dialogue.The essence of the movie sees young Johnny (Bobby Driscoll) struggling to keep himself occupied and well-behaved while his father is absent. This is how he comes to meet Uncle Remus and the kindly old man initially uses his storytelling skills to stop Johnny from running away. The stories, concerning Br'er Rabbit and Br'er Fox and others, may seem lightweight fancies but they always have a message and they always tend to serve some purpose.No, Song Of The South is not really offensive if you don't want to take it that way. Sadly, it's also not all that enjoyable. I just thought it was quite annoying when it wasn't being far too dull. James Baskett is very good in his role but young Bobby Driscoll is far too irritating. The animated scenes, some mixed with live action, are flat and completely uninspired when compared to previous Disney works. And the only decent tune is Zip-a-dee Doo Dah.A number of writers had a hand in developing things from the source material by Joel Chandler Harris, and they don't create anything magical, but only Harve Foster and Wilfred Jackson took on directing duties. Both men can share the blame for a lacklustre movie that is worth seeing as a historical curio, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Misconceptions about this wonderful film","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I remember seeing this film with my parents in the 1986 re-release. I remember being captivated with the combination of live action and animation. As an adult, I can appreciate the stories and the characters. Owning an Asian import copy of this film is the only way anyone can catch it on DVD now. That's a shame. One of the misconceptions that most people have about this movie is that it depicts master and slave relations. That's wrong. This movie was set AFTER THE CIVIL WAR AND EMANCIPATION. The living conditions of the former slaves is far from perfect. Where does the allegation of sugar-coating slavery come from. It shows African-Americans trying to make the best of a bad situation. And most importantly, it shows touching relationships between former slaves and children of their former master. This was a controversial topic in the 1930s, the 1870s, and even somewhat today (interracial relationships are still frequently frowned upon). This movie is quite healthy for race relations in many senses and should be re-released by Disney for it's 60th anniversary. "},{"Title":"It's an unbiased story.","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I don't find anything offensive about this. It's relates a part of history. It's not condoning slavery. Just telling how it happened. I don't see why this should be banned but other movies that are more biases are not. It is surprisingly unbiased since it was made in the 1940s when they could easily have added a racist element. There were no un-PC words used common to that era. If that were the case, I would say it should definitely be banned. But it is not the case.Overall, it's a good movie. It won Baskett an Oscar. It had a cast of other Academy Award winners. It is a good movie.If something this unoffensive is banned, then others should be as well just for consistency's sake. "},{"Title":"Ironic that Walt Disney, rumoured an anti-Semite, should have his films censored when the studio was taken over by typically PC secular Jews.","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" No one has ever really pinned the anti-Semite label successfully on Disney... but Richard Schickle sure tried. And given the times he lived in... perhaps there is more than a grain of truth in it.So once the new regime took over at Disney, and given the uncomfortable relationship between black activists and the Jews, who had done so much to support them and the civil rights movement for a century, it is not surprising that something as innocent as SONG OF THE SOUTH should suffer. It is time to get this lovely work of art out of the line of fire.HUCKLEBERRY FINN is not racist and neither is SONG OF THE SOUTH.Enough. "},{"Title":"Song Of The South","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Being born and raised in the south, Richmond, Virginia, the capitol of the south to be exact. Let me say a few words about this wonderful film.I first saw this film when my father took my brother, mother and I to see it in the late 70' when I was a child. He then bought me the storybook, the record that had the storybook in it too. He used to read at bedtime and imitate the voices of Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox and Brer Bear. Those are some of the most wonderful memories from my childhood. I saw the film in the re-release in the 80's and still had a wonderful love of it.When Disney pulled the film and said they would not release it for video or put it back in theaters it broke my heart. Just because some thought it was offensive.This is a children's film that deals with life's lessons and the best way to deal with them(or not to as the case may be). At least it shows how great of a Black actor James Baskett is for getting an Honnorary Oscar for his performance for the greatest story teller of all time Uncle Remus. I am just glad I have a very good picture and sound copy on VHS that me and my 4 year old enjoy until I can get it on DVD. "},{"Title":"well, actually...","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I must say, that I actually adore this film but i cannot believe that it has been stopped being published? RASCISM? OK if thats the case what about Colour Purple and American history X? Where, here you actually see people being killed and tortured? Or Fried Green Tomatoes where you have the KKK? Its absolutely ridiculous!!! There's nothing offencive here! If Uncle Remus was chained up, had his teeth smashed on a pavement or being set alight (as in previous films mentioned) I'd understand, but it's harmless. We can't try to cover up EVERYTHING that MIGHT be offencive to people, children are learning about slavery at school- we can't escape it, it's part of history isn't it. What about in Scum where the boy is raped? Isn't that offencive to those who have been raped, or to young men? See my point? We cannot avoid it all costs. I love this film and always did as a child, I think the film is imaginative and also a learning curve to show us how far we've progressed technically. I just hope they re-release it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"This is an interesting movie.","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" It starts out with a boy that goes to live with his mother on a plantation in Georgia. His father is living in Atlanta for work. Johnny (the boy), befriends a very happy, kind, old man named Uncle Remus. Uncle Remus is a sort of father figure over the neighborhood children. Johnny meets a poor white family that owns three puppies. The little girl (Ginny) gives her puppy to Johnny so her mean brothers won't drown him (the dog). Johnny's mom (Sally) won't let him keep the pup, so he leaves the pup with Uncle Remus. One of Uncle Remus's stories involves Brer Rabbit using reverse psychology to escape a trap. Johnny uses what he learned from that story to trick the two boys into getting a beating from their mother. When Sally hears of this, she forbids Remus from telling Johnny any more stories. Johnny later misses a party because Ginny's brothers push her in the mud ruining her dress. Uncle Remus tells them a story to cheer them up. Ginny tells Sally that Remus told them a story. Sally then told Remus to stay away from her son. Kind hearted Uncle Remus doesn't want to cause any more trouble, so he packs up and takes a wagon out of town. Johnny chases after Remus across a fenced off area where a bull runs over him. His father comes back, but Johnny only wakes up when hearing Uncle Remus telling him another story. Johnny's dad decides to stay at the plantation and they all live happily ever after. "},{"Title":"Controversy or No, It's Still A Bad Film","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The bastard child of the Disney musical cannon Song Of The South has a history so littered with controversy that it is a rather difficult film to talk about. I mean, what is left to be said that hasn't already been said before?I suppose, however, a good place to start is to talk about why on earth I decided to spend my time watching it in the first place. Well, for starters I have to be honest and come right out with the fact that I threw this film into the player largely because it is so controversial. I mean, a movie that Disney has refused to release of home video within the United States, how could I go past that? Secondly, the movie does have a significant amount of historical value in the way in which it weaves live action footage (shot brilliantly in glorious Technicolor) together with animated sequences, and also in that it provides an interesting look at a particular part of society's revisionist version of the reconstruction period in the South.The plot itself is rather simple a young boy (Bobby Driscoll) and his mother (Ruth Warrick) come down to Georgia to stay on a plantation where they meet Uncle Remus (James Baskett). Remus is a former slave and full- time story teller who throughout the film relates the old folk-tales of Bre'er Rabbit and Bre'er Fox to young Johnny in order to help the boy sort out his personal problems. Really, it's not the world's most interesting plot, but it serves well for the purposes of the film with Remus's stories sweeping from live action into animation with easy grace.The problems with this plot, however, arise quickly with the meeting of old Uncle Remus, who presents as an amalgamation of almost every racial cliché one could imagine. Not a good starting point to be sure. The other African-American characters too are presented in a very poor light, playing off the common prejudices around at the time. Their speech is hokey and sounds almost like it was torn straight from the script of a minstrel show, they sing traditional songs (with the director's showing no sensitivity to the cultural implications of such music) as they go about their work, and they are all costumed in the manner one would have expected from D.W. Griffith's The Birth Of A Nation (1915). The film also gives an incredibly naïve and revisionist view of black-white relations at the time, showing benevolent masters and servants contented with their roles of servitude.None of this is maliciously intended, I would wager, but nonetheless it is very problematic especially for an ostensible children's film, and I agree wholeheartedly with the NAACP's calls to boycott the movie when it was first released. I think the very fact that it not deliberately and maliciously offensive towards the people it marginalises makes it all ever worse. I mean, a child can easily be taught that hatefulness and overt racism are unacceptable, but to be shown such an insidious example from such a trusted source as Disney can provide a challenge for a parent to explain away. The movie contains no message or moral of equality, just a sly suggestion that 'certain people' should know their 'place'.I do not, however, agree with any calls to forget this film entirely. It has earned a place in the historical cannon of feature films and as such is deserving of study, analysis, and critical thought regarding its artistic merits. Song Of The South has a definite place in film libraries and the collections of students and historians, and I think that it is a place that needs to be preserved and not glossed over. I would just recommend that it be kept out of the hands of children.As an aside to this discussion of the film's problematic racial presentations I will also say that I have scored this film rather low for the simple fact that it is boring. It really doesn't quite reach the same heights of grand magic that Disney films often do. The story is fractured and episodic, making it hard to become invested in the plight of the characters, the songs (bar one) are not particularly memorable, and, to be honest, the primary protagonist is unlikeable. It's not poorly executed, in fact some of the location shooting and technical trickery is actually rather inspired, but it is poorly constructed as a film.So, in conclusion, I'm going to have to express my ambivalence towards this movie. It has some artistic merits, but these are tempered by a series of filmic shortcomings, and it has a definite degree of historical and cultural value, but that comes primarily from the fact that it is really rather racist.I suppose the only thing you can do is watch it for yourself and make up your own mind about how much value one can ascribe to this outcast from the Disney family. "},{"Title":"Fletch assumed that the south was going to be like this.  He quickly found out otherwise.","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" OK, so it's obvious that Song of the South is NOT a movie to take seriously. It's not exactly racist as much as a whitewash of the post-Civil War era. A realistic look at the era would show the reign of terror visited on the black population by the Ku Klux Klan.You may recall a certain scene in Fletch Lives where the title character (Chevy Chase) imagines that the south will be exactly like the Zip a-Dee Doo Dah scene. Once he arrives in the south, he finds out that the region's a dump.Since the movie might give one the impression that Ruth Warrick was simply the type who only appeared in Disney flicks, I should note that she wrote a song in memory of the Kent State students killed by the national guard in 1970.The point is that there's nothing to recommend about this movie. "},{"Title":"If my friend Condi Rice would watch this film then I would too","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Is Song of the South Racist? If my Friend Condi Rice the highest ranking Intellectual African American would watch this movie then my Daughter Julia and I would watch the film as well if it ever came out of the Disney Vaults. I would tell my daughter that some untrue things were said about our fellow Americans originally from Africa and that our DNA is over 98 per cent the same and I have many black friends. In the past I have praised the leadership abilities of both General Colin Powell and my friend Condi Rice. President George W Bush has a gifted team of leaders, do not let the overly left wing segments of the press fool you. In the 1960 election I would have voted for President Jack Kennedy so I am a Democrat sometimes and a Republican at other times. I can remember reading a brer rabbit Disney book to a Friend of mine when I was visiting and never even realized that there were any racist elements in the book. I like the Character of Uncle Remus and I think his character in films helped break down racist barriers like the wrongful segregationist south. I believe that if we start censoring the motion pictures of our past that this is a bad road to travel down as Americans. Freedom of speech means that at sometime everyone is going to be offended. Having come from the Moonfleet on Apollo 16 I cringe at the word lunatic a bit even though I consider myself to be law abiding and sane. I once saved the life of my sister Rebecca catching her at the bottom of a stairs that her stroller fell down. If Rebecca had hit the concrete floor of the unfinished basement she would not have survived. I was playing under the stairs when I heard the door open at the top and then heard a tumbling sound. I thought my mom had thrown a laundry basket down the stairs and I went to yell at her and thankfully caught my Sister. I was five years old and scared of the collision with the stroller but I had to save my little Sister. Rebecca went on to a Catholic High School and is a Nurse who has helped save many lives. I like to think that I represent life like the Messiah. Thank you to IMDb for supporting freedom of speech like the kind President George W Bush and I support. Support IMDb. "},{"Title":"Whistling Dixie...","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have a VERY hard time separating a film's content with its message. While Brer Rabbit morphs into the beloved Bugs Bunny, Uncle Remus is left behind as an artifact of America's past. It is difficult to NOT see the references to slavery in this film; however, the stories are intricately coded with messages unique to the African American oral tradition. Joel Chandler Harris was inspired by slaves and based his characters on such people. Still, the stories have value. The problem is that the DIXIE the folks are singing about during the opening credits is one that is CONFEDERATE, i.e. pro-slavery. Therefore, the film is problematic because it presents an idyllic myth and fallacy about the slavery institution as benevolent and kind. The happy darkie or contented slave is one of those mythical characters. Happy darkies like Uncle Remus are the myth, not the reality of chattel slavery. Plantations were not fun places to live and work, sing with animals and play with children. Uncle Remus is akin to Bojangles; both were black male characters who were only capable of befriending white children.Hmmm... I think any film that portrays slavery in a positive light is a problem, such as Gone with the Wind. Hattie McDaniel is a SLAVE, not just a mere maid. Downplaying the historical, political and social subtext of these films only adds more controversy to an already very sensitive issue that began with Africans' arrival in the New World in the 17th century. Granted, most child viewers will not ever interpret the deeply-packed subtext; further, there are many white Americans who do not want to address or even acknowledge issues of race and slavery. You see, then, how Uncle Remus becomes such a problem for those who are sensitive to topics of race, racism and slavery.I wonder, though, if the film were entitled Song of Aushwitz, whether the Jews depicted in their ghettos and camps (sans plantations) would be as beloved. An old rabbi will tell tales of Herr Rabbit evading Herr Fox and Herr Bear (Herr = mister in German). No one would ever refute whether that portrayal was anti-Semitic or bigoted. However, when browner people are involved, somehow things are not racist, bigoted, etc. Very interesting indeed. The South never had a song to sing in the Post-Civil War era, unless they were still whistling Dixie, but then, we are back where we started.Messy. Quite messy indeed. "},{"Title":"Happy Servitude is Racist","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" When I look at postings about this movie online, what I find are postings that defend Song of the South as a great movie with little to no racism in it. It does, in fact, follow many Disney conventions for their animated children's movies breaking out into song, fantasy lands, and kids who are on the verge of getting into trouble until some wise character comes to their aid and shows them the meaning of life or some other such lesson. One thing the postings do not discuss is where the stories come from and how Disney got a hold of them in the first place.The Br'er Rabbit stories told in Song of the South conform to many African American trickster tales with the same name. Br'er Rabbit is a weak creature that outwits stronger creatures to gain the advantage. Br'er Rabbit is not always very nice to his friends and is mostly concerned about getting some food. In Song of the South, the tar baby episode is taken directly from authentic African American trickster tales; however, usually the tar baby is placed near a well or a vegetable patch where Br'er Rabbit has been taking what is not his. The episode where Br'er Rabbit convinces Br'er Bear to take his job and the episode about the laughing place are also not far off from authentic tales. The main difference that I see, however, is that Br'er Rabbit is usually not a buffoon in the authentic tales as he is in the first episode of Song of the South. Further, his adversaries are not the sambo and the minstrel that we see in Br'er Bear and Br'er Fox respectively. When Johnny tells the poor white kids not to tell their mother even though he wants them too (because he knows it will get them in trouble), this is a very good example of how trickster tales tend to work. Another aspect of the African American trickster tale is that order is usually restored in the end. This was true to life in the days of slavery and Jim Crow, and it is also true in Song of the South Remus, the weaker, remains in that position after the tales are told.What I have also found on some Internet postings is that the movie does not take place in the time of slavery. This, however, is never established in the movie and speculation is the only way to determine an answer. The movie begins with the following script Out of the humble cabin, out of the singing heart of the Old South have come the tales of Uncle Remus (tm), rich in simple truths, forever fresh and new. What is the Old South if not the antebellum South? What, exactly, is the singing heart of the Old South if not the myth of happy slaves? What does it say about ownership and orality when we see the name Uncle Remus trademarked? Song of the South, while probably enjoyable to kids, contains many stereotypes about blacks and slavery that they may unselfconsciously absorb. At the beginning, Johnny's parents are fighting over some issue that is never elaborated or explained. All we know is that some of the community is on his side and most are against him (including, possibly, Johnny's mother). This issue may be about Jim Crow and it may be about slavery, but the fact that it is never discussed suggests it has something to do with race and it also dehistorisizes and decontextualizes the issue so that no real lessons are learned. In effect, it makes slavery and Jim Crow the same historical moment. The movie also perpetuates the stereotype of happy slavery or servitude. The relationships between blacks and whites in the movie obviously show whites in power, but there is little strain and almost no racism present. Also, work is never shown in the movie. The slaves go off to work to the sound of white-vocalists singing spirituals of an Episcopalian vein, but work itself is never depicted (unless you consider Uncle Remus cobbling one shoe or truing one wheel to be work, per se).Song of the South was released in 1946. The writers and directors chose not to mention slavery or Jim Crow, but instead focus on the happy stories that come out of the Old South. This movie perpetuates the white plantation owners' claims that blacks were happy when enslaved or were happy to be sharecroppers making little to no money. Perhaps this movie was made to distract audiences from Jim Crow, lynchings and overt racism in the U.S. in 1946 by focusing on the happy and natural relationship between an old black man in the south and young (rich) white little boy. "},{"Title":"Not overtly racist, but indeed an ignorant and naive look into that time in US history","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The film has been criticized both for making slavery appear pleasant and pretending slavery didn't exist, even though the film (like Harris' original collection of stories) is set after the Civil War and the abolition of slavery. Still, that time period in U.S. wasn't as rose colored and happy go lucky as the movie portends.As folklorist Patricia A. Turner writes, The days on the plantation located in the United States of Georgia begin and end with unsupervised Blacks singing songs about their wonderful home as they march to and from the fields. Disney and company made no attempt to render the music in the style of the spirituals and work songs that would have been sung during this era. They provided no indication regarding the status of the Blacks on the plantation. Joel Chandler Harris set his stories in the post-slavery era, but Disney's version seems to take place during a surreal time when Blacks lived on slave quarters on a plantation, worked diligently for no visible reward and considered Atlanta a viable place for an old Black man to set out for.Kind old Uncle Remus caters to the needs of the young white boy whose father has inexplicably left him and his mother at the plantation. An obviously ill-kept Black child of the same age named Toby is assigned to look after the white boy, Johnny. Although Toby makes one reference to his ma, his parents are nowhere to be seen. The African-American adults in the film pay attention to him only when he neglects his responsibilities as Johnny's playmate-keeper. He is up before Johnny in the morning in order to bring his white charge water to wash with and keep him entertained.The boys befriend a little blond girl, Ginny, whose family clearly represents the neighborhood's white trash. Although Johnny coaxes his mother into inviting Ginny to his fancy birthday party at the big house, Toby is curiously absent from the party scenes. Toby is good enough to catch frogs with, but not good enough to have birthday cake with. When Toby and Johnny are with Uncle Remus, the gray-haired Black man directs most of his attention to the white child. Thus Blacks on the plantation are seen as willingly subservient to the whites to the extent that they overlook the needs of their own children. When Johnny's mother threatens to keep her son away from the old gentleman's cabin, Uncle Remus is so hurt that he starts to run away. In the world that Disney made, the Blacks sublimate their own lives in order to be better servants to the white family.That is why people who have a problem with the movie have a problem with it. It reinforces the subtle and not so subtle messages about Blacks that have plagued this nation since slavery was introduced. Ask yourself this, would the film still be a memorable classic (among white people in this country at that) if it starred an ALL black cast? What if Toby was the central child in the story? As a white person myself, I don't think so and I wish other white people would open their minds up and try to see things from the other side. Just because the movie might make us feel good doesn't mean it's not offending others. Blacks were still being lynched during that period yet this movie is heralded as a period piece? "},{"Title":"Song of the South from a Black Man's perspective","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I first saw the film in the mid 1950s, during one of Disney's numerous reissues; I must have been 6 or 7 years old at the time.Having been raised in the North, even then the portrayals of Black folks in the film made me slightly uncomfortable... the obsequious, servile and submissive nature of the characters was vaguely disquieting; these were NOT the kind of Black people that I saw every day in Chicago! And in places the dialect that they adopted was incomprehensible... what were they SAYING??? The film sunk out of sight sometime thereafter; I didn't see it again for nearly a half century.A couple of years ago I encountered a copy of it... interestingly, a Japanese release on laser disk! That the Disney folks felt secure enough to release it in Japan but not the United States says some very uncomplimentary things about Japanese racial attitudes, I think... especially when you consider that one of the alternate soundtracks and the subtitles during songs are in Korean. It's no secret that there is considerable Japanese racial prejudice directed toward Koreans.On viewing it again after all these years, I wasn't really offended by the film... but I was STILL made uncomfortable for reasons different from those that disturbed me as a child.The reasons were clear in the opening sequence. The film refuses to deal with TRUTH, and reverts to both revisionist and omissive history.Tho they don't tell us so directly, the film is clearly set in the antebellum South. Like MANY films of that era and before, it IDEALIZES and ROMANTICIZES the slave existence; indeed, they never even mention the fact that the plantation workers ARE slaves! They're just a happy, carefree group of laborers that revel in nightly bonfires, songs, and folk tales by Uncle Remus.One of the most glaring omissions of fact is in the first two minutes of the film. It's clear that Johnny is being taken to the plantation for his own safety, because of threats over what his father, a newspaper editor, has written. To adults viewing the film, it's pretty apparent that he's been editorially expressing antislavery sentiments. It's also clear that we're on the verge of the Civil War, but this is the only acknowledgement of that the Disney script writers make... a rather HUGE historical omission in my opinion! Over the years I'd forgotten the final sequence of the film, and it's the most amazing bit of historical revisionism of all.When Johnny's mother forbids him to have any contact with the boy, Uncle Remus decides that the only thing he can do is LEAVE THE PLANTATION for Atlanta! Can you imagine what would have happened if a slave simply decided to WALK AWAY from the plantation in the pre Civil War south? Since we're talking about an old man who can't move very fast, the area's slave catchers would have earned an EASY fee! Overall tho my opinion is that this is NOT THE RIGHT TIME to put SONG OF THE SOUTH back into general release in the United States. The reason is that sadly it appears that we're NOT sufficiently mature and socially advanced as a Nation to deal with a film like this in it's historical context.Since the beginning of the Bush Administration, it seems that the National climate is tolerant of the expression of old bigotries and hatreds that should have died out long ago.After Hurricane Katerina devastated New Orleans, we heard TORRENTS of anti Black sentiment, not only expressed in code words but in plain language. Earlier, we heard a similar outburst after the acquittal of O. J. Simpson, but on a smaller scale.In neither case did we hear an effective rebuttal to this outburst of bigotry... indeed we heard it echoed and amplified on conservative Talk Radio and on television from conservative commentators.The long and the short of it is that in a society where unreasoned bigotry is accepted without question or opposition under the guise of free speech, in a society where youngsters feel that they can drag a Black man behind a pickup truck with impunity and feel justified in doing so, sadly even an innocent children's film like SONG OF THE SOUTH can aid, abet, and help to TEACH bigotry to a new generation. "},{"Title":"an historical cinema curiosity that still deserves to be buried--","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  it is apparently inconceivable to many people-- of whatever background-- that the reasons for not wanting to see SONG OF THE SOUTH in mass release are founded with anything logical-- that they are supposedly just politically correct/leftist liberal backlash-- HOWEVER---SONG OF THE SOUTH deserves to be buried.. it's available to internet-savvy folk, so fine..but as far as putting it in modern day Wal-Marts, Targets and Best Buys? Heck no..the fact exists that these images did a great disservice in collectively disrespecting black people as a whole-- to dismiss it as simply being a sign of the times implicitly endorses the attitudes..the uncle remus folk tales are of great historical importance, BUT-- in the hands of Disney, how many people now implicitly (or for younger people, explicitly) attribute the various brother's grimm-harvested folk tales as Disney inventions?  The same goes for Milne's WINNIE THE POOH...I can remember seeing the movie as a young boy, on the DISNEY channel, in the mid 80's... Despite the 'moral' lesson(s) involved, it was hardly a bold maneuver for any filmmaker to depict American slavery as being anything but a marginally uncomfortable circumstance.. young people who are not conscious of the true brutality of the slavery era may be led to think it was not that bad... and worse, what if Disney decides to cash in further and spin off certain characters into merchandise, like Uncle Remus or the Tar Baby.. "},{"Title":"There is a reason you can't see this movie","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I am shocked and saddened that so many people are in love with this movie. Don't get me wrong, I am against censorship in nearly all forms but this film was pulled off the shelves by Disney, not the government. Disney realized that it was offensive and made the ethical decision to stop producing it.  I know that everyone just loves humming the theme song and the film does conjure up warm childhood memories but that was a time of cultural ignorance. I never want my children to see this movie and think that that mentality is OK. The image of the blissfully ignorant, or should I say ig'nant, slave (not servant, slave) as he entertains his massa's child and wistfully remembers the good old days (when were those for African Americans?) is disturbing as well as racist. If you want to teach your kids a moral lesson, teach them equality. Open your eyes, folks.  The only thing this film is good for is examining what was wrong with this country at that time in history. "}{"Title":"Are You Kidding Me?","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  I am shocked that no one else finds this movie as deeply offensive as I do. I grew up in the Deep South and can assure you that this is not my `heritage' (as one viewer comments), nor is it anyone's heritage. It is a fully `white'-washed version of history that never occurred. And, yes, I do realize that this is Disney and make-believe. However, presented here is the `mythical' south of happy, contented former slaves who actively lament the passing of a previous time that was safe and secure (Uncle Remus reminisces about a time before when things were better). This is the myth that many Americans tried to console themselves with, convincing themselves and others that blacks were somehow better off in bondage. The entire movie falls well within the American minstrel tradition, in which white `entertainers' co-opt artifacts from African-American culture to the grand amusement of white audiences. Though the actors in this film were certainly black, they had no African-American voice beyond a retelling of the very white Joel Chandler Harris's stories in his version of a black dialect.Harris himself was re-telling African stories, but to a very, very different end than the original purpose of those stories. "},{"Title":"The Film Within","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Spoilers herein.This is a simple story about a storyteller and his stories. So it fits the standard play within the play format. I suppose you can judge for yourself how bad this is, and how offensive. What interests me is Ted's law of insertion that's where the story within (the cartoon B'rer stories) is exactly the same distance of abstraction as the containing story (the tripe about the kid, his dad and frequently mistaken mother) is from the world of the viewer.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Nasty and vicious","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Sorry, racists. Even if you can ignore the endless hyuk-yukkin' (cause you know they all talks that way) and the scenes of weary but happy slaves/sharecroppers/happy non-exempt employees with good dental plans singing lustily as they stroll in the gloaming towards home, Song of the South sucks on toast.Story lines are dropped like cell phone calls in a salt mine, characters act because the script says so, not from any meaningful motivation, and the relations between the races are as believable as the relations between Hogan's Heroes and the Wehrmacht.Particularly offensive is the scene where Bobby Driscoll's daddy comes home, speaks to his son, and is rewarded by the little newt calling out in pain for Uncle Remus.As far as the underlying morality of the story, yeah, sure, I took Cultural Anthro in school because that's where the hot babes were I know that every culture has its tales of The Trickster. I ALSO know that the kid's mother was 1000% right in cutting him off from Uncle Remus--I don't want MY six-year-old having some old guy in a shack teaching him that you win in life by lies, deceit, and misdirection. Nice stuff.Get real. The only thing worth preserving for future generations here is the story of the Tar Baby. He got into big trouble because he messed with something he didn't know about and never should have messed with in the first place, or words to that effect. I WISH we could have used that line over and over during the ramping up of the Iraq War.Otherwise, you take the time and expense to glam onto a copy of this fece, you'll watch it once, be really p.o.'d the only thing worth watching is the twenty minutes or so of animation, put it on the shelf, and never, never, never, never watch it again. "}]