[{"Title":"A microcosm of WWII","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"45 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is one of the great war films ever made.  Yet there are few combat scenes, and no mock heroics.  What makes this movie successful is its depiction of war from the viewpoint of the men in the platoon.  The film takes place primarily during the course of a walk from the beach at Salerno, Italy where the platoon has landed to a farmhouse they are to capture 6 miles away.Although Dana Andrews is listed as the nominal star of the film, the scenes are divided up equally among several men each with their own take on the mission and ultimately the war.Other than Andrews(approaching the peak of his career as Sgt Tyne)the rest of the cast were young up and comers, many who went on to great acting careers. They included Richard Conte, Lloyd Bridges(his first important role), John Ireland, George Tyne, Huntz Hall(on hiatus from the East Side Kids films and very effective) and Norman Lloyd(bitterly brilliant as Archambeau).  There is an understated narration by Burgess Meredith and a folk ballad score sung by Earl Robinson.  They all perfectly fit in to the pictureThe key player in all of this is director Lewis Milestone.  A veteran of films since the twenties, his credits included All Quiet On The Western Front, The Front Page, and Of Mice and Men.  In A Walk In The Sun a Milestone independent production he incorporated the successful elements of the other three and the result is one of the greatest of it's genre. It is a movie not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film of WWII","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I usually hate to name a favorite film in a genre because I always have several I rate equally well, but, if asked to name one that tops the rest I have to say, in the WWII genre, this film is it. It is an intelligent and honest film about men in war; no heroics, no jingoism, no evil enemy, just regular Joes who are caught up in something big and deadly and would rather be home, but are doing their job. There are no clichés, no obligatory guy from Brooklyn, no high sounding phrases, no patriotic slogans, just an honest and realistic depiction of strictly ordinary guys caught in war. Lewis Milestone, the director, obviously understood the combat soldier.I love the dialog, the banter among the men of a fighting platoon, especially that between Pvts Rivera, played by Richard Conte, and Friedman, played by George Tyne. Coincidentally, Dana Andrews, one of my favorite actors, character is Sgt. Tyne. I wonder what was made of that by actor George Tyne. The cast also includes a young Lloyd Bridges and Huntz Hall, in the only roll I can recall seeing him in outside the East Side Kids/ Bowery Boys films.The novel by Harry Brown, from which the film was made, was republished a few years ago and the dialog in the film is lifted straight out of it, which is part of what makes the film so great. In fact, this is one of those rare cases where the movie follows the book faithfully, almost to the letter.I was nine years old when this film was released and I well remember the night I first saw it. My parents, who have just celebrated their 70th wedding anniversary, thought it was a romance film. I didn't want to go but when we arrived at the old Westmore Theater, now long gone, which was in walking distance of our home, and I saw the lobby photos and saw it was a war film, I was the one delighted. There was always at least one scene from these films that stayed in my mind over the years and in this one it was the hand of the German soldier with the ring on it hanging out of the wrecked armored vehicle, and the assault on the farmhouse.It was just a little walk in the warm Italian sun, but it wasn't an easy thing.An excellent film made from an excellent novel with an excellent cast, all making an excellent viewing experience. "},{"Title":"An excellent title for a book and movie dealing with individual thoughts which often occur while taking a long walk.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I just like the movie.  The first time I saw it was in 1948 and I did not see it again until a  few years ago when AMC and the History channel started to show it again.  I watch it every chance I get.  The cast is excellent with many of the actors becoming more popular in later years. This movie offers excellent insight into what makes people tick. The platoon making its way inland during the invasion of Italy offers insight into what a farmer, school teacher, etc. considers important in life.  One scene which I believe describes the futility of war is where the farmer determines that the soil is worthless.  The cerebral fellow (John Ireland) states simply that it is because too many soilders have walked over it for too many years (centuries).I especially like how John Ireland writes letters in his head and hopes to write them on paper later.  I also like the part where Lloyd Bridges starts laughing because he suddenly feels like a little kid when planting explosives on a bridge. The confident Sergeant ( Dana Andrews)  shows fear when about to give the command to launch the attack on the farmhouse.The fast talking dialogue between Richard Conte and his buddy remind me of people we have met.  This is an excellent movie. I believe that most people would appreciate this movie, whether or not they watch war movies.  This movie offers a lot of insight into human nature.The movie is practically void of blood and gore and leaves it to the imagination of the viewer, such as when the Lieutenant is seriously wounded while on board the landing craft, with half of  his face missing.  You can imagine it and don't have to see it.  "},{"Title":"The 'fog of war' as seen by an WW2 American infantryman","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Hardly many war films are like this, nothing really happens here but it's still exciting. American infantry platoon lands at Salerno, Italy in 1943 and has orders to capture and hold a farmhouse some miles ahead. The men don't know nothing about what is waiting for them. Will the enemy open fire right at the beach and kill all of them? Will there be mines? Who is their enemy anyway, Germans or Italians? Will they get strafed by enemy aircraft of will 'our boys' control the skies? These are questions that a regular infantryman may ask from himself. They don't know what is waiting for them and they try to guess what the overall situation is. The movie is lots of talking, waiting and walking by the Italian countryside. The soldiers must be alert at all times and there may be false alarms too. Action comes suddenly and is also quickly committed.This is another of those war movies that can be called 'realistic'. In many post-modern war movie realism is seen as a synonym of lots of blood and dying soldiers yelling 'mommy' and such. I don't call that realism - these men know exactly how to deal with disturbing things that war contains. They ignore things that they cannot emotionally handle and this must also be the way those things were handled in real war. This may well be seen as a dull movie, but it also shows the war as it really was. There is no pathos at all in this movie and that is why many people like it. "},{"Title":"It is hard to harness determination and purpose.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This war drama ranks among the best in its genre. An outstanding ensemble cast and intense story makes for an interesting look at the realism of war. This film follows a platoon of American soldiers from the time they land in Europe until they complete their mission...capturing a German occupied farmhouse in World War Two Italy. The talented and diverse cast includesDana Andrews, John Ireland, Lloyd Bridges, George Tyne, Huntz Hall and Richard Conte. Kudos also to director Lewis Milestone. "},{"Title":"A landmark, one-of-a-kind war film.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  One of the best war movies ever made, directed by Lewis Milestone (All Quiet on the Western Front), this movie is distinguished by its depiction of war from the soldier's individual point of view. Unlike most war movies, this is infantry combat as seen through the eyes of several members of a platoon as it walks through the Italian countryside in 1943 on its way to seize a German observation post. In all the action sequences, you never see anything that the individual soldier (German, Italian or American) depicted on the screen doesn't see. You only see what is happening around him as he sees it. I've seen them all, and no other director ever approached war filming this way. And I can tell you personally that this is the way it was in combat. The only errors in the entire movie involved grenades you don't blow bridges with them and you don't pull their pins with your teeth--that's the best way I know of pulling out a tooth w/o a dentist's helping hand. A landmark movie made during the war and only released after the war ended in 1945 because of the final scenes. Matched only by William Wellman's A Story of GI Joe, this is the best film on infantry combat produced from World War II.  Yes, yes, I've seen Saving Private Ryan.  Except for the shock of the first 20 minutes, it's Steven Spielberg's three-star remembrance of his boyhood comic book war stories.  "},{"Title":"A different war movie.","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a different war movie, it has very few action sequences.  But the director created a compelling movie none the less.  Most action in this movie takes place off camera, this creates a feeling of 'being there.' One character mentions that all the action he has seen he had to listen to it. The pace of the movie tends to get slow then speed up quickly.  It was quite different but for a war movie fan like myself, very entertaining.  "},{"Title":"A great story of men in war","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When A Walk in the Sun came out in 1945 it made a strong impression on the home front. It showed more of the reality of war than the string of patriotic we-can-do-it slap-the-Jap stun-the-Hun movies, mostly nonsensical tripe made during the war years. There are no John Wayne heroics here, no superhuman commandos, just the poor bloody infantry. They are just a platoon of fairly ordinary men on a mission to march to a farmhouse and occupy it. It is not that Hollywood staple of the mission that could change the course of the war. They lose their lieutenant. They take casualties from planes, maybe even their own planes. The sergeant who takes over the lead breaks down. They keep going. They talk - a lot. But what talk it is! It is the talk of soldiers. Commonplace stuff, where do you come from, what are you going to do after the war, do the brass know what they're doing, gimme a cigarette. The song that opens and closes the movie makes a point that is perhaps the point of the movie when it links them to soldiers of other places and times.Incidentally, it is fun to look at the cast. Most of the major players in this movie were at the beginning of long and successful careers, notably Dana Andrews, Lloyd Bridges and Norman Lloyd. (Just another thought - after seeing Saving Private Ryan, I realized that Steven Spielberg has seen A Walk in the Sun at least as many times as I have.) My uncle, a veteran of Tunisia who went into Salerno as a Ranger, hated most war films, but not this one. He also told me that his company had a fight with a German armored car very similar to the one with the halftrack in this film. "},{"Title":"Another Job to be Done","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A Walk in the Sun -despite some please the folks at home inaccuracies that has been spoken of earlier pulling grenade pins with teeth(irks me every time)and the grenades destroying a bridge (well it could've of been just planks across a stream not the Golden Gate) the theme song,the movie tells of fear,monotony,cynicism(Norman Lloyds'point man feels this thing is gonna last forever with or without him) and the terror-heroics of combat very well. Far superior to Guadacanal Diary and the war as cartoon films of that period and after, ,and like the similar The Story of GI Joe set in Italy the forgotten front a story of a job to be done. The platoon takes losses in the final assault on the farmhouse how many fatal or seriously wounded is unknown and neither is the fate of the platoon answered no relieving task force comes up at the climax. There will be other farmhouses,other streams to cross, another hill to take and hold for the poor slob infantry. No remake is needed, no Spielbergian string section pulling at the heart, no CGI effects needed to convey the havoc, A Walk In the Sun says with dignity and respect that a job had to be done and this is a story of some of the workers in the mill. "},{"Title":"Real war, real emotion, real people, really good movie","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie is beyond criticism. Within its celluloid record there clambers cold history. The tanks are real. The planes are real. The people are real. This was a contemporary war movie to the actual war, without the layers of myth laquered by years of failing memory.Unlike recent high budget over-the-top productions and the copious blood spattering within, this little epic tends to mute the violence into the pathos of the moment of death. That being the death of heroes. And the emphasis appears to hinge on the suddenness, the randomness, and the tragedy of men dying hard. It is a stark memorial to the courage and sacrifice of the World War II soldier.Amazingly, and very much in contrast to most other war films of the period which demonized the enemy, this film provides a neutral texture to the foe. Here the German soldiers are but shadows on the cave wall. The stray Italian soldiers appear as comic sidekicks in the maelstrom of a nation at peril from two sides. The enemy appears to escape the moral condemnation that other films embraced. This is war and this is what it is by those who fought it.The film describes the landings of an infantry platoon on the Salerno beaches in Italy. All of a sudden they are left leaderless as two of the senior officers meets a soldier's fate. The beach scene remains a descriptive detail of what a soldiers paradox in modern warfare was. They bring the war but they do not know where it is, where they are, whether the war will visit them, or what lies in front of them. Without the need for special effects the director garnishes the film with the fog of war skillfully.A startling moment is when the third ranking leader, a noncom sargeant succumbs to panic and shell shock. It is perhaps the kindest treatment of the condition ever presented cinematically during that period. The rest of the platoon appears to be supportive to the fallen insane sargeant. But the war goes on. They move on.Rallied by a solid sargeant the platoon moves onto its objectives, a bridge and a farmhouse at a cost. The objectives are difficult and the angst of leadership and follower play the scene well. And unlike most war movies where heroism goes beyond definition, these heroes are all very much afraid.The film has a solid core of young actors of the period. Dana Andrews, a very young Lloyd Bridges appear to anchor the cast. The black and white format suits this tiny epic. The cinematography, stunts are solid and consistently well done. It is a darkish film very much worth seeing. "}{"Title":"An extraordinary war movie, distinguished for its special use of language.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When this picture came out in 1945 I was stationed at England General Hospital in Atlantic City. My wife and I found a baby-sitter for our one-year-old son and went to see this movie. Atlantic City at that time was a military town, and most of the soldiers were patients at EGH -- most of them amputees. Run-of-the-mill war movies were occasions for hoots and catcalls from the soldier audience. The audience the night we saw A Walk in the Sun sat spellbound and silent.I have always wanted to see the film again to see if it is as good as I thought at the time. Last night my wife and I watched it again on DVD. I was puzzled at first. Then I realized that the soldiers in the film did not talk like soldiers (no four-letter words); also they were speaking their lines in blank verse. Unlike most movies of that vintage it withstands the test of time. If it is not a four-star movie, there is no such thing! "},{"Title":"Interesting WWII movie and highly considered with outstanding direction by Milestone","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" September 1943 WWII,during the Italian campaign against the Germans, an infantrymen platoon of US army washes ashore on the coast near of Salerno and for the fighting are dieing all officials and the sergeants command to execute the mission assigned,they must capture a farmhouse occupied by the Nazis.The group is trying to take an enemy location by themselves,it's shot with an excellent action sequences.The picture is a based about novel of same title by journalist Harry Brown who fought on the front since 1941 until 1943 and narrated his experiences as soldier in European Allied army. The first which bought the license was Samuel Bronston but the public was bored of the warlike genre and he wanted the making a super-production and then he gave the rights to Lewis Milestone.This director contacted with Daryl F. Zanuck -the magnate of 2oth Century Fox- who financed the post-production.The film realizes a magnificent reunion actors showing the numerous personages and explores their circumstances,apprehension,fears and cowardice. Lewis Milestone incorporated an off-voice of the actor Burguess Meredith who the same year starred ¨The story of G.I.Joe¨filmed by William A.Wellman and would be its more direct rival.Good storyline by Robert Rossen,turned director with important films as ¨The hustler¨and¨Alexander Magno¨ .Productor and director Lewis Milestone also made others classics as ¨All quiet on the western front¨ masterpiece WWI and the Korean set ¨Pork Chop Hill¨ which along with ¨Men in war¨(Anthony Mann) are the two best films about Korea war. Rating  Awesome and worthwhile effort. "},{"Title":"a story about friendship under duress","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Imagine trying to strike up a conversation with somebody knowing either you or he might die in the next 24 hours. Being in a war is like this. Everybody is in the same boat and it's not coming into port any day soon. I got into a discussion with a Vietnam war Ranger who led a lot of patrols there. He thought that the uneasiness displayed by the grunts in this movie was palpable. It was his favorite movie about war as well as mine. Like a lot of good movies, it works on a lot of different levels. I believe it to be a non-pareil. I was born the year this movie was made but I didn't see it until sometime in the late 50's on TV. My dad was already a pilot before WW II but since he wore glasses, he couldn't be a pilot. He spent the war on the seat of his pants in Dayton Ohio at Wright Patterson. He died in his plane in a crash coming out of Benton Harbor Michigan in 1949. I was 4 at the time of his death. From what my mother told me about him, he didn't want to be a romantic flyboy. He wanted to do his part. I often wonder about who my dad was and watching this movie made me long to know all the guys who were over there. Yes, there are a lot of errors in this film, but the story it tells rings true. "},{"Title":"Close to the Dirt","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In Italy, a platoon of American GIs must rid a farmhouse of its Nazi occupants. A Walk in the Sun is expertly directed by Lewis Milestone, utilizing Russell Harlan's perceptive camera. It's unusually poetic, for the time, courtesy of writers Harry Brown and Robert Rossen. And, certainly, the film should grow in stature, over the years, when compared to the more typical war dramas released during its era. Upon release, the film was no doubt considered noteworthy for its realism. Presently, this strength is weighted. Still, the film's substance endures...Strong characterizations are provided by the cast of soldiers. Two stand out, and give the film greater emotional depth. Though it begins, necessarily, as a team effort, reluctant Dana Andrews (as Bill Tyne) emerges as the hero; and, John Ireland (as Windy Craven) stands out among the other soldiers. Mr. Andrews is the man who takes command, after leader Herbert Rudley cowers under the pressure. Andrews is terrific; especially, note how he fights off the same war fatigue and mental illness that claimed his predecessor.Mr. Ireland's performance, as a poetic minister's son, is award-worthy. Each of the film's characters attempt to grab you the farmer, the prophet&#x85; accompanied by an almost too sentimental, heart-tugging soundtrack. But, however you try to resist, it's impossible not to fall under Ireland's spell, as he explains G.I. Dirt, and writes letters home in his head. While Andrews takes explicit control of the mission, it's Ireland who implicitly provides the battle plan. The film does well in portraying a platoon's waiting, talking, teamwork, and action during war. ******** A Walk in the Sun (12/3/45) Lewis Milestone ~ Dana Andrews, John Ireland, Richard Conte, Lloyd Bridges "},{"Title":"Class film about the American G.I. in WWll","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I read Walk when I was 8 or 9. Saw the movie on T.V. in the early 50's and own the VHS and DVD. I am a high school U.S. History teacher and show movie along with All Quiet, Paths of Glory WW1.(Also beginning of Private Ryan, & Memphis Belle, Tuskegge Airmen, selections from Band of Brothers, the ultimate story of the G.I. in WW2). I still have the paperback book copyright 1945 The pivotal point in the movie as is in war, life, etc...is the scene on the beach with Holloway and Andrews when H. wants to leave the safety of a shell hole to climb to the top of the sand due(obscured in smoke from the beachhead)A.finally gives in(fatal command mistake) and H.takes the binoculars...Classic scene in all of cinema is the black smoke, Holloway perched on the sand dune, looking through the binos, waving at Andrews, trying to describe the scene on the beach....all Andrews can hear is the sounds of gunfire and explosions on the beachhead...suddenly the German fighter breaks through the smoke and strafes H. The binos are left on the beach and later at the farm...the officer is desperate for the binos so they can check out the farm house..no binos and out of bazooka ammo...they have their orders. "},{"Title":"Arty and effective war story.","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In a televised lecture Harry Brown explained to his students how important banter was in any story about the military. He ought to know. A Walk in the Sun is full of banter, all of it low brow but keen as well.The dialog is mostly stylized, along the lines of, say, Hemingway or Charles Portis' True Grit, although it is not imitative in any way. I wouldn't trust you with a popgun, says Friedman to Rivera. You gotta trust me. I'm a machine gunner with a machine gun. And somehow, despite the artistic effects, as if the lines were in blank verse, the dialog rings true to life among a small group of men with a superordinate goal. Dana Andrews' Sgt. Tyne is standing alone at the beach, next to the body of his friend, a harmless medic. He lights a cigarette, says aloud, Gee, I'm scared, slings his weapon and walks off towards the thing that is frightening him. What a concise and very human admission. Gee, I'm scared. The artistic effects of the dialog are echoed in the direction by Lewis Milestone, full of silhouettes and inserts, but they don't distract for a moment from our involvement in the story. In the opening scenes the men are packed into a landing craft approaching the beach at Salerno. They are mostly silent and thoughtful except when muttering brief remarks to one another or to themselves. (There are lots of soliloquies in this film.) We see hardly any of the scene except for dimly lighted faces. Sometimes during exchanges we don't even see the faces, only a glistening helmet. And sometimes the screen is completely black.Milestone has been criticized as being too obvious, but I've never understood why. How many other directors would pass up a chance to show us dive bombers attacking troop ships. All we hear are the defensive boom-boom-booms of the 40 mm. guns and the explosions when a ship is hit. And all we see of the battle is a roiling plume of black smoke rising from behind a dune.It's really an ensemble movie, with Dana Andrews the lead figure. We get to know the men pretty well, all of them distinguished from one another by their characters, not by the use of facile props like mustaches. Sometimes they're pretty funny. During a break, one infantryman holds up a leaf and inspects it. He remarks to Huntz Hall's lowbrow that it's a wonderfully designed object. Huntz Hall puts him down and posits dismissively that there's nuthin' so special about a leaf. He's seen lots of leaves.The men are identified only as belonging to a Texas division, and the landing seems to be at Salerno. Salerno was a botched landing. The enemy were all prepared because there was virtually no other place for the landings to be made. The beach head was probably saved by air support and naval gunfire.I've kind of emphasized the dreamlike banter that the author of the novel was so fond of, yet this is a film with quite a bit of action. The final attack on the farmhouse really IS enough to scare Dana Andrews -- or anybody else -- and it's staged with Milestone's signature panning shots.Good movie. "},{"Title":"An Infantryman's Favorite WW II movie","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I'll pass along my Uncle Frank's review of this film. Uncle Frank's war ended during the Invasion of Sicily where he received his second Purple Heart. He never liked to talk about his experiences, but several times before his death in 1983 he unequivocally stated that A Walk In the Sun was the most accurate portrayal of an infantryman's experience in war.Military historians like Gen. S.L.A. Marshall and Stephen Ambrose have long noted how each soldier has an isolated view of combat with absolutely no idea of what is going on outside of his or her immediate area (I wonder who won says Richard Beymer near the end of The Longest Day).This movie stays with that view throughout, leaving the generals' the philosophers' and the politicians' views to others. Run, walk, crawl and dig in. Often smell and hearing are more useful senses than sight in guessing what's going on. Death and emotional breakdown are almost routine, part of the job. Younger viewers may note the influences of this movie on so many others, and the TV shows that followed, from Altman's Combat episodes to Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers. The soldier's view of combat on Omaha Beach in Private Ryan, is one example. Compare in both movies the sharp banter between the ethnically diverse foot soldiers as they walk along towards inevitable danger, whether farmhouse or antenna installation. I even see the dialog between Vincent Vega and Jules as they carry out their missions as an outgrowth of this movie.I agree with Uncle Frank. "},{"Title":"ahhh yes","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Well,everybody has said about all that can be said of this film. And it is good to see it rated so high, because it deserves it, being one of the best war films ever made. But oddly, something has been missed by looks like everybody here. The dialog is more poetic than realistic. In fact it probably is the most relentless poetic dialog in the history of film. Only one other, Force of Evil comes to mind along those lines, but this is even more so. Not for nothing that a song hangs over the proceedings. The movie itself is a long song. Very few films are so rhythmic. For that we can thank not only Milestone, but Robert Rossen, and the book. Pound for pound it holds up better than any war film ever made because of its poetry. Even the way it starts out is great, the hand opening the book, then the narrator coming on introducing them name by name, at the end saying, Here is a song about them. Listen.And you can do just that. Let the movie play like background music, and it holds up very well just like that. Quite a movie. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting & Effective War Feature","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a very interesting war feature, with an unusual approach that works well and a good cast that gives life to the many and varied characters. The touch that allowed Lewis Milestone to make All Quiet on the Western Front one of the finest movies of its genre is also evident here. Things are presented in a straightforward fashion, with barely a comment on most of what happens, allowing you to have your own honest reactions to events.The story lets you see follow one morning of action in World War II Italy, seeing everything as if you were with the platoon that the movie follows. The 'big picture' is missing entirely, just as it undoubtedly was for most of the fighting men most of the time. They barely know what will happen next, much less what might happen when they reach their objective. Milestone's story-telling skills make this approach work very well, maintaining the tension both in the occasional action scenes and in the dialogue-heavy sequences.The cast includes many good character actors, and the characters are a believable assortment without a lot of stock figures. Dana Andrews does a fine, understated job as the sergeant with the most crucial responsibilities, and many of the other actors have some good moments as well. Some are likable, and some are deliberately annoying; none are heroic, but all are ready to do their jobs.The operation and some of its tactics are no doubt stylized slightly for cinematic effect, but the story works very well. There are, of course, other World War II movies with more action, bigger budgets, and more complex stories, but the very simplicity of A Walk in the Sun is one of its strengths. For a couple of hours, you live and struggle with a group of believable characters, and for a while their world is your world. That's a good indication that the movie has succeeded in its objective. "},{"Title":"2 hour movie, seemed like 1 hour it was so good!","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" My version of this movie was slightly under 2 hours, but surprisingly enough went so quickly, telling me that it was an excellent movie. Fox didn't have too many good movies around that time. Rossen did well with the dialogue which probably was an excellent book, Milestone was good as the director, the acting was also excellent. I'm sure the movie projected what it was actually like during that time. About the only thing that was a negative to me was that it didn't seem like it was taking place in Italy, or what Italy would look like to me. Not that I think that it actually took place in Italy. It looked more like it took place at one of the California ranches, which is where it probably was filmed. "}{"Title":"One of the best WWII films","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I first saw A Walk in the Sun as a child. It was one of the first VHS recordings I bought, and I also have a DVD copy. I have always regarded it as one of the most authentic depictions of small-unit actions of the period. The cast is excellent, and - although the language is toned down compared to post-1960s films, as with Richard Conte's character using the expletive loving where a more recent film would use a cruder synonym - one has the sense of being there with the group of GIs, with the same constricted vision of what is happening. This is not a grand epic. It is not the more modern grittier down-and-dirty story; but it is as close to what happened to the platoon depicted as a 1945 movie could get. It does not glamorize the war; but neither does it hyperbolize visually or verbally to denigrate the conflict. Critics, I am sure, would say many better films have been made since. I am not so certain of that. I am certain that this is one of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"one of the most realistic war films i've seen","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  clifford mccarty called this film the most lyrical of war films and i tend to agree. the only other war film that i can think of as being this slowly paced and thoughtful is another milestone film (all quiet on the western front) which is longer and more of an anti-war film than this one. it's not that this film was a pro-war film at all, but i certainly didn't get the distinct anti-war sentiments that i got from watching all quiet on the western front. death is treated in an understated manner throughout the film. there are only two battle to really speak of and a few men die with hardly more than a word acknowledging that fact. their deaths are not treated as examples of the horror of war, nor are they treated as martyrs for which the war must be continued, and won. it was an unexpected element coming from milestone. i've seen the film before, but i sort of slept through it the first time and didn't retain much. the majority of the film is spent on the time between battles and mission objectives. we get to know the soldiers in a way that most action/war films don't approach. the dialogue is both naturalistic and philosophical. in some ways it's one of the most realistic war films i've seen. B+.  "},{"Title":"Based on the novella of the same name by Harry Brown.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I really enjoyed the book A Walk in the Sun, finding it printed in its entirety in The Giant Book of WWII Stories.  It is a classic story and an equally classic movie.  The movie sticks quite closely to the book with only a few changes.  Some of the dialogue is lifted straight from the pages of the novella.  It is the story of a platoon in WWII trying to capture a farmhouse.  The characters are all strong and what they talk about while in the middle of a war is what grips you.  I highly recommend both the book and the film. "},{"Title":"Quietly effective and often moving...","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this film recently, for the first time, on a DVD reissue. I thought the film had some of the overtones of Saving Private Ryan in that it focuses on the men in the fighting unit, and eschews the mock heroics that typically characterise the John-Wayne-Hollywood approach to the war film. The film often comes across as a stage play transferred to film, with insightful and thoughtful dialogue, and also a number of good monologues. It isn't a slam-bang action film, and because it isn't, it appears to capture the nature of infantry warfare, warfare generally perhaps, as long stretches of boredom punctuated by short intervals of sheer terror. Most impressive is the fact that the film is an ensemble piece, as I imagine warfare is, although with leaders and followers both. All of the actors come across as interesting and complex characters, individuals all. Some of the dialogue is quite funny. Dana Andrews, Richard Conte and John Ireland stand out, but they in no way hog the film, and it was particularly satisfying to see Huntz Hall in a straight role for a change. There are only three drawbacks that I saw in the film. One occurs when the soldiers are crouching behind a wall and an enemy bullet richochets off the stone with the silly twang sound that characterises western movies - lead bullets don't make that kind of noise. Another occurs early in the film when the unit is strafed by a German fighter plane - the plane, though, looks very much like a P-51 Mustang, an American aircraft. The final drawback is in the rousing band music at the film's end -to my sensibilities, that music was utterly out of place, and clashed badly with the overall sober and serious tone of the piece.  "},{"Title":"A movie worth seeing to understand the reality of war.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I remember this movie as a splendid example of the genre that shows war like it really is.I saw it as a teenager and realized that war is not something of which to be proud.The horrors of a simple scouting sortie provided me all the understanding I needed to have to hate violence and all its aftermaths. "},{"Title":"For the introspective parts, which is much of the film, it's almost magical, a gem","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A Walk in the Sun (1945)The first third of this film is amazing. It' remarkably disturbing and dark, about a bunch of soldiers landing at night in Italy, World War II. The sun does eventually rise, but it's an eerie and claustrophobic and surprisingly gentle twenty minutes. The cast is really perfect, without any overly macho guys, just some ordinary men with feelings, feelings for life, for each other little by little, and for a kind of fatalistic fear that turns into acceptance at times, until events force them into action.Once toward halfway, the movie becomes a more conventional, a large rambling group of foot soldiers a bit lost as to what to do as they walk along, in the sun, in Italy. They talk without a lot of open fear, including a bit of chitchat even as they confront enemies of one kind or another. There is an air of ordinary resignation through it all, as if the movie makers knew the audience could only handle a kid gloves kind of truth about the war, which was still raging when it was released. Even though there is an inevitable sense that the Americans were winning (they were landing in Italy, not being pushed off to sea), there is also the sense that these really nice guys might die, suddenly, because of events beyond their control.By the final third a military objective clarifies, a small one, but a potentially deadly one. When it plays out, it's more about war, and winning. The enemy is never shown, and the brutality is limited to the last two minutes, but it's a devastating two minutes, and probably too difficult for audiences to watch at the time while the war was going on. Though filming was finished in January 1945, the film wasn't released officially until December, with six months of peace already healing some of the wounds, and didn't see wide release until the following year, long after war films had stopped being made. Director Milestone did get Army approval for the film in 1945, and it does seem accurate in its awfulness, even now. It's right before the climax that the film returns to it extraordinary, inner conscience, following Dana Andrews crawling though the weeds to the farmhouse they intend to overtake. How long would it take to crawl around the world? A hundred years? A thousand years?For the best this film has, it's essential, a major piece of war filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Realistic War Drama","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Great War pic. Rather than being a propaganda piece like many moves were that were made during the war, an action movie, or following a formula, Walk in the Sun is main a drama focusing on a small unit, the individuals in that unit, and their objectives.Qutie realistic, it shows the confusion of war, the reality, and soldiers with mixed emotions about the business.The plot mainly focuses on a landing in Italy at Salermo, and one particular mission. The unit loses commanding officers, key personell loses equipment, and encounters difficult objectives. The tension that builds up at times is quite sustained.A realistic, intelligent and quite different war movie, definitely worth having a look at, particularly for 1945. "},{"Title":"A Walk in the Sun?  You'll get tired just watching them.","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Considering the fact that this movie was made so closely to end of WW2, it is a little surprising that it wasn't more of a patriotic effort. In some ways you could consider it ahead of it's time. The characters have flaws, there is a reference to battle fatigue, and heroes die.To be sure, the clichés abound, but they lay them out early in the introduction. A couple of wise guys from Brooklyn (and Jersey City), the yokel, the farmer, the poet, etc. But to their credit, they cast believable actors in the relevant parts. Interestingly, they cast Richard Conte as a wisecracking gunner, and Norman Lloyd as a scout. Both were Jersey City natives and added an air of authenticity to the production. I lived in Jersey City for a while and I can tell you that I could have met these guys at any gin mill in Journal Square and wouldn't have been surprised. Most of the rest of the cast was just as authentic.To be sure, there are problems with the script, but most of them had to do with the constrictions of the times. Hoist tail. Get it? The loving army, the loving food, the loving etc. What do you want for 1945? Maybe it was even a little provocative for the times.This movie was part of a transition from the standard WW2 propaganda efforts like Sands of Iwo Jima, Bataan, etc, to a more rational presentation of the horror of war. We hadn't yet progressed to the anti-war era of Platoon or Apocalypse Now, but we were getting there. Realism was creeping into the script.I recommend this movie for it's originality, but be prepared for the routine - just don't let it ruin the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Comes close.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Lewis Milestone, himself a combat veteran, tells the story of war from the infantryman's point of view. Isolated, claustrophobic, wise-cracking, fatalistic. Very little discussion of strategy, very little 'big picture', very little 'why we fight'. From a grunt's point-of-view, the story is always the same how do we get from point 'A' to point 'B', do our job and what will be the cost? For the individual soldier or Marine, this is what it always boils down to one foot in front of the other, protect yourself, protect the guy next to you, do your job. Milestone knew this. It suffuses All Quiet on the Western Front, it permeates Pork Chop Hill. Life in a combat zone can be intense and terrifying but it is mostly tedious and boring. Usually you don't know anything, nobody tells you anything, maybe because they don't know either. You can only see as far as the next hill, the next treeline. The sound of distant gunfire, the rumble of bombs or artillery, what does it mean, who is it, everybody looks and wonders but no one knows. Seemingly endless physical labor, dirt and heat, noise and near silence, sometimes only the sound of your own boots, the sound of your own digging, sudden gunfire, a plane, a tank, a sniper, dirt in your food, dirt in your mouth, walk some more, sweat. The hours roll by, someone is killed, maybe a friend, surely someone you know, no time for grief, move on, be happy it wasn't you. The individual only needs to know a little slice of the whole, the small unit only needs to know their little corner of the whole, a task, sometimes a near impossible task, time grinds down on the planning, other units are on the move, other men will depend on you completing this task, how to do it? How to survive but still, how to do it. Here Milestone has populated a simple story with a predictable mix of archetypes, almost daring himself to tell a familiar story in a new and fresh way with shopworn components. He has avoided caricature by allowing the characters to develop slowly, to reveal themselves as unique individuals, with histories, with grievances, with hopes, always avoiding the danger of slipping into the maudlin, the sentimental. The dialogue is earthy and believable even though he had to avoid actual profanity but the delivery is rapid and wise. It feels right. The cast is well-suited to the story, a collection of young rising talent, destined for long careers with only Dana Andrews an established 'name'. Some have said it is slow and boring, well, this ain't Stallone or Schwarzenegger. This ain't an 'action' movie. This is the infantry and in the infantry you walk, it is a slow and tedious way to get anywhere but your feet and a dry pair of socks are all you have and there is always a little black cloud sitting on your shoulder. "},{"Title":"The WALK Doesn't Disappoint","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I watched this movie many times as a child, but hadn't seen it for about 50 years until a few nights ago. It had always been one of my favorite movies...the title embedded in my memory. When I had the chance to see it again after so many years I was pleased to discover that it is still a fine film. I'd forgotten most of it, except for the classic siege of the farmhouse. I had no idea who the actors were and was pleased to see Sterling Holloway and Lloyd Bridges. If you want bang bang shoot 'em up for 2 hours this is not the film for you; but the thoughtless jabber among a bunch of 20+ year old guys, wondering if they'll survive, is a very real picture. "}{"Title":"A thought provoking glimpse of the reality of war","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I remember watching this film with my father who said it reminded him of his experience as a combat soldier in Italy and he said it was more like his experience of the war than all the other Hollywood pictures. A terrific cast, great character development and an appreciation for the real dichotomy between battle and boredom that is the life of the combat soldier make this a must see. "},{"Title":"Finest WWII movie ever made","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Story of a single morning with the men of an infantry platoon, without officers and top sergeants that completes its mission in Italy. Finest WWII movie ever made. The characters make the movie. The roles are so strong that almost anyone could have played them. The movie is really about the different people who go to war. Most of the characters are described in the introductory narration and the long landing barge seen. Their complexity increase as the movie progresses. The battle scenes are great but less graphic than Private Ryan. The movie is a cut above Saving Private Ryan due to the character development. "},{"Title":"This is the finest war movie ever made.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The film takes us through the Italian countryside with Citizen/Soldiers who are part of the war effort. Their pain and suffering seems real as does their ability to face the impossible odds and keep on going.  The film manages to portray why they are The Greatest Generation.  "},{"Title":"The Character and Characters of War","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" One of these fine days, the landing at Salerno which believe it or not was more difficult than the invasion of Normandy will get a full screen treatment like The Longest Day or Saving Private Ryan. The combined allied force was in a pitched battle for 21 days until the issue was decided. A lot was going on away from the sidebar action that is depicted in A Walk In the Sun.The sidebar action involved a platoon that lands a few miles away from the beach with the objective of blowing up a bridge and taking a strategically located farm house. The lieutenant is killed even before the landing and the various sergeants take over. One of them, Herbert Rudley cracks under the strain, and Dana Andrews assumes overall command of the mission.A Walk in the Sun is not so much a war story as a war character study. It's interesting to contrast this film with Lewis Milestone's masterpiece, All Quiet on the Western Front. Both involve citizen soldiers going to war and both are studies into the types of people making up a platoon. Milestone's sympathies are with both, but he does recognize the necessity for the trip to Europe made by these Americans in Italy.Best in the film in my opinion is Richard Conte, the cynical wisecracking GI from, where else, Brooklyn. According to Hollywood, there wasn't a platoon in any theater of war in the forties that did not have a GI from Brooklyn. Huntz Hall, taking leave from the East Side Kids, also has a small part as one of the GIs in this platoon.The film was made as the war ended in Europe. No mock heroics here, just the greatest generation demonstrating why they were just that. "},{"Title":"A Tribute To A Generation","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a great film. It was one of the first War movies to come out after WWII. If anything Hollywood should remake this classic and thank the generation that made us what we are today. Generation after generation should never forget what their fathers,fathers,and in some case their Grand Fathers did. This movies shows that and more.How people from different walks of life were placed together trained together, and died together for one thing. It did not matter rich or poor. This movies shows that from the first scene in the landing boat to the farm house.They were citizen soldiers who changed a world, and this movies shows that.Even some of the actors were in WWII and they showed that in the movie because they had been their. "},{"Title":"A most realistic war movie.","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I own only two video tape movies, A Walk In The Sun is one of them. Having been in the infantry in WWII I can state this film is on a par with Saving Pvt Ryan as far as realism is concerned What impressed me most was the performances of all the characters plus the superb direction of Lewis Milestone. I know of no other war movie that honestly portrays what the average GI went through. "},{"Title":"Talk in the Sun","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The first twenty minutes of the film has soldiers engaged in a multitude of conversations in the dark. Then the sun comes up and they start walking, but they continue to talk non-stop. Most of what they say is neither amusing nor profound. They just blabber on and on about mundane things. It seems the soldiers can simply bore the enemy to death with their gabfest. This is hailed as realistic cinema, but reality does not a great movie make. There is also a corny ballad about the soldiers that's overplayed. Andrews and Conte lead a good cast, but are let down by the lame script. It perks up in the end, but it's too little, too late. "},{"Title":"Amazingly talky and uninvolving","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There were a lot of excellent WWII films made both during the war and after, though I certainly would not consider A WALK IN THE SUN among them. In fact, I had a hard time keeping interested in this film--mostly because the characters talked and talked and talked--practically non-stop! Rarely did they allow scenes to take place without long and distracting conversations between the G.I.s. Starting on the landing craft until they took the farmhouse, it was talk, talk, talk! Sadly, nothing they really said was that profound or even interesting. This made me look forward to the action scenes.By contrast, there have been some amazing films that DID show the servicemen as real human beings and did show their interactions yet still were amazing films. Just off the top of my head, THEY WERE EXPENDABLE and BATTLEGROUND were similar in structure to A WALK IN THE SUN but they managed to be entertaining and inspiring. In other words, ordinary men behaving extraordinarily under the circumstances. Whereas in A WALK IN THE SUN, they just seemed like irritating people whose characters and dialog were poorly written. It sure is hard to see that this film was directed by the same man who directed ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT--one of the finest war films ever made. A few interesting (but mostly uninspired) battle scenes weren't enough to make this anything other than a time-passer. "},{"Title":"A Walk in the sun","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I am a sucker for WWII movies, especially when it includes Dana Andrews. So when I read the plot of A walk in the sun, I was quite enthusiastic. Well, I must say how disappointed I was. First of all, the quality of the film was poor (for broadcasting). I saw it on TCM, normally a champion of film restoration. In addition, the dialog was boring. Attempts to create empathy for the characters fell woefully short. There was no depth in conversations, and it went on forever! The one bright spot was seeing such wonderful actors Lloyd Bridges, John Ireland, Richard Conte, Sterling Holloway, and the aforementioned Dana Andrews. I would recommend a pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Old fashioned war film","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is the way war movies used to be made. Pretty bloodless, no swearing, but still a pretty good film. This is proof that the public doesn't really need to see guts and brains to enjoy a war film. A lot of war films were made in the 40s and 50s, mostly about World War 2 and this is one of them. Combat is often described as long periods of boredom punctuated by short periods of sheer terror. This film works just that way. There's a lot of conversation, but all of a sudden, the men are under fire. Overall, I like it - you will too. "}{"Title":"Wartime Classic","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  There were many films made during the war years, Wake Island, Bataan,Air Force, Sahara,Gualacanal Diary etc.A walk in the sun has to rate with the best of them.It's a down to earth movie about the infantry.I was in the infantry during the war but I was in the pacific theater. They are the backbone of the army Great Film "},{"Title":"How long does it take to crawl around the world?","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It was strange to be so close to things and yet so far away. That was war. That was always war. It was confused and it was incoherent and it was unreasonable. Nothing ever happened quite on time, nothing ever happened exactly as was expected. War, itself a paradox, was full of paradoxes. A platoon of men, in on the first landing on an enemy coast, could be completely bypassed by events. They could sit in a hollow while all around them things went, or should be going, according to plan, and while the platoon, itself an integral part of the whole operation, seemed to be entirely forgotten. Yet had the platoon been unnecessary, it might well have found itself caught underneath shells and planes. ... But mostly, war builds patience. For war is a dull business, the dullest business on earth. War is a period of waiting. Each day of it is crammed with the little hesitations of men uncertain of themselves and awed by the ghastly responsibilities &#x96; the responsibilities of life and death, the responsibilities of gods &#x96; that have been thrust into their hands. The soldier waits for food, for clothing, for a letter, for a battle to begin. And often the food never is served, the clothing is never issued, the letter never arrives, and the battle never begins. The soldier learns to wait meekly, hoping that something will happen. And when the period of waiting is at an end, the something that does happen isn't what he expected. So in the end he learns to wait and expect nothing. That is patience, God's one great gift to the soldier. But he refuses to confess his patience. He curses the fact that he has to wait. He howls at those who cause the waiting. And that too is good, in a way. For the man who waits silently is not a good soldier. He is no more than a stone. - Harry Brown (excerpt from A Walk In The Sun) Harry Brown wrote A Walk In The Sun in 1944, one of literatures great WW2 novellas. Brown, like Joyce, Hemingway and Mailer, other major war writers of the era, all had a terse, abrupt, economical, minimalist, gruff way with words &#x96; their prose flew like bullets, abrupt and to the point - possibly influenced by the unadorned style demanded by newspapers. Think the pulp poetry of Sam Fuller's war movies and you have their tone.Lewis Milestone directed many war films (All Quiet On The Western Front, Halls of Montezuma, Pork Chop Hill), most of which muddle together two entirely divergent and contradictory messages. Take Pork Chop Hill, for example, a film about the Korean War which ignores the Korean War and instead curries favour with 1959 audiences by invoking the fears and necessities of the Cold War, a stance which needs to predict an optimistic, even a celebratory outcome and outlook. Since the substitution of the Cold War for the Korean War was deemed by Milestone incapable of being acknowledged, the film displays an ambivalence towards the entire Korean conflict and its consequences. So on one hand he wants to celebrate the soldiers of the Cold War, a war which he sees as necessary, whilst also mourning the loss of those who died and were squandered in the Korean conflict (historically a part of the Cold War), a stance which predicts a pessimistic, even a tragic outcome and outlook. This is a common dichotomy in war films; Celebratory vs Tragedy it is in this fashion that most war films (most notably those which proclaim themselves to be antiwar) veer pathologically between antiwar statement and gung-ho propaganda.So Milestone's adaptation of Brown's A Walk In The Sun remains, perhaps, his less ideologically muddled film. It stars Dana Andrews as Sgt Tyne, a platoon squad leader who, after a botched beach landing in Italy, witnesses the loss of several of his men and is then tasked with capturing an isolated Nazi-held farmhouse. True to Brown's novella, most of the film consists of walking, huddling in the dark, chatting and hiding in bushes, the tale stressing the drudgery, boredom, long hours and mind-numbing banter that epitomises the life of a grunt. Unfortunately, the pleasure's of Brown's writing &#x96; his staccato dialogue, macho-poetic prose, rambling conversations which skitters across nonsense and profundity whilst revealing the hopes, thoughts and longings of his young, mostly lug-headed grunts &#x96; can't quite survive Milestone's translation to screen. It's good prose &#x96; take sequences in which grunts argue about dirt, their incessant walking and whether the human body is more complex than a leaf &#x96; but not the kind of prose that works well for cinema unless you have a skilled word-oriented director on tap (think, perhaps, Mamet, Hawks or Fuller).Regardless, this is an unusual and unique war movie, and one of the most interesting platoon movies of the 1940s.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. Read Brown's book instead. "},{"Title":"One of the best WWII movies","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I first saw A Walk in the Sun in the early 1960's on TV with my Dad, who was a combat veteran of the 36th Infantry Division. His unit was made up of Texas National Guard soldiers and draftees that was one of the first US Army units that landed in Europe at Paestrum, Italy in September 1943.The movie depicts a rifle company assigned to capture a farmhouse inland from the Salerno, Italy beachhead. This movie shows the operation of an infantry unit with more realism without all the special effects used by Hollywood in subsequent films. The coordination of the men and their dialog (with loving substituted for the beautiful soldier's language) as spoken between Richard Conte and George Tyne's characters was realistic and rang true to me as a kid growing up in Brooklyn, NY. It's interesting to note that many young actors like Lloyd Bridges and Norman Lloyd (who is still alive and active) made up an excellent ensemble cast. Years later after researching the history of the 36th Division and the Italian campaign, I feel that A Walk in the Sun along with The Story of GI Joe, most closely approximates the soldier's view of combat. "},{"Title":"War and Anxiety","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Nicely crafted World War II movie about the Salerno landings, and one infantry division in particular, as it moves inland to capture a farmhouse. Lewis Milestone directed this one with a real feeling for light and sun; and the Robert Rossen script, though it gets awfully poetic at times, and arguably pretentious, gets the job done. There is a song sung over the credits and at the end that suggests the Popular Front of the late thirties, which this movie in many ways evokes. One's response to this movie will probably depend on one's tolerance for artifice. This is a very ambitious movie, almost an art movie, and it was sold by it studio, 20th Century-Fox, to a smaller distributor shortly after its release. This is a decidedly leftish takes on the war, with anxiety-driven soldiers muttering the same phrases over and over, the way small children sing song to help them sleep when they're afraid of the dark.I like this one. It's ambitious and poetic and at times absurd, but it deals with fear in a realistic way that must have made it seem almost unpatriotic at the time of its release. The characters aren't drawn with any great depth, but they seldom are in war movies. Milestone strove for effects in this one, and achieved them, and some people didn't like what he did, among them James Agee. I say tough. It took guts to make this, and while its aesthetic is at times questionable, even hokey, I find the intentions at all times admirable. "},{"Title":"A Talk in the Sun","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I just bought this on a bargain rack, due to the stellar cast that was listed on the jacket. Unfortunately, the movie never really seems to take off. The incessant dialog between the characters would be acceptable if it were in any way compelling, but it is not. Mostly small talk and whimsy. It is understandable that guys involved in a war talk about just about anything else while pursuing it. But there is virtually no action here to balance the chatter. We hear some action and even see some smoke, but are detached from it. Must have been a very small budget.The final scene, in which a farmhouse is assaulted, the men talk up an intricate plan, which oddly results in a clumsy frontal assault of the type they had been professing they would avoid.Perhaps realistic and definitely well-acted, 'Walk' none the less fails to excite. "},{"Title":"talk talk talk and more talk","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's 1943 Italy. A group of American soldiers land on a beach near Salerno. The men dig in but their CO has been killed. As they move inland, they are tasked with blowing up a bridge.The problem with all the talking is that they are indistinguishable from one another. I had a tough time trying to lock in on some of the characters. Maybe back in the day, people recognize some of these faces. Without knowing who these characters are, it is a bunch of random soldiers talking. The night shoots are also very dark which only adds to the confusion. One of the soldiers almost falls asleep waiting around and that's kind of how I felt. It's a lot of random talk punctuated by some random action. Action can happen off-screen and some can be brutal. It's suppose to show the fog of war and the mundane of a soldier's existence. It's meandering without the tension. While I appreciate the attempt, it doesn't make for a compelling movie. It would be so much better if I know who these soldiers are. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Powerful Flag-Waver","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" While A WALK IN THE SUN is obviously a propaganda piece designed to extol the virtues of the US Army, it nonetheless offers a highly convincing portrait of a platoon at war. Led by Sgt. Bill Tyne (Dana Amdtrews), they manage to blow up a bridge, destroy an armored car and capture a farmhouse in occupied Italy in 1943. There are an array of good supporting performances, notably from Lloyd Bridges as a no- nonsense farmer perpetually dreaming of an apple, Richard Conte as Private River, perpetually cadging a butt (cigarette) from one of his fellow-soldiers, and Norman Lloyd as a skillful navigator of difficult terrain suffering from advanced sleep deprivation. Lewis Milestone's film does not shy away from portraying the seamier side of war Sgt. Eddie Porter (Herbert Rudley) fights one battle too many and eventually collapses to the ground in nervous exhaustion. Other platoon members perish in their attempts to capture the targets. Russell Harlan's photography is little short of brilliant as he tracks the platoon moving through woodland or crawling on their stomachs in order to reach the farmhouse. There are some clever editing devices, notably the zoom into a map spread out in front the troops, followed by a zoom out to begin a new scene; or the deliberately blurred point of view shot from Andrews' perspective as he looks at the farmhouse to be captured, while trying to stave off his exhaustion. Sometimes director Milestone uses the telling close-up to make his point about the effects of war; a dead hand hanging limply over a wall, a human face staring impassively at the camera; the face of one of the troops filling the screen. The music - by Fredric Efren Rich - comprises a series of calypsos, not only rooting the film in popular culture, but communicating a message about the importance of freedom. Definitely a high-profile film - as denoted by the use of the book that opens and closes the film, suggesting that this film aspires to quasi-literary status. "},{"Title":"Great little film from the 1940s","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Fascinating film depicting the reality of infantry life in the Italian campaign towards the middle and end of the Second World War. The character acting is marvellous, the dialogue interesting and well-written and the story well scripted. Yes it's a bit slow, and you get to read an awful lot of thoughts in people's heads, as it were, but for me this was part of the film's magic, as the reality of an infantryman obviously has little enough to do with guns going off, and lots more to do with time being spent waiting for the shooting to start. Nevertheless, the battle scenes are also well done and there is some interesting camera-work and other technical features that cine fans will appreciate.Thoroughly enjoyable and quite suitable for younger people of high school age, who might learn a great deal if they listen carefully, but who might also find it a bit too slow moving. "},{"Title":"Blood, tears but very little sweat, on a sunny day near Salerno, 1943","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" What can you expect from one of the most prolific directors ever to come from Hollywood &#150; the man responsible for All quiet on the western front (1930), Rain (1932), Of Mice and Men (1939), The Strange love of Martha Ivers (1946) and many, many others? Well, nothing less than one of the most personal views of war since All Quiet (1930)...Deeply introspective, deceptively comedic, disturbingly real, this account of one day in the life and death of a platoon of American soldiers landing at Salerno in Italy, in 1943, must rank as one of the most poignant snapshots of war ever put to film, and, in my opinion, an excellent example of how to make good cinema &#150; despite the bells and whistles, so to speak, for that time the narration by Burgess Meredith and the ballad sung by Kenneth Spencer (who sounds uncannily like Paul Robeson, I think). Those two aspects certainly date this production, more or less, if you didn't know it was made in 1945. Hollywood was, at those times, very big on ballads with dramas; need I say Gene Autry, Roy Rodgers et al?Some might even be bored with the long introduction to the landing, when the viewer is introduced to each of the main characters by way of their interaction with others; or as whimsical introspection as some, like Pvt. Craven (John Ireland), contemplate the nature of life, death and the whole damn thing. In succession, the viewer knows the quiet strength and honesty of Sgt. Tyne (Dana Andrews); the hip repartee between Pvts Rivera and Friedman (Richard Conte & George Tyne); the earthy homeliness of Sgt Ward (Llyod Bridges); the innocence of Pvt Judson (Steve Brodie); and many other well known character actors who were the mainstays of so many black and white classics of that time.The platoon's mission is simple advance to the enemy lines to a certain farmhouse a few miles inland; attack and kill/capture the enemy; and secure the position. Simple enough, except that the platoon lieutenant is killed before landing, forcing the top sergeant Eddie Porter (Herbert Rudley) to take over. Unhappily, his nerves are shredded from too much battle fatigue, and shortly after, he's reduced to tearful inaction, thus forcing another change in leadership to Sgt. Tyne who then rallies the men to get the job done. It's a dramatic scenario that must have happened in real life, maybe many times.The dialog is the best aspect of this story, no question, showing just how ordinary men do act and think to keep their courage and sanity in desperate situations, knowing that their next step might be their last, but ready to do their duty come what may. I know that sounds corny and maybe it is, but without some sense of the need to get a dangerous job done &#150; even at the highest personal cost &#150; there can be no victory over evil. In its small way, this movie encapsulates all that is honourable about the human spirit while also exploring its limits. A contrasting example &#150; but a very similar story line and mise-en-scene &#150; was Attack (1956), a gripping psychological tussle between Jack Palance, Lee Marvin and Eddie Albert, also in a remote farm house. For younger viewers than I, a more recent comparison that comes to my mind is Malick's The Thin Red Line (1998), an account of a battle for a hilltop on Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands &#150; and again, very much under the sun. I'd recommend both of those films also.Some would argue, perhaps, that the production standards of this film were clunky, even laughably fake. They would be those who can't see the wood for the trees a cast of characters so real that you can see part of yourself in every one of them with no difficulty at all. And as the narrative unfolds on that very ordinary day, I was in fact caught thinking about the limits of my own courage when faced with the ever present shadow of death...So, I guess I can fault the production for using what looked like P51 Mustangs as German or Italian fighters; I can raise an eyebrow at the low budget special effects; or the unaccountable lack of sweat on any of the soldiers as they walk in the sun, for Pete's sake, for a whole day...But you can't ignore the sheer honesty of the narrative; the stark black-and-white photography; the great tracking shots used in battle; or the quick and very effective cuts between different pairs of soldiers as they discuss whatever soldiers discuss during battle and during the lulls that form the bulk of all soldiers' stories.If you are a fan of the war genre, this is a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Classic 1945 Film","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Enjoyed this WW II film dealing with American infantrymen who invaded Italy and strives to destroy a farmhouse which is under the control of German soldiers with plenty of machine guns. This story has plenty of action, however, the real story involves all the individual lives of each soldier who comes from many backgrounds. Sgt. Bill (Dana Andrews) is the leader of this group of soldiers and is having mental problems, but still manages to lead his men into battle. Richard Conte,(Pvt. Rivera) wants to get married and have many children, but is an excellent soldier. Sgt. Ward, (Llyod Bridges) Sea Hunt gives an outstanding performance as a soldier who has the qualities to become a Captian. Pvt. Carraway, (Huntz Hall) Dead End Kids put his heart and soul into his role and it was a pleasure hearing about the soldiers who came from Brooklyn, N.Y. "}{"Title":"Very real to someone who was there!","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As a young child of 8 years, I remember my Dad watching this movie with me at his side. I know it is real because his reactions were genuine and moving. He saw combat in North Africa, Sicily and finally Italy itself. He landed on enemy shores three times. The second landing, portrayed in this film, was on the soil of my Grandfather's birth. He was truly moved watching this film a mere ten years after WWII ended. It has been a link to my Dad's journey and I have seen it a number of times over the years. It still has that realistic feel to it every time I see it. Keep in mind that in 1945, when this was made, film techniques were quite a bit different. You still get that breath stopping feeling during the action scenes. I do believe this is one of those films that were meant to be shot in black and white. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Excellent World War II film","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I first saw this film when I was 8 years old and along with Guadacanal Diary, Back to Bataan, and Gung Ho! it gave me my first look at war. The film contains many clichéd figures such as the fast talking New Yorkers, the farm boy from the nation's midsection, and a cross section of Americans who were not raised soldiers. Perhaps the clichés originated in this film! I met all of these people later when I was in the army during the Vietnam conflict. The film gives a good snap-shot of a more innocent America gone off to war. I think that it does a great job of bringing home the feeling of being in the army without all the special effects of today's film and I think that it would be found enjoyable if watched by today's youth. Dana Andrews, John Ireland, Lloyd Bridges, Richard Conte all give memorable understated performances. I recommend this film to all interested in WW II and to film buffs everywhere. "},{"Title":"The Best WWII Movie ever Made","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The movie reaches the peak of excellence because of it's characterization. You meet and get to know every character in the platoon. Each character develops from the beginning to the end of the movie. The scene in the landing craft must last twenty minutes.The Chemistry between Friedman and Rivera may be unmatched in cinema. I wonder how many times they shot their scenes just to get their dialogue timing down.Steven Spielberg got a lot of the ideas for the scenes from Private Ryan from this movie. I was amazed that they could make a combat movie without a single obscenity. "},{"Title":"It was just a little walk in the warm Italian sun...","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" That was the song that opened the movie and was heard throughout the film. This is the story of a platoon that lands in Italy and makes its way inland to take a fortified farmhouse. Along the way, they capture two Italian soldiers who tell them, through an interpreter, that the farmhouse is defended by the Germans. The platoon marches toward the farmhouse and along the way it takes out a German armored car. When they reach the farmhouse, they find it heavily defended. They have to find a way to take it so they split up and half the platoon goes through the river while the other half, under the command of Sergeant Tyne, tries to make a frontal assault. The realities of war are uncensored here and it shows the boredom between the combat. It shows the marching. (Humpingas it's called in the military.) Those were the realities of war in the 1940s. A few soldiers had the luxury of riding in trucks and half- tracks but the majority had no choice but to march. "},{"Title":"A Platoon of Soldiers land at Salerno and move in land to meet their destiny.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  With a minimum of blood and gore and a maximum of character development this war drams follows a platoon of Texas Infantry as they take a walk in the Italian sun from Salarno to a farm house, their objective.  Texas Infantry, the 36th Infantry Division, Texas National Guard, is their outfit. Their LT is killed on the landing craft and they are lead by their platoon sergeant.  When he breaks down after an attack on a German armored car. Dana Andrews takes over.  SGT Porter, played by Herbert Rudley has a different kind of wound and has broken down.  (I went to grade school with Rudley's son.) As they progress inland you get to meet the members of the platoon.  You also see how they contend with war.  One soldier wisecracks, one writes letters to his sister in his head, one and another they unfold themselves to us.  They must assault a farm house occupied by Germans. The house is sorrounded by a brick wall.  Each soldier must face the ordeal of close combat.  The film is not about a great battle, or an epic struggle is is merely a Walk in the Sun. "},{"Title":"Don't Take A Walk in the Sun *","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Outrageously disappointing film dealing with American soldiers attempting to liberate a barn in World War 11 war-torn Italy.The film is simply miserable as there is entirely too much talking and very little action. The first half-hour or so is unbelievably boring. Even the great acting cast can't pull this one out.Sterling Hayden in a dramatic role is just ridiculous here. He insists upon wanting to see where the action is at. When he is shot dead by German air-craft, Dana Andrews remarks  I am scared. What else is new? 1945-46 was a remarkable time in Andrews' career. He was horribly miscast in 1945's State Fair and the following year, he gave a superb performance in the Oscar-winning The Best Years of Our Lives.Richard Conte lacks his usual devilish behavior. As a guy from Brooklyn, he aspires to join the mob after the war ends.The great director Lewis Milestone created a first class stinker in A Walk in the Sun. Milestone's head must have been in the clouds when he made this poor imitation of a motion film. "},{"Title":"Lesser Milestone","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Despite the Milestone pedigree, the movie doesn't wear well. Except for a couple of touchingly unusual scenes, the war story plays more like a series of WWII clichés. The real problem is that the narrative never really conveys the emotional trauma of war. Yes, men we like are killed, but we're not made to feel the loss. Instead the deaths never make the emotional jump from screenplay to gut-level contact. In fact, the whole movie seems oddly detached from the horrors of war&#x97;it's like Milestone doesn't really engage with the material, filming instead in an impersonal manner (Contrast with the intensity of All Quiet on the Western Front 1930).However, giving the ordinarily clownish Sterling Holloway (McWilliams) a straight role as the ill-fated medic proved a daring stroke of inspiration. The medic's brave little act when contrasted with Holloway's usual movie role, gives his death an added dimension. Also, Sergeant Porter's (Rudley) combat breakdown adds a thoughtfully realistic note as we find out that not all war wounds are physical. However, whoever decided wisecracking Romano (Conte) should wisecrack in every other line of dialog ruined the whole idea. The constant badinage does get tiresome, almost mocking the whole idea of serious combat. As most WWII movies knew, a little of that cocky behavior goes a long way in life or death situations.Anyway, the movie now looks to me like just another war programmer from the period, minus the many fine qualities one might expect from its pedigree.(In passing, note that not a single female appears anywhere during the two hour runtime.) "},{"Title":"Solid World War II Film","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a solid WWII film with some very solid scenes from a good director of war films, Lewis Milestone.   This movie is more of a character study than an all out war movie, although there are some good battle sequences.  ******* Mild Spoiler Ahead!!!!!*******The men are in a u-boat landing on the beach in Italy during WWII. The troops disembark on the beach and make their way to reclaim a farm house taken by the enemy.  They think about facing death and their lives on the road from the beach to the farmhouse.  The men are in danger from airplanes overhead and from tanks on the road.  The climax of the film occurs when the men reach the farmhouse and find it is occupied.  They realize that many of them may die if they cross the field to attack the farmhouse.  This is an interesting film, but not as strong as some other war movies from the 1940's which I've seen recently. Although this film has its moments, it has plenty of dead spots where neither the characters nor the action are gripping.  Two much better movies than A Walk in the Sun are Twelve O'Clock High and Guadalcanal Diary.  They outclass A Walk in the Sun in almost every way.  If you are a WWII buff, this film might be for you.  I give it an 85/100.   "},{"Title":"Realistic?? HA!","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is not the worse war movie I have ever seen, but it ranks right down there at the bottom.I am totally and utterly dumbfounded by the comments that say that this is a realistic war movie. I agree that it is very different (not much combat action, lots of small talk, off screen combat, on screen tension), but to say that the move is realistic is ridiculous. I could write forever about the unrealism, but here are just a few items.1. The lieutenant gets killed at the outset, so command passes down to three battle-hardened combat sergeants,. . . who then spend the rest of the movie crying, confused, unable to lead, unable to read maps, uncertain what to do, uncertain how to command, and having existential anxiety. Indeed, this appears to be the fundamental theme of the entire movie! (They should rename it The Crying Sergeants). I've got big news for you. Combat platoons are run and commanded by the sergeants. They are the most competent men and leaders in combat. Young officers, on the other hand, such as lieutenants, are typically hapless and routinely get men killed by not knowing how to command. The mission in this movie (march 6 miles inland down a farm road and destroy a farm house marked on a map) would be business as usual for any combat sergeant. These guys acted like it was the Manhattan Project!!!2. In the middle of the movie, in a combat situation, a sergeant issues a direct order to a private to deliver a message to another soldier. The private replies, Go tell him yourself! Realism??? You've got to be kidding me!! Do you have any idea what would have happened both then (and now) if a soldier said this to a sergeant in combat?? It would start off with a really good beating, and end in the soldier having to walk point (suicide) for the rest of the mission. 3. Each and every soldier has the exact battle dress on, including carry bags and ammo belts, regardless of rank or weapons. Guys carrying little M-1 carbines are wearing ammo belts designed for the large Garand rifle ammo. Guys carrying Thompson submachine guns are wearing the same. Realism??? Only in Hollywood.4. At the climax, 50 troops with rifles charge across an open field at a stone farmhouse containing three German machine guns. The machine guns blaze away, and only a few troops fall! Realism?? This charge would have been suicide, with all killed! The lone American machine gun (blazing away from a stone wall 200 yard away to support the charge) would have killed more Americans than Germans. What would they have really done in this scenario? They would have surrounded the farmhouse, pinned down the occupants, and then called for support. (Either air or armor.)5. Fifty men are sent inland on a mission, and nobody has a radio? Since their landing was uncontested, they clearly didn't leave it with the dead in the surf. Geez, . . . I guess they just plain forgot to bring one!!!When I see a movie like this, I just don't know what to think. The only people who would categorize this movie as realistic would be Artsie folks, who seem to know nothing about combat, firearms, or the military, and who seem to totally confuse the concept of small-talk dialogue among privates with realism. I am sorry, but they are not the same thing. "},{"Title":"So freakin boring!!!","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This rotten tomato got the axe at the 26 minute mark ... when some bozo rattles off about the 1955 battle of Tibet for the 3rd time (movie takes place in 43). This is seriously one of the worst WW2 films I have seen ... and I have seen many! On the boring meter it sits atop with the French film A Man Escaped ... which was at least artistic.Seriously 90% of the film is idle chatter and that does not make for a good film. More so you can tell that very little money was spent on the film ... it is borderline amateur. Finally the singing narration ... that may have been a good idea in 1945 but it torpedoes in 2015.I could tell this film would get the gong within the first 5 minutes ... yet I tried to hang in there ... thinking it may pull up from the dive ... it did not. Don't waste your time.POST I cannot believe our boys were such morons as the men portrayed in this film were. This was my parents generation and very few were this simple. "}{"Title":"This One Has Legs","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" If IMDb is to be believed this movie was released in December, 1945, some seven or eight months after the War In Europe ended so that in one way any anti-war message built into it was superfluous. Director Lewis Milestone who was, in fact, a fine all-rounder with a long career, will always be closely associated with All Quiet On The Western Front which dealt with the futility of war albeit World War One so it was perhaps natural that he repeat the lesson with World War Two. This movie is notable for its matter of fact acceptance of war as a natural recurring phenomena and one that makes little or no attempt to either glamorize war or paint a horrific picture of it. The main thrust is the six-mile trek by one platoon from a beachhead in Salerno inland to the farmhouse that they have been assigned to take and hold. En route we meet and get to know the typical Hollywood 'bomber crew' cross section of personnel with very little actual combat until the last couple of reels when they do, in fact, attain their objective. Certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Where Are We","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film is really terrific if not all the facts are correct.Dana Andrews and Richard Conte steal the whole film. Andrews with his cool headedness and Conte with his brashness. I wished Norman Lloyd would have got knocked off earlier in the film and Herb Rudley did a really good portrayal of a soldier who suffered battle fatigue if not a little bit exaggerated. But the question where are we in the beginning of the film still has me puzzled. If they had landed in Sicily and were supposed to head northward; where they supposed to head to the other end of Sicily and cross the Straits of Messina to head for Rome? Or were they in the south of Italy and head for Rome? More puzzlement when they met those two Italian defectors who one said he came from Turin which is way up north in Italy. Were they sent to Sicily; or were they captured in the south of Italy? Maybe the History Channel could tell me more; but otherwise it was a very good movies for the times, "},{"Title":"Talk, talk, talk","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Got excited when opening credits showed Rossen wrote the screenplay.Then the characters started speaking. Repetitiously. All the time. Richard Conte saying Butt!. Norman Lloyd saying You kill me or talking about the war extending to Tibet or grumbling THE SAME PHRASE again and again (sorry, I blocked it) about getting all the dirty jobs. John Ireland lyrically and verbally composing letters to his sister at every slow moment (and there were a lot of them). All to a semi-Negro spiritual playing the background.Thirty minutes later, I smiled when Sterling Holloway got it on the beach. I no longer cared whether the G.I.s would take the farmhouse. I wanted the Germans to slaughter them. No, maybe capture them and torture them. Slowly. I changed channels as that wasn't going to happen. Didn't expect blood or graphic violence -- not given the year this was made. But I did expect it to keep my interest -- especially with the screen writing pedigree. Rossen obviously didn't want the usual war picture. He simply wanted war as average guys surviving long stretches of boredom and uncertainty punctuated by short bursts of action, adrenaline and unexpected death. Good idea, except the existential dialog and meaningful music clubbed this viewer into shell-shock. I guess Rossen learned his lesson. Had Paul Newman repeatedly barked Chalk! at Piper Laurie or composed his shots out loud to George C. Scott while in a hotel room, who'd remember The Hustler today? "},{"Title":"If words were ammunition these guys would never run out.","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" An American platoon lands on the beaches on Salerno Italy and are tasked with taking a farmhouse farther inland. The movie begins in the dark early hours, in landing craft headed for the Italian coast, dialogue ensues. The platoon's Lt, is injured and eventually dies, leaving a number of sergeants to lead the platoon to the objective. More dialogue follows. Eventually they hit the beaches uncontested and dig so they can talk about nothing. In one of the few action scenes of the film, a medic (Holloway) is killed by a strafing plane, and more talk follows. They move inland all while talking and come across some deserting Italian soldiers. The token Italian American is able to speak to them and they get some info about the area. After more long winded chat of no importance, they get ready to hit a German half track. One of the sergeants basically wets his pants, cries, and can't fight. They blow up the half track and move on to the all important farmhouse. After much talk, they attempt to hit it, and they fail. They come up with a foolhardy plan to take the place. With much less casualties then would have actually happened, they manage to take the house and talk some more.I have to say this is one of the most disappointing war films I have ever scene. I'm amazed with a cast like this the film came out so poorly, in virtually every aspect. Lloyd Bridges seems to stand out by far and even his character is a bore. The real problem with the film is there is too much needless boring dialogue. Everyone knows to have a good film you need a good script and dialogue, the problem is that almost all of it is pointless. They attempted to show you what the average Joe would be talking about while he's out on patrol. But it becomes tedious and extremely boring, with dialogue if you're not outright laughing at for being so poor, you may just be fast forwarding. For instances some have said how real the dialogue is. Yet, near the end, they have just lost some men, are under fire and don't know how their going to take the farmhouse. So with no real emotion the one guy starts up a conversation about how a leaf off the ground is more complex than the human body. If it sounds stupid, it is. His first thoughts would be is he going to see his family again or live to see another day. Other ones are equally as silly, about dirt, apples, and how one man wants to be hit man after the war. The only scene that was good was when they talk to the Italians to get some information. It comes off well. But I haven't mentioned characters, because they are ones that no one could care about. I couldn't even give you a name. Although you really never see them, you will probably be begging for the Germans to attack just so something happens in the film. The song that is played periodically during the film is awful, but I can excuse this for it is not the tastes of my era.Those above aren't the only situations that are impractical. The officer is killed yet among at least 3 sergeants they have no idea what their doing. No one seems to carry a radio. When friends die, rather then stripping them of at least their ammo or weapon, they leave them there with a loaded Garand shoved in the ground. Same with the medic, he's killed and they don't take his supplies. And of course let's not forget the non climatic ending. Not only do they poorly plan the attack, but they are suppose to have cover from a machine gunner who does nothing but brag, yet he cant hit the broad side of a barn, or a farm house in this case. In reality virtually all of those men would be back in WWI, slaughtered from machine gun fire. If you wanted reality poor planning actually may be kosher to the green US military of the time, so maybe the movie is correct in that case.I know what people will say, go watch Private Ryan (overrated) or something with big special effects. No actually I don't need all that. Most of the greatest war films, among others were from years back, from black and white to color, with little or lots of violence, bad effects to great effects and with varying dialogue. This is just a poor war film. Guadalcanal Diary was made before this and is far superior on all levels. Among other greats about WW II, Attack!, The Longest Day, The Train, The Dirty Dozen, Bridge on the River Kwai, The Great Escape, and depending on how modern you want to be, Downfall. There are too many to name. I'm sure this holds a special place for some, but overall it is poorly done and should be avoided by most, unless a die hard WW II buff. 1 and half out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A War Movie?","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" If you're looking for a war movie where nobody bleeds, nobody sweats, nobody gets dirty, nobody swears, nobody gripes about the Army, nobody needs a shave, and nobody fires a rifle, this is the war movie for you. If you can get past these problems, there are larger issues as well such as the lack of command leadership and general unconcern for the wounded. Then there are minor issues like why the Germans were flying P51s and why an infantry grunt would trade his M1 for a Thompson on the battlefield without picking up ammunition.The dialog goes hand in hand with the historical realism. When one of his squad is shot, a sergeant, without checking the soldier, says He's dead. I can tell. How could he tell? Simple. Only the dead had mussed up hair.The real question was why this film was made. I haven't a clue. I wonder if the director did. "},{"Title":"You've got to be kidding!!!!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" What a waste of time! In the past, I've found IMDb ratings to be on par with my tastes, but this one is far of the mark. This flick had very little plot ...... extremely poor dialog ...... and obviously NO budget! I have a hard time remembering when I've seen a worse movie. My uncles summer vacation movies were stronger productions! Here is a 3 and a half minute story that drags on for 2 hours. I'm trying to think of one good comment to say for this movie and honestly can not come up with a single thing. Believe me - pick something else or just go to bed early! You time is worth much more that this!!! Absolutely Two Thumbs Down Here! "},{"Title":"Contains the finest speech ever made in a motion picture.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The story of the fate of a captured American bomber crew from the first air raid on Tokyo. Dana Andrews final speech (taken from a Portugese reporter's news story) to the court is the most moving ever made in a motion picture.The picture produced such a strong emotional response that it was banned in many American cities as detrimental to the war effort. "},{"Title":"Predictable and dull war film","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a WWII film, made during the war, and therefore should be closer to the truth than later films.We get attempts at character, and some of the banter is well done.We get some situations that are well done, such as the confusion, of not knowing what is going on somewhere else, which two characters experience early in a trench, and which brings too much curiosity out in one of the characters.We have a realistic depiction of a breakdown.There, the assets of the film stop. Unfortunately, we get the heavy handed cigarette commercial, and we know tobacco companies sponsor this film since any character who doesn't light up a cigarette is destined to become a casualty. The predictability doesn't end there. The film goes beyond being a bit contrived into the here we go again clichés.The clichés ruin this film. For a film that tries to pride itself on realism, there is an incredible lack of screaming after being shot, and of the cleanest wounds ever in film. That would be passable, except that immediately after a man is shot, the camera follows him for many seconds of taking the pain quietly, and we never even see any pain on these men. Now, some directors go overboard on the pain deal, and they are just as stereotypical, but this film is ridiculous in the other direction.We know from the contrived writing which characters bullets will find, and which they won't.And the stupid song that went with it brings the rating down considerably.Most war films from this era were very good in one way or another. This one falls well short of them. "},{"Title":"Wake me when it's over","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is quite possibly the worst war picture I've ever seen. It's one of those where you keep waiting for the movie to start, but it never does. The movie consists mostly of guys standing around talking. In one of the few action scenes in the movie, the Americans get straffed by a P-51, which is an American plane.I picked this DVD up in a bargain bin for $6. It wasn't worth it. On top of the miserable movie itself, the encoding quality is extemely poor. There are lots of places where you can see pixelation. At one point there is a big purple spot on the screen, which really sticks out since the movie is black and white.After enduring it for about an hour, I couldn't take it any more and had to turn the movie off. Save your money. This one is a real stinker. "}]