[{"Title":"I was There","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"60 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I entered for 17 weeks of infantry basic training at Camp Roberts California in January,1945. I was just 18. I was in the 96th, inf, training battlion.  I am 73 now. The movie about Ernie Pyle was being made there in part. Some of the trainees were in the film. I recall my company marching over and over on this same hill to make it look like there was a full army there for the picture. My company commander was in the film as was the company mascot dog. I can't recall much more about the film as I have'nt seen it in a long time, getting old I guess. I surely would like to have a VCR copy of it too. If anyone has a copy to sell, please let me know. I recall that Burgess Meredith had lunch in the mess hall and shot the bull with the G.I.s there. Thats about all that I can remember for now. Hope this helps. G "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best film of infantry combat ever made","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"36 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  After searching for the best war films all my life, and after seeing so much tripe, I was completely flabbergasted by this film, of which I had heard, but had never seen until last night.  Most films made during the Second World War were pure propaganda, all dash and glory, but with little resemblance to real battle.  The Story of G.I. Joe is the real McCoy, especially considering that it was made near the end of the war.  You can feel, taste and smell the muck and fear these men lived with.  The dialogue is gritty, the combat scenes, especially of urban fighting bang on.  One exceptional and rare scene was of an anti-tank gun crew swinging into action and firing 12 rounds a minute in a town.  It was a battle ballet and an example of the lethality of a well-trained and seasoned team.  In my opinion, this film ranks with Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan as the best film of infantry in combat ever made.  In fact, I believe that Spielberg may even have made 'Ryan' as an homage to Wellman's great earlier film; many of the scenes and much of the dialogue is very similar.  In 1945, General Eisenhower called 'G.I. Joe' the greatest war film ever made.  I'm sure he would say the same thing today.  This should be a must-see for every student studying this country's fighting history and every American in uniform should see it. "},{"Title":"Maybe the best American WWII film","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  William A. Wellman is one of the American cinema's greatest craftsmen. The Story of G.I. Joe is one of his best, if not his best. It presumably inspired a lot of later films. It especially reminds me of Stanley Kubrick's Vietnam film, Full Metal Jacket (the second half of it, anyway). This film should also be praised for its dedication to realism, and its lack of propaganda, surprising in such a vivid war film that was being made in the thick of the action in both Europe and the Pacific.I also really love the script. The structure is very tenuous. Unlike most American films, it has no real goal. Take a look at the infinitely inferior Steven Spielberg film Saving Private Ryan. In that film, the story centered around the search for Private Ryan. In The Story of G.I. Joe, the goal is simply the arrival at Rome, but this isn't at all what the film is about. It concentrates mostly on how the soldiers passed the time and how they felt. In this way, it's the second most sensitive war film I can think of, only following Jean Renoir's unsurpassed The Grand Illusion. There are some excellent battle scenes, as well.As with most war films, there isn't a lot of overt characterization. It works really well here, though. Instead of opting for the old two-dimensional types of soldiers - you know, the tough guy the young guy the religious guy and what have you - Wellman just lets the characters develop within the actors. We may not know all of their names, or even recognize the same characters throughout the film, but, with each close-up of a soldier's face, we know as much about that person as we could know. The acting is very good. The three who stand out are Burgess Meredith, who plays Ernie Pyle, the writer whose works the film is based on, Robert Mitchum, wonderfully sensitive as the troop leader (he was probably never better; he received his one and only Oscar nomination for the role), and Freddie Steele. Early in the film he receives a phonograph recording of his young son speaking. He spends most of the film first looking for a phonograph player and then trying to repair it. This subplot is especially touching.Wellman's direction is superb. The cinematography is, as well, and so is the music. The only problem that the film has is that it runs into war movie cliches, but one would expect that those cliches probably existed in real life, as well. 10/10. "},{"Title":"The film is now available after years of litigation.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I found this to be a particularly poignant film about WWII - no heroics, just the simple getting through the day & night of a company of US infantry. Much like Ernie Pyle humanized the 'G. I.' in his written pieces, Wellman does the same on film.  The heat, dirt, cold, mud, rain...fear, uncertainty, waste - it's all here without the bombast and manipulation of Saving Private Ryan'.  The performances are wonderful - most of the performances were given not by professionals but by the soldiers  themselves.  There is one scene between Mitchum and Meredith that was apparently an audition film - it was so right, it was simply inserted into the film.  There are human touches throughout, as well as the insanity of war.  I would strongly recommend this film to anyone who has an appreciation for the director, actors, theme.  It's not a grisly film, and it is slow, but overall well worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Understated and heartbreaking portrait of men at war","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" As a rule, war movies made in wartime are propaganda; critical and realistic movies about war appear after the fact. An exception is THE STORY OF G.I. JOE, easily the best film about World War II made during the war, and one of the best American war movies of any era. It's not about famed correspondent Ernie Pyle so much as seen through his eyes; his compassionate observations create a portrait of an infantry company in North Africa and Italy, and a tribute to its commanding officer Captain Bill Walker (Robert Mitchum.) The film culminates in a set-piece based on Pyle's essay, The Death of Captain Waskow. Unlike most WWII movies, with their stentorian narration, maps and speeches and clear-cut missions, THE STORY OF G.I. JOE is reticent and nearly formless. There are many scenes of soldiers marching along roads, or waiting around in damp caves; one patrol after another sets out and returns without accomplishing anything in particular. Except for Dondaro, the resident wolf who thinks of nothing but dames, the soldiers don't fall into the usual stereotypes. Nor do they look like movie stars; they have real, varied faces. They're just a bunch of ordinary guys, with no obvious ethnic or regional characteristics. One is obsessed with his failure to get into the air corps; another incessantly tries to play a record of his son's voice. (This repetitive motif gets tiresome, but pays off in a big way. Freddie Steele is wonderful as the rough-edged, hard-working sergeant desperate to get back to his wife and child.) There are sentimental touches, especially the presence of a small dog whose whining and whimpering underscores tragic moments, but even this doesn't cloy. The dog is actually an effective symbol of the men's emotional vulnerability, their need for comfort and companionship. A little sentimentality is allowable because the film overall is uncommonly realistic. Like ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, it's a war movie in which nearly every major character dies, and it conveys equally well the reality of the soldier's life as the hero in ALL QUIET says, Our bodies are earth and our thoughts are clay, we eat and sleep with death. There is a touch of stylized lyricism in the film, and also a good deal of wry humor. Many of the comic lines are copied directly from the cartoons of Bill Mauldin, whose depiction of scruffy, un-heroic, grousing dogfaces was attacked by General MacArthur, but is brought faithfully to life in THE STORY OF G.I. JOE. There is very little action, and the film will disappoint anyone who seeks out war movies for the excitement and explosions. The few battle scenes have the quality of tasteful newsreels; they look realistic but aren't very engaging because they don't focus on the characters we have come to know and care about. Most of the deaths take place off-screen, and are accepted with numb resignation. Understatement is a rare quality in a war movie, and it's what makes THE STORY OF G.I. JOE so powerful. In one wordless scene Pyle sits in a cave while men return from a patrol, collapsing wet and exhausted. Pyle keeps turning nervously to the entrance as each man comes in, and you realize he is waiting to see who doesn't come back. Burgess Meredith is appropriately self-effacing as a man who admires the infantry soldiers so much he feels compelled to suffer alongside them, ashamed of his own safety and of his fame.Mitchum is characteristically cool, sleepy-eyed and low-key, but his emotional sincerity and the nobility of his character belie his reputation for irreverent cynicism and his dismissal of his acting abilities with comments like, Look, I got three expressions looking left, looking right, and looking straight ahead. (He gives a similarly heartfelt performance in HEAVEN KNOWS MR. ALLISON, again as a soldier.) Here, beneath his tough, no-nonsense exterior he's soft-hearted and humane, anguished by his responsibility for sending men to their deaths. There's always a suggestion of sadness in Mitchum's mask-like face (he very rarely smiles) and in his deep weary voice, and both work beautifully here. His character is constructed subtly of small pieces the way he responds to the crack-up of his faithful sergeant, the humorous scene where he strong-arms a quartermaster into getting turkey and cranberry sauce for his men on Christmas, and above all his conversation with Burgess Meredith as he exhaustedly swigs grappa while writing letters to the families of the dead. This was the scene Mitchum did to audition for the part, and his performance made William Wellman cry. Wellman later said it was one of the most compelling things he ever saw, and he wished he'd had the sets complete, so he could have incorporated the test into the finished film.By the end of the film, you so love and admire this man that the sight of his corpse, brought down from a mountain by mule, is enough to convey the true heartbreak of war. One soldier sits beside him and strokes his hand; when he has to leave, he straightens the captain's collar and gently touches the side of his face before limping after the company. The fact that this mourner is a character we have not liked up to this point&#151;the conceited, irritating Dondaro&#151;and who has not had a warm relationship with the captain, somehow makes the scene even more touching, saving it from emotional overkill. The field of white crosses behind Pyle's head in his reaction shot is a mute rebuke to triumphalism&#151;an astonishing comment to make just months before the end of the war. "},{"Title":"Gritty tribute to G.I.s...excellent performances...","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  One of the most fascinating tributes to the foot soldier is this 1945 war film that follows Ernie Pyle, beloved war correspondent, as he treks along through mud and ambushes with a platoon of weary G.I. Joes.Robert Mitchum earned an Oscar nomination as Lt. Bill Walker and many of the other males in the cast were real combat soldiers who actually participated in the making of the film. The plot is no more than a series of skirmishes the platoon faces on a mission against Nazis in Italy. Burgess Meredith makes Ernie Pyle a likeable human being who wins the trust and affection of the platoon as he trudges with them across marshlands and all of the up front activity involved.Human touches abound without the emphasis on cliches that often abound in war films. Mitchum gives just the right touch to his role as the leader who understands the strain his soldiers are under. The inclusion of a sub-plot involving a soldier anxious to hear the sound of his son's voice on a recording; and a pooch that becomes the mascot for the troops, are touches that give the film added humanity.There is some editing that seems a bit jumpy in the latter part of the film, as though some cuts were made--but all in all this is a very watchable war film with a close-up look at the men and their courage under fire. A fine tribute also to Ernie Pyle, a famous Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent during the dark days of World War II. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A realistic portrayal of war","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" I rank this film with The Paths of Glory, All Quiet on the Western Front, and A Walk in the Sun; which I consider to be the most poignant and best acted war or anti-war films. The direction, dialogue, and acting in this film differ in the respect that the bloodshed and action are not graphic but obviously evident. It is certainly better than Saving Pvt. Ryan, which is too long, pretentious, and relies on gory special effects to entice the younger audience.The acting in The Story of G.I. Joe is realistic (not to be confused with the method style) and understated.Burgess Meredith and Robert Mitchum give two of their best performances and I really felt as though this was a portrayal of the every day conditions of the infantryman and not an exercise in false heroics.I would rate this film a 9 out of 10. And I thank Turner Classic Movies for showing it. It is truly a CLASSIC. "},{"Title":"Chronicler of the Infantry","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" It's odd that a director noted for his aviation films would choose to direct a film about the infantry, but William Wellman knew a great subject when he saw it. Remember he also did the deservedly highly acclaimed Battleground.Independent producer Lucas Cowen got together with Ernie Pyle and approached Wellman. They left copies of the stories Pyle wrote from the front in Africa and Italy and Wellman read them in a night's sitting and agreed to do the film.The Story of GI Joe is based on the various stories and characters that World War II's most famous correspondent encountered. In fact aside from Robert Mitchum and a couple of other actors, the men in this film are real GIs who were in transit from the European to the Pacific Theater and a lot were killed after they arrived in the Pacific as did the real Ernie Pyle who never got to see the finished product.Burgess Meredith does a fine job recreating the modest chronicler that was Ernie Pyle. In civilian life aside from news stories, Pyle was famous for his cross country travels and stories he wrote about people from all walks of life. Very much like the late television commentator Charles Kuralt did on CBS morning news on Sundays.When war broke out Pyle did not cover the war of the generals, he spent his time with the troops and told their story. For that he was respected and beloved as now other war correspondent has ever been before or since. In this film Pyle is introduced to the men of one company which transports him to that first American battle and defeat at Kasserine Pass in north Africa. And he runs into them again and again through Sicily right to the liberation of Rome.Robert Mitchum plays the lieutenant later captain in charge of this company. He'd broken into films with some Hopalong Cassidy pictures and did bits in other films. In fact when its cowboy star Tim Holt enlisted in the armed forces, RKO pictures had signed Mitchum to be his replacement and he'd done two films Nevada and West of the Pecos when he read for the part of Lieutenant Walker.If it weren't for this film, Robert Mitchum might have continued to be a B picture cowboy star. For his portrayal of the stern, but compassionate officer in whom Pyle finds a kindred spirit, Robert Mitchum got his only Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. He lost that year to James Dunn for A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. He never received another nomination, but he certainly became a legend although he'd have been the first to debunk that title.Lots of newsreel footage from the Mediterranean theater make The Story of GI Joe one of the most realistic war films ever done. That's remarkable too, considering most of the Hollywood product back then was propaganda hype, good and bad. It has remained a classic to this day and a wonderful tribute to that chronicler of the infantry, Ernie Pyle. "},{"Title":"relentless mud","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The Story of G.I. Joe chronicles the experiences of an infantry unit in Italy as told by war correspondent Ernie Pyle, who is played by Burgess Meredith. War weary Robert Mitchum plays the platoon leader. While we can see that the movie was largely made in the studio, the great photography and direction move it along. Cold feet, mud, frustration, and homesickness are effectively demonstrated at the expense of battle scenes.  "},{"Title":"War Was Fought In The Trenches...","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  And war was fought in the rain and the mud and the cold....In today's wars fought on film there is very rarely a look at the true living conditions that existed.  This movie does not clean up the actors (as most films do). You see here all of the gritty, day-to-day, living during the war.  These guys did not clean up every day.  This is a good story about WW2.  Be sure to see it. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Moving Picture","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Spoilers. When I saw this years ago it struck me as not having enough battle scenes in it. Now with my blood testosterone leveling off I think I have a better handle on it. Most war movies of the period seemed to include three elements whenever possible combat, romance, and banter between battles. This one has all of them, although the romance has to be squeezed in with a shoehorn. The banter is sometimes funny. A handful of soldiers are sitting around in a cramped, miserably wet shelter dug out of the rock. One removes his boots. One by one the others quietly sniff and throw suspicious glances at one another. Ernie Pyle, crouched there fully dressed, looks back at the others and says, It wasn't me. (Nothing to do with boots!) There is also a certain corny sort of sentimentality associated with at least one of the characters, a beat-up exhausted non-com who tries repeatedly and without success to play a home-made record from his son. (First time I remember seeing a scene like that was in Destination Tokyo.) I was sure the record would be played for every tear it was worth after the father's death, but that's not what happens at all. There is only one real scene of combat and it's well done. Howard Hawks may have seen it before making El Dorado. Mitchum does a journeyman job as Captain Walker, tough and humane as all company commanders in these movies usually are. Yet, he's so good, particularly in a scene alone with Pyle on Christmas Eve, that he brings more to the part than the minimal requirements. Burgess Meredith as Pyle is equally good. He can rattle the rafters when he overacts, but he doesn't do it here. He's quietly believable as a humble war correspondent more concerned with writing about the guy in the mud than about the generals. The G. I., he ruminates, He lives so miserable. He dies so miserable. Ernie Pyle wasn't a great writer. He didn't have the ego for it. He left that up to more florid artists, like Hemingway, who described in one of his articles how he had to take over command of a landing craft at Normandy from a green officer in order to make sure it landed in the right place. Or Walter Cronkite, who could use a leader on a story like, I Just Returned From a Mission to Hell. But if Pyle was no literary artist, he wasn't a dismissible hack either, especially when his circumstances are taken into account. A hack might write something like, The shells roared overhead like freight trains. Pyle wrote Artillery shells rustled overhead. (Rustled.) The poor unpretentious Pulitzer prize winner took a bullet in the forehead on Ie Shima, in the Pacific. And Captain Walker is killed too. Not dramatically, nor heroically, but offscreen, just another body being brought in by mule, already in rigor. The scene is played on screen exactly as Pyle wrote it, with some of the men coming to Walker's body, staring at it before moving on, one or two of them telling Walker how sorry they are. No one sheds a tear. This is a man they liked and respected, but they've already seen so many dead bodies. It's a scene that can't help moving a viewer. The men then shuffle off in silhouette over to the top of a dark, brooding hill, with no triumphant military music to accompany them. It is a striking image of the futility of war. And it ought to be. The Italian campaign which is followed in this film was a disaster. The peninsula, the boot of Italy, has mountains that resemble the skeleton of a fish, with multiple hills running east and west out of the spine of the Apennines. Nobody could design better defensive terrain if they tried, and the Germans were very good. The allies, represented not just by Americans and Brits, but by French, New Zealanders, Gurkhas, Poles, and Canadians, gained nothing worthwhile. In the initial invasion they tried to outflank the enemy with an amphibious landing behind their lines. It failed. The allies slogged on through terrible weather to the next formidable line where they were stopped. They tried to outflank the enemy with an amphibious landing behind their lines. It failed. At the Gustav Line, the Allied advance was stopped at the foot of Monte Cassino, a thousand-year-old Benedictine monastery, which we mistakenly believed was being used as an artillery observation post. We finally bombed the monastery to smithereens, and after the dust settled the Germans immediately moved into the rubble and used it as an observation post. When, finally, it seemed we had gotten behind the German lines, instead of forging west and trapping their troops, the general in charge of the Fifth Army turned north instead and raced towards the open city of Rome so he could have the honor of being the first to enter it. And so it went. Some of this tragedy was captured on film by John Huston in The Battle of San Pietro, which went through some problems because it showed dead American soldiers instead of just dead German soldiers. But none of this could appear, except by implication, in The Story of G.I. Joe. However, the final scene is suitably bleak. It might be Death himself leading that dance over the top of the hill. "},{"Title":"War can be a personal thing. Classic. Best of genre.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  William Wellman directs the story of G.I.Joe and noted war correspondent Ernie Pyle(Burgess Meredith). Fighting soldiers tell their stories to Pyle as he follows the infantry through North Africa and Italy. Meredith is outstanding. Robert Mitchum is exceptional as Lt/Capt. Bill Walker. Also in the cast are Freddie Steele, Jimmy Lloyd, William Murphy and Wally Cassell. This war drama is one of the greatest of its kind. War footage sets an early standard. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Considered the First Realistic War Movie!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Being family to the story's author, Ernie Pyle, I have been privy to lots of background on the movie itself. Ernie Pyle was and still is considered to be one of the greatest war correspondents ever, and NOT for writing about the campaigns or generals - but about the everyday life and drudgery of the grunts, sailors and airmen. A ship, plane, and numerous schools have been named after him, his works still studied by today's aspiring journalists, and Ernie's most famous article, The Death of Capt Waskow, is even portrayed by Mitchum in this movie (http//www.journalism.indiana.edu/news/erniepyle/waskow.html)When Hollywood wanted to capitalize on Ernie's fame and make a movie of his book Here is Your War and daily articles, he made a distinct point in ensuring the movie wasn't about him, but rather about what the GIs go through (he is sometimes even credited with coining the moniker GI Joe - but I can't verify this).That is also why this is not your traditional shoot-em-up-blow-em-up action packed movie. As in real life (and having just retired from 21 yrs active duty myself I know personally), combat action is really 45 days of sheer maddening boredom interrupted by 45 seconds of sheer indiscriminate terror. And that is what this movie portrays for the first time - and the dirt - the boredom - the dark humor - and the tragic unpredictable randomness of combat death.Ernie was involved in the making of the movie but never saw its completion before being killed by a sniper on Ie Shima in 1945 on 18 April (now celebrated as National Columnists Day even - http//www.columnists.com/pyle.html) and Meredith fairly closely portrays the diminutive stature of Ernie.In fact, this movie is specifically credited from Hasbro's own web site with naming the most popular boy's action figure - GI Joe (http//www.hsbro.com/gijoe/rah/default.cfm?page=history). Hasbro finally also provided a limited special edition Ernie Pyle GI Joe - but it's best to buy the $28 corrected version from the Ernie Pyle Museum in Dana, IN, than the $50+ uncorrected versions on eBay.Additionally, today's military even can thank Ernie for hazardous duty or combat pay with the Ernie Pyle Bill by Congress in 1945 to award such special pay. After seeing that the everyday grunt that was bearing the burden and horror of war and getting paid no different for risking their lives than the REMFs back at Washington for pushing paper - he took exception and wrote - and wrote - and wrote, which in turn was taken to heart by the American public and their elected representatives.Lastly, when Ernie was killed on Ie Shima, the soldiers so respected him that while all the military KIAs were being buried in their ponchos or blankets by the hundreds a day, they took the time to make a coffin for this non-combatant civilian journalist - and buried along side the grunts he loved so well. I doubt any of today's journalists would ever rate that kind of respect.No, not your modern action packed war movie - but neither is real war, and this movie tells it like it really is! "},{"Title":"Great acting by everyone.","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" This film forced me to register for IMDb! Everything about it was great, especially the acting. Ultimately it is a very sad movie but then war is a horrible affair. Freddie Steele impressed me the most, he was so real like someone you know from work. It's worth seeing the picture just to watch him spit tobacco. It is hard to track which character is which in many war movies but this movie does a great job fleshing out the soldiers. I can see why the best war movies are star studded, it really helps one follow the characters around.Thank you IMDb. How did anyone know much about the trivia of movies before you came along? "},{"Title":"Thanks, Pal...","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" The term G.I. Joe has become so closely associated with the image of a certain toy that it is now largely forgotten that it was originally coined to describe the ordinary American foot soldier. Likewise, it is now largely forgotten just exactly who Ernie Pyle was and what he meant to the American people and, more especially, to the ordinary soldiers about whom he wrote.My father took a photograph of Ernie Pyle in the Pacific in 1945, shortly before Pyle was killed. At the time Pyle was surrounded by a mob of admiring G.Is. You'd have thought they were in the presence of Bettie Grable or Rita Hayworth rather than a short, balding, middle aged newspaper-man. When Pyle was killed in action a few days later while accompanying the infantry, the solders erected a monument at the place where he died. On it were engraved the words, On this spot the 77th Division lost a buddy, and they really meant it. It's inconceivable that troops today would do anything like that for one of the current crop of CNN-generation reporters.The reason isn't hard to fathom. Most war correspondents hung around the rear echelon, hobnobbing with the general staff and forwarding dispatches from headquarters, and they still do. Pyle, on the other hand, lived with and wrote about the common infantrymen who were actually fighting the war. He ate their food, drank their coffee and shared their hardships through three grueling years of war from North Africa through Sicily to the European mainland, and then later on in the Pacific, where he was killed. Pyle became the spokesman for the common soldiers, and all their families back home read his syndicated column. There simply wasn't anybody else like him then, and there hasn't been since.Small wonder that William Wellman, himself a combat veteran, thought that this movie needed to be made. The filmmaker had tremendous respect for his subject, and it shows. For example, that poignant last scene is, almost word for word and image for image, straight out of one of Pyle's most famous dispatches. It would have been interesting to learn what Pyle thought of this film. Unfortunately, however, by the time it was released the Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter was already dead. "},{"Title":"One of the best wartime movies","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  Like other viewer I agree that this movie is a must see for all war movie buffs.  Great acting and directing.  A seldom seen side of war with moving portrayals of the soldiers and their emotions.  The intown fighting scenes were excellent.  My only adverse comment, which by the way is very minor, is that the beginning scenes were obviously shot in Southern California in an area where I used to live so I recognized that part, however it did not detract from the movie. I recommend it as a classic and a must see for movie lovers.   "},{"Title":"Like some of the pre-comments on the movie, I have been looking for it for years . By chance, found it on Amazon.Com when it was released for the first time on cassette May 22,2000. Loved it as much as when","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  Can't believe the History Channel has not shown this. I expected to see it a couple of years ago when Rob Mitchem  and Berg Merideth died in the same year. My neighbor said he never liked the movie because it portrayed U>S> as winning the battle of Casino. He fought from North Africa to Italy to France and Germany. When I watched the movie after nearly 40 years, I noticed that the end never said that. They said < We have open'd the door to Casino.> Problem was he died 2 years ago. "},{"Title":"I'm happy that it is finally on video for all to see!!!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  Even though I was very young when I saw this moving film; it has always stayed with me.  After all of these years, it is finally being released on video.  Everyone should see the suffering that the men of our country went through to defend it.  It is a wonderful and moving drama, and Robert Mitchum is at his very, very best.  I am going to buy this treasure because it is a part of what my father, uncles, and grandfathers went through during this terrible time in the history of our country. Please see it and tell others of it.  It is a story that needs to be seen and told. "},{"Title":"Truly a MEMORIAL DAY movie","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I feel that this movie is one of the greatest World War II movies ever made and strongly feel that this Movie should always be aired on Memorial Day. My feelings are based on the following 1- The Movie is most accurate and and supported by fact. 2- The realism of war/battle is truly depicted in every scene. 3- The acting by Mitchum, Meredith and support is superb. 4- The last scene & last line of dialog says it all for Memorial Day. The outfit is moving for more action and Ernie Pyle (Burgess Meredith) looks back at the line of fallen men and utters these final words.......THANKS PAL THANKS... Isn't that what Memorial Day is all about!!!!!!!Thanks Pal. (*) This movie was based on the Army's 18th Infantry Unit which I'm proudly to say was my Fathers Unit. I seen this movie with him when it first came out and watched him cry as he reflected. (**) If anyone knows where I can get this movie please let me know in the IMDb comment section or message board. Thanks  "},{"Title":"One of the great war pictures ever made.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1945 when I was 8 years old.  I loved war pictures as most young boys did. It is still one of the greatest war pictures ever made.  Robert Mitchum was especially good.  I would love to buy the video, but can't find it anywhere.  I guess Hollywood didn't bother to save it, what a shame.  "}{"Title":"Who really said that?","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" The quote uttered by Captain Walker in the film,The new kids that come up, that's what gets you. The new ones, some of them have just got a little fuzz on their faces. They don't know what its all about. Scared to death. You know, Ernie, I know it ain't my fault that they get killed, but it makes me feel like a murderer. I hate to look at 'em, the new kids. was based on something told to Ernie Pyle by Sergeant Buck Eversole of the 34th Infantry Division, as reported in a biography of Ernie Pyle in the book Ernie's War The Best of Ernie Pyle's World War II Dispatches. BTW the story of Captain Walker as show in the movie was essentially true, even about how his men felt about his death, but the real captain was named Henry Waskow. "},{"Title":"Eisenhower declared it the best WWII movie!","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The General said it was the most realistic movie about what it was really like for the average G.I. Joe in WWII.  It was actually made during the end of the war - that's why it looks so realistic.  Most WWII movies of the forties and fifties were rah-rah movies.  This one is very dark. "},{"Title":"Bill Mauldin shoulda got credit","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I've been hearing of this one for years, but tonight was the first time I had a chance to watch it. Even on the tube, it shows some really fine B&W photography, and the story (or rather, the lack of one, which makes it all the more realistic) and acting are absolutely fine.And noticed that several of the comedy scenes (and, yes, there's always comedy in wartime, so that, too, is part of the film's reality) came directly from Bill Mauldin's Willie and Joe cartoon panels. They should have given Bill at least partial credit! "},{"Title":"For a movie that was shot on a Hollywood backlot it ranks in my opinion with Private Ryan","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I realize that this movie does not have the visual scope, and technology afforded to the viewer of Pvt. Ryan, but then the stark black & white photography is a plus on this one. The script as best I remember is crisp, devoid of the excessive psychological dialogue of say Walk In The Sun.....The Sgt's breakdown memorable, bringing Walker's body down on pack mule, was the way it was....I constantly wonder why this movie in light of the new regard for the ww2 combat veteran has not been released.  Can anyone out there please let me know, is there any interest out there?  Thank You "},{"Title":"War Without Glory","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Not since All Quiet on the Western Front (1930) has the infantry got so down and dirty. If the men of Company C aren't eating dirt, they're getting soaked by God's own rain, or shelled from the heights of Monte Casino. I guess that's why they call combat infantry men 'grunts'. It's one heck of a dirty business as the men crawl up the Italian boot after the grudging Nazi's. I can see why they call it 'the fog of war'. No one seems to know what's going on beyond shooting at the enemy. No doubt about it, director Wellman did all he could to deglamorize anything smacking of Hollywood cosmetics. I can't help thinking GI mail got clogged with bars of soap after this movie.The treatment's one of the best from the war years. Everybody pretty much low-keys it in the emotions department, Mitchum especially. There's no theatrics, just guys trying to stay together and keep breathing. The scratchy record from home just about sums up the unspoken emotions. As good as the movie is, it's still within the limits of what could be shown during this Production Code period. In short, realism gets cut short in the blood and guts department, unlike, say, Saving Private Ryan (1998), where the gore flows freely. None of that here. Men die cleanly, but no less tragically. I'm guessing the captain's (Mitchum) death is not shown so that we're forced to hold our breath, while that long, long cadaver caravan passes by. It's a poignant end to the film, but not for the men who continue the slog up the Italian boot. Fine movie.(In passing&#x97;I guess the project was made before Ernie Pyle was killed by a Japanese sniper on Ie Shima. Here, actor Meredyth certainly appears to do him justice.) "},{"Title":"To TCM and most of all, 'Wild Bill' Thanks pal. Thanks . . .","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" This is a beautiful movie. Its most celebrated scene is of two men in a tent, one a war correspondent, named Ernie Pyle, the other an army captain, called Walker. They are shown together commiserating about the men the latter one feels responsible for sending to their deaths. This is an idle moment, an intermission from the killing but not the squalor, composed of words, rain, mud and pregnant pauses between swigs of a shared bottle of grappa. Nothing happens except that the viewer is privy to a communion of souls and the spectacle of what seems like the two most believable actors (Burgess Meredith as Pyle, and Robert Mitchum as Lt. Capt. Bill Walker, respectively)to ever share screen space and time together in the same motion picture.In his famous review of it, James Agee compared the packed emotionalism of GI JOE's final lyrical outburst with the elegiac verses of Whitman's Civil War poetry and while the great author of Let Us Now Praise Famous Men and A Death In The Family was wont to gush about certain pet favs of his (John Huston, the 'Silent Age' of Charles Chaplin, and a documentary approach to the cinema, in general, spring most immediately to mind) on this occasion, when composing the longest essay he ever devoted to a single picture, I believe Agee got it exactly right for of all the war films dealing directly with the miserable business of fighting and dying and soldiering on regardless, only THE DEER HUNTER comes remotely close to equalling its weary blend of stoical honor and boundless remorse in the face of such heartbreaking images of battle.The anecdotal design of THE STORY OF G.I. JOE (the underrated, deceptively original script is by Leopald Atlas and Guy Endure) frustrates as standard narrative mechanism but coheres poetically as a whole, as an ode to the nobility of the human spirit. It ingeniously incorporates surprisingly choice ingredients of the period the overcast quality of Robert Capa's combat photos haunt the cinematography and give this William Wellman film an expressive look (and grace) none of his others possess; the early scenes in the African desert and a hurried-up wedding between a WAAC and enlisted man have the flavor of a series of mordant Bill Maulden cartoons. Most obviously, there are the words of Pyle himself, especially the inspiring ones culled from The Death of Captain Waskow, spoken by Meredith on the soundtrack that conclude the movie.Wellman wraps it together with the utmost tact and unerring sensitivity (qualities not usually associated with him)- with a divine instinct that seems to derive from the beyond. This makes it the greatest of Memorial Day movies. In its stark juxtaposition of brutal inevitability (the men look out for each other like muddy boots dangling in the wind, ready to drop) and the recording of amazingly tender impulses under duress, G.I JOE is the most cathartic of fighting films. It wasn't until the Peckinpah westerns that anybody surpassed it. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" A nicely done tribute to Ernie Pyle, Well-cast w/ Burgess Meredith playing the great reporter. Clearly Spielberg has seen this-one look at Private Ryan and you'll see why I say this. They threw in some pretty accurate detail here-rubble, shrapnel, mud, beards, Willie and Joe types all around, chaos, waiting, etc. It just rings true by and large.I thought Mitchum was fine here, he played his role steadily and low-keyed, my fave scene of his was where he talked about how he was a writer, too--and begins listing the names of those who've fallen.Of course, he winds up amongst those names at the end, which is a shame but hardly a surprise.Check it out, the Monte Cassino part of the Italy campaign is the centerpiece and nicely done too.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"taste of war","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Don't understand the other writer's comment about it being 'endless mud.' Yeah, it was, and so was the war. The film shows the weariness, the dirt, the cold and--above all--the futility of war. To think we are still doing it...still sending men and women to lob bombs and bullets at each other...is unbearably sad.Mitchum is excellent as a battlefield-promoted leader. And Meredith is outstanding as Pyle--the actor conveyed the compassion of the correspondent with the lift of an eyebrow, a softly spoken word.This film should be seen in all high schools along with Battleground. Then let the students discuss what they saw and how it applies to today's situation.When will we ever stop throwing rocks/bombs/bullets at each other? "},{"Title":"Truly a Great Classic War Movie","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The first time I saw G.I. Joe it was on the late show when I was like 11. My Dad had told me about it and said it was good. He was usually right about war pictures. I stayed up watching it. Excuse this spoiler, but the ending was one of the saddest I had ever seen at that time. Granted this ain't Saving Private Ryan, but consider the times. Do you really think a family member would want to see that much graphic violence in 1945?During  war time? Get real. Too many lost too much to show that and besides you knew when someone got killed. Too often movies of this calibre get short shrifted because of SPR. But, remember the times and the special effect along with computer graphics have changed everything. This is an excellant story of brave men and heroes in C Company. Yes they were brave men and heroes to endure and overcome what they did. Also remember this was seen through the eyes of a war correspondent who was later killed by a sniper. It is an excellant story with great acting. Mitchum looks the part of a tired, war-weary officer.Also the movie does state that they only kicked the door open to the Cassino. Not take it. This movie can be bought at Media Play or Blockbuster. It can be ordered by them and most other video stores. A must for all War Movie fans. "},{"Title":"Pyle 'em up high","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" War movies isn't usually my favourite movie genre, but I am a fan of golden-age Hollywood film-making as well as almost anything with Robert Mitchum in it. Whatever my reasons for choosing to watch Story Of GI Joe, I'm glad I did, as it's an uncharacteristically realistic, even naturalistic take on the heretofore unheralded work of the ordinary infantrymen, the dog-face foot-soldiers volunteered or called up from Anytown, USA to march for miles, bivouac in dug-out holes and trenches, engage in bitter on-the-ground combat and generally have their physical and mental capacities stretched to the absolute limit.There's no real narrative thread here, in the opening reels we're introduced to a band of brothers trekking through Italy trying to push back the defending German forces when war- correspondent Eddie Pyle, played by Burgess Meredith joins their Company and starts to report from the front in a straightforward down-home manner which eventually sees him win a Pulitzer Prize for his work. And apart from the battalion's pet dog mascot, there really are no other outside characters involved in the film as the viewer is made to feel like part of the group in director Wellman's vivid, fly-on-the-wall documentary-type approach.Mitchum and Meredith apart, I really didn't recognise any of the other actors, which actually added to the sense of everyday realism. There are some character threads running through the film to help bind together the events depicted, like the lady-killing Romeo who gets busted for breaking camp to have a tryst with a local girl and the sergeant obsessed with finding a phonograph to play a shellac recording by his wife and child sent from home, only for it to send him over the edge into madness when he finally does get to hear it. There's no one big heroic battle to act as a climax to the film either, just a bunch of GI's trying to take a hill-top location where a monastery is now strategically occupied by unseen German soldiers, which they strive to do (once the Army red-tape preventing them attacking a holy place has finally been cut) which they do at no little human cost in absolutely filthy weather and environmental conditions.For the most part, the dialogue rings true, with no great jaw-jutting heroic speeches by anyone. These are just dog-tired, hard-pressed soldiers, thrust unprepared into the heat of battle in a far from glorious theatre of war. The actors to a man look physically uncomfortable, exhausted and even dispirited but continue on under the tough stewardship of Mitchum's Captain Walker.Mitchum and Meredith are both very good in different ways but of course it's the ensemble acting which carries the movie. Wellman's roving, sometimes hand-held camera-work gives an utterly convincing eye-witness account of the terrible task these soldiers were put to. That's probably the greatness of the film in that it discreetly celebrates heroism of the soldiers at the same time as conveying the futility of war. The story of GI Joe isn't about one man as the title might imply, all of the soldiers here are GI Joe. "}{"Title":"The Reality of Combat","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" The Story of GI Joe is a biography &#x96; and almost feels like a documentary &#x96; of the famous US World War II correspondent Ernie Pyle (played by Burgess Meredith) as he covers the gritty exploits of Company C of the US 18th Infantry. The director, William Wellman, based the movie upon Pyle's Pulitzer Prize winning book. Pyle was a rare breed. He insisted on being on the front lines with our GIs so as to get the right account of what was really happening with the average Joe. His purpose was not to carry a weapon but to take notes and send true stories back home about young soldiers who expressed their fears and concerns, and who felt their way thorough their first combat. Pyle stuck with the soldiers through heavy rains, mud holes, flowing streams, and combat situations. Pyle's dispatches showed the home front parents what their boys were going through. Initially the slow-paced film begins in North Africa (February 1943) and covers the American reverse at the hands of the Axis forces of Field Marshall Rommel at the Kasserine Pass. After that it moves quickly over the American victories in Africa and the conquest of Sicily. Then the rest of the movie's focus is the war in Italy (up to the capture of Rome), especially the battles of San Vittorio and Mt. Cassino (a sixth century abbey). As for the latter, the Germans did not use its strategic position until it was bombed. But the rubble made them a favorable defensive position. The US soldiers &#x96; mechanics, construction men, office workers, etc. before the war &#x96; are well led by the humane Lt. Walker (Robert Mitchum). Walker, outside of Pyle, gets the most attention. But Sgt. Warnicki (Freddie Steele), Pvt. Donaro (Wally Cassel), and Pvt. Murphy (John Reilly) also have sizable parts to play. When Warnicki enters a bombed out Catholic Church to pray, he leaves his helmet on. It's a good thing he did so. Donaro confronts a frightened Italian woman, but note her relief when he speaks Italian. Murphy's company gives him the use of a most unusual bridal suite after he marries his fiance, a nurse. Supporting roles were also played by actual combat veterans of North Africa, Sicily, and Italy. Meredith comes across very well as the sincere and humble war correspondent. The movie is convincing and natural There are no heroics here, no John Wayne valor, no patriotic slogans. General Eisenhower called this the greatest war movie that he had ever seen. Ironically, the real Ernie Pyle never saw this movie. It premiered in 1945, after the fall of Germany (European Theater of Operations, ETO) but with the Pacific Theater of Operations (PTO) still in progress. Pyle had already left Europe for the western Pacific, and was killed during the last battle of the war (Okinawa) in April 1945. "},{"Title":"For those  under the wooden crosses there is nothing we can do .except pause and murmur Thanks pal thanks.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" The Story of G.I. Joe is a historic film. It's the first truthful look at the infantry men during WWII. there is rain and mud and snow and ice and horror beyond all horror. Loneliness and love. And Men who break during Combat and men who die. Ernie Pyle lived that life marching the same mud filled roads as the Joes and watching the smiling youthful faces full of hope turn old and full of bitterness and regret. Pyle knew what he was talking about he lived it alongside the soldiers that helped win a war. He suffered as they suffered and told their story as honestly as he could and in the end this made Pyle the most beloved War correspondent of his time . And maybe for all time. Pyle had a hand in the making of this film. I've noticed there are people who say this film is dated. Of course its dated Time marches on. and everything changes War changes. This is a look at the War as it was during the years 1939 -1945. Of course its set in the year 1944. And that's why it feels dated to those who were not there. For kids raised on WWII films like saving private Ryan and Band of Brothers with those films you get a good Technicolour look at WWII and a modern feel. But what people forget is back in 1945 there were severe limits placed on what you could see in a movie. This film captures the feel and the essence of what it was like to be a G.I .Joe. Robert Mitchum was made a superstar in his star making role here. The scene that made him a star in which Captain Walker talks about the New ones is perfect and heartfelt. And Ernie Pyle's spirit comes thru as much as his love and affection for the fighting man. with that perfect last line. For those beneath the wooden crosses there is nothing we can do except pause..and murmur thanks pal thanks . that sums it up perfectly. Incredible film and a eye opener of what it was like to be a G.I. Joe. "},{"Title":"One of the Best World War II Combat Movies","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" This bleak, 108-minute, black & white, World War II combat movie from director William A. Wellman, who went on to direct Battleground, doesn't cut its characters any slack. Fiercely realistic, The Story of G.I. Joe refuses to sugar coat the gritty fighting in this traditional World War II epic. Meaning, of course, that nobody here wants to kill their superior officer or complain about incompetent leadership. The soldiers of Company C, 18th Infantry as well as Scripps-Howard war correspondent Ernie Pyle (Burgess Meredith) meet each other in the Tunisian desert and contend with mud, blood, and more. Incidentally, the real-life Pyle died before the film opened in late 1945. He survived the European Theater of Operations and died in the Pacific. Robert Mitchum shines as company commmanding officer Lieutenant Bill Walker and lets Pyle ride with his untested troops. Significantly, The Story of G.I. Joe represented the one and only Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor that Mitchum received. Meantime, scenarists Leopold Atlas, Guy Endore and Philip Stevenson were nominated for Best Screenplay writing, and Louis Applebaum and Ann Ronnel got nominations for Best Music scoring. This grim story starts in North Africa after American troops have been routed by Rommel at the disastrous Battle of Kasserine Pass and these follows these soon-to-be seasoned soldiers over Sicily into Italy. Clearly, the message of The Story of G.I. Joe is war is hell. You can tell that The Story of G.I. Joe was not the usual flag-waving piece of propaganda. The scene in the church where Lt. Walker and Sergeant Steve Warnicki (Freddie Steele of Hail the Conquering Hero) with our heroes having to take time out from prayer to blast the bejesus out of cunning German soldiers concealed in the second floor is one of the best. One recurring gag concerns Sergeant Warnicki who totes around a carefully wrapped up record of his son that he cannot get to play on any phonograph. Eventually, when he figures out how to play it, Warnicki goes berserk, a casualty of battle fatigue, and tries to launch a one-man assault against the Germans to end the war. Captain Walker has to clobber Warnicki and they send him back to face the medics. In a regular World War II movie made during the war, the sergeant would have celebrated the record with his buddies and there would have been no depressing conclusion like happens here. Surprisingly enough, especially for a World War II movie, The Story of G.I. Joe differs from most because it either implies or outright mentions the strategic blunders of the Allies. The latter half of the action occurs during the infamous battle of Monte Cassino. Unless you are a World War II armchair strategist, Monte Cassino may mean nothing to you, but it represented an important battle. The Allies attacked a hill-top, sixth-century Benedictine monastery that the enemy had occupied, particularly the elite German 1st Parachute Division. The Allies began attacks on the monastery in January, but the Allies did not take the monastery until May. Initially, the Allies did not want to bomb the monastery because it was a religious site, but repeated failures to take the monastery finally prompted them to bomb it from the air. Unfortunately, turning the monastery into rubble served the Germans more than it did the Allies. General Dwight Eisenthower reportedly called The Story of G.I. Joe one of the best movies of World War II. "},{"Title":"1 out of 5 action rating","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Skip it &#x96; This movie has a very old feel to it. Unlike other classics made during this time, it has not aged well. Also, it lacks the Hollywood heroics usually associated with a war movie. It is for this unique reason that a lot of people actually like this unconventional 1945 WWII movie co-starring a super young Robert Mitchum. I could compare it to Band of Brothers because the story is about the unit rather than a single main character. Replacements come and go but the story always focuses on the unit. But Band of Brothers actually had some good fight scenes. This movie only has one good combat sequence. So instead, I will compare this film to All Quiet on the Western Front because instead of focusing on combat, it focuses more on the rain and mud and trench hardships of the war. 1 action rating "},{"Title":"G.I. Joe","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Praised as a veritable film description of World War II and distinguished as audiovisual heritage by U.S. Congress, I finally saw Ernie Pyle's Story of G.I. Joe, a William A. Wellman film based on two books by war correspondent Pyle, but it was a big disappointment, both as a motion picture and as a National Film Registry. Set in Italy and partially in the North of Africa, I could not help comparing this propaganda piece with Rome, Open City (1945), a concurrent work by Roberto Rossellini that is a paradigm of Italian Neo-Realism in its initial phase, and an epic drama about the resistance of the people of Rome, that benefits from shooting in the places where similar events happened, and not the movement of foreign troops (through Californian locations) for 109 minutes, whose only objective is to reach the city of Rome because the High Command ordered it. Both films, independently from their artistic aspirations, are slightly affected by plot elements too much indebted to the sentimentality of melodrama, but while Rossellini's film can move us as a passionate account of the clandestine struggle of Roman civilians against Nazis and Fascists &#x96;in an unequal but decidedly defiant confrontation, with the participation of men, women and children&#x96;, Wellman's film makes us question the presence of American troops in Italy, because it is obvious that they are not there to fight for the defense of home, not even for democracy&#x85; That explanation would certainly belong to another kind of film, one that would had the purpose of clarifying (or erasing) that upsetting sensation, but it is explained &#x96;at least in part&#x96; because G.I. Joe is not even a war film, according to those American reference books that classify US entertainment. Films about wars (in those fat, pocket books) are adventure movies, action units with a hint of political background, where fast movement and noisy spectacle are the norms. A scene in G.I. Joe illustrates the contrast to Rome, Open City a moment when Sgt. Warnicki (Freddie Steele) asks the inhabitants of an Italian town for a phonograph, and nobody understands. The language barrier is obvious, but the rude sergeant is annoyed because the Italians do not speak his tongue, and the townspeople become the object of a bland joke. Propaganda is not always bright and populated by beautiful faces. It also looks like G.I. Joe, with little known actors (only Burgess Meredith and Robert Mitchum would achieve world fame), a pet a la Walt Disney, a score filled with American marches, harmonica notes, and speeches disguised as patriotic narration, as in the end, when the voice of Pyle (played by Meredith) tell us of our war, as if soldiers (men who have to follow orders without questioning) were in wars for personal or national reasons, or for some vague, altruist abstraction, beyond the economic, strategic and expansionist reasons that their leaders use as justifications to send them to make wars that are not theirs. And I do not think that my opinion about G.I. Joe is politically biased or simply motivated by the benefit of time perspective I believe that by 1945 it was already propaganda, covering with deceitful pomp the immolation of innocent men who, without any doubt, would have preferred to stay home. "},{"Title":"Dated in spots but truthful","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" This film is an odd mix. In spots the dialog and situations are cornier than Capra. But it is the first real attempt to depict (at least in part) some of the day to day hardships of the regular GI.Since the war was still on when this picture was made (released in 1945), the message had to be at least somewhat hopeful and yet it struck a mix not unlike some of Pyle's dispatches from the front. It certainly feels much more realistic than some earlier efforts like In Which We Serve (1942) The idea of filming on location hadn't been adopted yet, and the North Africa scenes filmed in California have a wrongness about the feel that hurts the early scenes in the picture. Also, some anachronisms in the equipping of the GI's will stand out as well to anyone familiar with newsreel footage or some of the better made documentaries that have been made since. The later footage that is supposed to be in Italy doesn't suffer as much from the lack of actual locations.Much of the picture revolves around an effort to get past a mountain guarded by an ancient monastery. The film somewhat rewrites history at this point in an attempt to exorcise some of the errors in judgment that later came to be associated with the bombing of Monte Cassino.Several filmic techniques are used a bit heavy handedly as well. Care is taken to keep the Germans a faceless, inscrutable foe. There is one scene where the lighting is very dramatically (and somewhat obviously)arranged so that a dark shadow is cast by a captured German's helmet. We don't have to see much of his face and certainly not his eyes.The use of the puppy is a bit overdone. Using a puppy to whine when we should be feeling sad is a bit heavy handed. Conversely the filmic trick of using the noise of nearby explosions to cover/censor one soldier's lewd comments is done with a wink and a nod to the audience. It's clear that film makers knew we'd get the joke. Since it was wartime, no American soldiers were shown too terribly mangled or with graphic / disturbing injuries. Rapid jump cuts were used very effectively in several key battle scenes to heighten the tension without having to overdo the special effects.One plot element was a bit weird though. A GI receives a record containing his son's first recorded words. The GI has never heard his kid speak and tries repeatedly to get the record to play on a phonograph that he liberates For some inexplicable reason the recording seems to have been recorded backwards so that all the GI can hear is garbled. Yet at one crucial moment he tries again and the recording this time seems to play fine despite it being obvious that he's done nothing differently. A bit more care in staging this could have made it actually work.Another thought that occurred to me several times while watching this picture was that while regular GI's were overseas actually fighting and dying for their country. The actors and crew involved in this film were safe at home. I've seen many other pictures made during war-time but somehow the confluence of this picture's message and the facts that I now know in retrospect made that somewhat jarring.Overall, I found this film to be WORTH watching but it didn't engage me the way that more well made films have. Still, releasing this shortly after Ernie Pyle's death in combat must have helped make it as successful as it was. "},{"Title":"GI Joe's Story","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Released in July of 1945 shortly before the war ended this movie follows real life war correspondent Ernie Pyle played by Burgess Meredith. For his first assignment on the front he joins up with Company C of the Army's 18th Infantry, also on its virgin mission, in the North African desert. Through some tough battles Ernie earns the respect of the men. Sometime later, after victories in Sicily and elsewhere, Ernie rejoins Company C in a camp in Italy where the men this time are happy to see him. The men of Company C are led by Lt. Bill Walker, played by Robert Mitchum. Mitchum was lent from RKO to United Artists for this William Wellman directed movie. The extras in the film were real American GIs, in the process of being transferred from the war in Europe to the Pacific. Many of them were killed in the fighting on Okinawa - the same battle in which Ernie Pyle was killed by a Japanese sniper - never having seen the movie in which they appeared. On April 18, 1945, Pyle died on Ie Shima, an island off Okinawa Honto, after being hit by Japanese machine-gun fire. He was riding in a jeep with Lieutenant Colonel Joseph B. Coolidge (commanding officer of the 305th Infantry Regiment, 77th Infantry Division) and three other men. The road, which paralleled the beach two or three hundred yards inland, had been cleared of mines, and hundreds of vehicles had driven over it. As the vehicle reached a road junction, an enemy machine gun located on a coral ridge about a third of a mile away began firing at them. The men stopped their vehicle and jumped into a ditch. Pyle and Coolidge raised their heads to look around for the others; when they spotted them, Pyle smiled and asked Coolidge Are you all right? Those were his last words. The machine gun began shooting again, and Pyle was struck in the left temple (however, the Ernie Pyle State Historic Site in Dana, Indiana, contains a telegram from the Government to Pyle's father stating Pyle was killed by a sniper).The colonel called for a medic, but none were present. It made no difference&#x97;Pyle had been killed instantly. "},{"Title":"some comments","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" I enjoyed this foray into WWII, particularly coming from the era of the actual war. Burgess Meredith, who for my money always looked old no matter what year he was acting in, does a good job as the war correspondent. I was also a fan of the fact that the movie didn't hide the dangers of war or give a sense of the majestic war experience. This one is down and dirty, and that's a good thing. I would like to add the following comments1) I don't see this movie having validity OVER Saving Private Ryan. Spielberg created one of the most memorable (good or bad, you could argue) movie experiences ever with the opening D-Day sequence. His is part of the war is hell feeling, as is this movie, and they really shouldn't be judged. One person's experience or view isn't going to be the same as another's, even if it regards the same experience.2) I saw that some people felt this was Robert Mitchum's best performance. If I didn't know going in that Mitchum received his only nomination for this role, I wouldn't have guessed it from watching this movie. Mitchum's two best characters were a couple of the scariest villains ever in movies the sadistic preacher in Night of the Hunter, and the serial killer in the original Cape Fear. Neither of those were nominated for Oscars, which is a shame.I welcome your comments. "},{"Title":"good but not great","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  This film cannot compare with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN or THIN RED LINE in attractiveness.  On the plus side, it is not excessively patriotic or heroic.  On the negative side, it is sentimental with minimal production values.  No blood is ever visible, but no one ever shouts jingoistic platitudes.  Motivations and objectives are obscure.  The stress is on everyday discomforts and the constant threatening presence of death and adverse weather.  Perhaps its focus on these miseries is what makes it an accurate war movie.      "},{"Title":"Wartime Film Noir that Flounders","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Despite the acclaim on the DVD cover of the version I borrowed, this film was a disappointment. Yes, it is far more realistic than other war films of the period for depicting the mud, boredom and frustration of the grunt, but unfortunately one comes away from it thinking that's ALL there is to this movie. There is no plot and the dialogue is monotonous. It's not that a good war film needs to have a battle scene every five minute. One of the best World War II films, Twelve O'Clock High, has very little action. But it compensates with crackling dialogue and psychological tension. The exception to The Story of G.I. Joe is a brief battle segment (titled city under siege on the DVD) which takes place in Italy. Admittedly it is one of the most fast-paced and convincing combat scenes of any war movie. But alas, the rest of the film is not worth watching just for this highlight. Another turn-off is Pvt. Dondaro, played by Wally Cassell, who is meant to be a romeo but comes off a pervert. By contrast, Sgt. Warnicki is a sympathetic, if flawed, man. As he says to Capt. Walker (Mitchum) when volunteering for another patrol Every step forward is a step closer... to home. But that last step &#150; one patrol too many &#150; drives him over the mental brink. Too bad the rest of the movie doesn't do justice to some otherwise fine touches. As for Meredith's portrayal of Pyle... it is practically comatose. "}]