[{"Title":"A  realistic tribute to Italy's freedom-fighters...","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The experience of defeat and occupation with the daily humiliations, was happily not one that the Americans or British had to undergo... But for those countries which did suffer under the frame of foreign oppression&#151;France, Italy, Czechoslovakia and Poland&#151;the experience left a heritage of bitterness deeply evident in their films...Italy, however, was a special and unusual case it was occupied by two opposing armies&#151;the German and the American&#151; at the same time... And as neither side trusted the Italians they were left to get on with their own internal political quarrels of partisans versus fascist, within the limits, of course, of occupation...It was these experiences that Roberto Rossellini recorded in his trilogy about war&#151; 'Rome, Open City', 'Paisá,' and 'Germany Year Zero.'Rossellini called 'Rome, Open City' a film about 'fear, everyone's fear, but above all my own.'Made under difficult a penurious circumstances towards the war's end, the film captures with an astonishing consciousness the whole experience... There is no need to recreate anything for it is all there, in the ruined buildings and in the people's faces... Rossellini had 'planted the camera in the middle of real life' and so spearheaded the Neo-realist film revival...But Rossellini did more than just film things as they were... His creative genius molded what existed into a film of overpowering impact, an impact which does not recede with the passing of years... Out of his own particular situation he has created a magnificent story of resistance both concrete and spiritual which could not be broken by force... And in fact, it is only broken by the promise of luxury Marina betrays her lover because she has been caught up in the decadence of the oppressor's world... But Manfredi when caught does not crack under the brutal torture... Rossellini endows all those who resist, whether Communist or Catholic, with a special kind of purity... Manfredi, Francesco, Pina (played by the magnificent Anna Magnani), and the children all seem to have drunk of the same deep and clear well of faith... We see this especially in the priest, Don Pietro (Aldo Fabrizi), a kind man, wedded to a faith which obviously based on a true Christian humility... His humble activities as resistance worker only underline what he is already... 'It is my duty to help those who need it,' he answers when asked why he is taking such great risks... And when he is captured and tortured by the Gestapo he accepts his fate 'It is not difficult to die well. It is difficult to live well.' "},{"Title":"Powerful Portrayal of Dignity and Courage","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Open City, a powerful Italian film directed by Roberto Rosselini in 1946, is a historically-based story of the Italian Resistance movement and its struggle against Nazi occupation. The film is a searing indictment of the Nazis and a powerful portrayal of the dignity and courage of the Italian Resistance fighters.With the city's studios destroyed, Rosselini was forced to shoot his film in the streets on stock that was purchased bit by bit, then taped together. It was shot almost immediately after the city was liberated from the Germans while the Germans still occupied the streets. Naturally, the quality of the print (although on DVD) is limited by the kind of stock that had to be used. The resulting film, however, is unique and deeply moving, and is a film of historic importance.Open City was the first of the great Italian Neo-realist films (followed by Paisan, The Bicycle Thief, Shoeshine, I Vitteloni, and Umberto D). These films were characterized by the use of non-professional actors, natural lighting, location shooting, the desire to get closer to everyday reality, and the struggle for dignity of the masses of people.Though I strongly recommend this film, there are a few minor quibbles. The Nazi leaders are portrayed as homosexuals who are associated with a decadent life style. This is contrasted with the Resistance representing the church and the family. Though I do not grant the Nazis much in the way of humanity, I think these broad strokes only obscure rather than clarify. Likewise, there is an over- identification of the Resistance as Communist. Though the Communist Party made up a good part of the Resistance, it also included Christian Democrats and Socialists.Open City, though depressing in its presentation, remains hopeful. This hope for the future is symbolized at the end of the film by the children making their way back down into the streets of Rome after witnessing an execution. This attitude is also expressed by Francesco as he talks to Pina (Anna Magnani) in the flats, We must believe it, we must want it,, We musn't be afraid because we are on the just path.We're fighting for something that must come. It may be long..it may be difficult, but there'll be a better world.56 years later, we're still waiting.  "},{"Title":"Rossellini's Timeless Neo-Realist Classic","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rosselini shot 'Roma Città Aperta' in the open streets post-war. His film-making resources were limited, as is apparent in the film, since he uses natural lighting, non-professional actors and a delicate sound system) but it only gives the film a stark and more authentic look making the atmosphere more terrifying and a the experience more real. Most of the 'props' and 'sets' and even many of the Nazi soldiers were real. Unlike many historical films, this one does right by the historical facts (even though it's a work of fiction).What is most outstanding is Rosselini's compelling storytelling. Instead of showing us a documentary account (due to lack of film-equipments) he gives us a moving story of resistance. I was also impressed by the subtle way he brought out the characters such as the homosexuality of the Nazis. He also extracts marvelous performances from his actors. Aldo Fabrizi and Anna Magnani stand out. The background score (though used minimally) adds some melodrama but not in a poor way.If one can look beyond the poor technology of the film, 'Roma Città Aperta' is one of the most powerful films of its genre. Though the film may depress, and at some point horrify the viewer, the ending is profound and hopeful. In the end, it's a story about fear, courage, integrity and hope. "},{"Title":"Other interpretations","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Over time, Rossellini's legacy has been overshadowed by that of his contemporaries Fellini and de Sica.  There are reasons for this.  Fellini had a unique cinematographic eye and a gift for abstract symbolism.  De Sica was able to capture the incidental and indeterminate in a way that practically elevated it to the level of the holy.  His use of non-actors was far more effective than Rossellini's, as was Fellini's use of actors.  Rossellini's scripts were often two-dimensional, his cinematography spotty and his editing odd.  So why is it that he occupies a leading position among Italian auteurs?In fact, Rossellini was not a neo-realist, but a realist.  Compared with products of the neo-realists, his films are thin and wooden.  If, on the other hand, one views them as works of tragedy, they are excellent.  From the very start of Open City, it is clear that the seeds of disaster are sewn.  A pregnant mother is to be married to a member of the resistance.  Members of the clergy and children are also involved in fighting the Nazis.  Italians are united against a common enemy Fascism.  Yet we know that, while victory is inevitable, so is death.  Perhaps it is the darkness of the tight, seedy interiors that tips us off.  Perhaps it is because we do not feel that sense of endlessness beyond the screen, but that we are being led through these building and streets along with the characters.  Perhaps is is the German marching songs.  Whatever it is, we feel the march of destiny leading us to some terrible conclusion.  Fate can never play a role in neo-realist work; by Bazin's definition, it is constructed organically and arrives at its destination as if by chance.  Tragedy can only be the purview of the realist.Open City is not without its liabilities.  For one, Arata's cinematography, while startling at times, is unsatisfactory at others.  The script, written by Fellini and Amidei, is confusing and allows for minimal character development.  N.B. The English subtitles add to this confusion, excising whole chunks of crucial dialogue.  Several of the performances are undynamic, such as those of Maria Michi and Carla Rovere; the villains, portrayed by Giovanna Gallett and Harry Feist, are very much in type; Aldo Fabrizi, who, as Don Pietro, is so central to the plot, is guilty of overacting.  Above all, one doesn't get the sense that Rossellini's camera falls in love with its subjects the way that one might wish it did.  Yet it is in this very impassiveness, this plastic script and detached camera, that the key to Open City lies.  This is not a film about a painter and his son, nor does it lovingly portray an old pensioner and his dog.  This film is about the horrors of war, not a subject for which Rossellini expects to find an empathetic audience.  In the absence of footlights and the invisible third wall, he uses the greatest tool at his disposal to create tragic theater our own lack of nobility.Open City is a portrait of human courage in the face of overwhelming odds.  It confronts us with horrors which, God willing, we may never know.  Don't watch it expecting to fall in love with the grittiness of World War II era Italy.  Expect to be deeply moved. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Italian Neo-realist classic","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Roberto Rossellini's Open City contains characters so real and emotions so powerful that it is not unusual for audiences to wonder whether the drama being played out on the screen is in truth a bona fide documentation of events surrounding the Italian Resistance during WWII.  A study of the production history reveals that the film is closer to a combination of pure documentation (most accounts will go into detail about the location shooting and the presence of real soldiers) and dramatic reconstruction of actual events (like the execution of priest Don Morosini by the Nazis) with some lyrical filmmaking thrown in for good measure (I still get chills down my spine when I hear the children whistling in defiance of their oppressors). Anna Magnani, one of the greatest performers in the history of Italian cinema, is absolutely amazing in this film.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of the Italian Neo-Realism","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"30 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" During the Nazi occupation of Rome, the resistance leader Giorgio Manfredi aka Luigi Ferrari (Marcello Pagliero) is chased by the Gestapo. His friend Francesco (Francesco Grandjacquet), who is going to marry the widow Pina (Anna Magnani), together with the priest Don Pietro Pellegrini (Aldo Frabrizi) help him to get a new identity and leave Rome. However, Manfredi is betrayed by his lover Marina Mari (Maria Michi) and arrested by the Germans.Roma, Città Aperta is among the best movies of the cinema history, but in accordance with IMDb criteria, it is not listed in IMDb Top 250. This masterpiece is a milestone of the Italian Neo-Realism and was filmed by Roberto Rossellini when the economical and social structure of Italy was completely destroyed due to the World War II. Rossellini did not have money even to buy the negatives, which were given by his friends. He used ordinary people and real locations to shot the film, making a very authentic and realistic movie as if it were a documentary, and the negatives were only revealed in the end of the shootings. The Brazilian DVD released by Versatil distributor offers many Extras, including a magnificent documentary about the life of Roberto Rossellini. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Roma, Cidade Aberta (Rome, Open City) "},{"Title":"Rome during the war","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Roma, citta aperta is a film that cries for a Martin Scorsese to come to its aid in restoring it. There are sequences that are barely visible, as proved by the recent showing on the Sundance channel. Roberto Rossellini deserves better. We are even surprised that his own daughter, Isabella, so well connected with the world of cinema, has not done more to champion the restoration of this masterpiece.Most comments in IMDb dismiss the film without taking in consideration the impact it had when it made its debut. If not for anything, the people that worked in the period of the post war, took advantage in showing a reality to the viewers and revolutionized the Italian cinema forever. The neo-realists were notorious for engaging non-actors to portray the characters they created. It's easy to be critical of those movies that came out during those years and make comparisons based on today's tastes.Roberto Rossellini was a genius who saw the movie industry destroyed during the terrible WWII days. Out of the necessity, the neo-realism style came into being. Directors from that period saw the opportunity to do things differently by bringing the actual filming into the streets of Italy. It was a way for making movies that didn't conform to the established rules up to that point.Roma, citta aperta was Rossellini's way for analyzing what went wrong in his country. One the one hand he presents us the forces of evil, in this case the Germans, that wanted to the oppressed masses, the Italians, in a story that puts them at odds and that would favor the enemy because they had the power and their country's leader was collaborating with the invading forces.There is a sublime appearance by Anna Magnani, perhaps the best Italian actress of all times, that is worth the price of admission. Even though she only appears for a short period, her presence looms large in the film and in our heart. We watch, horrified, as Pina runs after the truck where Francesco is being hauled to prison for a fate that seemed clear to Pina. That sequence will remain one of Rossellini's best achievements.Rossellini also shows how demoralized the Germans were. There are also hints of homosexuality, as well as lesbianism, in the movie. This fact, also plays in our consciousness as to how we perceive them. The betrayal of Pina's sister shows how some people collaborated with the enemy in order to get the material things they couldn't get otherwise.In addition to Anna Magnani, there are great appearances by Aldo Fabrizi, Marcello Pagliero, Nando Bruno, Giovanna Galletti, and Henry Feist. The music score is by Renzo Rossellini which plays well with the story. Ubaldo Arata's cinematography stands to be enjoyed more if the film would be restored to its original glory.This was Roberto Rossellini's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Open City- Hidden Gem","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  The physical quality of this film is off-putting,( the film makers had to use what they could find) but the overall impact is stunning.  The talent involved in telling a simple story of outrageous courage is  breathtaking.  If action is your genre, stay away, but if you can handle a great story well told find a copy of this film.  These people understood drama, life, and the human condition.  "},{"Title":"A Turning Point In Film History","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Photographed on scraps of film abandoned by German forces as they retreated from Rome toward the end of World War II, Roberto Rossellini's OPEN CITY was immediately hailed as a masterpiece of realism when it hit screens around the world in the late 1940s. Seen within the context of its time and with reference to the circumstances under which it was made, OPEN CITY is a staggering accomplishment; even so, by modern standards, it feels visually static and slightly contrived.The great strength of the film is in the direct way Rossellini tells his story of Italian resistance fighters trying to dodge capture by the Nazis in occupied Rome--and in the performances of Anna Magnani and Aldo Fabrizi as two Italians who become increasingly caught up in resistance activities. But time has not been entirely kind to the film the story seems somewhat superficial, portions of it lack expected intensity, and some performances seem more than a little artificial, with a lesbian subplot, the famous torture scenes, and Maria Mitchi's performance cases in point.Ironically, these drawbacks actually result from comparisons with later, still more realistic films that followed its example--and it is a great tribute to the strength of the film that it survives the revolution it started as well as it does. (One does well to recall that at the time OPEN CITY was made such slick Hollywood films as MRS. MINIVER were considered the height of realism.) Still, because of these issues I would hesitate to recommend OPEN CITY as an introduction to Italian neo-realism for one not already well-versed in it. But those with an established appreciation of Italian cinema will find it very rewarding.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Appreciation.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This shattering portrait of Rome under the Nazi occupation officially ushered in the wave of neo-realist films after World War II. The images have indelibly etched themselves into our minds the stunning Gestapo round-up sequence, the death of Pina before the eyes of her cassocked altar-boy little son, the torture of the members of the resistance, the courage of the children, the execution of the priest, the earthy beauty of Anna Magnani's face. They all have an immediacy and power that make this one of the most stupendous filmic achievements of all time. If world cinema lacked ROMA, CITTA' APERTA it would be unimaginably poorer. I can think of no better praise. "}{"Title":"Nice Piece of Work for its Time","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Like so many movies made during or shortly after WWII, this one reveals more about the circumstances of its creation than anything novel in the story line. Stock good guys and bad guys fill the screen, and the sombre tone of it all trumps any truly objective attempt to critique it according to some dispassionate set of standards. The fact that it was made at all and continues to be shown to appreciative audiences via cable television speaks for itself.The strength of the production lies indeed in powerful individual scenes and some inspired acting. It captures attention from the beginning and holds the viewer rapt until the final minutes, even though the cinematic values are at best crude, requiring a forgiving eye. One identifies easily with its emotional force.That said, its shortcomings are rather obvious. The Nazis are mainly not native speakers of German, with accents ranging from Dutch to Italian, and the one German officer who speaks ill of the master race is in his cups rather than a sober judge of the evil around him. The viewer would do well to remember that fascism in Italy was a homegrown phenomenon well before the Germans took over the show in 1944. Note how the Red Menace is thrown in the face of patriotic Italians as a ploy to gain their acquiescence to Nazi control. Elements of moral decadence among the evildoers likewise diminishes rather than enhances the proposition that they are rational perpetrators of that evil, bent on excusing their acts by twisting the truth to suit their own agenda.Yet this was a contemporaneous Italian reflection on fresh history, and that cannot be faulted by 21st Century revisionists. It also restored a vital industry to Italy, and presaged many great films that followed it. "},{"Title":"Legendary Italian masterpiece with Italian screen legend","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" It is easy to die with dignity, it is much harder to live with dignity (Padre Pietro)Usually when I encounter commenting on WWII movies, I have mixed feelings. I am aware that it's hardly possible to fully evaluate their intensely diverse levels. The situation occurs even harder when commenting on such a legendary movie as ROMA CITTA APERTA. It seems that it is easier to end about it well but much harder to say about it so. Rossellini's movie is one of the true masterpieces dealing with WWII, a symbol of Italian Neorealism, a wonderful psychological insight into individual and social deeds. Moreover, it is the film made just in the core of those events, the Rome of the mid-1940s. All latest movies on WWII, though very well made, seem pale and only acted when comparing to this one. Let me discuss the movie in more details.ROMA CITTA APERTA is a true INSIGHT into various CHARACTERS in their hard REALITIES that force them to particular deeds. They all cope with resistance from the German fascists who divided Rome into 14 zones and control it. The characters range from the simple Il Sagrestano, the engaged couple Francesco and Pina, young boys, devoted Padre Pietro, performer Marina to the most wanted man Giorgio Manfredi (a true character, the Communist Celeste Negavilla). They all cope with individual dramas combined with psychological tiredness Pina plans to set up a family, yet fatal events of hatred do not allow for her happiness; one of the boys badly seeks a father, yet the army of death does not accept fathers or sons; some want careers as performers, yet the times force service to blind propaganda only; good Christians want to live with dignity and love, yet, the world can only offer humiliation and hatred in return. The satanic patience of the Nazis seems to win. And here arises a question are they all forced to do things they'd never do?... That profound development of characters, though may seem too harsh for Germans, occurs to be especially thought provoking and psychological.ROMA CITTA APERTA is filled with GENUINELY TOUCHING MOMENTS. Except for the final scene - the symbol of the movie when the sad boys walk to the city of Rome just after the execution=martyrdom of their earthly angelic tutor, Padre Pietro; I'll never forget Pina's death supposedly so unnecessary as a loss of life but truly so significant as a cry for freedom and dignity. Anna Magnani does a terrific job in this scene, you as a viewer seem to shout with her in despair Francesco! Another great moment is when Marcello, Pina's son, asks Francesco Can I call you father? This seems to symbolize that simple affection never dies and remains a genuine sign of hope in the world of madness and hatred. Besides, who can forget the moment when Francesco places hope in Pina that the future would bring life anew, dreams anew, happiness more stable. Throughout these moments, there is an intense atmosphere, something that keeps you on your chair speechless.ROMA CITTA APERTA stands out as a movie with a very clever and profound SCRIPT. It thrilled me when Bergmann, with satanic irony, says to Padre Pietro I DO NOT care about your rules! and Padre answers calmly But the One above you and me DOES Hartmann's reflections on Nazis' deeds constitute an accurate psychology of doubt even among these monsters. His character also atones a bit for the image of the Germans. But the final words about living and dying in dignity are the quintessential of the movie and leave a timeless message. But all the word masterwork sums up in another crucial aspect.ROMA CITTA APERTA is one great harmony of flawless PERFORMANCES. Who comes to view as the superior cast is of course the unforgettable Anna Magnani. Her symbolic role of Pina representing the despair of the nation is one of the greatest masterpieces one can encounter in the history of cinema. I do not exaggerate Anna does something above flawless acting she IS Pina! Aldo Fabrizi gives a profound performance as Il Padre stressing right Christian attitude filled with love, justice, openness. Harry Feist does a terrific job as wretched Nazi officer Bergmann and Maria Michi as Marina of the Piburtina Street. This film deserves to bear a name masterpiece thanks to performances alone.ROMA CITTA APERTA is undeniably one of the most precious pearls of human thought in cinema. It lifts up the mind and soul, beside all its content of war, death and cruelty, it still fills our minds with hope of the better world. Yet, eternal walk of humanity towards the gates of peace has not finished yet. However, as long as there are viewers who acquire the spirit of this movie, such walk does not occur in vain.Oh Rome, the Eternal City, the Beloved City, the Historic Treasure of Humanity, Open Your Gates to Peace, Open the Gates of All Human Hearts! "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rome Open City is a good film, but it is clearly a far more historically important film than an artistically great one (the predominance of hagiography and agitprop make this almost inevitable). Too many times its lead characters, be they Italians or Germans, good guys or bad guys, fall into stereotypes, and the action plunges into melodrama. Pina's senseless death is the best example, as she would truly have to be stupid to do such a thing in real life, with her son right there. But, it does set up the rest of the film's drama and narrative pieces. And there can be some rightful criticism of the film's dishonest portrayal of the Italian Resistance (which was virtually nothing in comparison to the French Resistance), culpability for the Second World War, and relative prosperity and lack of internal destruction versus other European nations. Nonetheless, the film did sweep the Cannes Film Festival and many others worldwide, and it has a number of touches that redeem its clichés, such as having Don Pietro's glasses be broken so that he can only hear, not see, Manfredi's slow death, or the literal killing of two lambs by the Nazis right before Marina betrays Manfredi, which, in its rendering is far more affecting than in its mere description. It should also be mentioned that in a brief scene, an Italian tot's naked bottom half (including genitalia) is shown, which both adds to the claims of realism, and satisfies the dramatic arc of the moment, highlighting how silly most censored scenes and moments in film are. Rome Open City does not broach greatness, but it does entertain and inspire, even almost two thirds of a century after its conception, and sometimes that's something which has even more effect than hermetic greatness. So, ciao, and it's on to Paisan! "},{"Title":"Rome, Neorealist City","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Rome after the Second World War was a damaged, destroyed city. The huge film industry that had once been known all over Europe was, quite literally, in ruins.Hence, when Roberto Rossellini took up his camera in 1945 to start shooting 'Open City', he was forced to make due with quite a few limitations using scavenged film stock, whatever kind he could get his hands on; shooting outside and on location; and employing a much more dynamic, though much less controlled, form of cinematography than Italian cinema had previously seen. The result was an unpolished, rough gem of a film that, in addition to its many contributions to the evolution of cinema, left the pre-war Italian super-spectacle in the dust.In terms of story, 'Open City' is pure melodrama; and a pretty, darn affecting one at that. Thematically, it's socialist, a reaction against the fascism, personified by Mussolini, that had just been defeated in Italy. But, it is in its style that the film truly stands out.With 'Open City', Rossellini succeeded in taking adverse conditions and using them to craft a solid, emotional tale of the Italian resistance. In the process, he solidified the aesthetic of an entire film movement Italian Neorealism.The film is recommended to anyone who enjoys a good story, is interesting as an artifact of its historical period, and is absolutely indispensable to anyone with at least a passing interest in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":" A positive review that explains the director's motives.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Open CityThe Neo-Realistic film Open City relives the tragic suffering of Italy and the people's resistance to Nazi occupation during World War II.  The story depicts how a liberation group tries to conceal its leader, Giorgio Manfredi.  The role each plays in the resistance reveals an intimate portrayal of their lives.  Whether for religion, love, rebellion, greed, or nationalism these rebels attempt to make sense of war and cope with their problems. The omniscient point of view provides an understanding of each character's motivation to survive their dreadful situation. The director, Rossellini, made Open City an attempt to restore the nationalism from the chaos left by the war.  In order to restore the nationalism for his audience, Rossellini reconciled the characters' differences through their common motivation for better lives.Brecht said, in referring to Neo-Realism, it doesn't show real things, its shows how things really are.  I feel that despite the low budget and quality of stock, Rossellini made an excellent film full of real life images. The strength of the screenplay, through its poignant representation of the wartime struggle, made Open City an outstanding film.  Rossellini properly explained the human condition in a way that Italians and all viewers could empathize.  However, I am not convinced the film's message came across correctly, as a nationalistic film.  In the documentary, Neo-Realism, a gentleman thought it depicted Italians poorly.  This contradicts the entire message of the film.ContentThe screenplay by Sergio Amidei and Federico Fellini powerfully captures the importance of the characters' personalities set in this wartime struggle for survival. The motivation of Pina and Francesco is love.  They enjoy a love for their country, their son, and their lives.  Especially poignant was the scene in which they sat in the stairwell and remembered the good times and hoped for better.  Pina's sister, Marina is motivated by greed.  She has had many lovers and even sold her friends for her materialistic needs. She finally sees the effect of her horrible deeds; but then it is too late when Manfredi is dead.  Giorgio Manfredi is motivated by his nationalism for Italy and loyalty to the liberation movement.  His patriotism and loyalty to friends are idealized in the imprisonment and a torture scene where he refuses to talk and is at peace with his fate as a martyr.  Don Pietro Pellegrini is motivated by faith.  Don Pietro believes that God's Will has brought the war.  He believes prayer and forgiveness are the answers to suffering.  Nevertheless he is also a practical man.  As a forger he shows he can contribute more than prayer to the struggle.  His compromise as a religious figure suggests that there are no black and white lines separating roles and ideals of the independence movement.Marcello, Pina's son, is motivated by rebellion and group behavior. Marcello, although young and immature, is an excellent representation of the citizens who organized and rebelled against the Nazis.  The point is made that even at his age he could play a role in the war.  Marcello therefore symbolizes the significance of the most insignificant person and the struggle of all Rome.  Also, as a youthful figure he also symbolizes the future of Rome and Italy.  In the final scene he and his friend console each other as they march back to the city.  This suggests that Italians must comfort each other and rebuild after the war.FormThe film's low budget is evident through its various technical flaws.  The film stock was a poor quality and originated from different reels.  In splitting the stock there lacks a consistent flow to the film.  There are points in the film where sound is completely eliminated and others where camera angles are suddenly adjusted, as if they were editing over a previous scene (editor-Eraldo Da Roma).  A lack of continuity is seen in the scene where a car is filmed approaching a building.  When the car stops, the film seems make a quick edit and then switches to a new camera angle as people leave the car.  Another flaw is the poor quality of lighting in the film. In an effort to put certain emphasis on a person or object, light floods some areas.  This makes it impossible to view it without difficulty. Additionally too much light is given when a medium shot is given to characters as they sit giving a monologue.  Ingrid, the Nazi's girlfriend, often receives too much light when she speaks.  Perhaps it is her pale skin or the cinematographer's desire to emphasize the face resulting in overexposure (cinematographer-Ubaldo Arata). This distracts from the movement and speech of the actress. Finally, the colors of the apartment walls are too bright.  As characters move throughout the hallways and stairways, the bright light background reduces their depth and texture.  "},{"Title":"Rossellini Makes It Real","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" In Axis-controlled Rome, a strong-willed priest Aldo Fabrizi (as Pietro Pellegrini) plans to officiate the marriage of matronly and pregnant Anna Magnani (as Pina) while assisting a resistance leader Marcello Pagliero (as Giorgio Manfredi) hunted by the Nazis. This neo-realistic classic has shown its seams, over the years; in my most recent viewing, the soundtrack music, while not bad in itself, would have added much by its exclusion. Still, this is a powerful drama, with chilling last scenes involving the principal characters that do not diminish in their intensity. This was widely considered the best foreign language film of the year, by which time director Roberto Rossellini had released the similarly acclaimed Paisan (1946).******** Roma, citta aperta (9/27/45) Roberto Rossellini ~ Aldo Fabrizi, Anna Magnani, Marcello Pagliero, Maria Michi "},{"Title":"Kafka would've understood...","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" That this one was lensed hot on the heels of the long Nazi nacht is nothing less than amazing; the wounds were still fresh, and OPEN CITY cuts no one any slack- from the Nazis themselves, whose nebulous notions of Nationalism set the world ablaze, to the Italian traitors who were all too willing to sell their souls to help them. (And it's amazing how many people there are who would gladly sell their soul, if only there were a buyer. Unfortunately, one sometimes doesn't have to look too far to find a buyer.) This film is about the struggle for human souls. In the end, it's an inside job; it's really that simple. (Exemplified best in the film by the old priest and the boy commandos, whose resistance harks back to the Warsaw ghetto uprising.) Franz Kafka would've understood (and appreciated) this unflinching look at Man's monumental, totally mindless mercilessness. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the movement neorealist Italian, with a plea to the honesty.","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The city of Rome is occupied by the Nazis, and the fearsome Gestapo thought only arrest Manfredi, a member of the National Committee of liberation. Marina offers refuge in his house to Manfredi and to any of his fellow, but they are discovered and the Germans surround the house in which hides the resistance leader and his comrades. Some manage to escape by the roofs, but Manfredi is arrested...Rossellini raised a film deeply moral, humanist and committed to him the dignity (frequent subject him), closeness, sense of reality, sincerity, the trend to the sincerity would be a constant in his films. Rossellini achieved with very few means, a cinema spontaneous and close to the situations that generated the Nazi barbarism. The film has elements documentaries despite being a movie narrative of great precision and nothing artificial; get a lively naturalness that will create style. We are on the first artistic expression of acquired Italian, one of the fundamental movements of the history of cinema.This film shows us a cinema focused on the privacy of the characters and relationships, regardless of its format almost documentary, the story of Romans who refuse to sit before the conceited German occupation is credible, plausible and, above all honest. The honesty is, therefore, a determining factor. Roma, città aperta  is a good manifesto against any ideology that try to undermine the freedom and human rights.In  Roma, città aperta  can sympathize with some characters and repudiate to others, from the vital and racial Pina until the treacherous and amanerado Bergmann, the committed Don Pietro, an incorruptible Giorgio, the fickle Marina This film had to litigate for many years throughout Europe with the intransigence of those who saw it as a film subversive and scandalous. Not only by the hardness of some images (the death of Pina, and the torture of Giorgio) but also for daring Rossellini playing taboo subjects (the drug addiction and the homosexuality of Marina) in a time when the cinema classic would, in other ways.Roberto Rossellini gave the touch of departure to the neorealist Italian movement with this war drama filmed soon after the Nazi occupation in Italy, and when the most devastating war in the history still raged Europe and other areas of the world. This film falls between those brave testimonies of fascist horror that some directors dared to launch the world in those years of terror. Among them, we remember Chaplin (The great dictator) and Rossellini.Rossellini toured the streets of Rome collecting terrible stories of suffering popular and wrote the script in collaboration with Federico Fellini, Sergio Amidei and Alberto Consiglio. He hired amateur players who had not acted ever, with the exception of large professional actors as Anna Magnani and Aldo Fabrizi. The screenplay is based on a real fact, in the work of a Catholic priest who helped the Italian resistance, In the determination of a priest who does not allow to miss the Nazi barbarism without acting. In the maturity of some children who have learned to hate, in the treason In the immorality. All this is perceived in the tension of the face of Anna Magnani, temperamental actress who was a film icon of humble people. "},{"Title":"It would mean an Italian is worth as much as a German","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" On its initial release, Roberto Rossellini's 'Rome, Open City (1945)' was hailed for its harrowing documentary realism, sharing the 1946 Palme d'Or, and even today it is regarded as the type specimen of Italian neorealism, a movement that produced such treasures as 'The Bicycle Thief (1948)' and 'Umberto D. (1952).' The film's photographic style, which is coarse and unstylised, could certainly be considered classically neorealistic, as could Rossellini's unavoidable preoccupation with Italy's fascist history and war-time devastation. One might suggest that the film's unexceptional film-making technique was imposed upon Rossellini rather than being an entirely deliberate artistic decision; the Germans had only just withdrawn from Rome, and its citizens were still reeling from years of Nazi occupation and Allied bombing. Just as Carol Reed filmed 'The Third Man (1949)' amid the crumbling ruins of war-torn Vienna, Rossellini uses the backdrop of a fallen city to emphasise the disintegration of a formerly unified nation, now surviving only in fragmented patches of human spirit that must now be forged back together again.Rossellini's film is most often praised for its realism, and for its primary focus on the ordinary citizens of Rome. However, during the film's first half, I didn't find this approach entirely successful. Rather than centering the film intimately on one or two characters, as Vittorio De Sicae did in his two well-known neorealist films, 'Open City' instead jumps from one to another, manufacturing a sense of unity among the oppressed citizens of Rome, but also diluting the viewer's ability to identify with any one character. In this sense, the film is similar to Pontecorvo's 'The Battle of Algiers (1966),' or even Eisenstein's 'Battleship Potemkin (1925),' in that individual characters hold lesser prominence than the ideals for which they are fighting. Suggesting that the art of neorealism took several years to perfect, Rossellini also occasionally veers towards melodrama. Scenes involving the arrogant Major Bergmann (Harry Feist) establish a simplistic us versus them mentality, offering Germany as the outright villain in a manner similar to that of any early 1940s American propaganda film.I must admit that I found myself less-than-captivated during the film's opening half, perhaps because Rossellini wouldn't focus exclusively on any one character. The most interesting moments were those tinged with drama &#x96; a German soldier unexpectedly removes a gun from his pocket, a terrorist bomb shakes the city buildings. But if I had any doubts about the director's technique, then the harrowing realism of Anna Magnani's death, photographed as though through the lens of a bystanding newsreel camera, without any dramatic fanfare or unnecessary cinematic punctuation, convinced me of its merits. Notably, Rossellini deviates towards drama in his film's second half, but I considered this an improvement, my complete sympathy now directed towards a specific character, the dignified Roman priest Don Pietro (Aldo Fabrizi). The German treatment of captured rebels is unflinching in its hostility, including a prolonged torture session with a blow-torch, and a sombre firing squad execution as city children watch on with downcast eyes. Interestingly, Rossellini doesn't end the film with an Italian victory, as might be expected. The misery lingers; any victory could only be hollow. "},{"Title":"Italian neo-realism at its best.","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" As one of the first examples of Italian neo-realism, Open City is a perfect synergy of subject matter and aesthetic and technical choices. Utilising documentary style, objective cinematography, Rossellini portrays Rome as a politically turbulent city, put under immense strain. What makes this film so good is that he has given it heart.An important time in Italy's history, and a subject matter which may have been approached too reverently, Rossellini understands that to make scenes inherently humorous is acceptable and even necessary to imbue the characters with humanity.Anna Magnani is captivating as a put-upon mother trying to get by, and it is little surprise she became one of Italy's most revered and honored actresses.Open City is at once funny, sensitive, sympathetic, blunt and quite shocking, especially in its confronting and matter of fact portrayal of death. A beautiful film, which hums with humanity. "}{"Title":"Simply Superb","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Finally saw this great film by Roberto Rossellini and was blown away by it. Absolutely great, simple, brutal, honest. It was shown on Sundance Channel.Filmed in 1945 in Rome just after the German occupation, Rossellini tells a simple tale of Italian Underground leaders hunted by the occupying Nazis.A widow, Anna Magnani, is about to remarry but the man is using a false name because he is in the underground movement. A local priest (Aldo Fabrizi) tries to bring a sense of normalcy to the lives of the boys he watches over even though their lives have been destroyed by the war. Magnani's son is devoted to a one-legged boy who is also a rebel.No special effects. No big budget. Only a few professional actors. Yet this is a powerful film and a great film in its very simplicity.Two great scenes when Magnani runs after the truck taking away her boyfriend and she is gunned down; when Fabrizi is tied to a chair and shot in the back by a German firing squad. Unforgettable.. This is a MUST SEE film..... "},{"Title":"Interesting story and good acting but with ambiguous characters.","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The beginning for me felt quite slow and uneventful, as is characteristic of Italian neorealism. Italian neorealism likes to establish the normality of everyday activities which expresses the lives of locals, and being a pretty fast-paced person I did not like this much. Also, the dialogue delivery was a little awkward at first, but perhaps this could be a cultural difference in speech and conversation.The acting was quite good. Magnani plays her part well, and her chemistry with Annichiarico is prominent, though not the same can be said between her and Francesco. She gives a moving performance in her last scene as well, with her desperation and emotions traversing the screen. Fabrizi as well gets into the shoes of his character well and plays the part of the priest convincingly. Francesco and Pagliero as part of the resistance to the Nazi occupiers don't really seem to be doing anything but talk. Understandably, they have to be cautious but I don't believe I actually saw them 'resisting' anything except via words. Well, there was an exchange with other rebels but it just seemed like they were pretty inactive. Additionally, some characters are well developed, while others are ambiguous or stereotypical. Pina seems to be the protagonist and her character is pretty well established but she doesn't carry the narrative (not in the second half anyway). Don Pietro is another well established character who has no surprises. Francesco and Manfredi are depicted as the heroes but not in the conventional sense (as they don't do heroic stunts), and the other female characters in the film are shallow and presented as stereotypes. The story doesn't flow in one continuous movement, and more or less feels like it plods along. There is a clear linear narrative, but it was just a little slow in the first half. Plus, there are a few discrepancies and ambiguity to what happens to some characters. I'm not sure if I missed some scenes (admittedly I fell asleep for a few minutes), but Francesco's character just disappears. Apart from that, there are some very saddening scenes which make this film quite depressing. Read more movie reviews at championangels.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"A Historical Oddity","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" The location Nazi occupied Rome. As Rome is classified an open city, most Romans can wander the streets without fear of the city being bombed or them being killed in the process. But life for Romans is still difficult with the Nazi occupation as there is a curfew, basic foods are rationed, and the Nazis are still searching for those working for the resistance and will go to any length to quash those in the resistance and anyone providing them with assistance.What a strange film, made in 1945 when World War II was anything but a memory. In fact, it was so recent that allegedly real German POWs were used as actors, and the man credited as the editor was actually in prison at the time. That is wild.Sadly, the version I watched was of a fairly low quality. I suspect most (if not all) releases are. Is this fixable? Can they do a 4K scan of the negative (or whatever process is popular these days)? If so, this is a film that truly deserves it. "},{"Title":"Open City was my introduction to foreign films","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I was seventeen, an ardent fan of Hollywood movies, despite the racism. Well actually, too unsophisticated to recognize its subtlety. Still, I was unprepared to be slammed into my seat by what seemed to be reality as portrayed in the film. I saw it again some 20 years later, and still squirmed at the torture scene. Impressive Anna Magnani, preparing us for Loren and Vitti. Soon after, I saw Carmen with Viviane Romance. Then, the ludicrous, Loves of Carmen, with Rita Hayworth. I was hooked by DeSica, Fellini, Antonioni and others. Then France's New Wave and Bergman, etc. Then Satyajit Ray. I have, with rare exceptions, seldom watched any more of Hollywood. Imagine, Blackboard Jungle is still more relevant than any high school film from there. Only The Class, a couple of years ago from France, competes with it. As a famous female movie critic in the 70s trenchantly declared, the lawyers and Madison Avenue media manipulators have taken over Hollywood movie making and have established corporate America's bottom line for a green light. I don't know if I could now discern amateurish or corner cutting in the movie, but, after hundreds, It remains one of my top five. "},{"Title":"The Symbol of The Resistance","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" After WWII filmmakers tried to find their ways to deal with history. A British director Humphrey Jennings made evocative documentaries about WWII and Americans made more romantic features about the war from their perspective. Here Italy comes in. The nation which had just got away from the chains of fascist management. Today this postwar Italian movement is known as neorealism, which is recognized from its reportage-like characterization, national personal gallery and dramatization of the resistance. But it cannot only be described by these external aesthetic features. The starting points in Italian neorealism were in the anti-fascist battle and the Italian liberalization.The people who formed neorealism, Vittorio De Sica, Luchino Visconti, Roberto Rosselini and many others, wanted to bring Italy back to the midst of other nations. They wanted to find their own way of dealing with the history. Narratively the way was the documentary, reportage-like characterization. The shady cinematography combined with the daring description of Italians. Even today Open City is praised as the symbol of the resistance and the picture of the character played by Anna Magnani was actually published in a stamp after 50 years in Italy. Her character became the symbol of the resistance.Film historians often tend to argue, who actually started neorealism. In 1943 Luchino Visconti directed Ossessione, which at least aesthetically looks like the work of a neorealist. Which probably is true, but neorealism is seen as a postwar genre and since the WWII ended in 1945, the statement that Ossessione would've began the movement is weak. But it most certainly did give it a start and the ingredients. Some also state that De Sica's Bicycle Thieves (1948) is the greatest film of neorealism. I think that Bicycle Thieves is a masterpiece, but when defining what neorealism actually is Rosselini's reportage-like characterization works better than De Sica's lyricism. Open City is the first film, which finely defined neorealism.Open City is perhaps the most personal film by Rosselini. It was written under the watchful eyes of the fascist management, where the risk of getting arrested was always near. This made Rosselini and the other screenwriter Sergio Amidei feel like they were a part of the resistance - what would be greater than to write your own page to history? When young Federico Fellini (today the most famous of the team) joined the crew, they started to film it with an incredibly low budget. Roberto Rosselini has said Open City achieved more than all the efforts of the Italian Foreign Ministry put together. It helped Italy to find its own place among other nations. Rome Open City is a picture of its own time, it's a landmark in the history of cinema. In both the WWII genre and in Italian neorealism, which influenced the Japanese postwar cinema (Kurosawa, Ichikawa) and the Nouvelle Vague - French New Wave (Godard, Truffaut, Rivette, Chabrol & Rohmer). It's a cry for democracy and freedom. It is a hopeful picture of Italy free from the chains of the fascists. It meant a totally new way of dealing with the history. Open City was a very ambitious film, but it succeed in all of its intentions. It is still a timeless masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A  true Neo realist classic  masterfully directed by Rossellini.","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Roma,Citta Aperta, directed by Roberto Rossellini,was based on a suggestion by Sergio Amidei on which Federico Fellini too lent a helping hand.The entire film has been shot from 2 perspectives winning German side and losing Italian side.In this film there are no moral questions to be asked as everything is open to a powerful yet essentially subjective interpretation as both sides performed actions which are by and by normal in times of wars.On the one hand there are brave ordinary Italian people fighting against evil Nazi Germany with all their might,on the other hand there are coward Italians shamelessly collaborating with enemies of the nation to humiliate their own innocent brethren.It is true that Rossellini depicted wretchedness of war but he has also made a good presentation of basic things of our daily lives such as a marriage in times of war and black marketing. The uniqueness of this film is the stance taken by church as it is one of those rare films portraying church in a positive light as a crusader against enemies.Apart from principles of Neo realism,Romma Citta Aperta will be remembered as a visual document proclaiming uselessness of war. "},{"Title":"Life and Strength","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This film is often considered one of the first to come out of the Italian Neo-Realism movement, and to a degree it's debatable but in the larger sense I can see where that epithet comes from. This movie is largely a humanistic heroic statement, but its focus is on the utter importance of life... life that is free and unabused.The setting is Nazi-occupied Rome, the characters, a bunch of Roman citizens who live day by day under the shadow of the Reich. Key to the action is a priest who practices civil disobedience; his friend, a revolutionary; and a pregnant woman who plans to marry the revolutionary. They all try to figure out what's important to them while the Gustapos search for any signs of rebellion, thus putting pressure on their day to day life.The real mix that helps make this film really empathetic is its focus on heroic inner strength, which can seem to make matters of real life seem lesser, for the purpose of maintaining free and unconflicted life, which it illustrates as most important. Thus the mere act of living is the goal, and the martyr of a hero so others can live the romance. It's quite beautiful really.It also adds bits of light humor amidst moments of tragedy in a rather grateful way, thus keeping it from being just cynical and depressing. Overall, it really does take the time to care for the simple natures of noteworthy characters.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Dated with a sluggish pace","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Open City is considered a classic for its early contributions to the neo-realistic style whose most famous proponents included Rossellini, De Sica and Visconti. Regardless of its historic importance in the development of cinema, Open City is a difficult film to watch. For one, the neo-realist style was not fully developed. It struck me as more non-professional and low-budget than realistic. Certainly it doesn't have the dramatic appeal of a Battle of Algiers or pack an emotional wallop like The Bicycle Thief. Unfortunately, not much happens. The narrative is very choppy and while I appreciate the tremendous difficulties Rossellini must have faced to complete the film, the end result is not very watchable. The German officer is very unrealistically portrayed as well. I haven't seen any other Rossellini film and doubt I will. The typical complaints I have with Open City, poor narrative flow, stilted acting, no emotional appeal and slow pace all register with many of his other films as well. There is a very small Martin Scorcese documentary as the only DVD extra which isn't much of an incentive to rent the movie. "},{"Title":"We mustn't be afraid now or in the future -- because we are on a just path","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" After having watched this film alone, I wish I had someone to hug.What a searing indictment of man! This film leaves one feeling unsafe in a hideously dangerous world.What are you made of? If your city were open, where would you fall -- on the side of the oppressors, as one of their lackeys, as a philosophical drunk? Or how about a Resistance fighter who takes his refusal to talk to to the point of being blow-torched alive? Or would you commit suicide? How can any of us know what we are truly made of in the midst of a relatively cushy life in which we wake up to face the day, and later go to bed, in relative comfort and peace? This shattering film is yet another reminder of there but by the grace of God go I. Can anyone living in the United States ever justifiably complain? About anything? Aldo Fabrizi creates an unforgettable portrait here of Don Pietro, a priest who ministers to his flock to the last. His final rite to the tragically immovable Giorgio (Marcello Pagliero) is a gift of love that allows him blissful death.The conversations between Pina (Anna Magnani) and Francesco (Francesco Grandjacquet) epitomize the best of love's potential. He listens to her and she listens to him and they trust each other. What more could two people want? (And yet, Pina reminds him, You were so rude. In two months, you never said hello on the stairs...) And Francesco's kind ministrations to Pina's son capture the essence of optimal parenting -- loving, respectful, with boundaries.Rossellini shows us a gritty city with a formidable tradition, but he also compiles for us a hell on Earth that man seems all too capable of re-conjuring for himself at intervals. "},{"Title":"Rome, Open City","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This Italian film is one I found in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, it was rated highly by critics also, so I hoped it would be something I'd like, directed by Roberto Rossellini (Paisan, Europe '51, Journey to Italy). Basically, set in 1944, in Italy during the Nazi occupation, Rome is declared an open city, most Romans are free to wander the streets without fearing the city being bombed or being killed in the process. But with the Nazi occupation life remains difficult for the Romans, with a curfew, rationing of basic foods, and the Nazis searching for the resistance, those working for and assisting them, to quash them. Pina (Anna Magnani) is a widowed mother worn down by the war, she is due to get married to next door neighbour, typist Francesco (Francesco Grandjacquet), they will marry by Catholic priest Don Pietro Pellegrini (Aldo Fabrizi), despite her being pregnant and him being an atheist. The day before the wedding, Francesco's friend Giorgio Manfredi, aka Luigi Ferraris (Marcello Pagliero), who Pina has never met, is looking for Francesco and needs a place to hide, he is a member of the resistance. Giorgio also requests the assistance of Don Pietro for his latest mission, the priest is more than willing as he believes he is doing it for God, his position also gives Giorgio access to places others cannot enter. Marina Mari (Maria Michi), a cabaret performer, is Giorgio's girlfriend and has no idea where he is hiding, both she and Pina take measures to improve their lives under the difficult circumstances, these combined actions have tragic consequences by the end. Also starring Harry Feist as Major Bergmann, Giovanna Galletti as Ingrid and Vito Annichiarico as Piccolo Marcello, son of Pina. The story is based on actual events from the last days of the Nazi occupation, it is mostly a montage structure full of primarily non-professional actors, and the visual style adds to the feel of melodrama, I will admit that it being in a foreign language and having to read subtitles made it tricky to keep up with, but overall it is a worthwhile enough neorealist wartime drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay. Good, in my opinion! "}{"Title":"minor miracle","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" In Nazi occupied Rome, German SS is hunting for engineer Giorgio Manfredi who is a leader of the communist resistance. He escapes looking for fellow fighter Francesco and finds his pregnant fiancée Pina. Catholic priest Don Pietro Pellegrini helps but he's under surveillance.It's a minor miracle that Roberto Rossellini achieved so much so soon after the end of the war. On the other hand, when Pina points to a bomb damaged building, a bomb probably did damage that building. It is considered a great example of neorealism although he had fewer unreal sets that he could use anyway. The one scene where Pina is chasing after Francesco being arrested is one of the great scenes of cinema. It is dynamic and visceral. One can really feel the action more than most war action scenes of its time. "},{"Title":"Stunning but No Documentary","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" ***Howard Schumann (Powerful Portrayal of Dignity and Courage, Howard Schumann from Vancouver, B.C., 24 April 2002) has essential background on the filming and good criticism. Also, Claudio Carvalho (Masterpiece of the Italian Neo-Realism, Claudio Carvalho from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2 April 2006) adds insight on how it was made. And, B24 (Nice Piece of Work for its Time, B24 from Arizona, 10 May 2006) has good insight on the German speakers. Finally, federovsky (Great film, however you classify it, federovsky from bangkok, 30 April 2008) has an excellent review.***Rome, Open City (1945, Roberto Rossellini﻿), a return to Nazi- occupied Italy﻿, is potent. While not the first example of Italian Neorealism, it is usually described as the one that inspired the rest. Open City has some flaws, but it is so brutal and stark that you likely will leave the theater stunned. Rossellini deserves credit for completing it. It was filmed on a shoestring budget as the Nazis began to leave Rome, ending their military occupation. (Rossellini used scraps of film left behind by the retreating German forces.) A mixture of experienced and novice actors are used. It is perhaps not a trivial detail to mention that one of the contributors to the writing, and the uncredited Second Unit director was a young Federico Fellini﻿.The story revolves around the pursuit of a resistance hero (portrayed by Marcello Pagliero) by the Fascists. The Nazis are very ruthless here. Eventually, there are several torture scenes which don't show much of the painful details, but imply what is being done to the victim. The torture scenes and the inclusion of Italian collaborators with the occupying Germans is cutting edge for 1945.Rossellini also indulges in one of his favorite things to do Killing animals for the entertainment of the cinematic audience. Having seen him also do this in Stromboli (1950), this is my biggest peeve with him. While the audience does not see either of the two sheep actually being shot, there is no doubt they both were while the camera was operating and the crew watched. Sure I am angry about this, but this is only a small part of Open City. This film remains essential viewing. I just wish someone had challenged Rossellini by informing him that any idiot can point a camera in this direction to wake the audience up. An elite filmmaker would not need to resort to this. Overall, the acting is outstanding. Fabrizi as the priest, Magnani as the young widow, Pagliero as resistance hero and Francesco Grandjacquet as the kind Francesco are all probably legends to Italians. However, the woman portraying the lesbian spy doesn't really work for me; she is too one-dimensional in her speech. It has been mentioned by other reviewers that Open City's chief flaw when viewing it today is seeing very homosexual, decadent Nazis relaxing in a lavish chamber. The lesbian subplot is noticeably over-the-top. Western culture has evolved much with regards to LGBT preferences, and Open City is not strong here.While it is easy to find flaws when viewing this from a twenty-first century prism, we should recall that Rossellini has always held a commanding perch in Italian cinema. One of his more famous admirers is my choice for cinema's greatest actress, Ingrid Bergman. (During Stromboli, Bergman broke up her especially rich collaboration with Alfred Hitchcock to become Rossellini's lover and leading actress.) Rosselini deserves respect as a pioneer of neo-realism. His techniques effectively depict the misery of life. Because Open City is as unsparing as the real occupation, and resistance fighters are immortalized while traitors are revealed, it likely inspired great pride with the Italian public emerging from its collective nightmare.While Rossellini is often described as filming Open City, like a documentary, the opposite is true. For example, the Germans will shoot a much beloved woman running after the truck driven by the Gestapo as they arrest her Italian fiancé. The perspective is from the retreating car; the view of the fiancé. Rossellini is identifying point of view, which is supposedly a no-no in documentaries. Rossellini will also arrange objects in his interiors to move the story along. (How about the wild looking chair that the tipsy Nazi is sitting in when his lone voice speaks against the barbarity of his class?) The director once said, I try to capture reality, nothing else (Rossellini). However, he certainly is manipulating reality to achieve his results.The use of foreshadowing is particularly memorable. For example, an early scene with Don Pietro Pellegrini (Aldo Fabrizi), the heroic priest, shows him being hit in the head by a falling soccer ball as young schoolboys around him laugh. There is Pina's introduction (Anna Magnani) when she emerges from a bread riot almost too dizzy to stand. The two sheep will predict two subsequent fatalities, etc. With some quibbles, the narrative is written well.Despite its weaknesses, Open City, is a must-see for cinephiles. The courage to resist Fascism in defiance of its sheer brutality inspires democracy activists today. Let's not forget that the current US government sponsors torture. Also, the US President has renewed a law which he claims grants him the right to execute or indefinitely detain US citizens. Rome, Open City, is very relevant in this time. "},{"Title":"A coup is impending.","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" First of Roberto Rossellini's 'War trilogy'.One of the first few films in the life of a legendary screenwriter turned Director, F. Fellini(as mentioned in the titles). This movie is an unprecedented attempt to bring a different perspective of war and events associated with it. It's a movie with limited gun-firing and an intelligently dealt and maneuvered game of hide-and-seek.The Nazis sense resistance is brewing up among the Italians, a crowd huge enough to perhaps oust them out of Rome. They are desperate to catch the leader of the rebel group, Giorgio Manfredi who goes undercover to evade capture and torture. While the rebels work in tandem with a few natives, Nazis arrest every possible suspect, incarcerate and interrogate his cronies and finally capture him after letting his girlfriend blot out his location in return for narcotics. Manfredi is tortured in an attempt to get the details of the clandestine operation but he endures the pain and ultimately dies without uttering a single word. "},{"Title":"Life Under Real Fascism.","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" It shouldn't work but it does. The movie is full of the most obvious stereotypical characters and formulaic situations, common to war-time movies.The story centers around Aldo Fabrizi as an unprepossessing and humble priest who helps the anti-Fascists in minor ways, but it's really an ensemble movie and Anna Magnanni, with her strong features and forceful yet vulnerable persona, plays a prominent role.Fabrizi is just fine, a flabby presence. He visits a shop and asks about the statue of a particular saint. The proprietor doesn't have that saint, but how about St. Roche over here? A beautiful representation, don't you think? Fabrizi stares at the little icon on the table without enthusiasm. Then he notices the statue of a nude woman next to that of the saint. With a barely perceptible shudder, he turns the woman's figure away from that of Saint Roche. But then he realizes that St. Roche is now staring at the woman's naked behind, so he adjusts St. Roche according to his precepts. His practical humanity makes his much less than operatic end that much more of a tragedy.If Fabrizi is the man trying to help others in distress -- he forges papers for deserters from the German Army, that sort of thing -- Anna Magnanni is the force trying to hold things together in a world that has become almost entirely unpredictable. She has a child. She's about to marry a good man who belongs to the resistance. Then the Germans intervene and that fake stability is utterly destroyed.The Germans could have come out of any flag-waver from an Allied country. First of all, the major who runs the show is effete and swishy. He's pale, his hair is gelled, and he smokes like a woman and seems to mince even when he's standing still. He has a woman agent whose job is to infiltrate the resistance and get them to squeal on each other. We meet her when someone opens a door and we see this villainous woman with deep shadows over her eyes, literally standing in a cloud of cigarette smoke. She's not only a duplicitous fiend who preys on the weak. She's a lesbian too.And then there are the scenes of torture and the speeches that go with them. We must make him speak by tomorrow. Why? If he doesn't speak by then he will have proved himself as good as a member of the Master Race, instead of belonging to the Slave Race. One of the German officers gets drunk and mocks the Master Race business and makes a speech. Then there's the execution, with the patriotic boys witnessing it and whistling a song of freedom for the victim.But for all that formulaic content, it's a gripping story about people of no special consequence. The performances, professional or otherwise, are convincing. In recent years many of us in the West have begun talking about the dark night of Fascism descending on America or some other country -- as if we knew what it meant. "},{"Title":"Paved the Way for Great Films and Filmmakers to Come","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" One of the finest films I have ever seen. Rossellini developed this turning point in film history while in hiding with a leader of the Italian resistance during the Nazi occupation of Italy. He filmed it in the Open City of Rome after the Nazi withdrawal near the end of WWII. Reportedly made with film scraps and mostly non-professional actors, the film's rough look give this powerful movie the raw edge and the gritty realism of a documentary newsreel. It virtually defined the Neorealist film style. This story of occupiers, collaborators and resistors--derived from actual characters and stories from Rossellini's life&#151;paved the way for a variety of great filmmakers from Jules Dassin and Luchino Visconti to Gillo Pontecorvo and Francis Ford Coppola and influenced future cinematic landmarks from Naked City to City of God. A must see. "},{"Title":"The end of WW II, shot at the end of WW II.","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" It is debatable whether or not this movie is worthy of its title of early masterpiece from Roberto Rossellini but fact remains that this movie is simply a great movie about a real tough and dark period.What foremost makes this so unique was that it got made so soon after the actual end of WW II and the end of reign of fascism. Therefore the overall feel and look of the movie seems very authentic. Basically all people involved in this movie in front and behind the cameras had to really go through the period as portrayed in this movie. There also weren't too many anti-Nazi movies around yet during that them, at least not movies that got made in Italy itself. This is one of the very first that shows the horrors the common Italian population had to go through and how a brave few tried to make a difference by fighting the fascist enemies.It's a movie that features the common WW II movie ingredients focusing on the underground resistance, such as courage, loyalty and betrayal. In that way this movie is a real typical WW II, of which still so many get made. So perhaps in todays light this movie has to offer than it did in 1945. Not that it makes the movie worse though. Still I feel that the movie story could had been a bit more interesting and focused a more clear main plot-line and 'point' so to speak. But that's just not really the Italian-way.The movie is made in a real typical Italian cinematic way, which means that it's slow at times and also heavily leans and depends on its leading characters. Not that that's a complaint though, since the movie really features some great characters who also get portrayed by some real capable actors.The movie hasn't aged too well though, in terms of its picture quality. The movie could really use a restoration and re-release. Who knows, some day we might get lucky.The movie shows that Roberto Rossellini was really a great director, who knew how to tell a story, with an eye for detail and realism.It's not the most effective or intriguing WW II movie I've ever seen but it comes close enough.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great film, however you classify it","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" No doubt a massively important film, not only to the Italian film industry whose success this must have helped establish over the following decades, but to all Italians in helping to redeem themselves morally after the war. It's an odd film, forcing together elements of striking contrast farcical humour and grisly torture, sordid realism and surreal decadence. The story follows the pursuit and torture of an Italian resistance leader in Rome at the tail end of the war. This character is the usual deadpan earnest resistance leader in the manner of Victor Laszlo in Casablanca (a pity they couldn't avoid the stereotype). He is assisted by a bumbling priest (Aldo Fabrizi) who for much of the film is a gently comic figure, and Anna Magnani, pregnant fiancée of another resistance hero from the tenements. The two leads give fine performances. There's plenty of realism kids getting clipped round the ear, a couple climbing into bed together, a toddler on a potty &#150; humanely done and very interesting - but the best scenes in the film involve a glamorous semi-prostitute (a Veronica Lake look-alike) who is tempted into betrayal and ends up in the arms of a lesbian matahari in Gestapo HQ. The bizarre and effete goings-on here are remarkable &#150; the brutal SS chief is camp in the extreme, and one SS officer gets drunk and voices cynicism and disgust at what they are doing &#150; a welcome break from the relentless Nazi stereotype &#150; it's never possible to believe that all Nazis were... well, Nazis. The torture scenes are really what it's all about though and are both perpetrated and endured with a disturbing frankness. It all makes Melville's Armee des Ombres seem like a comic strip. One F. Fellini co-wrote the screenplay and indeed won his first Oscar for it. Surely this is not, as often claimed, the first true neo-realist film &#150; Visconti's Ossessione came several years earlier and is more consistent in style &#150; but this is good stuff, however you look at it. "},{"Title":"Still a masterpiece","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I am Italian and I did not see 'Roma città aperta' until about 12-15 years ago. For a movie made right at the end of the war some biased attitudes might have been expected. To my surprise, the narration was just flowing as a documentary movie; true and great actors, such as Anna Magnani and Aldo Fabrizi, were mingled with non professional ones the result was entirely 'natural' and unbiased. No characters, including the German soldiers, were unnatural. Everything is so forceful that this movie well deserves to be considered as one of the greatest movies ever made.Note The given title 'Roma città aperta' is the original Italian title, with an accent on the last vowel of 'città'. "},{"Title":"The triumph of the human spirit and living in truth and justice no matter what the enormous cost to be paid","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This is easily one of the handful of films that a discerning and sensitive film viewer should have seen and experienced. Powerful, uncompromising, it concerns the resistance in Nazi-occupied Rome during WWII. Its focus is personal, with the themes at the same time being universal and breathtaking. Individuals striving to do the right thing in the face of constant harassment and persecution. Individuals willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to serve what is right and just. (I will give little detail about the action in the film because spoilers, even just traces of spoilers, are an abomination to a film-goer who wants to see a movie freshly and on its own terms.) There are magnificent, rich performances by actors that shame the shallow acting we get in almost all films today. The focus in the movie is on the spiritual as well as the political. In these times, in which so many people and institutions are acting cravenly in the face of terrorism and intimidation, in which newspapers are afraid to publish the truth because it would not be politically correct, this film shows us how to live with nobility and according to just principles. In this film, the bullies are the Nazis. And Rossellini, the director, shows us courageous, principle-abiding people who do what is right even when the shadow of death is relentlessly present.The film pulls no punches; it is unsparing in its realistic portrayal of what happens to people who really fight the true fight against the forces of evil. The film moves inexorably to its tragic and triumphant end--forcing the viewer to examine the way he lives his own life and what he would be willing to do for truth and justice in the most difficult of situations. But this film is not dour or depressing; its cumulative effects are brilliantly uplifting. I applaud this movie over and over. Please don't be put off by its being in black and white, with no technological wizardry and with subtitles (It's in Italian). See this film. It is essential. "},{"Title":"Very powerful and moving film of Italy during WWII","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  When the film starts with an announcement that many of the actors and scenes were filmed just at the end of the War leads you to believe that this is just a documentary with an amateur flavoring, but was I wrong.  There was a plot of the Italian underground movement battling against the German army.  Catholic Priest Father Don Pietro helping people in need against the Germans knowing full well that it could lead to his death.  An incredible scene of hungry people from the city waiting in line at a bakery for a loaf of bread.  Young boys joining in the battle against the Germans.  There is a hidden tension through the film of whether the Father and the underground leaders would be arrested because of betrayal from citizens working with the Germany military.  At the end of the film one of the most powerful endings I have seen displays the execution of Father Don Pietro and his final words to end the movie. The Father is a true heroic figure which makes this a memorable film. "}{"Title":"Rome, Open City","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" First time I've seen this. Great dialog. I liked the scene where one of the German officers who has had too much to drink just comes out and tells everyone that the Germans are just mass murderers. I did not expect that from this movie which was somehow made in 1945. I thought the end was dumb because you have a German officer telling a squad of Italians armed with loaded rifles to execute an Italian priest who refused to talk. Italians in those days were more loyal to the Catholic Church so I was hoping that the squad of Italian executioners would have just turned and aimed their rifles at the German officer and those 2 Italian collaborators wearing trench coats. That would have made for a better ending. Unless of course this movie is based on a true story in which case it had to be told the way it really happened and not the way the audience would have liked it to end. Good movie. End could have been better. You have to give people hope in a hopeless world. "},{"Title":"Hang on through the first half hour; it pays off","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Ignore the less-than-fabulous technical aspects of this film -- the uneven filming quality, the poor lighting, etc. -- that can happen during this film, and remember that it's a byproduct of what was going on in Italy immediately after WWII, when this was filmed.  I found that it actually got me into the spirit of this film; the film reflects some of the tragic state of the region during the time.The first half hour drags some, as the characters establish themselves.  If you're like me, you'll be wondering where this film is going.  Hang in there.  It eventually starts to take off when the characters' traits start to generate the action in the film.When you're done watching this film, you'll know in your gut that all of the things which happened occurred in reality.  The fact that the Italian movie industry had no resources for sets, costumes, etc. actually pays off in this film.  "},{"Title":"Rossellini's Frank Picture of Italian Despair","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Roberto Rossellini's Open City is a bleak and surprisingly (for 1945) brutal film documenting the efforts of Italy's underground resistance against the fascists in World War II. Filmed on location amid the streets of Rome, it looks ragged and gritty, and much more aged than other films from the same time period, but given its subject matter and the history of its making, I wouldn't have it any other way.Anna Magnani is probably the most recognizable actor in the film -- she would go on to win an Academy Award ten years later for her performance in The Rose Tattoo. But part of the film's appeal is that the people in it don't look or feel like actors, which makes the events in it feel that more immediate, like they're happening to real people.The movie does get a little heavy handed in its depiction of the Germans as sadistic animals, but I think this can be forgiven, since Rossellini was making this film even while Germans were occupying Italy. But mostly, it's a a blunt illustration of the Italian people's despair, and their struggle to retain a grip on their dignity, even while that dignity was being tortured (in one scene, quite literally) out of them.This film would make a great double feature with Army of Shadows, Jean Pierre Melville's 1969 film about the French resistance. Be warned, however, that you wouldn't win any awards for putting together the feel-good double feature of the year.Grade A "},{"Title":"The Voice Of A Traumatized Culture","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Though directed with a documentarian's immediacy by Roberto Rossellini, `Open City' is hardly an objective look at life in German-occupied Rome; in fact, it's filled with a rage that grows feverishly, culminating in a frank and harrowing second half, delivering shock after shock until you're left in stunned silence at its conclusion. Made in 1945 after the Allied liberation, it feels cathartic, as if the torrent of anger and emotion that's built up during the war is finally able to be unleashed, but rather than the joy that usually comes with release, there's an exhausted despondency that finds its only hope in the pristine faith of its children. Rossellini and his writers, Sergio Amidei and Federico Fellini, don't bother to disguise their intense hatred for the Germans (and, in snide asides, their Fascist brethren), viewing them as pathetically proud monsters with a perverted tunnel vision, but they do allow them to have a conscience in the form of a drunken Nazi officer (Joop van Hulzen) denouncing his race's barbarianism. With the galvanizing Anna Magnani representing both the fury and despair of a repressed people, it's a classic example of film's importance, when required, as the voice of a traumatized cultural psyche.   "},{"Title":"Neo-Realism at its Best","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Open city is a story about Italy during WWII and the pain inflicted on its people. It is considered by most to be the first Neo-realist movie and, as an Italian-American, it changed my life. It's themes are simple yet poetic; in fact, despite the poor quality of the actual film (scrated and dark at times), its themes are so transparent and well communicated that these flaxes often go unnoticed. The ending is operatic and the feelings of the viewer are never spared (this is a good thing, I promise). This is real life at its most raw, most hurt, and most honest. Yet, there are undeniable themes of survival and heroic acts by the common man. This movie represents Italy and the character of its people (the filmmaker - Rossellini - and the citizens). "},{"Title":"Harrowing but great","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This takes place during WW2 when the Nazis controlled Italy. A resistance fighter named Giorgio (Marcello Pagliero) is tracked down by the Nazis. He goes to a friend named Francesco (Franceso Grandjacquel) to get out of Italy. With the help of priest Don Pietro Pellegrini (Aldo Fabrizi) he tries to help.I can't tell anymore without ruining the movie. I'm not a fan of neo-Realsim in movies (I HATED The Bicycle Thief) but I have to admit I loved this movie. It was quick-moving and mostly well-acted by an amateur cast. For the 1940s it was also pretty explicit--there's a German lesbian character, tortures, bombings and a woman (a main character) is shot down in cold blood (that was never done back then). It was shot in documentary style which makes it seem more realistic. The only debits were the bad music and a German official who acts like he came out of a Hollywood movie about Germans. Still, this is a classic and well worth seeing. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Open City (1945)","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" 96/100. To fully appreciate this film, it should be researched, focusing on how it was made and the history behind it. It's an incredible movie. The cast is amazing, the realistic viewpoint is fresh even today, and was an amazing concept at that time. Superb and gritty photography, the story is an unforgettable one, and it is all brought together by the genius Roberto Rossellini. It is so visually impressive. Historically such an important film in cinema, and it never fails to impress and fascinate. It is astounding how Rossellini manages bits of humor amidst extreme war conditions. There are so many images that you think about long after watching the film. "},{"Title":"At the top of Italian neo-realism","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" This film rings through all the changes of the human instrument--from belly laugh humor to horror of the most visceral sort (both physical AND psychological) to touching selfless love to the sorrows felt and perpetrated by the immature and psychotic.I'm going to give a synopsis here--if you want that, plenty of other folk have said more than they should about the plot and the characters--but I do urge EVERYONE to see this movie. It is--like the best of all art--timeless. You WILL NOT BE BORED! (Unless you're a brainless twit that only responds to the most superficial stimuli.) This flick DEFINES great storytelling and great film-making. No compromises.P.S. Notice that the young Fellini is not only one of the writers, but is also the uncredited 2nd Unit director.Why is this film not in IMDb's top 250 (or top 100, for that matter)? Well, that's pretty simple to understand, isn't it? For the same reason that turkeys like the last Star Wars movies and Pirates 3 ARE in the top 250. The IMDb ranking is quite democratic; it measures the opinions of those who are on the net--now. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Strong","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  This film has several extremely strong emotional scenes, that still stands out in the film history (those scenes can also be seen in Scorsese's Viaggio in Italia). Still it is realistic and not sentimental. Very good acting by Magnani and a very good suitable soundtrack by Renzo Rossellini. The movie has a special magical atmosphere, just not as good as the Bicycle Thief or Umberto D. But close.9/10 "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of movie history","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  A masterpiece of Italian Neorealism and a masterpiece in movie history. This movie is moving and never boring. The actors are all great, mostly due to the director's skill. A must see for every lover of true cinema. "}{"Title":"The difficult thing is to live right.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" I heard of Roberto Rossellini's first neo-realist (neo-realist before it was defined, however, meaning it borders on factual melodrama) effort, Roma Citta Aperta, or Open City, through the documentary My Voyage to Italy. From the way it was seen in that it had my expectations so high that when I finally saw it today I was only slightly disappointed. I realize that Rossellini works in a different realism than like Vittorio DeSica. The viewer sees right away that DeSica works much better in getting the tragedy of the emotional levels of these people, while Rossellini gets the tragedy of the situation(s) at hand. At it's purest and best, Open City tells a solid story about simple people in harrowing times. At his core, Rossellini films Open City a lot like a documentary, with some shots here and there that you didn't see at the time - all of the locations were real from weeks after the war ended and created the appropriate atmosphere. And yet, despite the truth to the story (of a Priest being executed by the fascists), every now and then I found myself looking at Open City like it should have been better, that it hasn't held up against time like DeSica's films did. I was able to look past some of the faults, but not enough to make me think of this as a masterpiece like many critics and admirers say.Still, the main theme that goes with Open City, the loyalty of the common people, is not lost on a modern viewer such as me- the priest Don Pietro Pelligrini (Aldo Fabrizi), along with some children who are also resistance fighters, try and help those who are trying to rid Rome and Italy of the German presence. There is also Francesco, who has a couple of aliases, and wants to marry Pina (Anna Magnani, in the most heart-felt performance of the film) since she's pregnant. The events in the second and third acts of the film are worth watching, though the first act slowly introducing several supporting players takes its time showing us these are real people who've lived through the war and are sick of waiting for the end of it. I'm not too sure now if I can recommend Open City as THE definitive neo-realist film, because it was made before neo-realism had found its footing. It is an important film to see, I don't doubt that, and the last twenty minutes of the film contain some of the most memorable material in the neo-realism movement (these twenty minutes give Fabrizi time to prove his worth). Even as a regular war film I got what I wanted...Perhaps I need to see another one of Rossellini's works, like Paisan, The Miracle, or Germany Year Zero before, I know if his breakthrough was his best effort as a director and/or to the genre he helped create.Author's note one aspect that hindered my enjoyment of watching Open City was that, despite seeing it on DVD, the print of the film was sub-par, and the subtitles that accompanied it only contained about 75% of what was spoken. There was one line in particular towards the very end that I remembered from a clip shown in the documentary that was left out, which was a downer for such a powerful scene. Like the film or not, this needs Criterion collection treatment. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  I have seen Roma at least a dozen of times and I can still feel the anxiety and the passion of the characters! Such an incredible movie, practically with no budget... "},{"Title":"parts of society intentionally foster a subset of materialistic people","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  One insight  some parts of society intentionally foster a subset of materialistic people; these controllers readily get the info or behavior or whatever they want by merely providing the gifts, tokens, etc that people want.  One might say that much of human behavior is controlled by the desire to get things, but it seems that at any given time there is a special group of people ready to sell their bodies and souls for whatever.  "},{"Title":"excellent final days of WWII flick","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" Director Roberto Rossellini and other Italian directors did quite a few neo-realistic films (i.e., starring real people in real situations) about the Nazi occupation of Italy (starting in 1943) and most of them are exceptional films. While not among the very best of this genre, it is certainly well worth your time. It is certainly more interesting and better-made than his film Paisan, which I felt was too choppy and had too many lulls, though it never really rises to the level of great films such as Two Women (De Sica) or General della Rovere (also Rossellini). I think a little of the reason these latter two films work better is that they were not hurried into production (Open City came out in 1945) and just seemed more polished and captivating. In addition, the movie, though very interesting and important historically, was a bit sloppy in its depiction of the Nazis. One officer was continually shown wearing a tunic that was sloppy (with the top button open) and he sported a very Italian-looking mustache. While only the most devout movie buffs or historians might know this (or obsessive film freaks like me), it is a small but noticeable detail. "},{"Title":"So What?","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":"  Cliche-ridden, and not particularly original, I was left wondering what this film had to offer; it certainly proves that not at all black and white films have any particular merit. Far from the director's best work, you must admire the circumstances in which it is filmed - no mean feat - but it will simply not stand up to scrutiny by a modern eye; I've seen it all before, and there's no reason in particular to watch this film; it doesn't engage as other films do, and I found myself watching passively rather than with any serious involvement. Missable. "},{"Title":"A mediocre piece of realist propaganda","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" A mediocre piece of realist propaganda, now elevated to the ranks of film greats because of its conformity to certain techniques of the era, this film has nothing to offer except rigid, clichéd villains (the Germans) and the noble born oppressed (Italians). It is sentimentalizing at its worse, I particularly found the portrayal of the German commander weak, as he looked like a gerbil, and did not seem very apt or capable. There is very little in the way of story and the expected brutality of the Germans is what takes up the greater part of the screen time, how predictable. . . . .It is sentimentalizing at its worse, I particularly found the portrayal of the German soldiers weak, as they looked like gerbils, and did not seem very apt or capable. There is very little in the way of story and the expected brutality of the Germans is what takes up the greater part of the screen time, how predictable.At least that is how I see it. "},{"Title":"Ugh, why are movies like this still praised?","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, War","Review":" OK, Let's get the most important thing out of the way right now. I understand that this film is a Neo-Realism piece, but seriously.......come on. Just because you make a film in a certain way doesn't give you an excuse to make it unwatchable. The shots were all seemingly shot with different cameras (none blended well at all), the subtitles only tell viewers about half of what is actually said (not like we care, as i've said......the movie sucked), and the two lead actors look too similar to differentiate later in the movie. Now you people can over analyze this garbage all you want. But you can't honestly tell me that it merits anything even close to resembling an ounce of respect from anyone who's ever seen a movie before. That's it, I'm done. "}]