[{"Title":"It's what people want, and how hard they want it, and how hard it is for them to get it.","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"55 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Don't look back, baby, says a man who knows his Gideon Bible, You know what happened to Lot's wife. But her fate is mild compared to the torments of two people&#151;and a third they draw into their web&#151;who can never stop looking back to something that happened when they were children. What connects this melodrama with noir films like the perfectly named OUT OF THE PAST, THE KILLERS (in which the hero explains that he is doomed because, I did something wrong, once), and many others is the theme that one mistake, one reckless moment, can seal your fate forever.The three children are Sam Masterson, a streetwise kid from the wrong side of the tracks; Walter O'Neil, a timid, obedient boy whose father is ambitious for him; and Martha Ivers, the orphaned heiress to a steel mill, who lives miserably with her aunt (Judith Anderson, in Mrs. Danvers mode). On the fateful night, all three are in the house when Martha, driven over the edge (her aunt both insults her dead father, a mill hand, and beats her kitten!) whacks her aunt with her own cane and sends her tumbling to her death at the foot of a grand staircase. Walter's father sees his chance, and holding the threat of exposure over Martha's head, takes control of her fortune and later forces her to marry Walter. When, eighteen years later, Sam (who ran away night of the killing on a circus train) blows back into town, Martha and Walter fear he has returned to blackmail them with his knowledge; Walter also fears, rightly, that Martha and Sam still carry a torch for each other. The highly-charged triangle becomes a quadrangle with the addition of Toni Marachek, a young woman just out of jail whom Sam picks up and befriends.THE STRANGE LOVE OF MARTHA IVERS is a conventional studio product, lacking the expressive camera-work or atmospheric settings that noir usually offers. Bombastic music deafens each emotional climax; women go to sleep with their glossy masks of makeup intact; obvious back-projection and poorly staged action sequences make the film look like a staged play. None of this really diminishes the movie, however, since its power comes from a smart script, especially from the complexity of characters and relationships. There is a strong affinity between Sam and Martha, both tough and poised and hard to read, while Toni and Walter are more vulnerable and obvious, driven by the simple motivation of love. But by the end it's clear that Martha and Walter have become twins, warped by their shared guilt (they both took part in prosecuting an innocent man who was hanged for the murder), while Sam and Toni share a fundamental decency and the capacity to look ahead to a fresh start.Nice girl Toni is there to provide eye candy and a potential happy ending for Sam, but she gets a lot of screen time, too much in fact for her one-note character. Fans of Lizabeth Scott won't agree, but unless you find her particularly alluring, her scenes get a little tedious. Van Heflin is easy-going as Sam, the self-confident gambler who thinks he's seen it all, until he encounters Martha and Walter's toxic marriage. Heflin, though rather homely, brings a likable raffishness to the part, and his casual opportunism keeps you guessing about what he'll do next.Kirk Douglas was never cast as such a weakling again (this was his debut film) but the mismatch works brilliantly. His intensity and powerful presence make his abject character fiercely compelling, instead of merely pathetic. A less imposing actor would come off as just a milquetoast; Douglas's manliness adds an interesting touch of perversity to his plight. His weakness is inside. Douglas captures perfectly Walter's insecurity and helpless jealousy, his cowardly use of his power (through Martha's influence, he has become District Attorney), his lame attempts to project confidence, his dependence on alcohol to salve his humiliation. He's not dumb; he knows that Martha would never have married him without the threat of exposure, but he clings to his feeble hold on her because he loves her desperately. You can't help feeling sorry for him, especially when Martha accuses him and his father of coming after her money like leeches, and he cries out, All I wanted was you! Then there's Martha, the mysterious center of the film. Barbara Stanwyck has an amazing ability to draw the audience to her side and at the same time make one's blood run cold. She's in her prime here as a glamorous businesswoman (with steely satisfaction she shows off the improvements she made to the factory, all by myself) who conveys total control, yet feels trapped in a life she loathes. Her hardness is at once glorious and chilling; she controls her husband like a cruel hypnotist. When she breaks down in tears and tells Sam that she has been the victim all along, powerless and frightened, like Sam you're moved but not quite sure you believe her. Even at the end, the ambiguity is unresolved how much is Martha the victim, how much the villain? Walter says it's no one's fault; it's just the way things are; it's what people will do to get the things they want. The scenes between Martha and Walter are the highlight of the film, saturated with a poisonous mixture of love and hate, tinged with sado-masochism (Even pain at your hands&#133; Walter sighs when she puts iodine on his cut hand). This pact with desire, fear, greed and guilt is the spectacle of ruin--the Sodom and Gomorrah--that prompts Sam to warn Toni, Don't look back, baby; don't ever look back. "},{"Title":"Underrated Noir with an excellent cast.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"50 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Knowing absolutely NOTHING about this movie (apart from it being the screen debut of Kirk Douglas) I thought it was going to be a potboiler, but I was pleasantly surprised at how good it was. It veers between Noir and melodrama, and I gotta say I was hooked from the get go. I'm not the biggest Barbara Stanwyck fan in the world, but she was well cast as the ruthless matriarch of a small town, and Douglas really pulled off an unusual role for him (basically a drunken wimp). Van Heflin ('Shane') plays the hero and holds his own against those two, and I also really liked Lizabeth Scott, an actress I'm not familiar with, who plays Heflin's love interest (sorta). 'The Strange Love Of Martha Ivers' will please fans of 1940s Noir. It deserves to be better known than it is.  "},{"Title":"Star Power to Spare","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"46 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A powerhouse cast is assembled for The Strange Love of Martha Ivers.  It's a treat to watch this able quintet at work, making for an engrossing film experience.Barbara Stanwyck is at her peak--sure, confident, and unfailing.  Van Heflin's natural talent makes everything he does seem effortless.  Kirk Douglas offers a most impressive film debut in what, in retrospect, is an uncharacteristic role.  Lizabeth Scott (who seems to me a fascinating cross between Lauren Bacall and Rosemary Clooney) is constantly engaging.  Long after her part has faded, Scott's image remains indelibly fixed in the memory. And finally, the great Judith Anderson is on in a strong character role.Miklos Rozsa's compositional style is remarkable in its adaptablity.  Close one's eyes, and the film could well be set a thousand years earlier--or any point in between. Which is to say, it's general, while at the same time, specific. The writing team headed by Robert Rossen created a slick and saucy script, which holds interest throughout, and Hal B. Wallis was sharp enough to retain this productional team formula for many years.  Were the film to have been given a perhaps more poetic--less Gothic--title, it might have enjoyed even greater stature in the annals of the genre.As it is, Ivers is a worthy member of the noir film family.     "},{"Title":"Hidden Dynamism","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"46 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Martha Ivers, a young girl under the guardianship of her grandmother played by Judith Anderson, tries often to run away, but is brought back every time. Grandma is one powerful autocratic and twisted old woman. One night after Grandma kills the girl's cat, she kills her. Her tutor's son sees the deed and now has blackmail power. Young Martha also thinks someone else has seen the deed, young Sam Masterson who she has a yen for. He actually skedaddled before witnessing anything.Flash forward several years. Now everyone is grown up. Barbara Stanwyck is Martha and she's married the tutor's son played by Kirk Douglas in his film debut. He's also the District Attorney. And the main action of the film begins as grown up Sam Masterson who is played by Van Heflin comes back to his home town. He's treated rather strangely and it takes him a while to figure out why.Life has a funny way of working out and Stanwyck has essentially turned into Anderson. Heflin is no real hero here either, he's quite willing to engage in some blackmail. But he's redeemed somewhat by the love of another girl from the wrong side of the tracks, Lizabeth Scott. The film is memorable for two reasons, the power packed performance of Barbara Stanwyck and the debut of Kirk Douglas. This is a choice Barbara Stanwyck role, a powerful ruthless woman who'll do anything to keep and protect what's hers. It's odd that Kirk Douglas makes his debut as a weakling, but even stranger that the dynamism that is his screen trademark is so well hidden in this portrayal. This part isn't exactly Spartacus. But Kirk is one capable player.Heflin and Scott do well in their respective parts, but even though she's only on the screen for the first 15 minutes the one you won't forget is Judith Anderson. Seeing Stanwyck with her machinations later on, you wonder what must have made Anderson such a twisted human being.The Strange Loves of Martha Ivers is a well plotted melodrama that does credit to all involved. "},{"Title":"Whisper her name Stanwyck as twisted steeltown autocrat","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Lewis Milestone's The Strange Love of Martha Ivers presents a, well, strange case.  Much if not most of it fits comfortably into the noir cycle that was just gathering its head of steam.  But its look, save some recurrent bus-station shots, suggests lavish and well-lit prestige productions (as does its length), and in its deep-rooted narrative it harks back to sprawling, brooding melodramas such as Kings Row.That narrative is broken-backed as well, with two disjointed time frames.  The movie opens in 1928 in sooty Iverstown, a steel city almost certainly somewhere in Pennsylvania.  There we meet, as teenagers, three of the story's principals Unruly Martha, making yet another attempt to run away from her wealthy, rigid aunt (Judith Anderson); her street-urchin buddy Sammy; and prissy school-teacher's son Walter.  On the night Anderson is bludgeoned to death (to the tune of lightning, thunder and crashing rains), Sammy waits for Martha to join him; when she doesn't, he signs up with the circus and blows town.Fast-forward to 1946, when decorated veteran Sammy (Van Heflin), headed west, cracks up his car and finds himself once more in Iverstown.  He meets up with the fourth main character, Lizabeth Scott, who not unlike himself has been knocked about (she's a jailbird).  When the police lock her up for violating parole, he pays a visit to his old friend Walter (Kirk Douglas, in his debut), now the district attorney, to secure her release. Douglas, who rarely draws a sober breath, holds the office thanks to the ambition and power of his wife Martha (Barbara Stanwyck).  (The original publicity campaign cautioned `Whisper her name!')  When she shows up unexpectedly and warmly greets Heflin, all Douglas' insecurities and jealousies erupt; not only does he suspect that Heflin has always been his wife's first love but he fears that Heflin, privy to the long-buried secret of the aunt's death, can undo his marriage, his success, and the industrial empire Stanwyck has built.  He takes heavy-handed measures to defend himself, blackmailing Scott into framing Heflin.  But hasn't reckoned with the resourcefulness of his adversary &#150; or with the wilfulness of his wife.But the story is really plotted along romantic coordinates whose intersections are punctuated by Miklos Rozsa's throbbing score.  Douglas loves Stanwyck, who really loves Heflin, while Scott loves Heflin, who loves her back but still has unfinished business with Stanwyck (no wonder Douglas drinks &#150; nobody loves him).  And in the rondelay of turnabouts and betrayals (or seeming betrayals), The Strange Love of Martha Ivers slips perilously close to soap opera.  Its stately pace and prosperous look give it a dated, ponderous feel, quite unlike the rough sleekness of film noir, though there's an unmistakable echo of Double Indemnity &#150; Stanwyck's performance as Martha Ivers reworks  hers as Phyllis Dietrichson, right down to the concluding love-death tableau.  But, while occasionally cumbersome, The Strange Love of Martha Ivers stands on its own as an overwrought, obsessive drama, with a very topical acknowledgment of the insulation that money and power can buy, and of the moral and social corruption that inflexibly comes as part of the package.  It's a strange movie, all right, but a haunting one as well. "},{"Title":"Don't Ever Look Back","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In 1928, in Iverstown, the heiress Martha Smith Ivers is caught by the police for the fourth time while trying to runaway home with her friend Sam Masterson. She hates her aunt Mrs. Ivers (Judith Anderson) and while in her room with her tutor's son Walter O'Neil and Sam later, the power runs out and she asks Sam to bring her cat back to the room. When Sam is trying to catch the cat in the dark, her aunt comes to the staircase and Sam hides himself. Mrs. Ivers hits the cat with a stick, Martha pushes her in the staircase and Mrs. Ivers dies. Martha lies to Mr. O'Neil and tells that a man had killed her aunt, and Walter confirms the lie. Eighteen years later, Sam (Van Heflin) is driving in the road nearby Iverstown, but he does not pay attention in a curve and hits his car in a post. He brings his car to a body shop in the industrial town, and while waiting for the repair, he meets the gorgeous Antonia Marachek (Lizabeth Scott) in front of the house where he lived. When Antonia loses her bus to her hometown, she accepts the invitation of Sam for a drink and later she goes to his hotel. On the next morning, Antonia is arrested for violation of probation, and Sam decides to pay a visit to Walter O'Neil (Kirk Douglas), now a successful district attorney and married with the wealthy Martha Ivers (Barbara Stanwyck), to ask him to release Antonia. When Walter sees Sam, he believes Sam wants to blackmail Martha and him, and his misunderstanding leads the former friends to tragic revelations about the fatal night and discloses dirty secrets about the couple Martha and Walter.The Strange Love of Martha Ivers is an amazing underrated film-noir. The flawless story is excellent, disclosed in an adequate pace and developing perfectly the despicable characters. The black & white cinematography is magnificent, and the fatal character of Barbara Stanwyck is one of the most dangerous and manipulative villains I have ever seen in a film-noir. Kirk Douglas is great in his debut, but Van Heflin and Lizabeth Scott steals the movie with their performances and chemistry. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) O Tempo Não Apaga (The Time Does not Erase) "},{"Title":"One of the best of the noirs!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is a well-written, well-acted, thoroughly absorbing film noir. The always-great Barbara Stanwyck is at her sultriest as Martha, and Van Heflin is incredibly sexy and masculine as Sam. Watching this movie, you wouldn't think Kirk Douglas, who plays the weak-willed, alcoholic Walter, would soon become a bigger star than Heflin and play the tough, romantic hero parts like Sam Masterson. Douglas excelled at those parts, as he did with a very different type of part in this movie, but I can't help thinking that if Heflin had gotten more of those roles, he would have been just as big a star. Husky-voiced Lizabeth Scott rounds out the star foursome nicely as Toni, a wrong-side-of-the-tracks girl who's been burned by trusting the wrong men. This movie, more than most of its era, trades in shades of gray; the bad characters, Martha and Walter, have reasons for the evil they do, while the good characters, Sam and Toni, are no angels--he's a decorated war hero, but he makes his living by gambling and once killed a man in self-defense, while she just got out of jail. This complexity adds to the film's interest. The film also provides a believable depiction of small-town life; it's realistic, no Bedford Falls. The flashback portraying several of the characters as teenagers has the spark of reality as well. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"acting tour de force with great film noir plot","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" this movie is one of those lost gems. barbara stanwyck and kirk douglas do a great job but they are not the reason this is a great gem. van heflin (of shane) and lizabeth scott are superb and in some ways overshadow kirk douglas in his screen debut and stanwyck. lizabeth smolders and pouts her way to perfection, what a babe!!. lizabeth should have been a huge star especially in the film noir genre. both van heflin and lizabeth scott are massively underrated and typically not remembered. that is a shame since they both were fine actors, that is the present generations loss. the plot is superb and throws some nice curves that keeps you on your toes. "},{"Title":"You can't go home again","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Due to a car accident, Van Heflin has to return to his home town in The Strange Love of Martha Ivers, and walks into a world full of blackmail and murder. 18 years earlier, he ran away from home the night his friend Martha's aunt was murdered while Martha, her friend Walter, and Walter's father were in the Ivers house. Now he returns to find Walter (Kirk Douglas) is the drunken district attorney and married to Martha (Barbara Stanwyck), the richest woman in town - Iverstown is, after all, named after her family. Though Martha has never fallen out of love with Heflin, her husband thinks he's there to blackmail them because, though a man was hung for killing her aunt, it was Martha who did so while her aunt (Judith Anderson) was beating Martha's cat. In my opinion, she deserved to die. D.A. Douglas uses a troubled woman Heflin has met, played by sultry Lizabeth Scott, to attempt to drive Heflin out of town. But it doesn't work.A top-notch cast carries this intriguing story along. Heflin was evidently considered a matinée idol in his day - in both this and Possessed, women swoon over him. My mother loved him, so he must have had something. He was a good actor, with a smoothness and an engaging smile. And he plays the part with a certain ambiguousness - up to a certain point, you're not sure if he knows Stanwyck's guilty secret or not. Stanwyck, beautiful and elegant as the troubled Martha, does a great job playing a twisted sister if there ever was one (though I still don't blame her for killing that miserable Judith Anderson). Douglas, in an early performance, holds his own well as the pathetic, wimpy Walter. Lizabeth Scott is lovely, sad, and vulnerable as Toni, the woman Heflin meets while in town.Very good mid-'40s film. "},{"Title":"Return from the past","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The prologue to The Secret Loves of Martha Ivers suggests a Gothic movie, with the spooky figure of Mrs. Ivers dominating the eerie household that Martha wants to flee; then, the film changes to a noir with a fine plot. In fact, Lewis Milestone, the director, has mixed styles in the picture, but the end result makes a satisfying film to watch.The musical score of Miklos Rozsa contributes to create a good atmosphere to what we are watching, also greatly helped by the black and white cinematography by Victor Milner. Robert Rossen, a man who went to direct his own films, wrote the screenplay.We are given a story about an young woman who lives under the ironclad rule of a domineering aunt. Martha finds in Sam, a kindred spirit, who loves her. She wants to escape with him in order to get away from this tyrant. Things get complicated with Martha being nabbed from the train that is going to take her away and she is brought back to the hated house. The nasty storm blowing over Iversville cuts the electricity. Martha has a confrontation with her aunt, and things take an ironic twist. Mr. O'Neil, the tutor, makes sure he and his son will be well provided in exchange for their silence.The action changes after that. It's now eighteen years later. We see Sam as he is driving near Iversville and he suffers an accident because he is not looking. Coming back to Iversville brings back memories. He goes to the house where he lived and meets the sweet and mysterious Toni Marachek, who is leaving town. By this time, all in town are alerted to Sam's return and things begin to unravel. Walter O'Neil, the town's D.A. has married Martha. He has become an alcoholic. Martha has done wonders with the steelworks she inherited and is obviously a wealthy woman. She immediately figures with Walter that Sam's return has a different meaning; he has come back to implicate them in the death of Mrs. Ivers, and they must deal with him. Both Martha and Walter are suffering the guilt associated with their naming an innocent man, who has been executed because of them. The film has a good resolution, as crime doesn't pay, or so, this is the clear message that comes across. Sam, at the end, is seen driving away from the town with Toni. Barbara Stanwyck makes a creation of Martha Ivers. This was a role tailor-made for her. She has a great time playing this woman, who doesn't know what she wants, whether to stay with the weakling Walter, or to try to get back to Sam. Van Heflin, as Sam is splendid. He had played opposite to Ms. Stanwyck and in this film, both do some interesting work, under the guidance of Mr. Milestone.Kirk Douglas was making his film debut and he made a splash with his take on the weak Walter O'Neil. Lizabeth Scott was also a revelation, who is totally convincing with her Toni Marachek. Judith Anderson has only a couple of scenes at the beginning of the movie, but she is effective as the domineering Mrs. Ivers.Although we had seen the film before, we still watch it whenever it shows on cable. Thanks to Lewis Milestone's direction the movie will live forever. "}{"Title":"Van Heflin & Lizabeth Scott Were The Real Stars","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck and Kirk Douglas got top billing on the VHS and DVD boxes I've seen but the real stars of this movie are Van Heflin and Lizabeth Scott, the likable albeit corrupt two of the foursome. This is listed as a crime movie, a film noir, but at times is much more of a melodrama than anything else. It's a little too talky for my tastes yet I still enjoyed it because the acting is top-shelf, the dialog is fun and you get involved with the characters. The film could have used more action. With the 'soap' angle, it reminded me a bit of another melodramatic noir, Mildred Pierce, except the latter is a better film.This was Douglas' first major role and he handled it well. It's no surprise he went on to be big star. I never thought Scott was all that beautiful, but she looked very good here, the best I've seen her. "},{"Title":"Best Story Line In All of Noir","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Great movie. This is probably one of the most complex story lines in all of Noir. The moral ambiguity makes it impossible to determine how you want the characters lives to turn out. The viewer is pulled in so many directions and because of the moral complexity I found myself pulling for the corrupt characters despite their flaws. Stanwyck was amazing. This was my first noir with Van Heflin and I thought he was just spot on with his performance. A very young Kirk Douglas chews up the scenery with an over the top performance that none the less works perfectly for his character. Lizabeth Scott as Heflin's secondary love interest was also excellent. I am amazed that this film, in the noir genre, has not gotten more attention. It's really a work of art and stands up as relevant and moving 65 years after it's release. Awesome movie! "},{"Title":"Sadism...Sex...Stanwyck","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" With all of the schemes, intrigue, sexual undertones and murder this is a very rare and so incredibly original post-wartime movie.Many have cited this as the inspiration for the much later 'Neo-Noir' alongside, another Stanwyck classic 'Double Indemnity'.Unlike the latter feature, this film is not filled with cold and brooding images.The film starts off dramatically with a strong cameo by Judith 'Mrs. Danvers' Anderson. The teen-aged actors that portray Stanwyck's, Heflin's, and Douglas's characters as youths deliver very moving performances.They capture the tension of murderess Martha's wicked deed. The teen-aged actors pull off the difficult task of linking their characters with the mature characters- a great start to this bold film.Personally, Barbara Stanwyck is the best of the 'Golden Hollywood' queens, and displays why with this subtle yet sly performance. Unlike many of the other criminals she portrayed, Barbara is cold-blooded rather than hysterically evil and occasionally reveals the blood that boils behind her gray eyes.Her lethal attraction to Heflin is passionate at the same time as chilling. It is a true triumph that the colourful relationship between the two sizzles on the screen without the use of lush, colourful cinematography! The black and white colour highlights the gloom of the piece.Van Heflin swaggers through the film, giving a satisfactory performance as the wronged kid 'from the wrong side of the tracks'. Many have praised Lizabeth Scott for her sultry performance as the equally dubious Toni Marachek. This is true. She is a worthy foe for Stanwyck, and in some scenes does steal the attention away from her co-stars.Now, many have criticised Kirk Douglas's performance as over-acted and unconvincing. I have to disagree. Perhaps for many audiences, it is too much of a shock to see the usually rugged, manly Douglas playing an unstable Daddy's boy manipulated by his wife, and cowardly towards the end. It is a difficult role, but Douglas retains the wimpish quality of Walter from start to finish, also depending on the actions and control of his unbalanced wife.Towering performances, a gloomy soundtrack, and dark cinematography make this feature dazzle as one of the best 'film noir' genre produced in the 1940s.Lizabeth Scott in particular gives a commanding performance, which generates interest, glamour and suspicion. These are the stem of the themes to this great film.Brilliant as it was 59 years ago! "},{"Title":"Stanwyck or Scott?","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I'm surprised by the frequent praise for the acting of Lizabeth Scott in this movie. All I see is flaring nostrils and rolling eyes that wouldn't have been out of place in one of the hammier silents. Perhaps that's not surprising since this was only her second movie. She went on to do much better work in the 1950s.To see a real movie actress at work, look, instead, at Barbara Stanwyck in the scene in which she confronts Sam and Toni in their hotel bedroom. Watch how Stanwyck times and delivers her lines; her body language; the subtext of complete disdain. Those lines could have been played several ways, but Stanwyck pitches them note-perfect. Now, that's class. "},{"Title":"A perfect high drama--tight, tragic, tender","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Strange Love of Martha Ivers (1946)A perfect high drama--tight, tragic, tenderLewis Milestone is a director with much earlier roots, and famous partly for two Steinbeck adaptations, the first rate Of Mice and Men and a decent The Red Pony, as well as the superb All Quiet on the Western Front. This strange soap opera/film noir rates with the best of his work--he pulls off a complicated and rich drama with a sense of ease that belies the disparate elements involved, including making the opening scenes in the 1920s mesh with the main plot in the 1940s. It works beautifully, with great writing and acting, and a rich mise-en-scene. I wouldn't miss this for the world. Martha Ivers presents a peculiar plot, tightly constructed, with cross purposes throwing you and reinterpretations of events needed on the fly. We have powerful woman, played by already legendary Barbara Stanwyck, in the kind of role that she was best at, and about a weak man with a heart, her husband, Kirk Douglas, the really sympathetic side of the actor in his first movie role. These two seem to be the stable core of the movie. But far more involving and impressive is the main character in the role of his life, Van Heflin as Sam Masterson. His likable ease with a hidden, disturbing past, and an inquiring open mind about the future, define the best of the film noir archetypes. An ordinary man with depth, someone we can relate to, or want to be friends with. In the movie he becomes friends with the fourth leading role played by a noir fixture, Lizabeth Scott, and though she is the stiffest of the four, she fills out the group with great balance. She is, after all, the reality that our main man prefers, whatever the temptations of high life in the small city of Iverstown.What else is there? A great script, great acting, great visuals, well paced and intelligently edited with economy and continuity. Does it have great social meaning? Is there a disturbing or revelatory core here? No, maybe not. But then again, just being thoroughly drawn in, moved, and made to consider this kind of situation from Masterson's point of view is a thrill of great cinematic fiction. "},{"Title":"An Engrossing Film-Noir","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" An engrossing and creative film-noir, The Strange Love of Martha Ivers offers an interesting and unpredictable story with quite a bit of commentary about its characters. Van Heflin gives a particularly memorable performance, with plenty of help from Barbara Stanwyck and a very young-looking Kirk Douglas.The story is very well-conceived, showing first a tumultuous series of events in the youth of its main characters, and then showing how their adult lives are still shaped by things that happened long ago. The three child actors are all able to make their characters ring true with the adult versions played later by the stars, and the script makes good use of the opportunities that the setup offers.The tension is built up skillfully, and it never lets up. Although the danger and the drama involving the characters is more than enough to carry a good movie, it also brings out plenty of observations about the characters' personalities and their decisions in life, and this adds additional depth to an already very interesting story. "},{"Title":"Excellent script and Fine Performances","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  The script of this film is one of the best noir efforts ever penned, right up there with Maltese Falcon.  Van Heflin's engaging performance proves what great potential he had to be one of the biggies.  His portrayal of the drifting, yet honest, gambler outshines by far even Douglas' complex performance as the corrupt, yet troubled, district attorney.  Stanwyck's adds another crackerjack performance as the woman in the middle, and Lizbeth Scott rounds out the cast with an understated winning performance.  The story is multilayered and truths reveal themselves slowly though the pace moves briskly.  Like most noir, heavy on the moral ambiguity, but not to the point of pointlessness.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The strange cyclical lives of noir","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is just a few hues short of an unsung masterpiece in my view. It begins as a rainy Gothic tale set in a big mansion in the 20's, about a young girl living with an overbearing rich aunt who does not approve of the boy she loves, then shifts into modern noir with the participants grown up, some of them dead.The story has three main characters experiencing cyclical lives and amazingly effective aligning, between where these people dream they are and traces of the karmas they are roped by.One is the woman, she used to be so spirited and passionate as a girl, but has grown up to be as scheming, as calculating as the despised aunt. She has married for convenience, has multiplied her aunt's financial empire, her husband is a DA being groomed for governor, all these things including town and husband she controls with a haughty air. She still yearns not to be an Ivers, to be a Smith, after her father who was a worker, a man very much like the boy she loved and disappeared that fateful night twenty years ago.The other is the DA husband, the bookish child married to the young heiress of a fortune and owing everything he is to her. He's grown to be a man of standing, a man of the people, except he cannot talk to them, he's so crippled by anxiety he has to start the day with a bottle of scotch.The third is that boy who was run off that night, the star-crossed true love, the soulmate. He returns to Iverstown after twenty years, is stuck there by an accident of fate, because he looked back at a sign to see if the roads didn't really play a trick on him, the gods of the crossroads. While there, he ignites dormant passions, deeply buried secrets from a dark past.There is a shared lie between them, except only two of the three are in on it. The lie is a false narrative that was invented to hide murder, an innocent framed for it and sent to the chair, karmas in motion is that because of that lie both participants have grown to be trapped in a world as dreamed by their guardians, having inherited the sin. They covertly despise each other and the dream. The one who was not part of it gets to walk away in the end, having lost a father for going away in the first place.So if you are looking for the ordinary tropes of noir, this may seem a little slight, there is a cunning femme fatale, but the story is thick in coincidental detail. It is not as visually inventive as Welles, or even Siodmak.But this is the thing, coincidence. It's revealed plainly in the midst of deceit and double-crossing; the woman's whole life is like a dream.The strange love of Martha Ivers is that she loved a boy who leaped from a window one rainy night and never came back. The beauty of it and extremely intricate design, is that each of the three participants has to cling to an image of that night, and each chooses to dream a life from that image, dictated by what conscience was set in motion, each dream slightly different, since perspectives that night differed. All three are characters in the same story, naturally, since the story was between them that night, the most clever stroke is that we have no way to know who is the dreamer recalling the others in the long restless journey into night that is the soul's atonement for sin.Is Martha dreaming up being abandoned by love once more, payment for having settled for the aunt's money and convenient marriage? Is the man, visiting again the town in a way that reassures he left nothing behind that is worth sleepless nights of doubt?Subsequent filmmakers who built a life from noir - Rivette, Ruiz, Lynch - would give us more explicit hallucination to inhabit, more subtle dreamers of internal story, but as far as primary texts go, this is second to none. "},{"Title":"Noir Psycho Thriller","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Famed director Lewis Milestone offered this twisted bit of noir melodrama. The film exudes star power - featuring the legendary Barbara Stanwyck, the chronically under-appreciated Lizabeth Scott, veteran Van Heflin and a very young Kirk Douglas. And the talent is generally well used. Douglas' role - that of an alcoholic coward - is a little bit of a stretch for him and he sometimes over-does it. And the script force's Van Heflin into a few scenes which are inconsistent with his generally good interpretation of the protagonist. Contrary to the opinions of some of the reviewers here on IMDb, Lizabeth Scott played the young, naive, but not exactly innocent Toni to the hilt, and was easily the most sympathetic character in the lot.Sam Masterson (Heflin), a drifting but successful gambler, meets a very beautiful young woman who has just been released from prison and wants very badly to build a new life for herself (Scott). Attracted to his kindness, Toni attaches herself to Sam readily, and begins to develop romantic expectations. The chemistry between Scott and Heflin is very good, and their budding romance is entirely believable despite its pithy evolution.Sam wanders back into his home town after more than a decade's absence, and looks up two of his childhood friends from the other side of the tracks - Martha (Stanwyck), a near-miss childhood sweetheart who has inherited about half of the town, including its only major industry, and Walter O'Neil (Douglas) her weak-willed social climbing coward of a husband, who has become the town's D.A. The last night this trio was together, in their teenage years, Martha's aunt was murdered by Martha herself, and Martha and Walter now fear Sam's reason for returning.Martha Ivers is one of the better-played psychos of 20th century film. Her self-loathing and conniving self-interest are only matched by her more or less complete inconsistency. Martha and her husband Walter are two very unhappy rich people whose lives have been set adrift by history and circumstance. Ironically, Toni and Sam, recognized by society as borderline criminals, though drifters, are mostly well-anchored, grounded and centered. This is only one of many ironies that this film could have explored more powerfully had it been written as well as it was conceived.Jack Patrick's writing essentially tries to do too much within the film's short running time. He does not sacrifice characterization or plot, and the director and editor do a very nice job of creating a fluid pace for the film, but the shifting sands of a couple of the lead characters' personalities can be a little jarring at times.Despite this minor problem, the film is a solidly entertaining and well made noir melodrama with a great cast and an excellent premise. More than many other noir entries, this is a film which is capable of inducing thoughtful consideration, since it is not just a story of manipulation, tragedy and murder. "},{"Title":"Strange as She is You'll Love Martha Ivers","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Strange Love of Martha Ivers (1946); produced by Hal Wallis Productions and distributed by Paramount Pictures; USA Release Date July 24, 1946, run time 116 minutes; directed by Lewis Milestone; written by John Patrick, Robert Rossen and Robert Riskin; costumes by Edith Head; cast - Barbara Stanwyck, Van Heflin, Lizabeth Scott, Kirk Douglas, Judith Anderson, Roman Bohnen, Darryl Hickman, Janis Wilson and Mickey Kuhn.*Spoiler Alert!* One of the many great film-noir movies of the 1940s The Strange Love of Martha Ivers showcases a knockout performance by Barbara Stanwyck and an interesting screen debut for Kirk Douglas. Like so many films of the '40s, the plot focuses on two people who have committed and/or been witness to a horrible crime. Their knowledge is what holds them together, but is ultimately their undoing. This storyline is evident in The Postman Always Rings Twice (1946), Double Indemnity (1944) and Out of the Past (1947). What makes Ivers unique is that it is one of only a handful of film-noir movies to be nominated for an Oscar.The story opens in Iverstown, 1928, Young Sam Masterson (Hickman) and Martha Ivers (Wilson) are planning to run away together. Martha is quickly stopped by the police, but Sam escapes. Martha is the niece of the evil Mrs. Ivers (Anderson), the town matriarch. The police take Martha home, where she, her aunt and Martha's tutor, Mr. O'Neil (Bohnen), exchange harsh words.Martha is sent up to her room where Mr. O'Neil's son Walter (Kuhn) is waiting for her with her cat. Sam sneaks in through a window to tell Martha he's leaving town. But before Sam can go, Martha's cat runs downstairs. Sam goes after the cat, but he's forced to hide when her aunt comes into the stairway. Mrs. Ivers hates cats so she begins to beat the tabby with her cane. Martha rushes towards her, grabs the cane and gives her aunt a blow to the head. Her aunt falls down the stairs and breaks her neck.When Mr. O'Neil hears the commotion he comes running from a room downstairs. Martha tells him that a strange man came in the house and attached her aunt. Walter, who witnessed the murder, lies to his father by verifying Martha's story. Mr. O'Neil suspects what really happened and uses that to his advantage by taking the place of Mrs. Ivers.Eighteen years later Sam (Heflin) gets in a car wreck just outside Iverstown and is forced to remain in town for a few days. Much to his surprise, he learns Martha and Walter are married and the two of them own most of the town. His first night in town, Sam meets Toni, a down-and-out recent parolee (played by the vastly under-rated Scott). Sam is content to romance Toni while he waits for his car to be fixed, but Martha and Walter have other plans.Walter and Martha are convinced that Sam, who's a professional gambler with a long police record, has blown into town to blackmail them for the murder of Mrs. Ivers. Contrary to their beliefs, Sam never witnessed of had knowledge of the crime. What follows is a cat-and-mouse game of intrigue and murder. The ending is bittersweet, which is usual for this type of story, but the writers added an interesting twist not seen before, or since.Watching Douglas you'd never guess this was his first film. His depiction of Walter gives strength to an overall weak character. This character is unlike Douglas' later tough guy roles, but he pulls it off beautifully. Originally he was slated to play the part of Sam, but when Van Heflin returned from WWII, Douglas was told he could play Walter instead. To add insult to injury, the studio insisted that Douglas do a screen test against four other actors for the part. The actors, who all had stage experience but had not yet made films were John Lund, Montgomery Clift, Richard Widmark and Wendell Cory.Stanwyck is fascinating as Martha, an unconscionable femme fatale. Many film historians have compared this role to her portrayal of Phyllis in Double Indemnity, but Stanwyck's exploration of Martha goes much deeper than that of Phyllis. Martha displays resentment about the marital trap in which she has found herself, but she also seems as though she wants the love that Walter offers her.Seeking love and understanding, she throws herself at Sam, but when he rejects her, she attempts to kill him. Martha is still the young girl who thinks that any problem can be solved with murder. "}{"Title":"Wreaking with atmosphere and fine acting","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This movie isn't long so much as it is slow. But it's not flat-footed slow because the viewer is pulled along by the unfolding of events and characters. The movie pays off, especially at the end, so stick with it.Perhaps modern movies are too fast. It's nice to watch a slow movie for a change, after so many hyper-paced movies. Like many old noir movies, there is lots of atmosphere, a sense of place and time, that is more interesting today, as that era fades from memory. The slow pace gives you time to savor it, and to observe the interactions. Gradually, we get a sense of the true character of the leads as they are tested by circumstance. The results are not entirely predictable, right up to the end. The plot is fairly intricate, and integral with the characters, something we don't see enough of these days. While I wouldn't say there are any holes in the plot, there are one or two premises that seem a bit off, the biggest that the DA would be allowed to try a case he was a witness to. But perhaps rules were looser back then.Speaking of the DA, this is Kirk Douglas' first film role, and he knocks it out of the park. Every performance is impeccable, including the secondary actors, Lizabeth Scott and Darryl Hickman. One of the characteristics of noir films is moral ambiguity. Here, it is difficult to figure out who the good guys and bad guys are, at least until the end. Their true characters unfold slowly.This is a director's movie much of the credit should go to director Lewis Milestone for making everything just right. This is also a film connoisseur's movie, an undiscovered gem for someone who has seen everything. Why it is so unknown is a puzzle. Perhaps it was the timing, just after the end of WWII, and being an especially dark noir, unlike, say, The Maltese Falcon, which was leavened by a surprising amount of wry humor. But I think the biggest reason is that it simply isn't a movie most people will want to watch several times partly because it is too dark, and also because it is so dependent on the ending. The classic noir films can be savored many times over the years.Nevertheless, I highly recommend film lovers see The Strange Love of Marth Ivers at least once. "},{"Title":"You were looking for trouble, but it was a good kind of trouble.","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Let me start with a bit of trivia - as I write this, Kirk Douglas and Lizabeth Scott are both still alive and into their Nineties. I'd say that was pretty good staying power.This one surprised me, like a lot of public domain films often do. Barbara Stanwyck heads the cast of what turns out to be a colorful group of dysfunctional characters. It's only when the picture's over and you begin to analyze some of the plot elements that the story turns out to be somewhat contrived, but it's pretty riveting during it's run time. The early scene when the young Martha Ivers (Janis Wilson) conks her aunt (Judith Anderson) on the head with a cane looked rather unrealistic. It looked like she held back for fear of actually hurting Miss Anderson and the bump looked like one a pro wrestler would throw.The other thing that bothered me was that whole business about convicting and executing an innocent man of the Aunt's murder. Why? If the original story of a huge intruder in the mansion in the dark of night was sufficient for the authorities, why manufacture this result? Unless it was for the express purpose of demonstrating what a couple of sordid louts Martha (Stanwyck) and her husband (Kirk Douglas) were. In that case it worked.Van Heflin was pretty good here. His characters often manage to rub me the wrong way, but he was solid here, often misdirecting the viewer with his true intentions once the plot begins to thicken. I've only seen Lizabeth Scott in one other film, portraying a similar character named Dusty Chandler opposite Bogart in Dead Reckoning. The Bogey connection leads me to think of her as a Bacall-like stand in who demonstrates a certain ambiguity in both films. Part of that comes from her appearance, it's tough to decide whether she's a looker or not. Most of the time I'd say she is. "},{"Title":"Madam Strangelove","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Odd title to this movie. There's never any love in the Martha Ivers' circle. She never got enough chance in early life to become acquainted with the real article. Her dye is already cast by the time the old boyhood friend shows up again. You only get to actual love with Sam and Toni, or especially Sam for Toni. He's a sensitive and caring fellow. Martha needed his influence for that reason. Maybe he could have helped her be human had he been able to stay around early on.I had trouble focusing on the unfoldings at the beginning due to recognition of the aunt, Judith Anderson. Why, that's Mrs. Danvers from Rebecca. Same creepy type of woman.**Possible spoiler paragraph** It is interesting to watch this again with what you learn from the first viewing. About Sam, that is, and what he doesn't know. You watch it the first time with everyone thinking that Sam is back to cash in on what he knows about the aunt's demise. You know better than that, that the return is accidental and the revisit spontaneous. But you have no reason not to think he saw what happened on the stairs. Then, he seems pretty indifferent to the event as he reacquaints. You think, well, he doesn't care. But then we learn that he left the house before it happened. Now, watch it again with that in mind.Everyone notices Kirk Douglas. He's so attractive you wish for him to be a more virile character. Didn't have to wait very long for that to come about. There were a couple more weak guy roles, and then he took off with mastery. And, a case could be made for it requiring ability to play a weak person as well as a stronger one.Van Heflin - Something very attractive about him. He was almost always a guy with inner stability, aiding the balance of those around him, usually women. To me, that inner quality WAS his attractiveness. He's the one that could always walk into a mess and immediately start sorting it out. Lizabeth Scott had a certain strong allure that seemed could have gone best with a stronger character. I don't have much patience with the pathetic drama she dishes out here. Those weepy, tragic type dames showed up a lot in the streetwise pictures of the era, and I always found them irritating. Usually, they have some guy like Heflin trying to bolster them up because some bully type is grinding them down. If you ask me, that type is asking to be ground. Good grief; give it a rest, sister, I say to the screen. Oh well, nowadays we can fast forward.Barbara Stanwyck is at the height of her beauty here or maybe one of her more glamorous roles. She seemed slated to be an evil woman or remembered most for those roles. In contrast, I recall her in an early picture called The Mad Miss Manton, in which she is an airhead bounding around all over the place. That was really enjoyable, but it was a type that she would naturally move away from to go on to other things. But she was really fun to watch in that.If you don't mind walking on the dark side a bit, this is an interesting one to watch. "},{"Title":"It's what the law says isn't it Walter?","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The Strange Love of Martha Ivers is directed by Lewis Milestone and stars Barbara Stanwyck, Van Heflin, Lizabeth Scott and Kirk Douglas in his film debut. Robert Rossen and Robert Riskin adapt from the short story Love Lies Bleeding by playwright John Patrick (using the pseudonym Jack Patrick). It's produced by Hal B. Wallis, the film is scored by Miklos Rozsa, photographed by Victor Milner, the art design is by Hans Dreier and the costumes come courtesy of multi Oscar winner Edith Head.Quite a cast, and quite a line up in the back room too, the credits also feature Robert Aldrich & Blake Edwards, taking to four the number of future directors involved in the film. The Strange Love of Martha Ivers is a dark, often perverse melodramatic film noir picture. Heavily reliant on dialogue and unappealing characters, the film revels in the cruel streak that pulses right through the running time.Stanwyck (on wickedly chilling form) plays Martha Ivers, the center piece of an explosive trio that also comprises the two men who possibly saw her club her wealthy aunt to death when they were children. After watching another man hang for the murder, Martha inherited the family fortune and has grown into a tycoon type and now holds control over Iverstown. Married to one of the witnesses (Douglas playing weak willed Walter O'Neil), she finds her world knocked out of line when Sam (Heflin superb), the other potential child witness, resurfaces. Now the guilt ridden waters have been stirred...It's a gripping pot boiler that is tightly directed by Milestone, all the more better for the director choosing to craft the noir elements around the smouldering romantic plot lines. The setting is also classic noir, Iverstown is an on the surface all American peaceful town in nowhereville, but bubbling under the smiley surface is dark political deeds and even darker secrets. Rozsa scores it perfectly, at times jaunty to give the sense of all is well in this Americana, then quick tonal shifts grab the ears as the shadows form around the dislikable characters. Supporting actress Lizabeth Scott is appealing in one of her better roles, while Judith Anderson makes a massive impact in her short stint as the wicked Aunt.Perhaps a touch too long at just under two hours? This none the less is a highly recommended picture for both its story and the technical nous provided by those that made it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great 5 star entertainment","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Had me hooked right from the opening credits, a great little thriller that never lets you go. Barbara Stanwyck excells as the wealthy,cruel and dominating woman who has a strangle hold on a small town.In an early role for Kirk Douglas who plays the cowardly D.A husband of Stanwyck(a real departure from the tough roles he would play later in his career) Douglas thinks that Stanwyck`s old lover( a solid role for Van Helfin)has returned for only one reason.....blackmail.   The film builds up to a fine state of suspense with all the main characters unaware of the hold that they have over each other. One film that I can come back too again and again.....enjoy!    "},{"Title":"Excellent film has Stanwyck on at full blast","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Stanwyck blows away the rest of the cast in this fine film noir of manners. The photography is remarkable and the music is excellent.  The rest of the cast can't rise up to Stanwyck's heights, but they sure try, and for the most part they also provide memorable moments.  Douglas is remarkable as a whipping boy for Stanwyck's acid wit -- he should have stayed in this territory instead of becoming a star Spencer Tracy wannabe. "},{"Title":"No classic, but fairly good.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  An adequate and thoroughly watchable film noir which doesn't quite rank with the great films of its genre (like The Big Sleep), perhaps because the pacing is kind of slow and the storytelling is somewhat drawn out. It does set up some intriguingly complex situations, however, and it's well-acted by all the leads, with Lizabeth Scott especially appealing (in an Ingrid Bergman sort of way) as the good, vulnerable girl and Kirk Douglas impressive in his film debut.   (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Classic noir with Stanwyck and Heflin","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  The Strange Love of Martha Ivers must rank as one of the all-time great film noirs. In the manner of Double Indemnity, Robert Rossen's screenplay is thick with psychological shadows and razor-sharp character development. The casting is inspired, with newcomers Kirk Douglas and Lisabeth Scott delivering solid performances opposite veterans Barbara Stanwyck and Van Heflin (who are both terrific). An unusual film, to say the least, but one that wraps the viewer in suspense and never lets go. This classic from producer Hal Wallis and director Lewis Milestone warrents repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Strange love of Martha Ivers must be one of my all-time favorite movies ever - one of those truly classics that I return to from time to time and watch in awe, always finding new details and enjoying it immensely. It has everything - b&w beautiful picture with lots of shadows, thunders, lighting, immoral characters, beautiful houses, shabby hotels, detectives, criminals, delightful slang expressions of the time, excellent actors and brilliant script. I could live in this movie. After a long absence, Van Heflin stumbles by accident in his hometown (driving drunken sailor who is uncredited future director Blake Edwards!) where his unexpected return raises alarming suspicion of local big fish (Kirk Douglas in his first movie role!) now married to Heflin's old flame. Kirk Douglas and Barbara Stanwyck live in marriage from hell, one of those strange, sadistic relationships made only for the sake of appearance and their scenes are frightening and fascinating to watch - Stanwyck is cold as ice towards her intellectually inferior husband but he is snake as well. Stanwyck composure falls apart when she sees Van Heflin who is simply amused, while Douglas watches from a side, knowing her too well and understanding she is slipping from his grasp. I won't go into details about the story - it must be seen to enjoy properly - but trough the movie we actually feel a little bit of sympathy for Stanwyck who was caged in this prison of marriage hoping to escape somehow one day.Her role is negative in moral sense and still Stanwyck manages to appear human under that cold posture.Acting is excellent - Kirk Douglas is weak alcoholic bowing in presence of strong wife but cruel otherwise, Stanwyck tough as nails and scared little girl in presence of love of her life, Van Heflin our good-guy-with-a-past who hides a good heart under tough exterior (and he can fight too, not afraid of any policemen or detectives sent to scare him away) and there is a excellent supporting role for Lizabeth Scott who is here as his love interest, balance for cruel Martha Ivers. However, this is film noir so even Lizabeth Scott is not exactly goodie goddie, she also has dark past and her own secrets however Van Heflin is ready to overlook this and take her under his wing the way she is, bruised butterfly and all. For years I have been fascinated with Scott's acting and role in this movie and although she is only a supporting role here, I always loved her. In fact, sometimes I watch the movie because of her - I admit its impossible to overshadow Barbara Stanwyck but Scott is darn close. Great movie, truly a classic. "},{"Title":"Lies and deception, fear and loathing","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The story opens in 1928, as rebellious teen Martha Ivers is trying to run away from her mean and powerful aunt. Helping Martha is her pal from across the tracks, Sam. They never do escape that night, but something far more dramatic happens involving Martha, her aunt, and a kitten named Bundles.I really enjoyed this movie, which is an unusual mix of film noir, melodrama, romance, and mystery. Barbara Stanwyck plays grown-up Martha and is perfectly cast as a tough-as-nails and utterly ruthless woman. Her husband is well-played by Kirk Douglas, in his film debut. He's very young but very confident and convincing as an alcoholic loser. The real star of the show is Van Heflin who plays grown-up Sam, a street-wise charmer who can handle himself in a fight. Heflin is handsome, charismatic, and very sympathetic and reminded me of a young William Holden. He is paired with sultry Lizabeth Scott, who was made for film noir tough gal parts.The script is clever and fast-paced and I was on the edge of my seat right up to the very satisfying ending. If you like gritty, character-driven dramas with plenty of twists and turns, you'll like this movie. "}{"Title":"Great and amazingly deep and subtle film...","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Yes, this is a noir melodrama soap opera. And it's a bit over the top (esp Kirk Douglas). However, the psychological underpinnings are deep and all too real and creepy. It's right up there with Chinatown in terms of creepiness. The almost incestuous relationship between Martha and Walter and the irony of the effects of the attempts of the protagonists to alter fate to suit their ends is somewhere between Greek tragedy and Biblical morality play. The film toys with our conventional beliefs. Who are the blackmailers? Who are the dreamers? What is the line between good and evil? What is love? The final climactic scene is brilliant - one of the best ever. Martha and Walter, without a word, communicate to the audience that they both have arrived at the same realization about their hopes and dreams, about life and love. We see both the hopeless despair and grudging acceptance that results from that epiphany. What happens afterwards is both logical and inevitable.From some of the comments, it appears that modern audiences may miss the dark undercurrents that are there and are expressed in a glance or a single phrase. Not in a contrived Sixth sense type of way but in the same way that people in real life don't say everything explicitly but you know what they mean nonetheless...Wonderful movie - I wish I had seen it earlier. It's a real gem. "},{"Title":"Film noir soap-opera","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A very good feature that seems to be a soap-opera with touches of film-noir. Barbara Stanwyck plays the femme fatale not as cold-blooded as her earlier turn in Double Indemnity ,but her Martha Ivers is one really selfish lady. And Stanwyck is as usual very good. For me the best performance comes from the always reliable Van Heflin who magnificently manages to almost carry the whole film. Kirk Douglas, in his debut, is very good as the weakling husband of Stanwyck. Lizabeth Scott who plays the most sympathetic character in the movie is very able and memorable.The movie is at almost two hours perhaps a tad long,but it is well worth investing those two hours. "},{"Title":"The Story Is Too Contrived But Still Worth Watching","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" First, the strong points. The story is excellent. Martha Ivers starts the movie as a young girl (played by Janis Wilson) desperately trying to escape from the cold clutches of her crotchety old (but rich) aunt (Judith Anderson) with the help of young Sam (Darryl Hickman.) In the midst of her escape attempt, Martha murders her aunt. This creates a never ending bond between herself and Sam, but more especially young Walter O'Neil (Mickey Kuhn), who witnessed the murder. Walter's father forces her to marry Walter, who becomes the DA thanks to his unloving wife's patronage. The parts of the adult Martha, Walter and Sam are taken up by, respectively, Barbara Stanwyck, Kirk Douglas and Van Heflin, as Sam unexpectedly re-enters the picture and upsets the myth that Martha and Walter have been living. The performances offered by those three were stunning, and, while the movie gets a bit long-winded at times, you nevertheless stay with it all the way through to a rather shocking ending. However, saying that I'm going to start with the strong points implies the presence of weak points, and there are some. Primarily, a couple of elements of the plot were just too contrived to be believable. First, when Walter enters Iverstown he's clearly shocked, and says he hadn't realized that he was back. He's so shocked, in fact, that he runs his car into a telephone pole, stranding himself in Iverstown while it's being repaired. It seems unlikely at best that he wouldn't realize that he was in the area of the city where he grew up, and far too convenient that he's get himself stuck there. Sam's relationship with Toni (Lizabeth Scott, who also gave an excellent performance) also came across as unbelievable. They basically bump into each other on the street and the next thing you know they're making plans to travel out west together - not to mention becoming hopelessly entwined in the web of lies that exists in Iverstown? So - yes - the hole thing is a little bit artificial, but it's well acted, entertaining and mildly suspenseful. It's certainly worth a 6/10. "},{"Title":"exceptional","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I had few expectations of this movie, only to find that as the story developed I was drawn further and further in. It reminded me of several Ibsen plays (e. g. Ghosts, A Doll's House) shared secrets; high emotional temperature; intense scenes; slow, inexorable series of revelations; sudden telling images (e.g. the hurt Martha causes to Walter as she disinfects his cut hand, the campfire discovered by Martha and Sam in the woods above the town) etc etc.The script is excellent; the acting, especially from Heflin and Stanwyck, terrific; Rosza's highly wrought music (significantly absent from the first long scene between Stanwyck and Kirk Douglas) lifting the whole thing onto an operatic level that really only Almodovar these days is capable of sustaining.All in all, an exceptionally fine example of a noir melodrama. "},{"Title":"Good, but Not first-Rate","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" There's a reason classic noir is generally identified with the B-movie. Low budgets forced production to economize, especially on running time and script, but also with less expensive talent who might be just as good if not better than the celebrity A-list. The result at its consensus best turned out such tight little gems as DOA (1950), Detour (1945), and The Narrow Margin (1952). Here, however, the script is anything but tight, and in the process dissipates a promising noirish premise. The first part is compelling, with fascinating characters and atmospheric set-ups as three friends reunite years after a fateful Gothic night. But then the story sags into a series of over-extended scenes, especially with Heflin and Scott. This results in a general loss of focus as scenes switch around the four principal characters, spreading out the story instead of channeling it into what should be a crushing climax. Then too, the offbeat story needs a bizarre edge, which director Milestone fails to supply, settling instead for a strictly impersonal approach. Big-budget producer Wallis was known as a talent promoter. Here it looks like he was promoting Scott at the expense of Stanwyck whose Martha Ivers should be the movie's central focus, but isn't. However, consider the Production Code dilemma the producers faced. Stanwyck's and Douglas's characters are clearly dysfunctional and corrupt as a couple. Thus, without a Code required counterbalance of some moral sort, there would be no good person to identify with&#x97; so Heflin and Scott enter as the counteracting couple. But in my little book, Heflin alone should have sufficed. His character is essential to the story, but Scott's is not, and it's their romantic sub-plot that needlessly dissipates the central focus.This is not to say the movie lacks merit or that Scott performs poorly. Rather, it's to try to get at a reason why such a promising premise&#x97; an upper-class couple going batty with guilt&#x97;is memorable in parts but not as a whole. In short, more of a B-movie treatment was needed. "},{"Title":"Go ahead and hit me, Sam. I've got it coming","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Lewis Milestone's 'The Strange Love of Martha Ivers (1946)' is filled with Gothic atmosphere, the sort of hushed melodramatic whispers that follow around a household with something to hide &#x96; think 'Rebecca (1940)' or 'Dragonwyck (1946).' But the film never reaches its potential. Despite a running-time of nearly two hours, by the story's end, I felt as though nothing much had really happened, and that a perfectly good build-up had been smothered before reaching its climax and logical conclusion. There's no doubt that Barbara Stanwyck was cast in light of her icy Oscar-nominated performance in 'Double Indemnity (1944),' but here it's uncertain whether her character is a tormented victim or a compassionless fiend. Such ambiguity might have been used to great effect, but here it merely suggests a confused script that can't decide whether to idolise or chastise its top-billed performer. Not to mention that Stanwyck herself doesn't appear until past the film's half- hour mark, the delay promising a colossal personality that eventually materialises only half-heartedly.Stanwyck may be slightly disappointing, but fortunately the men are willing to hold the fort. Kirk Douglas, in his debut, does an excellent job of merging faux-authority and jittery cowardice for his role as Walter O'Neil, Martha's sycophantic District-Attorney husband. But the real surprise of the picture is Van Heflin, the last actor I would have chosen to play a noir tough guy. As roving gambler Sam Masterson, Heflin channels the cocky vigour of Philip Marlowe, constantly stepping into trouble just for the hell of it, if only to flout the authority of those who try to rough him up. Lizabeth Scott is unfortunately weak in an undemanding romantic role. She has a bit of Lauren Bacall about her, which is regrettable because I can imagine Bacall being far better in the role and I mustn't be the only one who saw a resemblance, because Scott was soon paired with Bogart in 'Dead Reckoning (1947)'. In a lengthy opening prologue, the three main characters (as teenagers) are well played by Janis Wilson, Mickey Kuhn and Darryl Hickman (from 'Leave Her to Heaven (1945)').Film noirs typically unfold in the impersonal urban decadence of a large city, but here Martha Ivers' grip on a small town (appropriately named Iverstown) is used to excellent effect. Unlike Hitchcock's 'Shadow of a Doubt (1943),' in which the presence of a serial killer pollutes an idealistic country town from the inside, the audience realises that Iverstown may already be beyond saving. Corruption is built in the town's foundations. A self-serving District Attorney, spurred on by his dominating wife, knowingly sends an innocent man to his death, and uses hired thugs to hide his own crimes. Walter's paranoia regarding the arrival of Sam Masterson is used to good ironic effect, as he later realises that, had it not been for his impatience to get rid of him, Sam would never have uncovered their dirty secret. Martha, displaying that maddening ambiguity again, seems to be halfway between loving and hating Sam, if only because his toughness and charm reminds her of the future she might have enjoyed if she hadn't snatched that cane from the hands of her aunt. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the performances...","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This film is frequently referred to as overlooked and under-rated &#150; perhaps because it's a noir film shackled to a Mills & Boon title &#150; but the storyline isn't really that good (or interesting) and the film is overlong. It drags at times &#150; especially when it is introducing the adult characters to us and each other, and, although the payback for this is perhaps a greater impact during the film's final scenes, it makes the viewing experience a tad restless at times. Despite that, there are some individual scenes that are so incredibly well-written and acted that you almost want to rewind just to watch them again. The real bonus comes with the three leads &#150; forget Lizabeth Scott she looks good, but is way out of her league in the acting stakes &#150; who make the most of some memorable and finely etched characters.The more I see of Barbra Stanwyck, the more I admire her as an actress. She plays the title character here, a wealthy small-town beauty who is constantly striving to control a life that has never been hers; rebelling at first under the stern guardianship of a shrewd spinster aunt, Martha finds herself irrevocably tied to the weak Walter P. O'Neill (Kirk Douglas) after he witnesses her murder the aforementioned aunt for battering a kitten. Martha orders everyone around, and appears to be on top of her life, but there is a raging torrent of frustrated emotions simmering beneath the surface. Walter, now her husband, never visits her room (the bottle is empty) and Sam (Van Heflin), the only man she ever loved skipped town when he was still a kid. Stanwyck can turn from playful kitten to ice maiden in the blink of a steely eye, and we can only imagine what she could have done with some of the roles that went to Crawford and Davis.Van Heflin is perhaps miscast as Sam Masterson, the gambler and war hero, but he manages to hold his own somehow. Heflin was never a major-league star, but he carved a small niche for himself, often turning in brooding performances tinged with darkness. Oddly, that element doesn't really come across here. Sam is cynical but generally upbeat with it. Had Douglas been an established star when this was made (this was his debut) he may have snagged the role of Masterson &#150; and Heflin may have fitted in well in the role of O'Neill, had his weathered features not precluded the possibility.Douglas impresses in a role that can now be seen as playing against type. Walter is a drunk and a weakling, dragged into a position of power by a grasping father and an ambitious wife with whom he is hopelessly besotted, even though he knows she doesn't love him. Tall, athletic, with that beaming grin and dimpled chin, O'Neill is the American dream turned nightmare, a tremulous wreck of a man bolstered only by booze and his hopeless need for Martha. Douglas pulls you in with his moments of fragility before pushing you away again when the grinning mask falls back into place. His performance must have really caused a buzz back in 1946.The role of fate and destiny hang heavily over the whole proceedings, so that the impression of these three characters being inextricably bound together by the past, and inescapably destined to play out their final, fatal scene in the future no matter how they try to avoid it, is almost tangible. "},{"Title":"First Rate","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Most categorize this as a film noir, and it does have some of those elements, but I think it's more a melodrama - a great one. It's also one of those movies that I'd love to see remade simply so more could see this fascinating story.(Unlike most, I love remakes of very old and terrific movies that too few know - so I sat there thinking of who would play these characters today - that's how good this is - certainly I could see Alec Baldwin or Michael Douglas in the Van Heflin role, Kim Basinger or Glenn Close in the Barbara Stanwyck role, perhaps Edward Hermann in the Kirk Douglas role and Kirsten Dunst in the Lizabeth Scott role).Stanwyck's fire erupts again and again - the woman seethes and it feels very VERY real. Scott's voice is fascinating, Heflin has a wonderful easy confidence and the amazing character is Kirk Douglas - totally against type.This is truly a great story -- a very realistic story and a compelling one for any viewer. . "},{"Title":"Story of an ambitious woman","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  The director Milestone showed his class in this film, the same can be said about Van Heflin and Barbara Stanwyck. Perhaps this is the best acting of Van Heflin in his life. The film has also the participation of Kirk Douglas who was then debuting and the attractive Lizabeth Scott. It is a very interesting plot, where one can see the ambitions of a lady (Stanwyck)from here childhood, the ambitions of others around her because she is rich, to the extent that the grandmother of the lady is killed by herself and everybody hide whatever happened to enrich themselves. There is a golf boy (Van Heflin)(the real love of the lady), who although poor, showed to have always much better ethics. The children became adults and the real history how the grandmother was killed is then known . If anyone is interested to see good Hollywood classic films, my advice is to include this one in the first line.                "},{"Title":"Noir with a solid background","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  The plot of this movie moves at a slower pace than most film noir, devoting more time to character development and background than expected. This is only for the good. The childhood scene that opens the movie at first seemed unnecessary but serves to anchor the characters, making them people you can care about. For once the femme fatale seems realistic, she has motives and emotions besides the obvious. The ending scene is made far more powerful by the build-up in the rest of the film. Overall a surprisingly tsrong and engaging movie.  "}{"Title":"A Drama Of Love And Murder","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Barbara Stanwyck, Van Heflin and Kirk Douglas combine to make an interesting trio involving murder and love. All three appear as young children that lead lives very different and yet interconnected. Martha Ivers is a rebel against her rich aunt. Sam Masterson is a boy that wants to run away from an alcoholic father and Walter O'Neil is a boy controlled by his father and leaded towards Harvard. The old aunt is murdered by her niece with Walter as a witness. Now the O'Neils have leverage for the money to fame and fortune. The scene is now 17 or 18 years later as Sam Masterson is stranded for a night in Iverstown. Walter has married Martha and is a politician. Martha has multiplied the fortune of her long dead aunt. Sam is just a drifter. Their lives cross and more murder is involved. Poor Walter knows that Martha loves Sam. Douglas as a wimp is an unique character for him. The plot takes a twist at the end. A little slow at times but worth the time. "},{"Title":"OK film noir, but not as good as Stanwyck's Double Indemnity","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Barbara Stanwyck appeared in a few film noirs during the 40s, memorably Double Indemnity (1944) & Sorry Wrong Number, (1948) receiving Oscar nominations for both.  This one was made in between in 1946.  It starts out rather poorly & silly, but the mood and atmosphere builds upon the story, and the stars work well together with fairly good material.  The most interesting parts of this is first, the midwest setting of Iverstown where it all takes place, and secondly the characters, especially those who are depicted as children in the beginning. Overall deserves 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film Noir","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This movie is no short of perfect. It tells a story of the lives of three childhood friends after a traumatic event. This story does a great job staying away of clichés which keeps it interesting. Every character is written and portrayed with so much depth and detail you can distinguish by the way they phrase each sentence. The music tells the movie itself. The constantly running, beautiful score makes it frustrating that they hardly use scores as such today. Like many film noirs, it has great use of symbolism. This movie parallels very well the story of Lot's Wife. After it leaves themes to be pondered as any good movie should. "},{"Title":"exquisite","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" 'The Strange Love of Martha Ivers', a work of genuine art, and a masterpiece at that, lifts your mind into the ineffable; it's intriguing in a way only masterpieces are, and you might appreciate the smoothness and gusto of Milestone's filmmaking. It begins as a Gothic tale, with a dark old house (and assured teenage sexuality, a domineering girl and her submissive, meek sidekick, decadent patricians and ascending plebeians, hence it promises a story about submission), and it goes on with a sulfurous, _unendearing plot and bleak characters (but beyond that it's reasonably realistic in its set of characters), with certainly glamorous performances from the three main characters; unlike them, the every-men, the townspeople, the bit parts are made in a realistic tone (the policemen, a bartender who cheers Masterson's revenge). One gets the sense it was meant as a cool movie, which 'Love &#x85;' surely achieves. Authors like Milestone and Miklos Rozsa promise a spectacular show; so, a masterpiece with a sense of cool.The dialogs are exquisite, every line, some lines are very adult-themed (from the size of the west land, to becoming a woman officially, 'coming through that window'). Each thing you feel is checked by the script the unburdened Martha seems indeed less sexy than her teenage ego, and she seduces Sam Masterson by appealing to his pity and commiseration. As an adult woman, she seems dry and drained, and the script checks that. Unlike many other noir movies of the age, 'The Strange Love &#x85;' is very crafty, with a set of disconcerting and believable characters, with smoothness as opposed to roughness and fierceness. There are forces at work within each of them, but they are earthly, innate, mundane forces, not a fatality which sweeps them; and when they crush, they crush from the inside, deteriorated, broken, dissolved by their own inner doom.With these movies, some enjoy the template, are eager after the template, while others enjoy the craft, the exquisiteness, the unmistakable uniqueness of the work, the ineffable that renders the template irrelevant. "},{"Title":"No Matter How Strange, It's Worth The Time","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I never fully understood why this film only played at odd intervals, then found out it had fallen into the Public Domain. It's difficult to understand how a major American production company can let a major motion picture of its day lapse without renewing the rights! This seems to be the reason the ABC (Aust) are still running a copy struck from an old TV film print, and not a pristine remastered version.While at times the melodramatic aspects may seem a tad overwrought, this is compelling 40's viewing indeed. The story moves along at a good pace and offers a bevy of fascinating characters and situations. As with any works featuring the writings of award winner Robert Rossen, it has believable dialogue and here, it's delivered by convincing characters. If anything, the minor lapses are most likely due to fiddling or additions to the original draft. Rossen who preferred to work alone is well known for many superlative adaptations ie; 'The Sea Wolf' 41 ~ 'They won't Forget' 37 ~ 'All the Kings Men' 49 and 'The Hustler' in 61. It's said he was considerably upset by conflicts with Warren Beatty during the making of his last film 'Lilith' in 64. He died two years later at only 57yrs, survived by his lifetime wife and their children. As with other creative writers of this era, his career was heavily damaged during the paranoid days of the House of Un-American Activities. Being of Russian Jewish parentage he was always looking for an opportunity to stand up for the oppressed. Many of his political statements were excised from several of his scripts by film company exec's prior to release. In this film's case the uncredited script additions were by Robert Riskin; himself an award winning writer known for 'Mr Deeds Goes to Town' 36 and 'Meet John Doe' in 41, but it's rare that a screenwriter can alter another's work and keep the mood perfectly. The original story 'Love Lies Bleeding' by John Patrick was nominated for an Oscar - he later followed up with 'The Hasty Heart' 49 and 'Gigot' in 62The cast work perfectly together right down to the support players. The great Van Heflin as the kid from the wrong side of the tracks returning home having made good, but from questionable means, turns in another strong performance. As does Barbara Stanwyck; playing the rich kid with everything but love, with Kirk Douglas as the son of a scheming father who benefits financially because he shares a dark secret from Stanwycks' past. It was Lauren Bacall who recommended fellow drama school colleague Issur Danielovitch Demsky (now Kirk Douglas) to producer Wallis that resulted in his selection for the second male lead...in his first major screen role he makes a terrific impression.Prolific Ukraine born Director Lewis Milestone of 'All Quite on the Western Front' 30 and 'Of Mice and Men' 39 fame, was also nominated when 'Martha Ivers' was first screened at Cannes film festival. Award winning Director of Photography Victor Milner also known for 'Broken Lullaby' 32 and the epic 'Cleopatra' 35, leaves us with dazzling, moody, B/W images. Perhaps another minor gripe for me, the make up dept could have done more with Heflin's appearance, in the days that followed a roughing up by several of Douglas' paid henchmen. But how often we still see this sort of thing in many productions to this day. Miklos Rozsas' all too familiar big score, adds some excitement but is perhaps a bit over the top, still, followers of his work will be kept happy. Unfortunately Producer Hal B. Wallis was grooming new-comer Lizabeth Scott for stardom and had Edith Head design several provocative and obviously over glossy wardrobe items that were at odds with her character's standing. Barbara Stanwyck also gets to 'dress up to the hilt' but at least it suits her situation. Watch for future producer Blake Edwards as the sleepy Sailor hitching a ride in Heflin's car. The Image posted for this classic on IMDb's title page, shows the cover of a Paramount DVD, perhaps they finally found a good negative and gave it a well deserved polish for a re-release...? If you enjoy well made 40's drama, then this comes with a high recommendation for solid entertainment. KenR. "},{"Title":"Superior melodrama even if it perhaps runs too long and needed a touch more drama to go with the melo","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" By chance a man is passing through the town where he grew up, when he has a minor car accident and finds himself stuck in town for a few days. Hooking up with a young woman who also seems to be in transit, Sam finds that two old friends have done very well for themselves in the town; weedy, nervous child Walter is not only running for political office but is now married to the wealthiest woman in town, Martha Ivers &#x96; who, when Sam knew her, was just a rebellious girl trying to escape your rich, but controlling aunt.I came to this film under the idea of watching a noir, which this film is generally considered to be in the way that so many films of the period are classified. This is more of a melodrama but it is one that is surprisingly tough at times. Opening with an oppressive woman beating a kitten to death is not only an arresting way to start, but also quite shocking. This event triggers others, before the film jumps several decades into the future. The film takes a big risk setting up the narrative from this point on a massive coincidence (that person, in that place, at that time), but mostly it works because the story is pretty good. It has a tough edge and I liked the couple of twists and turns it took, although I do think it took too long doing it &#x96; well, maybe not long perhaps, but certainly overly wordy and not enough really tough scenes to keep the drama at a consistent level. It does still work though, but with more melodrama than I would have liked.The cast help it a lot; in particular Heflin. He is a strong presence with his fast delivery and variable character, and he is the reason that I went with his character being in the right place at the right time etc. He works well with Stanwyck, who is good even if I thought she could have pushed her character harder. Douglas is good even if I struggled to see beyond his later star and connect to the character he played here. Scott maybe has one of the smaller roles but is still good and I liked that she held her own in many scenes. The film has a good look, although the music is a bit too much of the period, so to my ear it sounds like many other scores.It may well be a melodrama rather than the film noir I expect due to IMDb classifying it as such, but it is still a superior melodrama. A bit talky at times, and with issues in the plot, but it has good sequences scattered throughout and the cast play it all well. "},{"Title":"No dark secret goes unpunished.","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The young Martha Smith is the product of a marriage between people of different classes, and now that both parents are presumably dead, she is being raised by her authoritarian aunt, Mrs. Ivers (Judith Anderson) whom she despises. Constantly running away, she prefers the company of the boy from the opposite side of the tracks rather than the studious boy whose father is trying to get into Harvard. One rainy night, young Martha, whose aunt has had her name legally changed to Ivers, is caught, and after an argument with her aunt, kills her in a moment of fury. Years go by, and like her aunt, Martha now runs the town, having brightened it up, expanded her aunt's factory, and has married the shy studious boy. They are both afraid that Sam, the boy from the wrong side of the tracks, witnessed the murder, and will return to expose the past. What makes it worse is that an innocent man, guilty of robbery, was hanged for the murder, and Martha identified him while Walter, as D.A., prosecuted him.This is the set-up for one of the great film noirs, a wonderful follow- up for Barbara Stanwyck who had played deadly and devious just two years before in Double Indemnity. Here, she's grown from the rebellious kid (played by Janis Wilson in a severely overacted manner) into the seemingly calm and cool matriarch of a town she initially despised. Walter (Kirk Douglas) is the drunken D.A., still living in the shadow of his late father who pushed him into law and into marrying Martha whom he knows can't stand him. But as pathetic as Walter is, he's desperately in love with Martha and refuses to give her up to the newly returned Sam (Van Heflin) without a fight, utilizing his power into having him beaten up when he realizes Martha loves Sam, not him.Also in the picture here is a tired parolee (Lizabeth Scott) whom Heflin meets by chance, and the key to Douglas's determination to get Heflin out of Iverstown. Scott represents the poor, troubled girl who wants desperately to stay as far away from her past as she can, while Stanwyck represents the tough grown-up version of a girl with equally troubled past who has taken what was left to her and utilized it to her advantage. There's a battle of cats in the one sequence which Scott and Stanwyck share, which may be verbal, and it is anybody's guess as to who would be left standing if it became physical.The acting in this superb film noir is excellent all around, with Stanwyck exploding in fury when she realizes the truth of about what Heflin remembers, yet falling into his arms out of her own desperation to escape a horrific marriage with a man so drunk that any marital relations would seem impossible. In the case of Kirk Douglas, here in his film debut, he plays this weak character with surprising cunning so terrifically, you can't believe that it's the future Spartacus tossing back booze as if it were iced tea. Heflin, taking his character from the youth played by Darryl Hickman, to the man he plays, shows that a character from a tough background can better himself and still come off with morals which the childhood chums he left behind became as ruthless and amoral as the situation which took them there. Lewis Milestone directs the tension filmed drama with fury, and the outstanding photography and musical score are certainly worthy of praise.Judith Anderson is extremely commanding in her tiny role as Mrs. Ivers, and it is ironic to see her here being the victim of the character who grows up to be Barbara Stanwyck. Just a few years later, Anderson and Stanwyck would finally share celluloid and a moment of film history that involved the most memorable scissors in film history in that western film noir masterpiece The Furies. Roman Bohnen, as the social climber and Walter's father, is so obvious to the viewer with his desire to use Anderson as much as he can, and you can just see the wheels turning in his eyes when he discovers the woman he's just been playing cards with dead at the foot of the stairs. Film noir is a representative to the mid 1940's of the dark mood taking over the world, and The Strange Loves of Martha Ivers is also a terrific representative of the new world of women who had been forced to take their own places in business when their men went off to fight World War II. "},{"Title":"Intriiguing with a bit of a surprise ending","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" First off you have the 3 children -- Janis Wilson as the young Martha Ivers, Darryl Hickman as the young Sam Masterson, and Mickey Kuhn as the young Walter O'Neil. Of the three, only Janis Wilson is unconvincing. But, interestingly, Wilson did bear a resemblance to Barbara Stanwyck (the adult Martha), and Kuhn bore a resemblance to Kirk Douglas (the adult O'Neil); I could see no resemblance between Hickman and Van Heflin.I'm a bit of a fan of Barbara Stanwyck, and here she doesn't disappoint (of course, she rarely disappointed). She plays the highly flawed grown up rich woman who had been abused as a child. Kirk Douglas, playing the drunkard husband who is the D.A. is darned good here, particularly considering this was his first film. The surprise for me was Van Heflin. I've never been a fan, and usually disliked him in films. Here, he is very good as a drifter. Although her part is small, it's fun watching Judith Anderson (long before she became a Dame) be the stern domineering aunt; a gem of a part. It's interesting, also, watching Lizabeth Scott. I've long enjoyed her slightly off-kilter performances in a number of films (even including Martin & Lewis' Scared Stiff). This was only her second film, and I'm a little undecided about her performance here...although it works.The script is intriguing. The young Martha is mistreated badly by her rich aunt, and although unintentionally, she kills her on the stairs one night after being caught running away. Three others conspire to cover up the crime. One, the scruffy boy that was helping her run away. Another a prissy boy whose father is her private tutor. And that father/tutor who is being overly-ingratiating to the elder Ivers for the hope of her paying for his son to go to an Ivy League college. And then, suddenly, the 3 children are adults, and the scruffy boy...now an adult gambler...comes back to town with no ill intention, but Martha and her husband -- the once prissy boy and now D.A. -- assume he is there to blackmail. It's quite dramatic, with each major character uncertain of the motives of the others. I do think they made a mistake when Heflin's character does attempt blackmail, sullying his other qualities. But, the conclusion is a bit of a stunner.Quite intriguing. "},{"Title":"A Dark, Tragic Melodrama","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This movie which was based on John Patrick's story Love Lies Bleeding, is a tragic tale of murder, blackmail and corruption that features a couple of characters whose lives are blighted by guilty secrets about their shared past. Their unrelenting fear about the possibility of the truth being revealed drives them into a miserable marriage and a range of other heinous acts that they consider necessary to protect their wealth, power and freedom.Martha (Barbara Stanwyck) is a ruthless and successful businesswoman who lives and works in a small industrial town in the Midwest. She's married to the local district attorney, Walter O'Neil (Kirk Douglas) and they're profoundly unhappy as a result of an event that took place in their childhood. Walter's also an extremely troubled individual who's tormented by guilt and shame and whose circumstances have turned him into a severely depressed alcoholic.As a young girl, Martha had attempted to escape from her cruel guardian but she and her accomplice, the streetwise Sam Masterson (Van Heflin), had been caught by the police and Martha had then been returned home to the rich industrialist, Mrs Ivers (Judith Anderson) who'd raised her since she became an orphan at a very young age.Sam, who'd made a successful getaway from the police, later returned to the Ivers mansion with the intention of continuing to help Martha to escape and there met the young Walter who was the son of Martha's private tutor. The planned escape never took place, however, because of an incident which took place on the staircase that led to Martha unintentionally killing her stepmother. When Walter's father came to check what had happened, Sam had disappeared and Martha made up a story about a mystery intruder who'd broken into the property and murdered Mrs Ivers.Purely by accident, 18 years after Mrs Ivers' violent death, Sam returns to his home town and is immediately attracted to Toni Marachek (Lizabeth Scott) a young woman who's only recently been released from prison. After the local police accuse her of violating the terms of her parole, Sam tries to use his influence with Walter to get her released. The highly suspicious Walter immediately assumes that Sam's real motive for being in town is to blackmail him and Martha and the series of events that follow build up to the story's shocking conclusion.The Strange Love Of Martha Ivers is a sharply written and well directed movie with memorable characters and some great performances. Kirk Douglas (in his film debut) and Barbara Stanwyck are terrific in their roles and Van Heflin exerts considerable charm as the easy going war hero who's also a gambler and a drifter. Lizabeth Scott also provides great support as the most sympathetic character of the piece. "},{"Title":"Darker than night","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A movie in which the darkness of the plot matches the overall darkness of the scenes. A definite must see in that this is apparently Kirk Douglas's film debut, and, thus, in spite of the fact that he went on to make a lot of movies, his character in this one, as an alcoholic DA, is a Kirk free of typecasts in a fantastically doomed part in which he is teamed with the highly experienced Barbara Stanwyck in one of her darkest parts. She seemed to be getting ready in this film for the ruthless part she would play in Double Indemnity. It's almost too bad that Van Heflin shows up, but being that he does so in an accidental way is a demonstration of how fate works its way through the story. "}{"Title":"Strange love of Martha","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Simply, just a brilliant and unjustly forgotten classic. I am deducting one star for poor wooden Lizabeth Scott although she has her passionate fans (maybe you get lucky and turn out to be one of them, I didn't). And another for the at times clumsy editing/pace.This is maybe Barbara Stanwyck's best performance - and that is saying a lot as objectively speaking, her scenes aren't always the best staged or written. But she's got this complex woman by the scruff of the neck and she makes her both chilling and heart-wrenching. When she bursts into tears mid-attack at her childhood sweetheart Sam, it feels completely believable that this woman - like his other love interest, Scott - just needs a break......except she is a rich heiress who could have had as many breaks as she wanted, if she could just see them.I also belong to those who think Kirk D's drunk husband is brilliant and regrets that he would go on to do one note macho tripe for the rest of his life (and yes I include Spartacus in that). Strong looking weakling, a paranoid DA with quick mind for underhand methods seems the perfect role for him.Ps. despite its oddness the title is PERFECT - its not only Martha Ivers whose love is a bit warped but her husband's too, as well as the easy going Sam Masterson (Heflin) who can't but fall for who ever seems the most trapped, vulnerable woman around.As someone already pointed - the closest connection to modern films is Almodovar. I bet this films in his DVD shelf.... "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem of Noire","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A beautiful odd little gem of the genre. The plot is true Noire a single criminal act and their inner demons of greed (for power, for wealth, for an unrequited love) bind the central characters together for their whole lives (even if one of them is unaware of it for years!); society is corrupt and corrupting and only those living on the edges retain any of their humanity; coincidence piles up upon coincidence leading inevitably to the tragic end. The climactic scene is great masks come off, there's a searing betrayal about every two minutes or so, and you're left in suspense right up until the last moment as to who's going to live and who's going to die. The end result is both surprising and, in retrospect, tragically inevitableI say odd little gem for two reasons. One is that it's a fairly big budget film; at least in comparison to a lot of the other Noire films which were mostly from Poverty Row studios. As such the production values are at the same both time too high as far as stage settings go, and yet too unimaginative and factory-like, in that you won't see any of the innovative camera work that Noire is famous for. So it doesn't really seem like Noire. The other is that it's sort of hard to place as to sub-genre sort of a cross between the Hand of Fate category, epitomized by the film Detour and the Femme Fatale category.The Femme Fatale, of course, is Barbara Stanwyck. She is one sick puppy here! If you thought she was scary in Double Indemnity you ain't seen nothing yet! A fantastic performance in a part made to order for her. I haven't seen any Van Helfin before but am impressed by how he engages your sympathies from the beginning here. And what a debut for Kirk Douglas! His character is so bemused by the burning down of his whole life that he steals almost every scene that he's in no mean feat with Stanwyck on the set. Sadly, although I am a big Scott fan, there's nothing much for her here. The character is a one-note, small town waif and the dialogue that she's given is wooden and woodenly delivered. Still, it's only her second film and her best performances are still in the future. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas' very convincing debut","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In 1928 Martha Ivers is a young heiress in Iverstown living with her domineering aunt.She wants to run off with her friend, Sam Masterson.It all ends to a killing of her aunt, with her tutor's son, Walter O'Neil being the only witness.She tells a strange man killed her aunt, and somebody gets executed.In 1946 Martha is married to Walter, who has turned into an alcoholic.Sam Masterson ends up in his old hometown after the road curves, and he doesn't.There he meets his old acquaintances.He also meets a beautiful young woman called Antonia Marachek in front of the house where he used to live.He falls in love with this woman who has problems with the law.But there's also Martha Ivers...The Strange Love of Martha Ivers (1946) is directed by Lewis Milestone and produced by Hal B. Wallis.The cast of this film is unique.Barbara Stanwyck gives a memorable performance as Martha Ivers.Van Heflin is fantastic as Sam Masterson.Lizabeth Scott is amazing as Antonia Toni Marachek.Kirk Douglas plays a rare part of a weak man, Walter O'Neil in his first movie.He got the part after his drama school classmate Lauren Bacall suggested Mr. Wallis to look up a guy called Issur Demsky.His character is filled with self-loathing.It can be heard in every word he says, in can be seen in the look of his eyes.Roman Bohnen is great as his father.Judith Anderson is marvelous as Mrs Ivers.Janis Wilson is excellent as the young Martha.Darryl Hickman is terrific as the young Sam.Mickey Kuhn does brilliant job as the young Walter.Blake Edwards is in an uncredited part as the sailor who hitches a ride with Sam.This movie should be a bigger classic than it is.It makes a terrific film-noir, and it is also a great portrayal of alcoholism in Walter's character.I recall having seen the movie once before and now I saw it on DVD and liked it a lot.Start with the dialogue, it's something very special.Like when Kirk says There's a thin line between life and death.The scene where the young Martha kills her aunt with a stick after she has attacked her cat is most haunting.The ending is something you won't forget.Walter presses the gun on Martha and shoots her before shooting himself.This movie touches you in a special way.Watch the movie where Kirk Douglas makes his unbelievable debut with an incredible cast. "},{"Title":"Noir Victims Can't Seem to Process Tragedy","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" My 7th Noir in a self-paced course in the art form.With so many fine reviews, I can only add particular observations.Lizabeth Scott's role (Toni) looks one-dimensional, but that's what she is stuck with. The hope she radiates, with extreme desperation, is just prime. The girl wants a break. Will she get it? I held on to the end, just to find out if Toni would ever get that break.First-time viewers are invited to spend time trying to figure out Sam's (Van Heflin) issues. I invested a lot of scrutiny, thinking he was the key to pulling this story together.By the time we thunder to the finish line, we see a cast of 4 losers, with almost no hope of resolution.Since Sam in this story quotes the Bible so much, it seems good to recall that Adam hid in The Garden for fear of being exposed. Hiding is futile. This is ancient wisdom, played out in a well-told story.It is also true that the insane will make the sane feel insane. Try to find the moral center in this film, and you get dizzy. That's because some sick characters are writing the rules. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas debuts between Barbara Stanwyck and Van Heflin","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Forget trying to figure out how Darryl Hickman grew into Van Heflin - when young Sam Masterson looks more like he should be the sleeping sailor (played by later director Blake Edwards) Mr. Heflin picked up on the way back to Iverstown - after eighteen years. Anti-heroic Heflin, steadfast Barbara Stanwyck (as Martha Ivers), and distilled Kirk Douglas (in his film debut, as Walter O'Neil) are amazingly convincing as the grown-up trio of teenagers who crossed paths on the day Ms. Stanwyck's wicked aunt (Judith Anderson) was viciously bludgeoned to death. The great cast is stylishly directed by Lewis Milestone, with beautiful cinematography by Victor Milner.******** The Strange Love of Martha Ivers (7/24/46) Lewis Milestone ~ Van Heflin, Barbara Stanwyck, Kirk Douglas, Lizabeth Scott "},{"Title":"ignore the naysayers and watch this -- it's good noir","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Don't let the weird title of this underrated gem discourage you -- this is a very good film. The story is about four characters -- and all of them are sufficiently complicated to make the narrative more than a little interesting. Barbara Stanwyk's Martha Ivers is far more interesting than her notorious Phyllis Diedrickson in Double Indemnity. She married a man she did not love when she was very young, and although she grows into a wicked woman, you are able to sympathize with her a bit. Her husband, played by a young Kirk Douglas, is an equally trapped alcoholic weakling. He is the least sympathetic character. Van Heflin's Sam, who has seen and done it all, is good. However, the character that fascinated me most, and the one who has received the least commentary, is Lizabeth Scott's Toni Marachek. Scott has always reminded me a little of Tuesday Weld (Pretty Poison), and possibly even Sue Lyon (Lolita, Night of the Iguana). She is a hard-luck case juvenile delinquent, and possibly the strongest character in the film. She is the one who, in the end, is able to rise above it all, even though she is tempted to look back at the end (one is left to wonder what she was looking at). I do not want to spoil this gem for anyone who might watch it. It is more than satisfying as noir, great drama, and it will leave you feeling good about the world, even though there is clearly no room for certain kinds of people in it. "},{"Title":"Everyone a Victim","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" When Van Heflin is looking back at a sign heading for his home town, he runs the car into a pole. While it's being repaired, he begins to search out the events since he left the town. the movie actually begins with a murder. Martha Ivers, the cold, introspective ward of an evil aunt, runs away. On the evening of the fourth time captured and returned, she sees her aunt killing her cat with a cane. She grabs the cane and beats the old lady over the head, sending her down a staircase. Her young friend has already run away and she is left with the son of her tutor who swears that a man had come in and killed the old lady; the door was left open by her friend. This brings us years into the future, where Heflin's accident occurs. As he waits for repairs he meets a beautiful young woman, Lizabeth Scott, who is just out of jail, on probation for a robber charge. The two of them hook up. She is arrested shortly after for breaking the conditions of her probation. We also find that the young girl of the previous scene has become Barbara Stanwyck who inherited everything from her aunt after she murdered her. Kirk Douglas plays her husband, the whiny little jerk who supported Stanwyck when the aunt was killed. Because she is the richest person in town (the town is named after her aunt) she knows how to use political favors. Actually, at the center of the plot is the fact the she things Heflin's character saw the murder committed as a child. Actually, he had run through the door. The relationship between Stanwyck and her husband (Kirk Douglas in his first role) is a depressing interdependency. Heflin finally gets to the bottom of things and the fun starts. It's quite a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Strange  Melodrama.","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Lewis Milestone directed this melodrama that stars Barbara Stanwyck as Martha Ivers, who, as young girl, killed her evil aunt(played by Judith Anderson) and involves her two boyfriends Walter O'Neil and Sam Masterson. Sam leaves town, but Martha and Walter remain. Many years later, Walter(played by Kirk Douglas in his film debut) is a successful District Attorney, and Martha the power and drive behind him. When Sam(played by Van Heflin) returns to town, he befriends a young woman(played by Lizabeth Scott) whom have mutual sympathy and attraction, but Sam gets mixed up with Martha and Walter, who have corrupt doings going on, and there still is that long ago murder... Good cast, but marginal film is ultimately too melodramatic and unrealistic to succeed, though young Martha had my sympathies for killing her cat-hating/murdering aunt, a truly loathsome character! "},{"Title":"Highly melodramatic noir with almost too much plotting...","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" It's strange that another comment would refer to THE STRANGE LOVE OF MARTHA IVERS as one in need of a plot. Not so. There's an abundance of plot, which thickens with scene one. Two adolescents make a pact not to divulge who killed the girl's aunt and a third one, who did not witness the actual crime, later learns the whole story and plans on cashing in on his knowledge of the crime. And that's just the first twenty minutes which sets up three of the main characters who are the primary focus of the story, along with dark and rainy noir atmosphere. And from then on, plenty of twists and turns.BARBARA STANWYCK as Martha Ivers does a chilling job as the woman who has a murderous past. KIRK DOUGLAS is excellent as her spineless husband, who witnessed the crime and VAN HEFLIN does a standout job as the man who comes between the two with his knowledge of Martha's murderous encounter with her wicked aunt (JUDITH ANDERSON). LIZABETH SCOTT is thrown into the mix as Heflin's love interest, but her sad story is really a peripheral one that stands apart from the main storyline.Stanwyck and Douglas are really in top form here in roles that are well written and lead to some highly emotional scenery chewing. Heflin's character is just as complex. Scott is a lonely woman with an unfortunate past, although she and Heflin play characters who are only slightly more moral and upstanding than the other two leads.Directed by Lewis Milestone, there is a sense of doom from the start and a film noir ambiance about the excellent B&W photography and the starkness of the melodrama.Well worth viewing. Trivia note Interesting that MICKEY KUHN (who played Beau Wilkes in GONE WITH THE WIND) plays Kirk Douglas as a child and does an excellent job. "},{"Title":"Love on the wrong side of the tracks.","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A tale about two young teenage orphans, Martha who lives with her repressive but extremely wealthy Aunt and Sam who lives in a house for boys, literally and figuratively on the other side of the tracks. The two teens are in love and keep hatching schemes about escaping from Iverstown together but always getting caught. Another boy about the same age, Walter, is also in love with Martha, and he is dominated by a greedy father who lusts for the wealth that Martha will some day inherit. One stormy night after Martha is returned to her Aunt after a failed escape, a power outage occurs during which Sam sneaks into the house to steal her away but disaster strikes before they can make their escape. Martha ends up killing her Aunt with Walter standing by as a witness and Sam has suddenly disappeared into the night. Another man is blamed for the crime and now Walter and Martha share a deadly secret. Seventeen years later, Sam arrives back in Iverstown through a freak accident to find that Walter and Martha have married and now pretty much control the wealth and power of the entire town. Immediately his motives are questioned. Since he was a witness to the crime, has he arrived for the purpose of blackmail? Gradually all the old jealousies and passions are brought back to the surface, which lead to even more intrigues. Excellent dialog and well paced directing make this film highly enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Little Known Classic","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This little known work of film noir is extremely good. Kirk Douglas is excellent in his debut role as Barbara Stanwyck's husband, while Stanwyck herself is attractive yet tragic in the title role. Lizabeth Scott is extremely attractive in her role as Van Helfin's girlfriend with a past; it is unfortunate that she did not appear in more films. As for the story itself, it is at certain points rather predictable, yet this does not diminish the overall goodness of the story. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas' debut film","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"     The Strange Love of Martha Ivers was directed by two times Academy Award winning director Lewis Milestone who was particularly successful in directing war dramas, most renowned of them being 1930 legendary landmark All Quite on the Western Front for which he won his second Best Director Oscar. Later in the '40s he came back to directing the films in the war drama genre delivering quite a few remarkable movies such as The Walk in the Sun, The Purple Heart and Edge of Darkness. The Strange Love of Martha Ivers though isn't a war drama, but mostly a Film-Noir still represents one of the highest points in director's career. This film is also remarkable for being Kirk Douglas actor's debut.    The film's story is basically about the raise and fall of a quite an authoritative woman of rather strong character Martha Ivers, convincingly played by Barbara Stanwyck, the story of whose life we follow throughout the film, beginning with her troubled childhood marked with the dominative presence of a detestable in the eyes of a young girl's aunt (played by Judith Anderson). But the girl-aunt's rather troubled co-existence wasn't destined to last too long interrupted by a sudden and not entirely accidental aunt's death by falling down the stairs not without young Martha's willing help, a tragic and quite a decisive for the main characters in the film moment, which happens on rainy and stormy night providing the film with one of its most memorable scenes.    Martha's little friend Sam happens to witness all those events and frightened to his bones promptly flees the town only to return there 18 years later to find quite a number of changes beginning with the town's name which is now Iverstown, named so in the honour of its most respectable and influential citizen - Martha Ivers, whose power, as he very soon discovers, is due to her marriage to Walter O'Neal (brilliantly played by Kirk Douglas), a district attorney who belongs to the town most influential family, but in spite of all that finds his weak persona under an utter control of a tough and commanding character of his wife. At this point in the film's story one of the main Film-Noir ingredients is launched, when Sam tries to derive a bit of profit for himself by blackmailing poor Walter with the fact of possessing the knowledge of Martha's shadowy past.  What he nonetheless failed to consider is the surprising resourcefulness of Walter, who turned to be quite an adversary while being in such a desperate situation and, of cause, the wilfulness of Walter's wife.   Overall The Strange Love of Martha Ivers is quite a notable Film-Noir classic featuring fine acting, a good, Oscar nominated story which follows some of the trademark Film-Noir patterns in a quite a unique way and last but not least the notable music score by brilliant, three times Academy Award winning composer Miklos Rozsa. All that combined together provide quite a remarkable viewing experience, which is not to be missed. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Poor cat!","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Three teenage children are in the large posh house in Iverstown on the night that Judith Anderson (Mrs Ivers) is killed by a blow to the head. We know who the killer is and the story then moves forward several years as Van Heflin (Sam) arrives back in Iverstown and hooks up with runaway Lizabeth Scott (Toni) for a night of passion. He is just drifting through town and decides to look up old friend Kirk Douglas (Walter) who is now married to Barbara Stanwyck (Martha Ivers). Heflin, Douglas and Stanwyck were the three children in the house on the night that Judith Anderson died all those years ago. Memories are revisited and paranoia sets in as the three old friends turn against each other.This is an entertaining film that is a little long but worth the watch. You know that it's not going to turn out well for someone.....but who....? The cast are all good although I think Lizabeth Scott sounds a bit weird on occasion. We are encouraged to follow the story by sympathizing with Van Heflin but does he make it out of Iverstown? The film starts well and gets you hooked into the story on a stormy night. "},{"Title":"Poor little rich girl...with a horrible aunt","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" For me this was all Van Heflins' movie. Getting to see Kirk Douglas for the first time was a bonus also.Shocking to see Kirk Douglas for the first time on film as a meek little DA who wouldn't hurt a fly. He wouldn't be like this for any other role in his career.Barbara Stanwyck(Martha Ivers) was a little girl who's aunt terrorizes until she finally can't take it anymore and proceeds to kill her. Her meek little friend witnesses it. His father is a grubby little character who cashes in on this as he stays on at the home after she dies to take of her and his son. His son, who just loves Martha Ivers, doesn't really care about the murder cause in the end the aunt was a mean ole witch anyhow and deserved it. The father decides to blackmail her into marrying his son so he can be something in life and so they'll be well off. It all goes wrong when years later someone is arrested for a minor crime and Martha proceeds to convince her meek husband (who happens to be the DA) to convict him of her aunts murder years before. The plan works and the man is convicted and hanged. Even though it works both her and her husbands conscience is still bothered. Enter Van Heflin. He was there just before the murder happened years before but actually left before he saw anything but the Martha and her husband...don't know that.This is definitely a noir from beginning to end. Barbara Stanwyck is the main lead in this but this is totally Van Heflins' movie. The fun part is seeing Kirk Douglas for the first time. He does a great job as the meek little husband.All together a pretty good little noir. Not my favorite but still an interesting watch. "},{"Title":"Seen That, Been There","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Lewis Milestone has directed dozens of films over a large period of time. With one - or, perhaps, two - he was well above average. The rest are pedestrian at best and hack work at worst. This fits the pedestrian variety.The story is great and the dialog for the main part well conceived. The editing too is sharp and very crisp. The acting however is way over the top with the exception of Van Heflin as the only one NOT chewing up the scenery. Lizabeth Scott is almost a parody of herself. Any director worth his or her salt would have pulled these people back into line. Miklos Rosza's overdone score makes these flaws stick out in every unpleasant way.This film could have and should have been done better. It doesn't amaze me that this was Kirk Douglas's first film. The miracle was that he survived it to do more.Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"A terrific Noir-like film for Van Helfin","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" While this isn't technically an example of Film Noir (since it isn't a cop or gangster film), it has many, many aspects of Noir and this makes this film much better than the average soaper of the day. The film abounds with great Noir sensibilities, such as the camera work, snappy dialog and occasional gripping violence.The film begins in the 1920s, when the leads are all kids. Martha Ivers is desperately unhappy in her home with her guardian (her aunt). So, with the help of local bad boy, Sam Masterson, she makes her escape but is soon caught. Against her will she is brought back and its obvious in watching the dynamics between them why Martha ran away--the aunt is very cold and incredibly controlling. Shortly after this, the horrid aunt finds a cat smuggled into the home by Martha and starts beating it to death with her cane!!! Martha, naturally, comes to the cat's rescue and the aunt is accidentally killed in the process. The only witness to this is the weasel-like kid, Walter O'Neil--who keeps her secret for a price! The film then begins again many years later. Martha and Walter (played by Barbara Stanwyck and Kirk Douglas in his first film) have been married for some time and with her millions and strong support, Walter is in line to be the next governor. Rather coincidentally, Sam (Van Heflin) returns to town. He just wants to get his car fixed and continue on his way. However, Martha and Walter THINK Sam knows about the accidental death and are afraid he might talk--especially since there is much more evil the pair have done to cover up for the original event. Sam only comes to their attention after he meets a nice bad girl played by Lizbeth Scott. She's in trouble with the law and Sam thinks his part relationship with Walter can straighten all this out, since Walter is currently the District Attorney. Unfortunately, he was totally unprepared for Walter's reaction, as Walter thinks Sam is out to blackmail him! There's certainly a lot more to the plot than this, but telling more would ruin the suspense. However, the plot is truly delicious with so much double-dealing and unexpected evil to spice things up. Stanwyck plays much the same type person she so wonderfully played in DOUBLE INDEMNITY--a cold woman without a soul. Douglas, unexpectedly, plays a guy who is a bit of a wimp and weasel--not exactly what you'd expect based on his later films, but his screen persona was certainly not yet established. Lizbeth Scott, as usual, plays a great dame. However, the actor who came off best in the film was Van Heflin--in probably his best film. Had the film been made just a few years later, it is likely Douglas might have played the part because it called for a tough and worldly but ultimately decent hero--exactly the sort of guy you would expect Douglas to be. Unfortunately, Heflin's great performance was not to materialize in a major improvement in the types of film roles he would receive and he continued to be a sort of second-tier leading man or supporting actor. It's a real shame, as he was the perfect Noir hero. His lines were suburb but the action scenes (particularly when he slammed Douglas' hand in the desk drawer) were classic.The bottom line is that this is a terrific film from MGM. Full of twists and turns as well as terrific characters, it's a shame they don't make 'em like the used to. "},{"Title":"Overly Long and Talky Noir","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This polished film noir from Paramount Studio boasts high production values, a good cast headlined by Barbara Stanwyck, Van Heflin and Kirk Douglas in his film debut, and a web of complex character motivations driving its narrative, but it's still a rather dull film.Stanwyck, Heflin and Douglas play three adults who grew up together as kids. As a child, Stanwyck murdered her domineering aunt (Judith Anderson, superbly menacing but with far too little screen time) while her friend (Douglas's character) looks on; the boy she really likes (Heflin) takes off into the night, never to return. Years later, Stanwyck and Douglas are married, and Heflin drifts back into town. They think he's showed up to blackmail them for the crime neither ever admitted to, not realizing he never even knew what happened. Meanwhile, he falls for a young woman (Lizabeth Scott) who's trying to get back home but changes her own plans once Heflin comes into her life.The film takes forever setting up its main plot. Stanwyck doesn't charge on to the screen until about 30 minutes into the film, and when she does she jolts a little life into it. But that jolt isn't sustained, and the film overall is too long and talky. Director Lewis Milestone, who made some very kinetic movies during his career (All Quiet on the Western Front), doesn't display the same touch here.Not a bad movie by any means, but I find when it comes to my favorite genre (film noir), I prefer the more obscure, cheaper entries with the B-level actors and directors to the high-gloss studio productions.Grade B "},{"Title":"Worth Watching More than Once!","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I've always had a love-hate relationship with the classic noir thriller, The Strange Loves of Martha Ivers. Masterfully directed by veteran director Lewis Milestone (All Quiet on the Western Front, Of Mice and Men, Mutiny on the Bounty), Ivers captures the essence of noirish cynicism and post WWII angst in spite of its happy-sappy ending and the iffy casting choice of new-comer Lizabeth Scott.The film begins with a murder on a winding staircase, involving three youths, during a proverbial dark and stormy night. Flash forward twenty years, to a weary rolling stone of a man, Sam Masterson, who left during that violent evening, returning to his hometown Iverston, and to the scene of the crime. During his first day he wrecks his car, meets an even wearier drifter, Toni, and runs into one of his old friends, Walter, who is now the District Attorney.Walter O'Neil is now a powerful man, running for a higher office and acutely aware that Sam could turn on a dime and reveal their past crime and the cover-up. However, Sam is only interested in helping his new girlfriend, Toni, get out of tangled mess of her own. Enter Barbara Stanwyck, the central character, as Martha Ivers, who has always carried a smoking torch for Sam, and is determined to keep him cozy in Iverston. Well, you get the picture, and the stage is set for plenty of suspense, revenge, double-crosses, twists, and just plain trauma-drama.Yet, what makes Ivers a classic noir? Two words &#x96; Barbara Stanwyck, the undisputed Queen of Classy Noir. Hands-down, The Strange Loves of Martha Ivers belongs hook and fang to her skill as the timeless Spider Woman archetype &#x96; ruthless, driven, and amoral &#x96; ready to bring down all around her for her own cryptic reasons. It could be for love, and it could just as easily be to savor her undisputed power, or --- ah, but that's the mystery that *is* the Spider Woman! We just don't know. But Stanwyck makes it all the more fascinating to watch and savor.Van Heflen's Sam Masterson is the perfect foil against Kirk Douglas's Walter, a man who is perfectly content to drown his sorrows in booze while watching his wife, Martha, control every aspect of his life. For every dominatrix must have her submissive, and Walter is only too happy to oblige his autocratic wife, as long as he can occasionally whine about it. Sam and Walter play a long-standing homo-erotic game of cat and mouse - subterranean feelings that are perfectly happy to stay simmering.Rossen's sub-textual theme of sadomasochism &#x96; and hence the strange loves in the title -reveals itself in the parallel relationships between Martha and Walter, and Sam and Toni. Both Walter and Toni are obviously passive lovers, allowing Martha and Sam to act out their conflicted feelings about loss and abandonment on them throughout the film. Toni at one point even gives Sam permission to physically abuse her, Go ahead and hit me, Sam. I've got it coming. But even an intriguing sexual subtext can't bring me to give The Strange Loves of Martha Ivers my Noir seal of approval. First off, Robert Rossen's brilliant screenplay cops out by having Sam and Toni drive off into the sunset, as he proposes marriage. Sadly, no moment in Noir history feels as false and phony as watching Masterson slip out of character to suddenly pop the question.The American version of Noir centered on the Spider Woman archetype, which served as not-so-subtle propaganda for working women and their male counterparts returning home from the war. Couldn't Rosie the Riveter just be happy in her ivy-covered suburban cottage, leaving the decision-making (and jobs!) to her GI Joe? Noir's warning label on the post-war message for America was skillfully encapsulated in the persona of the Spider Woman &#x96; this is what your daughters and wives will become if they continue to do a man's work! The balance of power between Man and Woman are perfectly out of balance in Ivers Martha runs the town better than any man could and Walter props it up by using the law to justify it. One imagines Walter as the Better Half, docilely awaiting Martha's return from a hard day of managing Iverston's Wall Street. Rossen's false Disneyland ending is typical when the Noir relationship construct consists of two males and two females. Toni Marachek is just another Walter, awaiting her turn at the white picket fence after all.Secondly, Lizabeth Scott's sad-sack performance as Toni Marachek is a lackluster jumble of sighs, Pollyanna clichés, and puppy-dog gazes. It's true that Rossen's Toni is only serving time in the real world of post-WWII reconstruction until her Sam can masterfully take over her life. (Hence, his last name, Masterson.) Yet most of Lizabeth Scott's future roles would reflect such one-dimensional expressions. Perhaps Scott's talents were better suited for television, but by the time Hollywood gave birth to the smaller screen venue, her sexual orientation had already been well-publicized. In retrospect, the character of Toni is a comfortable conservative appendage &#x96; hanging around and not really serving any purpose but to give Sam his reason leave Iverson, rescue Toni, and avoid Martha's compelling spider web of intrigue and sexual power plays.Such is the tangled world of Noir &#x96; ya gotta love it! "},{"Title":"It Was a Dark and Stormy Night","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This movie begins quite well, as a tale of troubled youngsters that plays like Dickens set in a Pennsylvania steel town. The atmosphere of the creepy, Gothic house contrasted with the confused children probably promises more than any movie can deliver, and while the film that follows is fairly good it fails to live up to its opening sequences.This is in its way a satisfying film, well-written by Robert Rossen and directed by Lewis Milestone, it was an early production of Hal Wallis under his new Paramount contract, and sets the tone for many subsequent films to come from the Wallis stable over the next several years. But there are problems with it. Although stars Barbara Stanwyck and Van Heflin give decent performances, the story continually shifts to Heflin and Lizabeth Scott, who could never act and was dead weight in every movie she appeared in. Kirk Douglas plays a weakling competently enough, but one cannot get out of one's mind the manic actor that would soon emerge, as I kept waiting for Kirk to smash some furniture or get into a fist-fight with someone, anyone. Instead, he just whimpers. The industrial setting is well designed and realistically class-divided, unusual in a film from the mid-forties. Things drag on longer than they should, however, and I get the sense that Milestone, Rossen and Wallis were so pleased with their film without a real hero that they wound up making a film without a real story. After a while one sort of forgets who's plotting against or in love with whom and why and focuses on individual scenes, some of which are more satisfying than others; and one can always hold out hope till the end that Kirk will provide salvation at last, swing into action and strangle someone, smash a car into a tree, or at the very least raise his voice an octave or two. "},{"Title":"Heading for the dark.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  SPOILERS MAINLY IN THE THIRD PARTThis is a strange story,sometimes far-fetched,the screenplay being not always convincing. A strong cast makes up for the plot holesBarbara Stanwick,Van Heflin,Lizabeth Scott.But the stand-out is undeniably Kirk Douglas.When Stanwick wants to kill Heflin at the end of the movie,because he's blackmailing them,he stays in his armchair,smiling.This smile is terribly disturbing.A lunatic smile.The story begins in the dark,and ends -unless the ridiculous happy end counts-the same way.The prologue,when Douglas's,Stanwick's and Heflin's characters are still children ,is closer to Gothic tale than to film noir(Judith Anderson is as scary as she is in Rebecca).Afterwards,till the half of the movie,there will be two different stories on the one hand,the Heflin/Scott affair which gets the lion's share,and on the other hand, the Stanwick/Douglas couple.It's only little by little that we understand the connection with the childhood scenes.It is revealing that Heflin and Stanwyck only meet around the fiftieth minute.The doomed couple ,who knows that Heflin knows,and who are eaten with remorse ,because they pointlessly sentenced an innocent to death ,commits suicide.This scene is mind-boggling.Douglas holds his wife tenderly and one thinks they will pick up the pieces -their marriage was never a love one-.Then Douglas  fires at Stanwick.Heflin walks across the park,he turns back,to see Douglas falling ,behind the only lit up window.At the beginning ,the heroine was running away in the dark -escaping from of a house of darkness-.Full circle and yes,it is a film noir,when all is said and done. "}{"Title":"LIZABETH SCOTT STEALS SCENES !","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Van Helfin and Lizabeth Scott were like a magical couple, lots of romance and steamy scenes which stole the show from the other actors. Kirk Douglas was making his first film debut and was hardly noticed, he was always drunk and over acted throughout the entire picture. Lizabeth Scott was never given great roles to star in and therefore never could have fullfilled her great acting talents. Her films will always have a class all by themselves. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian Romantic Melodrama","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" When the film was released, the adverts referred to it as The Strange Love of (whisper her name) Martha Ivers. That gives you a pretty good indication of the target audience -- snoops and gossips. Actually, the movie is rather better than that, but not that much better.Sam Masterson (Van Heflin) returns to his home town of Iverstown after an absence of 17 or 18 years to find that his teen-aged girl friend, Martha Ivers (Barbara Stanwyk) has married the nerdish Walter O'Neil. Martha is now the powerful owner of the local factory. (It's an indication of the care that has gone into the writing that we never have any idea of what the factory makes.) Walter (Kirk Douglas) is still an alcoholic weakling and Stanwyk orders him around like a flunky.As kids, the three of them were involved in the accidental death of Martha's mean old aunt (Judith Anderson) and years later, with Martha now pushing him, Douglas as the local District Attorney sees to it that an innocent man is convicted of the crime and hanged. Stanwyk has inherited the factory and glories in her wealth and power, but Douglas, though he loves her, has never been able to forgive himself for his part in what is now two deaths.This is the mess that Van Heflin stumbles into. It's a long time being established. Nothing much happens for the first forty minutes or so, except that the cynical but basically good-hearted Heflin picks up Lizabeth Scott, she of the husky contrabass voice, perpetual pout, and coarse demeanor. But Scott is of no particular importance to the plot except to act as Heflin's conscience.That conscience is tested when he runs into his old friends Stanwyk and Douglas. The first thing Stanwyk does after shaking hands with Heflin is to put moves on him, which he fends off. Douglas hears about this and hires four or five goons to kidnap Heflin and rearrange his face. Then Stanwyk and Douglas, wondering what Heflin is sticking around town for, conclude that he is there to blackmail them for the crime they committed when they were teens. They ask him how much he wants.Then it begins to get really confusing because Heflin appears to accommodate himself to their assumptions, finally asking Stanwyk for half ownership in the factory. To her, it sounds like a pretty good idea. She and Heflin could go far -- if only they could somehow get rid of that drunken husband of hers.And that's all we hear of the blackmail business. It's never mentioned again. Stanwyk throws herself on Heflin once more and this time succeeds. At least we assume she succeeds. They're out in the woods and he grabs her and smothers her with kisses. The camera cuts to her hand dropping a flaming faggot into the camp fire. Dissolve. The fire is reduced to smoldering ashes. (This was directed by Lewis Milestone, who should have stuck to war movies.) There is a final confrontation between the three of them. Douglas drunkenly spills the beans on Stanwyk. Beans that Heflin has previously been unaware of. In disgust, Heflin leaves the two of them and stalks out into the night, calling them both sick. What keeps the movie interesting is the acting. The three principals are quite good. Interesting to see Kirk Douglas playing a wuss. Another few years and Van Heflin would have been cast as the drunk (cf., Madame Bovary and The Three Musketeers) and Douglas would have been the tough skeptical gambler. Stanwyk, too, gives a good performance although why she was cast so often as the treacherous sex pot is beyond me. The role calls for an actress who can ooze heat, whereas Stanwyk's presence suggests a desk calculator.It's not so terrible a movie. It's not insulting to the audience. It's just rather dull, especially the first hour or so, during which nothing happens that would be of importance to any audience except one composed chiefly of snoops and gossips. "},{"Title":"Very good film noir","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  As a young girl Martha Ivers accidentally kills her evil grandmother.  She and a boy friend of hers cover it up and accuse an innocent man of it.  Years later they're all grown up and played by Barbara Stanwyck and Kirk Douglas (his film debut).  They're married and miserable but have their lie keeping them together.  Then a man (Van Heflin) Martha loved very much as a girl accidentally crashes his car in the town.  He has no interest in Martha but is in love with someone else (Lizabeth Scott)...but Martha won't let him go.Well-done film noir.  The dialogue is great (especially the exchanges between Heflin and Scott), it looks beautiful and the acting is mostly well-done.  Heflin is just OK--but it fits his role; Stanwyck is very good but not given much to do (she doesn't appear until 30 minutes in!) and Douglas is TERRIBLE...but this WAS his first film.  Scott is, surprisingly, the best.  A very good, credible performance.  I couldn't take my eyes off her when she was on screen.  She easily outacted everybody else.I can only give this an 8 though for 2 reasons Kirks' lousy acting and the movie goes on way too long--at least 20 minutes could have been cut.  Still, worth catching.  Some consider this Stanwycks' best film (I disagree).    "},{"Title":"The poorly assembled story of Martha Ivers","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In the opening minutes of this movie, mean Auntie Ivers receives the least convincing death blow in all of film, and tumbles to her demise. Three adolescent friends witness how the crime went down but say nothing, and twenty years later they all regroup to use the crime to force each others hands.How awesome is that title? It's a wonder of ambiguity; it might be a horror movie, a salacious sex adventure, a crime story, a study of psychosis, or a melodrama. The score as others have noted is cut-rate, but it also walks a fine line between different genres; crime story (an authoritarian intro&#x85;) and romance (&#x85;that breaks into lush violins) it's a neat trick, but none of this helps a viewer figure out what the hell this movie is trying to be. And sadly, after you've watched it, it has delivered on none of this potential. It's a conventional movie whose unusual title is just a tease.This may be the noir with the least forward momentum ever. It's a structural mess. Characters just exist to sit around in holding patterns, and no gambit ever rises to intrigue. If you're going to eat up two hours, you should really come up with a plot. But give this movie ten minutes and it will unfailingly take you somewhere uninteresting. It would have helped the movie immensely to dump the prologue and reveal the big secret later, as in a mystery. Ultimately this is a plodding misfire ...empty calories. Van Heflin does not hold his own. Parts of the movie look as amateurish as a Little Rascals short. "},{"Title":"A Strange Movie","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I'm not sure that I like this film but it is hard to say exactly why. For one thing, the casting was off-beat which often works well but maybe not so much here.. Barbara Stanwyck is spot-on as the strong-willed Martha who gets what she wants, when she wants it. Stanwyck is particularly good playing this type of part. But the rest of the casting confuses me.. Van Heflin, who was an excellent actor does not bring to his character the appeal and sexiness that seems to attract Martha. He was always a good support actor but as the romantic hero, he is somewhat at a loss to project what one would expect. Lizabeth Scott is ludicrous as his girlfriend. She can't act, never could, never will. She is doing her Veronica Lake impersonation (Lake couldn't act either but she had great hair and Alan Ladd!)and it's not working! Kirk Douglas, against type here as the sniveling drunken husband of Stanwyck, brings some real credibility to the part. But I like him better as a tough guy........I guess that's just my problem. The story isn't too bad but there is just something about this movie that is unpleasant. Even the title is awkward. It is a faux film noir that can't hold a candle to such noirs as Night and the City, DOA and Stanwyck's classic Double Indemnity. "},{"Title":"Not One of the Better Noirs","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I've been watching this, in part and almost in full, since local TV showed old movies. I never much liked it. When it came around recently, I wanted to give it a fair shot and see it straight through. And It actually is not very good.Only Lizbeth Scott is near her best, which was never so hot anyway. Stanwyck almost parodies herself. Douglas is OK in a thankless role. And Heflin seems to be sleepwalking through it.Something about it never rings true. It's as if these big-name performers are slumming. Judith Anderson, as Stanwyck's grandmother, is truly worthy of our hatred when she stamps a cat to death. But the rest seems formulaic and predictable.The one interesting aspect for me was the final scene between Douglas and Stanwyck, the title Martha. He is weak; she is strong but unhappy. I am not suggesting intentional plagiarism in any way but maybe this made an impression on Edward Albee. It strangely foretells the famous scene in which another Martha answers her own weak husband's question with, I am, George. I am. "},{"Title":"Overlong, overwritten and over-contrived","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This film contains some of the lamest dialog I have ever had the misfortune to sit through, and there's a lot of it. Characters telling each other what they already know, and we already know. The whole thing is a collection of over contrived nonsense. Unbelievable characters and a silly plot that drags on for 2 hours of yaketty yak.I don't know how Brabara Stanwick didn't choke on the rotten dialog she was given.It might have been Kirk Douglas' first major role but I found nothing to like about his character nor his wimpy portrayal.Melodrama at its worst. I rate this film AWFUL. "},{"Title":"Virtually unwatchable Noir nonsense.","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Everyone's dialog is absolutely identical as if written for a genre instead of real, breathing, individual human beings. And, everyone always -- and I mean always -- has something clever to say, which is so lame you cringe. There are those -- especially the French -- who worship this ridiculously, phony period of American cinema. One may forgive our friends, the French, as they don't understand our embarrassing abuse of the language. English speaking humans should be ashamed. By the way, everyone turns in their usual, predictable, very boring performance backed up by the usual tawdry score... trying to make up for the lack of anything happening at all. As far as this being a 'classic', in the most negative version of the phrase imaginable, it most certainly is. "},{"Title":"Argh!!!!!!! This film stinks!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I gave it only a 3, because of Barbara Stanwyck, Kirk Douglas and director Lewis Milestone. If not for them, I would have given it a minus zero. This film noir is horrible, it features idiotic acting from Elizabeth Scott, a goof leading character named Sam-played by Van Heflin, a overly wicked performance by Judith Anderson. See it once then forget it. The only curiosity piece is Kirk Douglas as a weak willed coward of a husband to Barbara. A waste of great talent. "}]