[{"Title":"The most romantic of John Wayne's many films, and one of my favorites.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"51 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  A man on horseback races across the arid landscape. His horse faulters and throws the man.  This is how The Angel and The Badman begins.Wayne is Quirt Evans, a man with a past.  He is rescued by beautiful Gail Russell, a Quaker girl with a strong, silent father and a marvelous, generous mother who makes donuts and cakes that melt in your mouth, but according to her are, not very good, the flour you know....Poor Quirt never has a chance.  He is healed body and soul by this devoted family.  But not before he must taste his old way of life one more time, which leads to a dramatic conclusion.John Wayne never looked better on film then in The Angel and The Badman. In one scene, he wakes from a coma, hears a noise, gropes for his gun, which is under the pillow and rises, gun in hand to face a startled and stunning Russell.  The sight of John Wayne, shirtless, his hair un-combed and his gorgeous, almost purple eyes taking in the lovely lady in front of him, is something no woman from 6 to 106 should miss.  If you are a fan already and have seen this delightful film, you know what I mean.  If you are new to John Wayne, check to one out and fall in love.Harry Carey plays the Marshal of the territory who keeps track of Quirt, not completely convinced of his conversion, until the surprising climax. Carey's quiet authority is wonderful to watch, and his sly humor a tonic.The Dr. here over-plays his role, but he can be forgiven.  The neighbor who has denied water to the Quaker settlement but is convinced by Quirt(without the force of his famous gun), to be a good neighbor and remove the top two boards holding back the water that used to flow into flums and irrigation ditches, is a real old west character.  Films today just don't use actors with faces like his any longer.  Too bad.Yes indeed, The Angel and The Badman is a wonderful, old fashioned  film. The kind they don't make any longer, but should. "},{"Title":"Remarkably Underrated!!!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  ANGEL AND THE BADMAN is a film that many John wayne fans may not have seen; nonetheless it's one of his best that shows a very different side.Wayne as Quirt Evans is wounded and taken in by a gentle Quaker family. After he recuperates he notices their daughter--the absolutely drop dead gorgeous Gail Russell.The plot of AATBM is remarkably similar to Harrison Ford's WITNESS (probably a remake).But what ultimately makes this movie  work is Wayne's performance, and Russell's natural Angelic qualities. The camera really loves her. There's one scene where she confesses' her love for Wayne, and is surprised he doesn't feel quite the same I never thought it could happen to one and not another. Her outright innocence in this scene is incredibly touching, and endearing, and you see how this affects Wayne in the same way. "},{"Title":"Very highly recommended","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Fun movie about a cowboy named Quirt (John Wayne) who is wants to reform his ways after he meets a sweet Quaker girl. When he is shot, the Quaker family takes care of him, and after he wakes up the daughter (Gail Russell) falls in love with him. It's goofy and cliché, sure, but there's a really fine movie to be found in the familiar setup. Writer/director Grant create many good vignettes. There are several wonderful supporting characters who add a lot of worth to the proceedings, including Harry Carey as a marshall, Lee Dixon as one of Quirt's friends and old partners in crime, Tom Powers as the local, scientific, atheist doctor, and Olin Howlin as the town telegrapher. Howlin's character is pure comic relief, very humorously claiming a long friendship with Quirt, though he only saw him once when he was almost unconscious. Then Carey's character is wryly comedic as the marshall, he's constantly stalking Quirt. He's sure that someday he'll get to hang the guy, and he harps on it constantly. The chemistry between Wayne and Russell adds an unexpected poignancy to the film. The scene where the two pick blackberries is simply beautiful, and their wordless climactic exchange is perfectly performed. Good action sequences, as well. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Quaker Family Values","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Angel and the Badman is a milestone film in the career of John Wayne. It was the first film in which he had a substantial role behind the camera. My guess is that he must have lobbied Herbert J. Yates at Republic films for some creative control and Yates gave in to his studio's biggest moneymaker. Though Wayne at times didn't have the best judgment in regard to his own personal projects, The Angel and the Badman is a winner in every way and doesn't get near enough credit for the work it is except from Wayne partisans. Wayne plays young gun hand Quirt Evans, a most feared man in the territory, who wounded falls in the hands of a Quaker family who nurses him back to health. Wayne starts eying pretty daughter Gail Russell.Pretty soon under her influence Wayne starts questioning the direction his life's been going in. Of course the Quakers do cheat a little on this question themselves. Though they don't believe in violence, the Duke's reputation as a gun hand comes in mighty handy in settling at least one neighborly dispute with Paul Hurst.My favorite scene in the film and one of Wayne's best in all his films also involves his reputation. When Bruce Cabot and two henchmen find him at the Quaker home, Wayne runs one terrific bluff holding them off with an empty gun. This was the first time Wayne and Cabot worked together. In the sixties Cabot became a regular in Wayne films.Angel and the Badman also has two other Wayne attempted reclamation projects. Gail Russell was one of the most beautiful women ever on the silver screen. She had a lot of tragedy in her life and died young. Wayne at one point gave her the lead in a film Seven Men from Now that he was producing, but not starring in, with Randolph Scott. She gave a good performance, but a lot of substance abuse had taken its toll.Paul Hurst later on got a pay day from Wayne in Big Jim McLain in a scene he portrayed from a wheelchair. He was terminally ill with cancer and in fact took his own life shortly afterwards. The money was no doubt needed for Hurst's medical expenses. Later on in McLintock Wayne said in one scene he doesn't give jobs, he hires men (and women). This was his idea of charity and something that never gets talked about enough by people, even some of Wayne's most devoted fans.As this was his first film as producer, I have no doubt that the Duke wanted Harry Carey, the man he patterned his cowboy image after in this film. One of Carey's best screen performances as the patient federal marshal who's waiting for Cabot and Wayne to shoot it out so he can hang the winner. Wayne's good friend James Edward Grant wrote and directed the film. Later on Frank Capra disparaged Grant as a bad influence on Wayne when they quarreled during the filming of Circus World. Grant did write some of the more conservative on Wayne's films. But I certainly can't fault anything he did in The Angel and the Badman.In fact it's a winner in just about every respect. Even some Wayne haters might like this one. "},{"Title":"Great western with a sweet romance","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" John Wayne got to kiss a score of pretty ladies on screen, but his romance with Gail Russell as Penelope, the Angel in this story, shows the best screen chemistry I can recall. Wayne is the Badman Quirt Evans meaning that he settles a lot of arguments with guns a'blazin'.He's used to fast draws, fast women, booze, bar fights, and so on. Penelope is a gentle Quaker woman living in the wilderness of the Old West. She and her parents model their lives on the teachings of scripture, especially the Love your neighbor ideal. Quirt gets shot in one of his many battles with gun wielding black hat bad guys; Penelope's family takes him in and nurses him back to health; during which time Quirt and Penelope get a look at each other with the obvious chemical reaction. Her sweet and vulnerable demeanor mixes splendidly with his gruff but awkwardly gentle persona.When Wayne's nemesis Laredo (Bruce Cabot) shows up, Wayne is faced with the conflict of adapting the peaceful ways of Penelope, or reverting to his violent shoot-first-and-ask-questions-later lifestyle. Wayne's inner conflict to change his outlook on life is illustrated well, a great performance for the Duke. This all goes on under the watchful eye of the Marshall (Harry Carey), who serves as not only a foil for Wayne constantly threatening him, but almost like a self-appointed guardian who sees Quirt's potential for good, trying to steer him toward the light. Carey's humor, and good spirit plays off Wayne perfectly.The film builds to a brilliant finish, with Quirt forced to choose between peace or violence once and for all. One of my favorite westerns. Great cast, great story. "},{"Title":"Quirt and the Quakers...what a combo!!!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite movies and, in my opinion, one of the Duke's best. This one's got it all...comedy, drama, and redemption. Both the Duke and Gail Russell give fine lead performances supported by a colorful cast of characters. I highly recommend this movie to all. "},{"Title":"Memorable Western with an excellent role by John Wayne and an attractive Gail Russell","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A famous gunfighter (John Wayne) is wounded in crossfire and a quaker family cares him and heals . During recuperation the daughter named Penelope Worth (Gail Russell) has a romance and falls in love for him . She eventually humanizing the gunslinger . And he has to choose between his violent world or the pacifist existence in which Penelope Worth lives . Meanwhile , he'll have to confront a malicious ringleader (Bruce Cabot) and his henchmen . This well-handled production is a thoughtful Western but with average budget . By time this western was popular with the public . The film has rider pursuits , stampedes , shootouts , struggles and an agreeable love story . John Wayne gives one of the best interpretations of his long career . Bruce Cabot as Wayne's friend has an important and well featured role , he's habitual in his films . Gail Russell shined in the role as Penelope and provided a great acting . Rare and enjoyable beauty , she was to be groomed one of Paramout's top stars , but the alcohol took her and she was found dead and it attributed to the drinking . Gail was only 36 years old . Had it not been for the alcohol , Gail's career could have been one of the biggest . Besides , there appears Harry Carey Sr. as a tough sheriff , Carey was a veteran actor who played numerous Western . The motion picture is finely directed by the Wayne's usual screenwriter named James Edward Grant . There's also a lousy version in computer-colored . The flick will appeal to John Wayne fans and Western moviegoers . Rating  Nice and well worth watching . "},{"Title":"A great story of a man changing for love","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  This is one of Wayne's best movies, the simple but powerful story of a man changing for the love of a woman. It is always a great introduction to John Wayne for someone who has not appreciated his work, his best movies are about love and redemption. The Quiet Man, Stagecoach and The Angel and The Badman, are among the best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"These are positive comments about Wayne's performance.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  John Wayne's performance was riveting as he portrayed bad guy, good guy in sometimes the same scene. The movie was a joy to watch also for the fact that this definitely fit the John Wayne cowboy mold. The concluding scenes still left one wondering about the outcome.  "},{"Title":"great movie --- lousy DVD edition","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Angel and the Badman has always been a favorite movie to me.  Angel contains humor and drama, action and romance.  The movie can be enjoyed by anybody regardless of age or gender.  I have a well-worn VHS copy and wanted to acquire the movie on DVD and enjoy DVDs superb quality.  Now, after several months delay, Barns and Noble finally delivered a copy issued from the Roan Group. Unfortunately, this DVD does not meet with the DVD promise.  What could be wrong with Angel and the Badman?  The first thing I noticed was the soft image quality.  The video lacks the high detail one expects from digital playback.  The contrast range is compressed and requires fiddling with display controls to get almost acceptable brightness range.  Another interesting and annoying issue is the constant blue and pink sparkle in and otherwise black and white image.  The playback seems to jitter slightly as if the framing is not consistent.  How could this be?  When played back on a PC the answer becomes clear.  At the top of the image the observant and knowledgeable viewer will spy the first line of scan beginning part way across the screen.  This is an artifact of interlace scanning and indicates this DVD's video source originated from a VHS tape---not the original film print.  This is a very sloppy conversion with apparently no attention to details important to creating a quality product such as captioning or alternate languages.  Don't waste money on this DVD from the Roan Group---buy a VHS tape instead.  "}{"Title":"A movie to see over and over it is that good.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  John Wayne and Gail Russel as two people from opposite sides. She a Quaker and he a gunslinger.  While being chased by a sheriff bent on capturing Quirt Evans (John Wayne) he is wounded in a bank robbery, he ends up knocking at the door of Penny's home (Gail Russell) and is nursed back to health by her. Action, romance, suspense all of it very entertaining. Good family movie. Gail Russell is so lovely with her dark brown hair, and John Wayne is so handsome. I had a hard time not falling for him myself.*S I must have seen this on the late night show about 100 times before I was able to buy it on VHS. Great for a Saturday afternoon, sit back and enjoy a great film. "},{"Title":"A Great Classic by Any Standards","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This film is one of the great classics of cinema history, nearly perfect in every way. I have to confess I never heard of it until I bought the DVD in Paris out of curiosity because I like Gail Russell. Watching it with French subtitles was hysterically funny in terms of the language differences 'Hey boss!' is translated 'He, Patron!', and countless other mirthful examples. As usual, the French cineastes have shown great taste in treating this film as an international classic transcending all cultural boundaries. To call it a 'Western' is to condemn it to provincialism. It is far more than that. The luminous presence of the velvety, shy, and melancholy Gail Russell is truly the presence of an angel, and it is as if heaven were lighting the shots for her. She can never have delivered a better performance, nor in my opinion did John Wayne ever find better magic with a leading lady, even his chum Maureen O'Hara with whom he had such jolly roustabouts in more rough and tumble films later on. This film has a pervasive gentle humour which is delightful. Wayne himself is the perfect puer aeternus (eternal boy), wrinkling up his tough guy's visage in an instant into a childlike puzzlement and instant surrender to the playful Gail Russell's commands, on a docile and comical yes ma'am basis. They are like two ten-year-olds playing together, oblivious of the camera. Botticelli could not have drawn a more perfect angel for this fable. Who cares about the story, just sit back and watch this magic as if you were peeking through the doors of some lost paradise. Never would John Wayne rise so high again; this was his peak. And this was Gail Russell at her most glorious, her most divine. When you die, take this one with you. "},{"Title":"redemption and respect","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" John Wayne's performance in this film is one of my favorites from his long (if not exceptionally versatile) career. As an embittered gunslinger groping his way toward love and redemption, he makes the character's inner growth apparent by not allowing it to come to the surface except in neatly timed glance, frowns and smiles. The cool detachment of his character reminds us that he is really more dangerous than the young Penny (Gail Russell) perceives, and more thoughtful than those who know him as a gunfighter understand.As dramatic action film, the film is well paced, and glows with considerable polish throughout. The production team is that of John Ford's of the time, and they are in top form here. Writer-director Grant (another Ford insider) has given us an excellent script and able direction.The film was produced by John Wayne himself, who knew a good story, and who here allows us an odd insight into his personal politics - which were far more complicated than his right-wing fans or left-wing detractors ever understood. In the wake of the Second World War (and we all remember Wayne's war films), Wayne here produced one of the best defenses of religion-based pacifism on film. It should be remembered that during the First World War, Woodrow Wilson had pacifists jailed; in a little known incident in Wyoming Army recruiters dragged several Amish into jail and beat them brutally - several died. If I had to choose between Woodrow Wilson and John Wayne for president, I'd vote for Wayne.Angel and the Badman speaks well of Wayne's conscience, and reminds us that, in his own rough way, he could respect the honest consciences of others. Whatever else we think of him, let us remember that he was a man who deserved - and gave - respect. This is, over all, the most respectful film he ever made, giving us his most respectable performance. "},{"Title":"Romantic western.Gail Russel  is outstanding, Wayne at his best","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" As this film was not directed by John Ford or Howard Hawks, it is not remembered as one of Wayne's best, but it certainly is. A romantic story about a gunfighter(Wayne ) who falls in love with a Quaker woman (Gail Russel), is almost surrendering himself to domesticity, then has a last go at his old lifestyle. What makes this film so good is the peculiar beauty, charm, and excellent performance of Gail Russel which has an incredible chemistry with Wayne at his best. She falls instantly in love with him when he shows up wounded at her ranch and you can feel it without her saying one word, just by her expression. Harry Carey who used to play cowboys in silent movies is the Marshal, a key character, and also Bruce Cabot(King Kong), who made many B westerns is the bad guy, Laredo. "},{"Title":"A Love Story set in the West","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The Angel and the Badman is one of my favorite John Wayne movies. It has romance as well as action in it and John Wayne handles both very well. As a macho-type guy, John Wayne plays Quirt Evans perfectly. He falls in love with a woman, Gail Russell, and just watching him play that part, one can truly enjoy Wayne's character, since he plays in very few love stories. However, this one is done very well and John and Gail together are perfectly matched. I have seen many John Wayne movies. Some of them I enjoyed very much and others I did not. But this movie, in my opinion, is one of John Wayne's best. He proves that he can handle a romantic role and any woman watching this film, I can honestly say, would love to be in John Wayne's arms. He's quite a kisser! Don't miss this film. "},{"Title":"A love story that was re made in other versions High Noon and Witness","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The only thing that would have made this movie perfect is had it been made in color. Filming in Sedona Arizona among the beautiful Red Rocks and Coco Nino National Forest is wasted in black and white.The movie is so good it could have been made on any back lot. When John Wayne is in love with his co star he is a terrific actor as he was in The Quiet Man and his movies with Gail Russell.Whether a lover of western movies, love stories, action and adventure or just plain movies this one is a winner in every category.The obvious chemistry, the horsemanship and research into Quaker habits and ways, and the attention to detail is wonderful for all movie fans of all genres. "},{"Title":"Not Me, Mister. From Now on, I'm a Farmer","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Whatever else, this pacifist Western gives Wayne his best last line of any film in that long and storied career. I've forgotten who first called the movie a pacifist Western, but the description fits. For that reason, I expect it's not every Wayne fan's cup of tea. Certainly the tender emotions of family and stability win out in the end, and Wayne's hell-raising past is tamed by a good woman with strong moral character. Of course, this was before he became a macho icon, and so the risk to an established career was not as great. Still, there are submissive moments with Russell, he never again repeats on screen.It's telling that Wayne himself produced the movie, so what's up there had to pass his executive muster. It's also well-known that he and Russell were involved in a hopeless romantic relationship (he was a married Catholic). My guess is that that personal involvement accounts for many of the film's unusual features. Note, for example, the extended time given to Russell's cutesy reactions to the injured Wayne's delirious ramblings or the many indulgent close-ups of Russell emoting. Note also, how relaxed the famously edgy (stage fright) Russell appears. I'm not saying these features necessarily harm the film itself. In fact, the love scenes manage a warmth and authenticity rare for Hollywood make-believe. What I am suggesting is that a behind-the-scenes personal story may account for much of this notable departure from Wayne's macho norm.Speaking of Wayne, it's often alleged that his acting abilities were limited, and super-stardom depended on other factors. But consider one particularly demanding scene. The Quaker family's skinflint neighbor Carson (Paul Hurst) has just reconciled with them and is happily taking home a load of pies from Mrs. Worth. To the as-yet unreformed Wayne, he remarks about how good helping his neighbors makes him feel. Watch Wayne's well-shaded reactions that nevertheless pass by quickly. At first he looks puzzled, as though as a tough guy he never considered the possible connection, which passes quickly into a glimmer of understanding as he considers what the connection means, which then passes into a sudden worried look once he realizes that, even as a free spirit, he too is vulnerable to the same taming process. It's a marvelously executed little sequence condensed into maybe a 5 second span, demonstrating the kind of acting ability Wayne was seldom called upon to show. The movie itself amounts to a generally entertaining blend of action and sentiment (note how the skeptical doctor's role works to prevent the screenplay from becoming too sanctimonious). The producers also wisely popped for some great Arizona location shots that keep the eye interested even when the story wanders indoors. It's mostly tongue-in-cheek since the bad guys aren't really so bad, plus the considerable humor that includes a mock barroom brawl. The buckboard chase makes for an exciting centerpiece, even if the final plunge is not too believable since Russell is supposed to be aboard. Two complaints-- the process shots are poorly done for a studio (Republic) that specialized in action effects, while killing-off the two bad guys in the end strikes me as a mistake. A shaming before running them out of the territory would appear more in keeping with the movie's overall mood. Nonetheless, this is a rather surprisingly good little movie, considering the many ways it could have gone badly wrong. "},{"Title":"Wayne & Russell Go Well Together","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I had to check to make sure this movie was made in 1947 because John Wayne looked younger than I remembered from They Were Expendable (1945) or Fort Apache & Red River (both 1948). Just watching the movie I would have guessed it was from 1940.Maybe the reason the movie seems from an earlier period is the horrendous soundtrack. I almost expected a chase scene from a 3 Stooges western to pop up when the music starts. Plus the title, while accurate for the plot, sounds like a Warners gangster picture with James Cagney or George Raft.The plot is fairly simple - gunslinger Wayme is converted by the love of the Quaker girl Gail Russell. Man o man, were the actresses from the 30s & 40's all beautiful? (Well, no one would put Bette Davis in that category but she was such a talented actress that she didn't have to be drop dead gorgeous). What a shame Russell's drinking problem didn't let her make it to 40. Here she shows lust in her heart for Wayne and their chemistry is the best part of the movie.As I said, the plot is fairly simple - it was obvious from their first encounter that Wayne and his nemesis Bruce Cabot would have a climatic showdown before the movie ends. This being 1947 and the first movie produced by Wayne, there was no way it could have an unhappy ending.Considering Wayne's hit or miss record as a producer, this is one of his hits. Not on the level of his best movies from this period (the ones mentioned above) but then this movie didn't have John Ford or Howard Hawks as the director. "},{"Title":"A fine picture","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This story about the power of love is an interesting addition to the Wayne canon. As one of several pictures made by his various production companies which were allowed to lapse into the public domain, it is widely available for so little that there is little reason for any real Wayne or Western buff, any film buff at all really, not to own his own copy. The effects of exposure to the gentle persuasion of the Quakers changes not only gunfighter Wayne but also the cynical, atheistic doctor who attends to him at the Quakers' behest and, along with the ministrations of their beautiful daughter, saves his life. It strains credibility a little bit, though, to think of Wayne's character settling down to a life of farming and churchgoing, even with such a beautiful, loving woman. Her ecstatic reaction to his first kiss is worth the time and money invested in watching this picture in and of itself, however. "},{"Title":"A Great Classic Western !","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  Just recently I was able to view this Western on TV and was surprised to see John Wayne(Quirt Evans) Stagecoach '39 so very young and handsome strutting down the streets of an old Western town. Gail Russell (Penelopoe Worth) Henry Aldrich Gets Glamour'43 tried to keep Quirt from going gun crazy and almost got her man killed, but finally saved by the U S Marshall (Harry Carey),veteran silent film actor of 258 films, Red River '48.  John Wayne admirers must try to view this film and see how slim and trim he appeared and how he was able to put MAGIC into any Western he appeared in ! "}{"Title":"'Quirt' And The Quakers","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Gaill Russell was fun to watch in this film. I like her face - she was a pretty woman - and I liked the character she played, Penelope Worth. I also appreciated the fine cinematography in the beginning of the film. I was disappointed it wasn't much afterward.John Wayne's role as the hero, so to speak, Quirt Evans wasn't that appealing to me anymore than was the name Quirt. Wayne, like the crusty old characters he played the last few decades of his career, didn't want anything to do with the Quakers in here, but they turn his ugly personality into something much better. The movie featured a look at the Quakers theology and lifestyle but, if know Hollywood, you know it's distorted. However, they are painted as very nice people, which was good to see.Overall, the story isn't bad, however, and it has some very nice touches. The problem I encountered, to be honest, was that it simply dragged too much in too many spots. Also, this movie needs a good DVD print. Clarity-wise, nobody has given this film justice, so maybe a good transfer would encourage me to view this again. "},{"Title":"A nice little change of pace for John Wayne","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" While this is far from John Wayne's best film, it is a nice little change of pace that tries to be a bit different from his typical Western. While Wayne plays a character VERY MUCH like the usual Western hero, the situation he finds himself in is very unique. The film begins with Wayne being discovered by some Quakers. He's been shot and he is unconscious, so these nice people take him home and nurse him back to health--even though he has a reputation as a mean hombre. Not surprisingly, young Gail Russell (the daughter in the Quaker family) falls for Wayne. Despite Wayne's badness and desire for revenge on those who hurt him, with Ms. Russell's love and attention, Wayne slowly starts to see the light and think twice about his violent ways. Despite being pretty predictable (which knocks off a point or two), the plot is handled nicely--with a lot of feeling and with excellent acting (by the leads plus Harry Carey in one of his last films) . Well worth seeing and more than just another time-passer. "},{"Title":"Only a man that carries a gun ever needs one.","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" An injured Quirt Evans (John Wayne) is taken in by a peaceful Quaker family, among them the lovely daughter Penelope Worth (Gail Russell). For Penelope, it's virtually love at first sight, her facial expressions and eyes doing almost all of the talking for her. Evans is an amiable patient, but he has scores to settle, and this sets up the tension of the film. The longer he stays with the family, the more they cut away at his rough edges, providing an anchor in an otherwise lawless West.There are a couple of back stories going on in the film, for one, outlaw Laredo Stevens (Bruce Cabot) is a thorn in Evans' side. He and his gang attempt to rustle a herd of horses, only to be foiled by Evans and his partner Randy McCall (Lee Dixon). Randy is enthralled by the Bible given to Quirt by the Quaker congregation, and takes to reading it in any spare moment. Then there's the territorial marshal Wistful McClintock (Harry Carey), who it seems has made a career out of bringing Evans to justice. His remarks are some of the highlights of the film - I'm patient, that's what hangs all you fellas in the end, I'm patient. His regard for Evans' reputation though is almost respectful - You know Quirt, I always figured on usin' a new rope in hangin' you.Evans is respectful of the Quaker family's ways, he hangs his holstered gun outside, never allowing it inside the home. When he takes Penelope on a wagon ride to pick blackberries, he leaves it behind in deference to her wishes. When Quirt shows up in town to call out Laredo Stevens, the Worth family arrives on the scene, and in what could be a fatal mistake, Evans gives up his gun to face Laredo weaponless. It would have been a tragic finale, if not for the vigilant Marshal McClintock. As Evans makes his way home with the Worths, the Marshal picks up Evans' gun and proclaims to hang it in his office along with a new rope, in memory of the adversary who never was. Released in 1947 by Republic Pictures, The Angel and the Badman comes some dozen years or so after Wayne's Lone Star films which all followed a similar formula. Although a B Western, it's got a quality to the filming and story line that make it rise a considerable notch above his mid 1930's films. "},{"Title":"You can ask anybody and they'll tell ya -- Quirt Evans is a mighty cautious citizen.","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Very different John Wayne film. A romantic western, if you will. Wayne plays notorious gunslinger Quirt Evans, who is wounded and nursed back to health by a Quaker family. The sweet and innocent daughter, Penelope (Gail Russell), falls in love with Quirt. But the gunfighter's got some bad guys to deal with, chiefly an hombre named Laredo (Bruce Cabot). Quirt will have to choose between his way and the Quaker way, which means choosing Penelope or the gun.John Wayne is really good in this one. He's a very underrated actor that is often slighted by people that don't like the man, usually because they don't like his politics or something along those lines. But he was actually a very good actor who brought depth to most of the characters he played. Here he gets to show his softer side and it's one of his best performances from the '40s. Gail Russell is young and very pretty here. She does a great job in one of her two best-known films (the other being The Uninvited). Russell and Wayne have terrific chemistry. It's sad how her life turned out as she had the potential to be one of the greats. Harry Carey, Sr. plays a grizzled old marshal dubious of whether Quirt can change. As was often the case, he stands out above the pack. An excellent actor who could say more with a smile or a look than most could with a page of dialogue. Amusingly there are characters in this movie named Hondo and McClintock, both names for future Wayne characters. It's a charming and enjoyable western that fans of the Duke will love but also I think people who don't normally like westerns can enjoy. "},{"Title":"What about the Bible? You can't throw it away, that would be bad luck.","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Angel and the Badman is written and directed by James Edward Grant. It stars John Wayne, Gail Russell, Harry Carey, Bruce Cabot, Irene Rich, Lee Dixon and Stephen Grant. Music is by Richard Hageman and cinematography by Archie J. Stout.Quirt Evans (Wayne), a notorious gunman is hurt and on the run. Taken in by The Worth's, a Quaker family, Quirt forms a special bond with daughter Penelope (Russell). With the law and other badmen on his tail, will Quirt change his ways before it's too late? John Wayne's first film as a producer and star is also his most romantic. That's not to say it lacks action or Wayne's fine tuning of his macho image is halted, because that's not the case, but this carries a dreamy like old fashioned value that has helped the film endear over the years. It's a touch too slow at times for its own good and runs for ten minutes longer than was needed, things that no doubt stunted its financial growth at the 1947 box office, but there is much to enjoy here.Technical values are high, from Stout's photography that beautifully realises locations in Sedona, Arizona (Monument Valley standing out, naturally!), to cast performances from Carey, Wayne and the gorgeous Miss Russell (chemistry unbound between the three actors), film never lacks for quality. Memorable scenes are plenty, such as The Duke sitting in a chair facing down three henchmen led by Cabot's Laredo Stevens; his gun empty, a free-for-all punch up in a saloon, and some very tender moments between Wayne and Russell. While narratively there's the deft pitching of Quaker values into a wild west setting.A lovely film which also manages to pump the adrenalin as well. 7.5/10DVD version viewed was Region 2 taken out of the John Wayne Out West 6 film Box Set. A good quality black and white print. "},{"Title":"This is one book I'm sure gonna read!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Quirt's partner Randy sure got it right, and this is one movie you sure gotta watch. Climactic gunfight, romance, comedy, stampede, chase scene, barroom brawl, gorgeous scenery-how could you top this western? How about THREE GODFATHERS, RED RIVER and FORT APACHE? Those were the next three pictures the Duke made after this one. While ANGEL AND THE BADMAN is the weakest of the bunch, it's still pretty darn good and the first film that he put his stamp on as producer. Many more great ones would follow that he produced or made for his own production company, and it's arguably his best performance in a romantic role (until he made THE QUIET MAN.) Although STAGECOACH made the Duke a star and many fine films soon followed, this was his most popular shoot-em-up after STAGECOACH, and definitely put him on the trail to becoming the greatest western movie star of all time. It's not his best work, but it's still one of the top ten westerns he made, holding up well even after repeated viewings. If it's not in your collection of John Wayne films to own, you'd better follow his advice to the blacksmith in this flick, Pilgrim, and Do it quick! Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"Spoiled by the soundtrack...","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Few studios in Gower Gulch could afford to make first class productions. And the ones that tried usually crashed and burned when their efforts paled miserably in comparison to the major studios (1937's Something to Sing About literally killed off Grand National). Herbert J. Yates' Republic Pictures was one of the few poverty row moguls that could pull off a convincing 'A' effort, which essentially ended with 1952's The Quiet Man. Directed by Republic contract writer (and frequent John Wayne colleague) Jim Grant, Angel and the Badman is a very good picture, with a bravura twilight performance by the late great Harry Carey. Gail Russell gives a good performance that ideally fit her tragically fragile personality (she'd die at 36 of chronic alcoholism). Unfortunately, what hurts this movie the most is the terrible soundtrack. It appears to have been lifted from some dismal 15-chapter 1930's sagebrush serial. The music is so intrusive and inappropriate (most notable in the climatic ending scene) that it scars an otherwise entertaining, borderline classic. John Wayne's erstwhile drinking buddy, Bruce Cabot, a resoundingly mediocre actor, lives up to expectations as a mediocre bad guy. So severe is the soundtrack (-3 stars in my mind) and -1 star for Bruce Cabot's presence means 6 stars from me. "},{"Title":"Teaching an old dog new tricks.","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" That's what Quaker Gail Russell sets out to do to gunslinger John Wayne in this light-hearted western. With lawman Harry Carey on Wayne's trail, he doesn't really seem to have a chance, but with Russell's family and friends behind him and the grace of God, he just might. Old rivals also seem to want to see him six feet under, but while recovering from injuries with Russell's family's help, Wayne begins to see life from a different perspective.This interesting but occasionally slow-moving film has some great action sequences and a lot of heart. Very amusing is a church scene where Quaker locals accept Wayne into their lives and present him with a monogrammed bible. Later, this bible falls into the hands of some saloon floozies Wayne encounters which is the first indication that Wayne is changing. Bruce Cabot and Irene Rich offer fine support as Russell's family, while stunt director Yakuma Camut offers two fine action sequences-one a fight scene in a saloon, the other a chase sequence which ends with Wayne and Russell flying off a cliff into the river in a fleeing wagon. "},{"Title":"1st John Wayne Production Shows Flash Of Brilliance And Predicts Bright Furure!","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" IN AN ATTEMPT to move up the Hollywood food chain, the Duke's own company produced this very interesting Oater. This was his first time in calling all of the shots; being a sort of Mini-Mogul. Of course, He would have his own production company; with any or all of the Major Hollywood Studios anxious to do business. But for the time being, he stayed where he had been under contract for so long; namely Republic Pictures.AS FOR THE film, it appears to have slipped into public domain; as it is one of those movies that appear on local channels so often. It is especially with the likes of PBS affiliates; along with the likes of SANTA FE TRAIL, OUR TOWN and THEY MADE ME A CRIMIINAL.THIS FACT SHOULD not act as a turn-off to any potential viewer; for it truly has so much to offer an audience.TO START WITH, it has such a great cast. In a roster that is worthy of a movie of Directors Frank Capra or John Ford, we have Gail Russell, Harry Carey and Bruce Cabot join John Wayne and an equally impressive array of supporting players in a storyline that would appear to be singularly unique, a very unusual occurrence in Tinseltown. WHAT WE MEAN is that ANGEL AND THE BADMAN covers all of the bases. Just ask; does it have action, great storyline, Romance, conflict, substantial sub-plots, redeeming social content, a morale and a happy ending? The answer to all of these questions is a resounding yes! THE STORY ALSO predates other movies in having the Christian Denomination called The Society of Friends playing a major role in its story. Better known as the Quakers, this film predates both FRIENDLY PERSUASION and HIGH NOON in making an appeal to the general public to perhaps emulate these people's outlook and general behavior on life.ANOTHER HIGHLY RECOMMENDING aspect of ANGEL AND THE BADMAN is that it's one of those movies that one can enjoy again and again. So, when there is nothing else on late, just check your local PBS Affiliate and see if the're running it. (There's no pledge required!)*NOTE * Ooohh, Lucky us here in Chicago, for we have three (3) PBS Stations! They are WTTW Channel 11, WYCC Channel 20 and Lakeshore Public Television (NW Indiana & Chicago) Channel 56. "},{"Title":" The Quaker And The Gunslinger ","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Angel and The Badman is a quaint romantic western with a predictable story, but in this case it really works. The film is a perfect blend of an extremely ruthless gunslinger being tamed by the highly moral Quakers. Opposites attract, as the lovely and sweet Quaker girl Penelope Worth, ( Gail Russell ) falls in love with badman Quirt Evans, ( John Wayne ) who tries to resist the tempting gentle beauty for awhile . His rough past follows him though, with the persistent single-minded older sheriff, Wistful McClintock ( Harry Carey ) who was always determined to bring Quirt Evans to justice. But he's not the only nemesis in Quirt's criminal past. As the story builds, it ends superbly with the tender Quaker girl, finally asserting herself, convincing the badman to hang up his weapons for good. Gail Russell excels in her performance, proving to be a very versatile actress. Along with an interesting cast of characters, all finely played by a good first-rate cast, this film is surprisingly impressive. The message of the opposition to violence, is a different and refreshing change for a John Wayne movie. John Wayne was such an important star for Republic Pictures, that they allowed him to produce this film. Although not a classic, the results are still enjoyable and worth a look. "}{"Title":"the Duke","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" After years of running our main character a cowboy played by none other than the Duke decides that it's time to lay low for awhile,, after being shot,, he is taken in by a Quaker woman, who he eventualliy falls for,, he has to keep his past from her so he doesn't lose her,, he also has to hope that his past doesn't catch up to him , as one of his former partners is hanging around waiting for his speedy recovery. this movie shows a very different side of John Wayne that you don't get to see very often,, a quite reserved kind of solitude, instead of the gun toting,, angry man we see most of the time. Harry Carey also is very wonderful in this picture as is Gail Russel.. not a bad western at all as there is some action sequences and the Duke returns to form near the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"One of John Wayne's Earliest and Best Westerns","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Former Chicago newspaper reporter James Edward Grant spent most of his career either penning or polishing screenplays for John Wayne, and Grant handed Wayne one of his best and earliest western classics in 1947 with Angel and the Badman that Wayne produced as his first film and Grant helmed. This amiable black & white oater about a scrappy saddle tramp befriended by a family of friendly Quakers after he has been wounded in a gunfight with three other men is a conversion saga. The Quakers, particularly their young, starry-eyed daughter, eventually convince the gunslinging hero to change his way, hang up his six-gun, and till the soil. John Wayne is perfectly cast as Quirt Evans, a fast-drawing, crack-shooting cowboy and Gail Russell is Penelope Worth. Clocking in at 100 minutes, Angel and the Badman is a top-notch horse opera that never run out of energy and triggers a surprise or two. The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent with Bruce Cabot of Dodge City as the evil villain Laredo Stevens and Harry Carey stealing the show every time he sneaks into the picture as Territorial Marshal Wistful McClintock. Carey is really funny, too, especially his dialogue about how he isn't going to hang Quirt with a 'new' rope. Angel and the Badman benefits from the chemistry between Wayne and Russell who appear to be genuinely made for each other. Although there is a lot of romance, this western boasts enough action to keep the guys happy. A cattle stampede and a runaway wagon chase are two highlights. Riders of Destiny lenser Archie Stout makes this Republic western look sprawling and scenic. The best scene in the movie occurs early in the action as the doctor is struggling to sedate Quirt Evans so that he can remove a bullet in his chest. No matter how much laudanum he administers to Quirt, Quirt refuses to stop thrashing around in the best. Penelope's father Thomas Worth (John Halloran of Blood on the Sun) scrambles downstairs and retrieves Quirt's six-gun dangling outside their house, empties the cartridges from the cylinder and then sticks it into Quirt's hand and Quirt settles down for the doctor to extract the bullet. The scenes where Quirt gets an unfriendly landowner who has blocked up a stream to the Quakers' farms is memorable, too. Chief comic relief is provided by the beanpole town telegrapher (Olin Howland of Gone with the Wind) who brags later about how close Quirt and he are after he sends a telegram for him. Actually, Angel and the Badman is a precursor of sorts to the Alan Ladd oater Shane, because Quirt defends the Quakers from their enemies. The surprise ending when Quirt rides out to gun down Laredo and his henchmen is good. Grant's dialogue is good, too. Angel and the Badman is a thoroughly entertaining, somewhat predictable, rarely outlandish, but good looking western. The scene between Quirt and Penelope when she tells him about the significance of using thee and thou is imaginative, too. "},{"Title":"Awesome Film","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This film is an absolute masterpiece, and one of John Wayne's best. What people who have reviewed the film, have overlooked is the why behind the relationship behind Quirt Evans (Wayne), and Penelope Worth (Gail Russell), which is essentially she was a woman who was essentially put on Earth by God for Quirt, and vice versa. Without Penelope, he would have been doomed, either from the wounds he received prior to meeting her, or by McClintock (Harry Carey), or by some other means. There was a reviewer who said She threw herself at Quirk., which was really not true. She was a woman of tremendous faith and devotion, and thus knew that she and Quirt had been put together for a reason,by a higher authority. So that even when he left, she knew he would return, and in the most pivotal scene of the film (Spoilers ahead) where her after she almost dies, and gets a fever, a miracle occurs, and it goes away (Which Dr. Mangram (Tom Powers) acknowledges) and has her father take her to him, and was able prevent the showdown between Quirt and Laredo Stevens (Bruce Cabot) where MCClintock would have killed Quirt. Quirt essentially knew the same thing, because he got tired of the wild life and came back to her. Finally, he was willing to give up his guns and become a farmer for Penelope. The simple reason is Quirt & Penelope were supposed to be together, and they would do whatever was necessary to remain together. "},{"Title":"Good romance, average Western","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":"  *Minor spoilers*The first half of this picture is actually extremely good. One doesn't expect John Wayne to do romantic comedy, let alone to shine in it; but the romance of the title - in which a Quaker family shelter and accept a wounded man living on the edge of the law - proves to be strangely convincing and very tender. The comedy is of the most gentle and affectionate nature, and many of the early scenes had me smiling from ear to ear in delight.As the simple, direct heroine Penelope Worth, Gail Russell confounds both the outlaw's and the audience's stereotyped expectations of a 'religious' girl, and as in all the best culture-clash romances, both sides end up learning from each other. It takes Quirt Evans' menacing reputation and not the prayers of the Worths to convince their miserly old neighbour initially to release the water the farm so desperately needs - but it is the genuine and uncritical welcome the old man subsequently receives from the Quakers that converts him from enemy into friend.As far as the moment when Quirt, unable to bear the Quakers' gratitude, breaks free and reverts to his old life, the film never puts a foot wrong. But in the more conventionally 'Western' scenes that follow, it proves less effective.The Laredo Stevens sub-plot never really catches fire, despite being part of the story from the beginning, and while the Marshal's role in the denouement, with hindsight, is clearly set up in a number of early scenes, it still somehow feels rather contrived. The total lack of bloodshed in the one criminal act we see Quirt commit on-screen, while it can be explained away as a sign of Penelope's continuing influence, seems rather forced for the convenience of the plot.In general I felt the whole structure of the finale felt rushed - and the 'miracle' very much a deus ex machina device which wasn't even really necessary to the plot. Penelope is suddenly in danger, then as suddenly out of it, all within the span of about five minutes, with neither situation really given a chance to sink in. And one would expect Quirt to demonstrate at least a subconscious sense of responsibility for the situation, since without his presence none of it would have happened.Instead, the whole thing gives the impression of having been engineered as an excuse to push us suddenly into a traditional-style showdown, without any real emotional weight. Admittedly, the result of the showdown is totally unexpected. Admittedly, it has been skilfully set up beforehand. But somehow, for me at least, the second half of the film failed to involve me as closely with its characters as the first. 'The Angel and the Badman' is half-romance, half-Western - but half a Western isn't really enough to sustain the climax, though the basic structure is all there.As the depiction of the development of an unlikely romance, this is exquisitely done. Unfortunately, it is the would-be-dramatic elements that let the tension down, and prevent me from giving it a whole-hearted recommendation. It  could have been an offbeat classic - but instead I was ultimately left slightly disappointed. "},{"Title":"Gail Force","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This is an interesting rather than a good, bad or indifferent film which marked the producing debut of John Wayne from which we may infer that he had a hand in developing the project and, by extension, an interest in the good-versus-evil conflict which is the main thrust of the plot. Those who know her tragic history - she drank herself to death at 36 - will also be monitoring the performance of Gail Russell for signs of the alcoholism that ultimately cost her her life. She tended to specialise in virginal roles - in which she was a hundred times more convincing than Doris Day - which of course created an irony given the fact that she began drinking to combat nerves when faced with the camera. Although it is a western and Duke does carry a gun and is celebrated for his fast draw the 'action' is more concerned with his growing awareness of the non-violent world than gunfights. Against all the odds it works and makes a refreshing change in the genre. "},{"Title":"Good for the Genre","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Quirt Evans, an all round bad guy.He is nursed back to health and sought after by Penelope Worth a quaker girl. He eventually finds himself having to choose between his world and the world Penelope lives in.Which will he choose?It a decent Western of the kind they don't make any longer.John Wayne was such a good actor. Really no one can take his place.There's a reason he was always on the top 10 box office list his entire career. "},{"Title":"Friendly Persuasion by Shane/Wayne","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This truly uplifting humane Repubic Pictures western produced by John Wayne in 1946 is a genuinely wonderful film in many ways. As a hilarious fish-out-of-water comedy with surprising romance and outlaw danger, it allows Wayne to develop a masculine character of such admirable qualities via the steadfast Quaker rule that dominates the storyline. Wayne plays gunslinger Quirt who might as well be SHANE a few years later or Gary Cooper in FRIENDLY PERSUASION in 1956. Parts even remind me of WITNESS. Gorgeous Gail Russell is so beautiful I easily understand the cult following she developed even after she died so sadly around 1960. ANGEL AND THE BADMAN is a strong and friendly film with very funny scenes and some great western settings lifted by breathtaking photography. The conflict and the innocence work well together, and Wayne and Russell are believable as opposite who attract. It is a very well designed and decorated film with excellent production values. I would be keen now to see THE WAKE OF THE RED WITCH. We are having a John Wayne festival on TV in Australia this January and ANGEL screened on a Saturday night at 8.30pm for us all to enjoy. I certainly did. "},{"Title":"substandard John Wayne western","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" this western is more of a character study than anything else,and a romance.there isn't a lot of action.it's not the worst movie i have seen,but i do felt it went on too long.i felt it was too tedious.there were several times when i thought it was over,and could/should have been over,but it kept going.i think they could have told just as good a story if they had shortened the film.it's definitely not one of my favourite westerns,nor one my favourite John Wayne westerns.it's certainly no classic,in my opinion.i know many people would disagree with that sentiment,which is fine.i wouldn't likely watch it again,at least for a long time.for me,Angel and the Badman is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Goodness And Gail Russell? Yes, Please","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" Two kinds of people need to see this movie People who love John Wayne movies full-stop, and people who think they know what a successful John Wayne movie is all about.Angel And The Badman is the kind of western that plays with your expectations. It rushes out at you with a shot of Wayne shooting and riding off on a horse (firing three shots before even the film's title appears). Thereafter, though, it is a very different movie, contemplative and character-driven. Count the number of shots he fires for the rest of the movie; you may be surprised.While riding away wounded from a gun battle, Quirt Evans (Wayne) is taken in by a family of Quakers. Daughter Penelope (Gail Russell) feels an immediate attraction to Quirt she takes no pains at hiding. Quirt likes her, too, but can the love of a devoted, peaceful woman match up against life on the prod, especially when that life is gunning for you?I don't know if it's true that Wayne and Russell had an affair during this production, as it has been said. But there's no denying the affair Russell had going with the camera here, which starts two minutes in when she stands up on her wagon shot low against the sky, and continues all the way to the film's end.Those amazing eyes of hers are a big part of it, but so too is the character she plays. She's pure and innocent, and wants no part of playing coy. The vulnerability and strength of her performance catches me short, as it does Quirt when she quietly says she's his for the asking.It's the way I feel and it would be dishonest to say anything else, she says.You sure get to the point! he answers.Watching a John Wayne movie for the love story doesn't sound promising, but it works here. The rest of the movie is somewhat underbaked that way. Quirt's background (he's not exactly a badman, as the overly literal title would have it; rather a gunfighter who operates around the outskirts of the law) is only lightly delved into, by way of contrast with Penelope's Quaker community. A stampede sequence is awkwardly shoehorned in; a final battle comes off abrupt.James Edward Grant was Wayne's most problematic screenwriter in other films. Here as both director and scripter, he's quite good, with fluid pacing and a surprisingly subtle touch. His tendency for nail-on-the-head dialogue shows up at times, most markedly with a frontier doctor who opines philosophically about the human condition. Still, he lets cinematographer Archie Stout's camera do the talking most of the way. He gets a lot of great reaction shots from Wayne (even playing off a cow in one scene) and doesn't overplay the romance.Bruce Cabot is another Wayne regular who came off stiff in other Duke productions but is galvanic here, playing chief baddie Loredo Stevens with an amiable, understated menace that adds both depth and suspense to the undercard of this ticket, the main event of course being Quirt-Penelope. There's a fantastic showdown scene in a darkened house where Quirt and Loredo have a standoff. As good as Wayne is there, I think Cabot is even better.One knock on the film is that it moves slow; I think this is truer on a first viewing than when watching it again. It's then you discover this is a heavy-duty action film, provided your idea of action involves a woman trying to convert a man to her way of life. Anyway, Gail converted me. "},{"Title":"This is a story that resonates even Today . . .","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" . . . in the Election Year of 2016, though ANGEL AND THE BADMAN is so ancient that not only is most of the cast deceased, but the vast majority of its original movie theater audiences, as well. While some Presidential Primary voters may misread this title as ANGEL VERSUS BADMAN (predicting a Hillary vs. Trump contest), this John Wayne flick actually is eerily accurate in outlining the main features of the on-going Water Crisis in Flint, MI. Playing the part of businessman-turned-governor is Frederick Carson, who shuts off the Poor People's access to Fresh Mountain Stream Water, forcing them to drink from lead-contaminated wells. Rather than backing Carson as his long-standing adherence to Rich People Party Principles in Real Life would require, John Wayne's Quirt (rhymes with squirt) talks Carson into a less lucrative policy of sharing Unpoisoned Water with the normal people. As if this weren't far-fetched enough for one flick, Quirt then gives up his six-shooter (like Montgomery Clift at the end of RED RIVER). Probably the vast majority of folks seeing this in the theaters expected Wayne to shout out Just kidding, folks! before the lights came up. It's as if Darth Vader has resigned his position to open a Petting Zoo. "}{"Title":"unexpectedly good","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" I stand second to no one in my dislike of John Wayne, and all that he stood for. But the more of his films I watch, the more aware I become that he wasn't quite so bad an actor as thought.Angel and the Badman is a light-hearted story, with a witty script and energetic direction (both from James Edward Grant). Wayne is at his physical peak. He's actually handsome, and retains his youthful slenderness (qv, The Big Trail) not having started to broaden and thicken. His annoyingly... mannered... delivery... has not fully taken hold, and he delivers a lot of his lines with a surprising degree of subtlety.Richard Hageman's score is amazing -- unclichéd, and worth paying attention to. This isn't surprising, given his background as a serious composer.https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_HagemanThis is a remarkably smart and entertaining film. I have no hesitation recommending it -- especially to those who don't like John Wayne, "},{"Title":"A beautiful and nostalgic western","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A western the good times with John Wayne showing here that really was the great actor of westerns in the role of Quirt Evans, an out-of-law is delighted with the daughter of a pastor, and radically change his life. The film produced by Republic, was directed by James Edward Grant, also a writer and screenwriter of numerous films, among them The Sheepman, The Alamo, The Last Wagon, The Proud Rebel, Hondo, McLintock !, and many others. But Angel and the Badman had the merit to meet John Wayne and the beautiful Gail Russell, who, for all we know, lived a great passion for years and years. The film, in excellent black and white, has a very simple story, and is masterfully played by Wayne and Russell. It also has the presence of Harry Carey in the role of deputy chasing Quirt wherever he goes, developing a remarkable character and contributing to a film, initially without much pretension, stay forever etched in our memory. It is a nostalgic film that transports us to a very different era and that delights in the simplicity and competence of the actors and director. "},{"Title":"Schematic Conversion","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" In all but two respects this is a typical Republic Studios Western. There is little doubt about who is good and who is bad. No sympathy is wasted on anybody. The story begins with a shoot out and takes Wayne, the gunslinger, mumbingly half-conscious, to the house of some Quaker family, who nurse him back to health, introduce him to the purity of their daughter, Gail Russel, and finally convert him from his heathen ways.Wayne by this time was a propulsive force at Republic and this is A John Wayne Production. Wayne was in a position to hire James Edward Grant as the writer, and Grant in fact does a journeyman job on the script. He gives some decent lines to the characters, especially the Doc, Tom Powers. In the long run, though, it was probably a mistake to hire Grant. Wayne was so pleased with the dialog that he used Grant repeatedly for the rest of his career because, as Wayne once said, he knows how to write for me. Therein lies the problem. Grant kept writing the same laconic, masculine, flawless character for Wayne, long after movie goers had become more sophisticated. Typical Grant-written exchange. Sheriff You're a right tall man who looks like he could take care of his self. Wayne (Stand mute, expectant but expressionless.) Wayne would ride this character well into the 1970s with only minor variations, seemingly oblivious to the fact that his best roles tended towards ambiguity and complexity and challenge, as in Red River, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, and True Grit. Well, anyhoo. I said there were two exceptions to the generalization that this was just another routine Western. One exception is the fact that Wayne begins as a gun man and ends as a pacifist married to a Quaker. The usual trajectory goes in the other direction. The gun slinger tries to hang up his guns and become a farmer but instead is drawn back into mano a mano combat, as in Shane. True enough, there is the final shoot out that the audience is craving and the bad guys die by natural causes (bullets) but Wayne doesn't do the shooting. A Deus ex Machina does.The second exception is Gail Russel. She's the Quaker daughter who realizes, after watching the wounded Wayne toss around in bed and mutter about other girls, that she loves him. She does more than simply love him. She throws herself at his feet, even after she's learned that he rode into Rimrock and had a fling with the hoorah gals in the whorehouse there. Gail Russell, not much of an actress, is a porcelain doll, her pale selenian beauty combining vulnerability and sex appeal. (That vulnerability was all too real. She was found dead in her mid-30s surrounded by bottles of booze.) But -- never mind that. Okay, she's thoroughly neurotic and insecure. But, as Wayne might have said, I kinda LIKE that in a WUMMIN. Instead of throwing herself at the feet of somebody like Wayne, why couldn't she have thrown herself at the feet of somebody like me? Granted, I was never much with a gun but I can wield a pencil with the best of them. You should see my fast draw. (Fast draw with a pencil. Pun, execrable.) The DVD on which I watched this was plain awful. The images were blurred and the dialog indistinct. I was momentarily startled when somebody says the line And he had the GALL to ride to this house? Wayne doesn't really put much effort into the movie. Grant's lines come easily to him, as does his riding, after all those years in B Westerns. But it's a more complex story than most of his earlier and later ones. It stands up well next to, say, The Man From Monterey or The Train Robbers. "},{"Title":"Friendly persuasion","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This is a quiet western ;there's violence in the first pictures (close shot of a revolver) and towards the end but this is a true story of redemption.These quaker family is some kind of heaven where you can eat the best donuts in the world and their influence radiates on the others  take the scene of the water ;we expect a fight between Wayne and the selfish old man ;but it is not so not only he lets the waters flow ,but when he comes to his neighbor's farm,the good mom presents him with baskets of food.as in the title of William Wyler's famous movie (1956),friendly persuasion indeed!Gail Russel had wonderful eyes and you should see her in the night has a thousand eyes where they merge in the sky. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but can be slow","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" A wounded Quirt Evans (John Wayne) is injured even more as his horse collapses near the house of a Quaker family, who take him in and treat him.He catches the eye of the daughter in the family (Gail Russell), and he is obviously attracted to her. But, he just can't shake his past as outlaws and the law alike try to get them for whatever reason.Now he has to look at himself and try to figure out what to do with his life.I have been watching a lot of movies starring John Wayne lately on Hulu, and this is easily the longest one so far. It is also one of the best ones on the site.For the first time in his career, Wayne is pulling double duty in this film. First, he is the leading man, as well as a first-time producer. Since I have no clue as to a producer's job, all I can do is judge him on his performance in front of the camera. And I have to say he does a pretty good job.What makes this Western unique is that it focuses on the personal conflict of Evans, while throwing everything familiar to Westerns in. The focus is on Evan's personal struggle more than the typical plot of a Western.Violence in this movie is fairly tame in this movie, even by the standards of the time of its release. You get some shooting, and one fist fight (which mostly remains off-screen), and one attack from behind with an object from their surroundings. The violence is tame most likely because of the morality of the plot.I was not impressed with the romance subplot. Actually, not the way it was handled. I found it to be pretty weak, and not given the screen time it should have had. I think that the two involved were rushed in the storyline, and not given time to develop the on-screen relationship.I was also not impressed with the chemistry between Wayne and Russell. They had some chemistry together, but nothing impressive. In fact, I wasn't impressed with much of the chemistry between many cast members.I did not like many of the supporting cast, many of which didn't have time to develop. The child actor in this movie was pretty annoying, and seemed to be there just to throw out some complaints as some poor comic relief that, for me, didn't even produce a chuckle.Unlike other recent movies I've watched starring Wayne, I didn't hear any problems with audio. I did have a problem with the picture going fuzzy at times. It appears that Hulu got a bad print to upload. Also, unlike the other movies I've seen in the last couple of weeks, it appeared there was more music in the film. I didn't find any of the music helping in enhancing scenes, and can't remember any particular piece of music except a song being performed on stage in a bar scene.Parents need not worry about the violence in this film. It's pretty mild. You can watch this movie with no problem. In fact, parents will like the moral of this story. "},{"Title":"I thought you weren't allowed to work on Sunday.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" The John Wayne Marathon has reached the halfway point - 17 hours of The Dukes action.This is a real departure as Wayne is being ensnared by a Quaker girl (Gail Russell). he struggles to give up his past and there are many pitfalls along the way to a dramatic conclusion when he makes a choice.Harry Carey joins the Duke again; this time as a territorial Marshall who seems to keep turning up hoping to catch him in a bad deed so he can hang him. He plays a significant role in the choice Wayne makes when the girls is apparently on her deathbed.Excellent movie about the good/bad dilemma. "},{"Title":"Wayne and Russell in low-key Quaker western...","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Western","Review":" This is not your run of the mill JOHN WAYNE film. It's not exactly a rootin' tootin' western with gunfights galore. Instead, it's the quiet, leisurely paced tale of an outlaw (Wayne) befriended by a Quaker family, most particularly a girl (GAIL RUSSELL) who helps heal him when he suffers a shoulder wound in a gunfight and is taken to the ranch house of the Quaker family.It's a good hour before Wayne and his buddies run down a bunch of cattle rustlers led by BRUCE CABOT, but the action soon returns to the Quakers and the romance between Wayne and Russell. The story is somewhat reminiscent of WITNESS, the Harrison Ford film about an outlaw and a Quaker family and their influence on his behavior.Wayne is fine as the cowboy with a habit of getting into barroom brawls, the kind you'd expect to see in a John Ford film--which this isn't, complete with bouts of humor. GAIL RUSSELL is a pretty gal, especially in all the loving close-ups, but let's face it, she was never much of an actress and is pretty vapid in the leading lady role.IRENE RICH does nicely as Russell's mother and HARRY CAREY and PAUL HURST are good in supporting roles.The film is obviously aiming for a quaint sort of charm with its Quaker theme, but it's really pretty forgettable material and one of the less vital John Wayne films. "}]