[{"Title":"Groundbreaking","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"55 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hate to say it, but before I saw this movie, I did not realize that there was racism against Jews in the post war period. I couldn't understand it why would Americans promote the very thing they fought against in the war? Then I was informed that they weren't fighting against racism or discrimination, but against the Nazi regime and genocide. There is a large difference between one person's opinion and a government policy. I'm a teenager, and the fact that Jews were still discriminated against was never mentioned to me. Maybe it should be better known. I am doing Modern History next year and we will be studying the Second World War, and I'm very glad I saw this film (despite its inaccuracies).Anyway &#150; now to the plot. Phillip Green (Gregory Peck) is a writer who pretends to be Jewish to find out about anti-Semitism. Through this, he learns how much people discriminate against Jews and it affects him deeply and changes his life.I was never bored in this film. I am forever fascinated by Peck, who I've always remembered as Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird (1962). This is only the second film I've seen with Peck in his younger days (it's quite a pleasure watching him). Celeste Holm also is amazing and I love how she can laugh so easily &#150; very realistic. The only thing I wasn't satisfied with is the romantic choices by Peck's character. I wish he would have chosen the happy blonde Anne instead of the sappy, boring Kathy. Oh, how I was hoping he would choose Anne! Perhaps Dorothy McGuire was miscast; maybe someone else could have brought more energy to her character. John Garfield is fantastic as Green's Jewish friend.This was ground breaking at the time and I really respect the people who participated in this film for taking a risk. Despite being made almost 60 years ago, I have not only learned from it but enjoyed it. Yes, there are some inaccuracies and plot holes, but I don't particularly care and it doesn't distract me. It's a great film, go see it. "},{"Title":"Yes, this IS a great film...","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"60 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film, though it has faults. It isn't very lively or humorous, and some parts are just plain baffling. Peck is supposed to be the moral spokesman, but so many of the other actors--John Garfield, Dorthy McGuire, Dean Stockwell, Celeste Holm, Sam Jaffe--suggest less priggishness/puritanism and more humanity/warmth than he does. How can we think him morally superior when he comes across like a sulking browbeater? I wish a Spencer Tracy or even a James Stewart had played his role. Sometimes, I feel like saying, Lighten up, Greg! Say, did you ever here the one about the Rabbi and the three bellydancers? You'll love it.Nor is it just the casting. Many of Anne Revere's lines make me wince with their naivety, and I think she has the most embarrassing role in the movie. However, I really hate the scene when Peck berates his secretary, June Havoc, basically telling her that the only thing that differentiates a Jew from a Christian is just a word--as if cultural and ethnic differences didn't exist or matter.I could go on, because I think I know this film's faults as well as any of its critics. However, the movie's virtues obviously outweigh its shortcomings and dated moments. In fact, after over sixty years, not one other Hollywood film confronts bigotry as intelligently as this one. That's right; not one. Why? Because every other one deals only with bigotry in the extreme--and the result is they don't really attack bigotry, they attack violence. Many bigots who keep their kids out of culturally diverse schools can watch MISSISSIPPI BURNING, IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT, CROSSFIRE, etc., and can self-congratulatingly say to themselves, Well, that's not me; I know I'm not a racist. Of course, violent prejudice is the worst form there is, but, in case you didn't know, it is not violent prejudice that minorities confront on a daily basis. It is the unspoken, insensitive attitudes that GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT is brave enough (and unique enough) to attack. Despite its dated moments, it's no wonder this movie raises nervous hairs to this day. It makes one actually wonder is it wrong to tell a politically incorrect joke? Those who think the answer is simple, please think again. Some have commented that they don't understand what the title refers to and it is significant. A gentleman's agreement is one made without writing or even speech--an agreement that's understood or assumed to be understood. In regards to the film, the term refers to those innumerable bigots who so unthinkingly assume that their prejudices are agreed upon. Speaking as a member of the U.S.'s privileged minority (a white, anglo-saxon, Protestant heterosexual male), I can attest that all of the sexist, racist comments I have had to hear have always been spoken by someone who silently assumed that I would agree with him, making it a gentleman's agreement. The movie, of course, says it's time to break the agreement. A lot of people didn't like such a message when the film came out, and a lot of them don't like it now. "},{"Title":"With The Holocaust Fresh In Everyone's Mind......................................","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard for today's audience to appreciate the impact of Gentlemen's Agreement in 1947. The Holocaust was not in textbooks then, it was in newsreels showed in American theaters. The state of Israel was coming into being and there was debate about that with Harry Truman shortly overruling a lot of his own trusted advisers including his own Secretary of State George C. Marshall, in giving recognition to the nascent Jewish state.During the course of the film names like Gerald L.K. Smith, Theodore G. Bilbo, and John E. Rankin are mentioned. The first was a Protestant evangelical minister who started out with Huey Long, but then developed a line of anti-Semitism in his sermons. He had a considerably large following back in the day though the Holocaust did a lot in killing his recruiting. Theodore G. Bilbo and John E. Rankin were a couple of Mississippi politicians who for their redneck constituency successfully linked anti-Semitism and racism. They didn't like foreign born either and used a whole lot of ethnic slurs. But the anti-Semitism that Gregory Peck takes on is not that of Bilbo, Smith, and Rankin. It's the genteel country club anti-Semitism that manifests itself in restricted resorts, quotas as to how many Jews will some white shoe law firm accept if any, discrimination in hiring practices, unspoken covenants gentlemen's agreements not to sell to Jews in certain areas; all these we see in Gentlemen's Agreement. Peck is given an assignment to write about it and he hits on a novel approach. Just being hired by publisher Albert Dekker, he gets Dekker's backing when he says he will pretend he's Jewish and see how he's being treated. He gets quite an experience in the bargain.Running parallel to Peck's masquerade is his courtship of Dorothy McGuire. She's a divorcée, he's a widower with a young son. The whole thing puts a strain on their relationship, especially in dealing with her sister, Jane Wyatt who lives in one of those restricted by Gentlemen's Agreement communities.Gentlemen's Agreement came up with several nominations and three Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director to Elia Kazan, and Best Supporting Actress to Celeste Holm as a tart tongued fashion writer at Peck's magazine who proves to be a friend. Peck himself was nominated for Best Actor, but lost to Ronald Colman for A Double Life. Holm also beat out Anne Revere nominated for the same film, probably helped by the fact that Revere had won a few years earlier for National Velvet.John Garfield who was Jewish took a small supporting role in the film as Peck's long time childhood friend who educates Peck into how a Jew deals with the rebuffs he's finding out about. Had he not been up also for Body and Soul as Best Actor, he might well have earned a Supporting Actor nomination here.Also note Sam Jaffe as the fictional professor Lieberman which is a thinly veiled caricature of Albert Einstein probably the most noted figure in the world of Jewish background. Like Lieberman, Einstein's a cultural Jew, not religious in any sense of the word. Nevertheless he was a leading figure at the time in the Zionist movement, having endured all that Peck endured in Germany and seeing what was coming with Hitler, fled his native Germany for safe harbor in the USA.My favorite character in the film however has always been June Havoc as Peck's secretary. She changed her name to something ethnically neutral to get her job in the very magazine that will now crusade against anti-Semitism. She's also become a self hater, a phenomenon that other discriminated people also experience. GLBT activists are fully aware of what self hate has done, not hardly unknown among other groups as Ms. Havoc demonstrates.Of course Gentlemen's Agreement is dated with its topical references to post World War II trends and events. Yet it still has a powerful message to deliver. It made Gregory Peck one of the great liberal icons of Hollywood and still should be seen by all as a great lesson in the pitfalls of unreasoning hate. "},{"Title":"A Moral Milestone for Hollywood","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"33 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  20th Century Fox currently is releasing a new Studio Classics DVD series, each a famous film from the past packaged with often compellingly interesting special features.  Few releases are more important than 1947's Academy Award winning Gentleman's Agreement, a for-the-times daring expose of anti-Semitism, a prejudice rarely if ever before that year acknowledged in film.Laura Z. Hobson, an accomplished novelist, wrote the book of the same title and it sold well.  Hobson unveiled the so-called Gentleman's Agreement whereby Jews were excluded from professions, clubs, resorts and employment and residency opportunities as well as simple social associations by a silent compact by mainly white Christians to engage in exclusionary practices.  While discrimination against blacks was mandated by unambiguous law supported by inflexible government authority, the relegation of Jews to often second-class status in the dominant Christian community was by deception, denial and deceit.A Christian, Darryl F. Zanuck was one of the few true Hollywood moguls who wasn't Jewish. He was also intensely offended by bigotry of any kind.  Hobson's novel, of no interest to Jewish producers who preferred to live in their own world which consciously often aped the society from which they were barred, was his to buy for the screen. He did so for $75,000 and he set out to find a first-class crew to make the film.Elia Kazan signed on to direct (and to revise the screenplay after Moss Hart finished it).  Gregory Peck, already a box office idol, was chosen to play Philip Schuyler Green, a widower with a young boy (played by Dean Stockwell).  Dorothy McGuire is Green's troubling love interest, Kathy Lacey.  John Garfield, one of the many Hollywood denizens who changed their names to avoid being typed as Jewish, is Army Corps of Engineers captain Dave Goldman.  Celeste Holm won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress as Anne Dettrey.  Anne Revere, soon to lose twenty years of productive life because of the Blacklist, is Green's wise mom.  June Havoc is Green's secretary, Elaine Wales, who in the film changed her name to get work, her real name being clearly Jewish.  Lastly, Albert Dekker is magazine publisher John Minify, a man determined to expose to the light of day the insidious anti-Semitism of his social and economic universe. Unfortunately he's a bit naive about what goes down in his own shop.This is a message film, direct and uncompromising.  Agreeing to write a series exposing anti-Semitism, Green struggles to find a theme while falling in love with the divorced Kathy.  His brilliant concept is to pretend to be a Jew and to record how others respond to him, a clearly well-educated, socially competent man, in that guise.  His childhood buddy, Goldman, tries to warn him off but Green is determined.Stridently polemical, the movie traces the growing number of incidents where Green is slighted because of his announced religion.  From a building superintendent who doesn't allow a Jewish name on a lobby mailbox to a haughty resort manager of a restricted facility (the code word of the time for exclusion of Jews and blacks), Green gets a rapid course in the crude discrimination lurking behind most doors including the high society of his new beloved.Green's son, told not to reveal that he and his dad aren't Jewish, runs into his own cruel rejection by classmates.  Peck's Green lacks the depth of understanding of a child's vulnerability that his Atticus Finch later displays in To Kill a Mockingbird. The boy is basically told that the other kids are wrong, we're right and that's that.  Too simplistic even for this movie. Green is adamantly and unwaveringly sure of himself and woe betide any who do not share his abhorrence at any manifestation of discrimination, starting with Kathy.The romance between Green and Kathy is as back-and-forth as any Hollywood potboiler, the difference being that their arguments and falling-outs revolve entirely over Kathy's inability to grasp the absolute righteousness of her fiance's crusade.  The dispute is artificial and wearying to some degree and I rooted for Celeste Holm's lovely, witty and totally tolerant Anne, a fashion editor with attitude, as the top gal in the film. I would have married her in a New York minute!Younger audiences today may well dismiss A Gentleman's Agreement as formulaic and preachy but they do not understand the nature of the tragedy, and that it was, that afflicted America at the time.  The war had been won, the Cold War was getting into high gear and Nazi criminals were on trial in various European courtrooms.  The reality of the concentration camps was known to all but already many had accepted the belief that only some Germans and their allies were actual murderers.  Holocaust studies had not begun.The period of A Gentleman's Agreement was a time in which many top colleges and universities that didn't ban Jews entirely had what are now acknowledged as Jew quotas.  Many Jewish doctors didn't enter that profession because that's what their moms wanted but due to the near blanket exclusion of Jews from engineering schools.  Architecture schools also had a low quota for Jews (Louis Kahn's experiences are recounted in the current and outstanding documentary, My Architect).  Whole communities lived by a sub rosa agreement never to admit Jews (and blacks), often solidifying their intent by restrictive covenants that courts enforced).  What added to the awfulness of the prejudice is that communities comprised of Jews usually excluded blacks and other non-whites.  No Caucasian group, whatever their religion, deserves exoneration for the acts they practiced against minorities.  Blacks get no mention in this movie but lynchings were still in vogue-let's not forget that.For many Americans harboring anti-Semitic beliefs, the bestiality of the Nazis was far more troubling than the fate of millions of their innocent victims, Jewish or not.  Decrying Auschwitz in no way caused them to re-think less lethal but highly pervasive discrimination that they practiced or, as the film shows, disliked but nonetheless condoned without protest.In that sense A Gentleman's Agreement was Hollywood's, actually Zanuck's, wake-up call.  The politics of the producer, director, screenwriter and much of the cast aren't hidden.  Several references to Bilbo and Rankin, two of the most evil racists and bigots ever to pollute Congress's halls, are as direct and clear as the sharp DVD images.  And it's no surprise that virtually everyone associated with this film went on to be called by the House Un-American Activities Committee to be questioned about ties to communism (John Garfield died at age 39 of a heart attack the night prior to a second command appearance before that run-amuck committee).  That committee hunted communists publicly but pursued a barely hidden anti-Semitic agenda and Hollywood provided plenty of potential victims.The special features on this disc include a short documentary on its genesis and the subsequent reaction to the film as well as interviews with several stars including the still imposing Celeste Holm.  Zanuck and Kazin deserved their Oscars as did Ms. Holm.  A Gentleman's Agreement wasn't the only film to highlight anti-Semitism at that time. In fact it wasn't the first such film of 1947.  Released shortly earlier, Crossfire starring Robert Ryan is a film noir capturing the violent bigotry of a thug who kills a Jewish victim for little better reason than his religion.  An exciting film in its own right, its importance is secondary to Zanuck's which blew the lid - almost literally - off a brand of discrimination indulged in by educated and affluent Americans who would never commit assault or murder against anyone because of their race or religion.Hollywood's Jewish moguls must have been surprised at the success of Zanuck's movie which in a small but real way began rolling back the kind of anti-American bigotry that the congressional committee investigating Tinseltown not only didn't care about they shared it.10/10 (for its historical impact and lasting value) "},{"Title":"It's simultaneously a classic and a bad picture","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"       On the one hand, Gentleman's Agreement has a highly enlightened prejudice, even today, let alone 1947. Gregory Peck plays a journalist who decides to pretend to be Jewish so he can attain a real-life perspective on anti-semitism. Peck's transformation from a determined writer looking for an edge to a crusader against prejudice is nothing short of profound. The twist of course is that Peck gets lost in the assignment, starts seeing himself as a Jew and struggles to maintain his composure amid all the anti-semitism he experiences.       Considering that, it's a shame that the film's abilities to tell a story lag so far behind the movie's depth and boldness. There's a lot of emphasis on the romance between Peck and his editor's niece, which is pretty overdone for a pair who has as little chemistry as McGuire and Peck. I think the worst part of that is hearing Gregory Peck referring to McGuire's character as my girl like he's in middle school, especially considering I've always associated Peck with characters of tremendous maturity. Additional randomness comes from the fact that the film also focuses on Peck's relationship with his ailing mother, which doesn't have much to do with the central plot at all. What seemed to be an attempt to give a more well-rounded view of the character, the story felt bogged down by those elements.       Still, a worthwhile movie, overall, *** out of ****   "},{"Title":"Kudos to John Garfield!","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was very well done, and in my opinion should be shown to young people at school. That way it can help to prevent prejudices and bigotry from taking root in future generations. As John Garfield's character in the movie showed discrimination and racial intolerance can be eliminated if we fight it. Garfield's willingness to take a supporting role in this movie because of the power of its message should compel the skeptics to watch this movie.The sterling cast meshed together perfectly. Gregory Pecks gentility was exactly what the lead role in this movie had to have. Dorothy Mcguire was also excellent at conveying her emotions in such a demanding role. Its too bad that Garfield and Mcguire are not as well known as other Golden age stars. "},{"Title":"Important message, poor execution","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"31 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although one certainly cannot say Gentleman's Agreement is not passionate in its aim to uncover the invisible cloak of anti-Semitism in post-war America, the execution of that objective could have used slightly more dramatic tension and immediacy.Released the same year and touching on the same subject was Edward Dmytryk's Crossfire, which dealt with anti-Semitism at its extremes murder with anti-Semitism as the motive.  Gentleman's Agreement takes a more humanistic and subtle approach--one that is too subtle at times.  Where Crossfire dropped the bomb of anti-Semitism into the laps of the audience, Gentleman's Agreement gives it to you in periodic shots in the arm in the form of a sermon, and each one says the exact same thing anti-Semitism is bad.  (But we knew that.)  Yes, the message is an important one, but feeding it to the audience in a manner that is literally shoving it down our throats every few minutes doesn't help the digestion any.Also lacking in Gentleman's Agreement is a three-dimensional protagonist. Peck's crusading writer who masquerades as a Jew is simply too zealous and unswerving for his own good.  He has no faults, no inner conflicts and no doubts about himself.  Whether he's being shunned by bigots or Dorothy McGuire, he's such a straight-shooter you know what he's going to do before he does the right thing right away.There's no real dramatic arc in the story, with the entire weight of the movie resting on the torrid on-again-off-again love affair between Peck and McGuire.  She symbolizes the hypocrisy and passiveness of the everyday American on anti-Semitism, and he points it out to her every chance he gets-and that's all.  It pretty much rambles on the same dramatic level all throughout the picture, dividing its time between love scenes and sermons, most of which are indistinguishable from one another.In the end, the important message and the overall entertainment value of the picture suffers from this redundancy. "},{"Title":"this movie is more subtle than it first appears","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" just as philip's magazine editor told him, any hack could write a column on the subject based on facts and figures. what they needed was a different angle that would capture the audience on a gut level. the theme wasn't about showing a Jewish guy get discriminated against. those incidences provide the backdrop and the link to philip's realization of a much more pernicious side to the subject. his magazine article may have started out with the idea of what it actually is like to be discriminated against as a Jewish man, but it moved into an analysis of how well- meaning, nice, people who woudn't consider themselves bigoted or prejudiced, will sit by and let it happen without saying or doing anything. that's why kathy's rocky relationship with philip is so important and the ultimate resolution of the film. "},{"Title":"A Good portrayal of indiscriminate prejudice that leaves lifetime damage","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gregory Peck is slick as a writer for a publisher who is trying to find something to inspire him after his wife dies. He must take care of his young son and has his mother there in New York to help him out. Anti-Semitism hits a chord as WWII has just ended with news of the Holocaust just barely starting to sink into the national consciousness. The timing for release of this movie is obvious, but it is carefully thought out as the director tries to convey the sinister and insidious way in which prejudice worms its way into the mainstream of everyday life. A well done film that works! A clever and intelligent portrayal that deserved the attention it received. Not an entertaining movie in the strictest sense, but one where the audience must do the work of thinking their way through it. It is a film worth navigating, however, because the ugly mirror of prejudice is held up to us all who are watching. It makes you feel uncomfortable because most of us are guilty of what is offered, or at least, of witnessing prejudice and doing nothing about it as we just sit or stand idly by and do nothing.I recommend this film, but it won't be for everyone and many of us would rather just pass this one by. But we should not pass it by, even though it holds up this mirror which makes us feel guilty and uncomfortable. I should point out that the ending which relates to the love interest in the story just doesn't work, but then that is not the heart, soul and purpose of the film. Prejudice, anti-Semitism and discrimination are, and these elements are worked out well. A disturbing, but intelligent portrayal which is worth taking in for what it is worth. "},{"Title":"Heavy-handed, but not ineffective","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Certainly the preachiest film ever to win Best Picture, and almost the preachiest film ever to be made, but that doesn't necessarily mean that Gentleman's Agreement isn't a good movie. In fact, I thought it was a fine film and an important one. It's heavy-handedness is mostly evened out by a lot of good dialogue, good filmmaking, and exceptional performances. I'll start there. I thought every principal actor succeeded with flying colors; even when they have to deliver awful and obvious message speeches, they almost always ended up making that writing sound a lot better than it was. Gregory Peck gives one of his very best performances. I'm glad to see him give this performance, too, after being stupefied by that wooden performance in the same year's The Paradine Case. The script does well with the character of Phil Green. When he begins his quest to discover the anti-semitism around him, he is involved very impersonally. It's a job, a job he doesn't really want to do, a job he doesn't even know how to do. And when he gets his big idea, to pretend he's Jewish himself, it seems almost arrogant. How dare he, I thought. But, through the film, he does get personally involved, so deeply involved that the insults and jokes and so forth become personal attacks. I doubt he ever expected that it would hurt so much. In comparison to the other film about anti-Semitism in 1947, Crossfire, also nominated for Best Picture, Gentleman's Agreement certainly does not hold up in terms of filmmaking and artistry. However, which film do you think had more of a chance to make a difference? Where Gentleman's Agreement succeeds, and Crossfire fails, is its ability to make the audience look inside themselves. Sure, it has to hit its audience with a sledgehammer before they look inside themselves to find their own prejudices and shortcomings, but I really think it works. "}{"Title":"A 50+ year old contemporary movie","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot people describe this movie as a period piece and a great movie but irrelevant in our time.However, this movie has lessons that every new generation should learn.The lessons taught in this movie can be applied to other forms of prejudices such as sexism, racism, and homophobia among others.Our society today is still full of nice people who detest bigotry and intolerance, but stand idly by while it happens right in from of them.  Watching this movie could change all that. "},{"Title":"Packs an emotional punch even after 60 years","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen Gentleman's Agreement at least a half dozen times, but the effect never lessens and I write these words still wiping tears from my face.Of course so much of the movie - including its basic premise - is complete nonsense. If a magazine editor really wants a first-person account of what it means to be the victim of anti-Semitic prejudice, why not just hire a Jewish writer? And there are characterisations that are absurd - the anti-Semitic secretary, for example.And yet - the film packs an emotional punch that has not lessened in the sixty years since it first came out. The most powerful moment in the entire film, for me, comes when Phil's young son returns from school to report that he had been at the receiving end of anti-Semitic verbal abuse from other children. Phil's WASP girlfriend, always ready with the wrong thing to say, hugs him and reassures him that everything is OK because he's not really Jewish. From that moment on, it seems that the relationship between the two leads is doomed, as it should be.The most likable characters in the film are John Garfield and Celeste Holm, the latter winning a well-deserved Oscar for her performance.The film succeeds in spite of its premise, in spite of some silly characterisations, and even in spite of the tacked-on happy end (Phil should wind up with Anne). It succeeds because it addresses the issue of anti-Semitism with an extraordinary power, and Gregory Peck demonstrates here, as in To Kill A Mockingbird that when you need an actor to embody basic human decency, he's your man. "},{"Title":"A controversial subject matter enhanced by skillful direction and understated performances","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A Gentleman's Agreement is the second motion picture of Elia Kazan that I have seen, the first being On the Waterfront. When I saw the movie starring On the Waterfront about two years, I had not much knowledge about Stanislavsky's method of acting; to me, as an Indian teenager more exposed to Bollywood films, acting meant overdone expressions that indicated emotions of the character at the moment and blaring music in the background to suggest the mood. But after having read his works and being in contact with theater actors, I have realized how tough and delicate 'true' acting is. It can be compared to a tightrope, you tilt more to the side and you fall. Similarly, if you overdo or underperform, you fail &#x96; it is about developing yourself externally and internally to portray another person. And so have I begun to appreciate more welcomingly the works of great directors and actors; I am able to sense more keenly whether the actor is 'feeling' or 'acting as if he is feels'. Elia Kazan, as I read about him in Wikipedia, has been proclaimed as an 'actor's director' for implementing his Method techniques in his film in a way that brings out the truest emotion within his actors. When Marlon Brando hails him as the best experience he has ever had with a director, it means a lot. And Gentleman's Agreement has a lot to say about the director's way of handling his actors and the subject of the film. The film seems rather like a filmed play, blackouts after every scene, unelaborated production and specific focus on actors. And the actors never sob their eyes out or scream their lungs out; their actions seem controlled and natural. There is scant music during the scenes, and therefore we never are made to feel in a particular way; everyone in the audience is entitled to feel his/her own way. And that's what made me astonished, as I was expecting high-voltage drama with the message bombarded upon the viewers. Although there were some unneeded moments, the impact that the film had on me was much more because all the actors collaborated so well without having any 'Movie Star' moment. The matter is contentious and provocative &#x96; in the 40s; a reporter pretends to be a Jew for an article to directly be able to understand their feelings and presence in the white Christian dominated society. He is supported wholeheartedly by his openhearted mother and precocious son while equivocally by his fiancé. His decision leads to many confrontations, though most are not very serious, and a newfound friendship. The film distinguishes the varying attitudes of people &#x96; some take the initiative for the better, some for the worse while most sit on the fence. Here, Gregory, as Schuyler Green has been assigned to cover about anti-Semitism, which at that time was widely prevalent. He remains indecisive for a while but with the support of his family goes ahead and hits upon the idea of going undercover as a Jew. Gregory portrays him with immaculate sincerity though his character could have been written in a cleaner and riskier way. By this I mean his character does not experience to a fuller extent the discriminations among Jews because the radius his character chooses is limited to the upper caste society which remains more discreet in conveying its feelings. Also, there was abundant focus on his relationship with Kathy, his fiancée which although was very interesting as it gave focus to her own views on racism, but it neglected his interactions with other people. Yet, to take up this matter in the 40s is very brave.Some viewers on IMDb denounce Kathy for being shallow, but I have to say that most people even today are like her in some or the other way. We know that something is wrong yet we sit and do nothing. And Dorothy McGuire channels this feeling of 'shame of not doing something' to a tee. And regarding certain viewers' complaint regarding the ending of the film, I say that basic human feelings such as love should not alter because of one incompatibility. I shall give a personal example here My grandmother is staunchly against a leader's administration and is quite vocal about it but she would always reprimand my grandfather whenever he would provide criticism about the reader in the newspaper. That does not mean my grandpa will divorce my grandma and go soul searching; I was not disappointed by Schuyler's decision in the end.The supporting cast act like pillars in the film, with not one misstep from the actors. Celeste Holm is simply amazing as the feisty fashion editor who believes in equality. And I felt she really had her feet on the ground, unlike fireball Bette Davis in All about Eve, whose character too has the similar zest but seems to spit ember and heat up all the scenes. Celeste is fun, over-the-top and believable, she also wonderfully acts especially in her final scene. Anne Revere is equally brilliant, and John Garfield and June Havoc give their best in their short roles. Garfield surprisingly didn't receive supporting actor nomination, since he has some climatic scenes and dialogs. And what conviction does the young Dean Stockwell display!The ensemble is one of the best I have seen, and under Elia's guidance, deliver their best and most genuine. It may get dreary for those expecting swelling music and over-the-top moments but anyone who can notice the director's courage for making this shall be greatly impressed. My Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dated at this time","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Laura Hobson's novel is brought to the screen in 1947, when it took courage to present a film of this subject. You'd think with Elia Kazan's direction and top notch casting, it would be a great film. It isn't. I think the fault lies in the adaptation of the novel. It is watered down so as to not offend anyone. In other words Zanuck took the easy way out and made it into a soap opera instead. This is a shame as the actors were very capable of giving true and genuine performances. Gregory Peck as the man who passes himself off as Jewish, seemed restrained and unable to bear down on the message of the plot. It was the writing that never gave him this opportunity. The durable Dorothy McGuire, known for ENCHANTED COTTAGE, TREE GROWS IN BROOKLYN, was wasted in an unsympathetic role as the girl friend who can't be understood. Their love scenes were stale. I did like the unsaid dinner scene where they couldn't look at each other or speak. Very well played. John Garfield, the Jewish friend, and a brilliant actor, walked through this film, where he could have done so much more. Celeste Holm, in her Academy Award performance, had a few moments, but far from award winning performance. It seemed she too was restrained from being the babe out to get Peck for her own. Anne Revere again plays the mama with the words of wisdom. It seems to be her fate to play these roles. See her in NATIONAL VELVET, SONG OF BERNADETTE and PLACE IN THE SUN. You never are quite sure what she's thinking. She walks around with a smug look on her face. Other roles played by June Havoc, the bigoted secretary, Albert Dekker, the publishing boss who wanted the story, Sam Jaffe, wonderful in a small role, Jane Wyatt, wasted in a thankless role as McGuire's sister and young Dean Stockwell, one of the better juvenile actors of the time as the son. All could have added great depth to this, but the writing and I believe the studio's fear of offending prevented this from being a powerful message. DIARY OF ANNE FRANK captured this. As did HOME OF THE BRAVE for the African American. Too bad. Could have been better. "},{"Title":"Those nasty little snobs","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After the defeat of nazism and the revelation of its horrors, people in the Allied nations were suddenly compelled to talk about that racial prejudice that existed in their own backyards. It's an indicator of how fiercely the issue was beginning to burn, that even cautiously commercial Hollywood was in on the act, making a high-class production of Gentleman's Agreement.But unlike most of the movies on racism that were to follow in later years, Gentleman's Agreement is not about persecution of black people, but about anti-Semitism. This is not to downplay anti-Semitism, but given the relative scale of the problem in the USA it does seem as if Hollywood is just taking baby steps in the field of race relations. Especially since the movie specifically defines Jewishness as a matter of faith, not ethnicity. What's more, Gentleman's Agreement only really attacks prejudice as it exists in upper-class society &#x96; being refused entry to a club or having people turn their noses up at a dinner party &#x96; a long way from the hatred and violence that makes up the thin end of bigotry's wedge.Given that it now seems such a weedy condemnation of prejudice, perhaps better to view it simply as a drama. After all, director Elia Kazan is ace at dramas. Kazan's style is marked by the confidence to keep his subjects further back within the shot. There's a bit where Celeste Holm calls Gregory Peck from within her office, and their conversation follows with no change of angle, no cut to a close-up of Holm. While there never are any actual close-ups, the layering within the frame can produce an intense feeling of closeness at times. When Peck and Dorothy McGuire have an argument after he is refused a room at the hotel, they move from being near a set of double doors at the back of the room, then they move to the foreground, and the sudden gulf between them and the doors in the background make it feel like they have suddenly stepped into our personal space.And then of course we have a cast of top dramatic actors. Sadly lead man Peck's performance is rather a corny one. Watching his deliberation as he comes to the decision to pose as Jewish is almost painful. He's only good when he's being stern and forceful, and it's later in the movie he starts to come into his own. The great performances in Gentleman's Agreement belong to its women. Dorothy McGuire is nicely understated, her voice near to a husky whisper as she delivers her most pertinent lines. Celeste Holm is excellent, for most of the movie a joyful and easygoing presence, so carefree and likable that her steely outburst towards the end seems all the more stark and powerful. Anne Revere, always a monument of dignity even in the grip of an angina attack, proving herself one of the most effortlessly natural actresses of her generation. In her smaller role, June Havoc is very good too.Unfortunately, if we're going to take Gentleman's Agreement as a drama, it starts to look a very flimsy movie indeed. The romantic angle is as bland as day-old kebab meat, and the dialogue is corny and dull. It's a shame then that this was the first movie condemning racial prejudice to receive major plaudits, not because the social evils it portrays weren't worth attacking, but that there were other movies doing it far better. In the same year Crossfire also looked at anti-Semitism in a much more dynamic story framework, and with deeper eloquence and insight, but it was a runner up to Gentleman's Agreement's Best Picture win. A few years later Pinky (also directed by Kazan) and No Way Out would address anti-black racism, but while Pinky would receive a fair bit of attention, the ahead-of-its-time No Way Out was practically relegated to B-movie status. It's in a way remarkable that these other pictures existed at all, but a pity they didn't get the credit they deserved. "},{"Title":"An under-valued example of the'Prestige Picture'","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Surprisingly robust and moving problem picture, one of a number to have come out around this time and a reasonably brave film for a major Hollywood studio to undertake. Its subject is anti-semitism and the film handles the whole subject of prejudice with an all encompassing frankness, though stylistically it could be argued that it's all a bit cosy and it's certainly far removed from the 'rawer' Kazan movies that were to follow. Still, it is an immaculate example of high-toned seriousness with a script by Moss Hart and an all star cast lending their liberal credentials to the proceedings.Gregory Peck is the crusading journalist who poses as a Jew in order to expose anti-semitism 'from the inside', finding it in some unusual places such as the doubting heart of his liberal fiancée (Dorothy McGuire), whose idea it was to do the articles in the first place. It is interesting to compare Peck's performance here with the one that finally won him his Oscar since his role here is not dissimilar to Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird, roles that ultimately set him up as the quintessential decent American. It was said that Peck could play anything - teak, oak, pine - but actually he is very good here, better even than he was in Mockingbird, and there are moments when his performance seems to have touched a nerve. Others involved include John Garfield as his best friend who happens to be Jewish, Anne Revere, (superb as always), as his mother, (whose mother in movies did Revere not play), and Celeste Holm in an Oscar-winning turn as the fashion editor with the hots for Gregory.In hindsight perhaps the subject of anti-semitism was less brave for Hollywood to tackle than, say, the plight of Native Americans or something as taboo as homosexuality, (in Crossfire the victim became a Jew rather than the homosexual he was in the novel), particularly since many of the studios were run by people of the Jewish faith. Nevertheless, anti-semitism was still rife in the country and movies like Gentleman's Agreement, which put the problem in the forefront of things, are always welcome. Hollywood certainly thought so as it went on to win the Oscar for Best Picture. Critics have been less kind to it in the intervening years and sadly I think it remains very under-rated. "},{"Title":"Not every film made in a good cause is necessarily a good film","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Philip Schuyler Green is a journalist who is asked by a New York magazine publisher to write an article on anti-Semitism in America. He is initially reluctant to accept the commission, but eventually agrees, and although he is a gentile decides to adopt a Jewish identity and to write about his own experiences. This is not difficult as he is not well-known in the city, having recently moved there from California. Green adopts the Jewish-sounding name Phil Greenberg and is shocked by the prejudice he encounters. A doctor makes unprofessional remarks about a Jewish colleague, he is refused admission to an upmarket restricted hotel and his son Tommy is subjected to anti-Semitic bullying at school. To make matters worse, Green discovers that anti-Jewish prejudice exists even at the supposedly liberal magazine he works for. His secretary, Elaine Wales, reveals that she is Jewish but was forced to adopt a gentile-sounding pseudonym in order to get the job. (When she applied under her real name, Estelle Walovsky, her application was rejected). Besides Green's professional work, the film also deals with his personal life. He is a widower with a young son, living with his mother. An important theme in the film is his romance with Kathy, the niece of his publisher, a romance which is placed under strain when he begins to suspect that Kathy's views on racial matters may be less liberal than his own. The title Gentleman's Agreement refers on one level to Kathy's home affluent town of Darien, Connecticut, whose residents have an unwritten agreement not to sell property to Jews. On a wider level, however, the title also refers to a gentlemen's agreement among American gentiles (and, indeed, among some American Jews) not to mention or to confront the problem of anti-Semitism.It was a brave, and controversial, move for the studio, 20th Century- Fox, to tackle this subject in 1947. Many Americans would have preferred to believe that anti-Semitism was something alien, associated with the evil Nazi regime which they had defeated two years earlier, and did not want to hear that it was still a problem in their own country. The film was, apparently, a personal initiative by the studio's head, Darryl F. Zanuck, who held strong views about the issue. Zanuck, in fact, was one of the few Hollywood moguls of the era who were not Jewish, and some influential Jewish figures in the industry tried to persuade him not to make it. The film's political theme drew it to the attention of the House Un-American Activities Committee, which called Zanuck, director Elia Kazan and some of its stars to testify before it. Zanuck was rewarded for his courage when the film was nominated for eight Oscars and won three including Best Picture and Best Director for Kazan. (The third went to Celeste Holm as Best Supporting Actress). Yet in my view it is, artistically speaking, not a very good film. It is certainly not in the same class as Kazan's other Oscar-winner On the Waterfront. I have not seen all the films which were in contention for Best Picture in 1947, but one which definitely deserved the Oscar far more was David Lean's masterly version of Great Expectations. (Another unsuccessful nomination, Crossfire, which I have not seen, also dealt with the subject of anti-Semitism). The film's artistic faults are twofold. Firstly, it is overlong and static, too dominated by talk with little in the way of action. Secondly, the character of Green, as played by Gregory Peck, is an unattractive one, the sort of liberal who is so convinced of the rightness of his views that he becomes a self-righteous bore and even something of a bully, prepared to harangue mercilessly not only those who disagree with him but also those whom he suspects of agreeing with him with insufficient fervour. I found his berating of Elaine particularly distasteful. Certainly, some of Elaine's views do seem objectionable; she is, for example, less than happy when the firm introduces a new, explicitly non-discriminatory recruitment policy because of her fears that the wrong sort of Jews will be attracted to the company. It did, however, seem presumptuous of the gentile Green, on the basis of eight weeks pretending to be a Jew, to lecture a Jewish woman on the best way to combat anti-Semitism, a problem she has presumably had to fight all her life. Whenever Green gets onto the subject of prejudice with Kathy he seems less like a man speaking to the woman he loves than a politician engaging in a heated debate with an opponent, so much so that my sympathies were with Kathy when she stormed out on him. Hollywood could indeed make excellent films about racial prejudice, and Peck was later to star in one of the greatest of these, To Kill a Mockingbird. Another good one from the late forties is Clarence Brown's Intruder in the Dust. Gentleman's Agreement, by contrast, serves as a reminder that not every film made in support of a good cause is necessarily a good one. It is difficult to avoid the suspicion that all those Oscar nominations were made more on account of the film's politics than on account of its artistic merits. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Much better than its reputation","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In his commentary for the DVD of `Gentlemen's Agreement,' critic Richard Schickel spends some of it criticizing the flaws in the movie (something I wish more commentaries would do).  Mostly I disagreed with him, especially about Dorothy McGuire's fine performance.  She has by far the toughest role in the picture as Gregory Peck's conflicted fiancée, whose complacent belief that she doesn't have an anti-semitic bone in her body is severely tested when he decides to pretend to be Jewish for a newspaper article.  I often think of prejudice as the act of automatically assuming something is fact about someone we don't know, based on stereotypical preconceived notions.  Anti-semitism is the reference point for the movie, but what it really does is examine the subject of prejudice from many different angles, from its most virulent to its most subtle forms.  It even explores the role played by Jewish self-hatred in exacerbating the problem.  The only time the film begins to resemble an `After School Special' is in Ann Revere's preachy speech towards the end.  On balance, however, `Agreement' is much more complex than it's been given credit for. (I may be too late, but in answer to the User Commenter who wanted to know the name of the main title theme it's an Alfred Newman original that is only heard that one time in the film.  He developed it more extensively a couple of years later in Kazan's Pinky.)  "},{"Title":"Dates badly...preachy and artificial...should not have won the 1947 Oscar...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hollywood loves to give Oscars to films of social significance or British imports that have intellectual appeal. They had a chance in 1947 to award an Oscar to the British-made masterpiece, Great Expectations, from the Charles Dickens novel. Instead, they opted to give their gold award to a preachy, artificial film about anti-Semitism that has me wincing when I watch it today.Some films improve with age, like good wine, but Gentleman's Agreement now seems bland and obvious, not the effective, earnest and gripping film it was meant to be. Gregory Peck gives an earnest performance but Dorothy McGuire's character seems naive and poorly defined. Celeste Holm gives an ingratiating, witty performance but hardly one that seems Oscar-caliber. (Martita Hunt, who played Miss Havisham in 'Great Expectations' wasn't even nominated!) Seen from the distance of time, it's a film that dates badly in its attitudes and its attempt at giving us a strong viewpoint about the ills of anti-Semitism. The only vital character is June Havoc, as Peck's Jewish secretary. John Garfield is surprisingly bland in a supporting role.The whole film has a preachy attitude that never develops any real dramatic conflict. In addition to the bland script and leisurely pace of the film, there is not even praise one can give to the ordinary black and white photography or set decoration. Production-wise, it looks as if Zanuck was watching the budget, not expecting the controversial film to be the hit it was at the time. Just shows you what time can do to a story of social significance.The award should definitely have gone to the more distinctive Great Expectations, David Lean's British masterpiece. Hollywood gave many of its awards in the coming years (and still does) to great British films but, surprisingly, they shunned the David Lean film.Trivia note To give it a documentary feel, there is almost no background music at all. Alfred Newman must have been busy that year working on his very dramatic score for The Snake Pit and opted to use almost no music for this one. "},{"Title":"Edgy subject for its time","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Philip Green (Gregory Peck) is a widow with a son Tommy (Dean Stockwell). He is lured to a magazine to write a series on anti-Semitism by publisher John Minify (Albert Dekker). The publisher's niece Kathy Lacy (Dorothy McGuire) had suggested the idea in the first place. He is uncertain until he tries to explain it to his son. After his mother's near death experience, he realizes that he can't understand any experience unless he experience it himself. He comes up with a way to tackle the issue. He pretends to be Jewish to experience real racism.The subject was edgy for its time. Director Elia Kazan brings his skills to this movie early in his career. Gregory Peck is the personification of honor and goodness. He is perfect for the role. It takes about 30 minutes to get to the idea. Before that, the movie is a little bit slow. While the obvious racism is easy, it's the personal subtle racism that is more interesting. All the colors are painted. It isn't about ignorant backwoods rednecks. It is about all forms that is pervasive in everyday's life and no person is immune. And it has to be noted for its iconic status. "}{"Title":"All that is necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing...","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've often wondered &#x96;maybe naively- why is it that anti-Semitism is always associated with but never included within racism. In these times of extreme communitarian sensitivity, I'm fully aware that these questions can hide an unconscious form of anti-Semitism but I know my conscience is crystal clear on that level.Let's first put facts into their historical context, anti-Semitism is undoubtedly connected with an indelible stain on Humanity's soul called the Holocaust, six millions of Jews died of something that started with an individual belief, a devastating number in a dramatically short time span. The historical trauma made obvious the distinction between anti-Semitism and racism. Now it angers communities who protest against the supremacy given to the Jew suffering, above others from the past and the present, but as a retort, these protestations are liable to get the 'anti-Semite' stamp, making the snake biting his own tail.Now it's impossible to see where and where is not anti-Semitism, the only certitude being that its injurious effect acts on a reputation like a torpedo on a U-boat. But back then in 1947, things were a bit different. Directed by Elia Kazan, and written by Moss Hart, Gentleman's Agreement explores anti-Semitism in post-war America. Gregory Peck is Phil Green, a noble-hearted journalist assigned to write a series about anti-Semitism to see which aspects of his life he took for granted would be affected if he passed as a Jew. And boy, no matter how confident, charismatic, and well-spoken he is, the mere mention of his ethnicity carves a sign of undesirability on his front.And the time the film was made is crucial 1947. Two years after GI's discovered the extents of Nazi barbarity in Death camps and one year before the creation of the state of Israel, not without American help. What Kazan's film offers is an interesting view on America's mindset toward Jewish people bigotry, misunderstanding and defiance, remarkably contrasting with the US Foreign Policy. Basically, it's not the film that is dated, but minds. The anti-Semitism discovered by Phil is one that hasn't been confronted to its devastating effects. After all, what Nazis did, started with the way Americans thought, shocking but true.And that anti-Semitism didn't wait the Holocaust; its roots are Biblical before being cultural defiance toward people without a land, but with influence, a mix of envy and hate, an ugly feeling indeed, fueled by the certitude to belong to the right side. This is Green's subtlest discovery, there are anti-Semites and there are people guilty of silence, feeling on the safe side from the anti-Semitism they observe. To give you an example, there were three kinds of kids in the schoolyard bullies, victims and cowards who either supported the bullies or didn't help the victims, to avoid the hits. All that is necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.And speaking of good persons doing nothing, Green finds one and falls in love with her. Dorothy McGuire is Kathy, his boss' niece, a divorced woman who actually suggested the theme of the series. Yet, despite her well-meaning intentions, as the romance grew, she betrayed in many occasions her unconscious bigotry. It started with her confused concern whether Green's Jewish or not (ruining a promising dinner) and culminated after Phil's son (played by a young Dean Stockwell) complained about kids attacking him because he said he was a Jew. She doesn't comfort him by saying that they were bad, but by him not being a Jew causing a justifiable anger from Phil.She finally closes the door after a remarkable speech that says a lot about her conception of being a Jew, it's obviously a social handicap according to her, and although she has nothing against Jews, she feels exactly like someone who's handsome, young or rich instead of ugly, old or poor. In other words, it's nothing to feel ashamed of. Phil's journey reveals the ugliest side of American narrow-mindedness, even to the point, ironic but insightful, that his Jewish secretary is part of the same conspiracy, speaking herself about 'right' and 'wrong' Jews and it's a Gentile teaching her a lesson. This is for subtleties like this that the film overcomes its self-righteous impeccability.One can also regret that the survey didn't exceed the limits of the upper-class but maybe anti-Semitism is an educated disease, which makes it much more detestable. Could there be an uglier euphemism than Gentleman's Agreement? Thankfully, Green finds some strong support from Anne, a free-spirited woman played by the Oscar-winning Celeste Holm, he finds it in Dave, John Garfield as his Jewish friend who knows too well what Phil is going through, and there is Anne Revere as his loving and caring mother. It seems that despite this great casting, Kazan and Holm didn't get along with Peck, I can see why if Peck really immersed himself into his character.And despite winning the Best Director Oscar and the film winning Best Picture, Kazan felt that the film lacked passion (indeed, Stockwell's cries said more than any Peck's speech), and that the romance was forced. Well, I think it would have damaged the film if it distracted it from its political agenda. But Green goes back to Kathy after her redemptive act showing that times have changed for the best, and making Anne Revere wishing she could live up to see how this century will evolve. But, I don't think times have changed much. Sure, anti-Semitism isn't as deep and extreme in America, but go ask the average or upper-class Americans what they think about Muslims.Sure they'll talk about terrorism and September 11th, but remember, there's no racism that doesn't start with a belief and there's no belief that doesn't start with misinterpreted facts. Finally, I stand corrected, there's nothing in Gentleman's Agreement that has lost its relevance, which is good news for the film, but sad for humanity. "},{"Title":"One man stands up for his beliefs","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gentleman's Agreement is a landmark movie by director Elia Kazan that exposes the scourge of anti-semitism when Gregory Peck takes on a Jewish persona to explore first hand what it is like to suffer the slings and arrows of prejudice and discrimination. Peck is brilliant in the role and refuses to brush the experience aside as something that happens to other people. The experience shows him how his country fails to live up to its own standards. Thus, the fight against anti-semitism becomes a personal struggle for him. The rest of the cast includes his fiancé Dorothy McGuire; his best friend John Garfield; and his mother Anne Revere, his major ally. Both McGuire and Garfield learn much about themselves during the course of the movie as the process threatens to split him from the people he holds most dear. This movie is not a simplistic view of anti-semitism but goes to its very heart; it endures because of the silence and tacit acceptance by those who dislike the hurt that anti-semitism inflicts. To me this movie is ahead of its time. Films like this one helped lead the way for many Americans who followed their hearts and their consciences in the events of the 1960's. Both Garfield and Revere were targeted by the Red Scare that hit Hollywood shortly after this movie. Garfield died in 1951 at age 39; some say because of the experience. Anne Revere was blacklisted but survived until her death in 1990 at age 87. These are sad ironies for a movie that is a statement for standing up for one's beliefs. "},{"Title":"Part Romance, Part Academic Exposition of Postwar Anti-Semitism","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's doomed from the start, exclaims journalist Philip Schuyler Green (Gregory Peck) regarding his new assignment, an exposé on anti-Semitism. What could I possibly say that hasn't been said before? The self-awareness of screenwriter Moss Hart's script (adapting the Laura Z. Hobson novel of the same name) is admirable, though a little disconcerting. How could a film that follows such a doomed endeavor succeed in illuminating an obvious&#x97;though at the time controversial&#x97;subject matter?Employing Elia Kazan's skilled direction and assembling a wonderfully skilled cast certainly provides a fragment of resolution. But Gentleman's Agreement still struggles to escape the academic air it establishes early on. After Phil decides to pose as a Jew to obtain a firsthand understanding (it's impossible to get another man to truly open his heart, he surmises), the film skips from one anti-Semitic example to the next.There are blatant displays of bigotry and discrimination, including a scene with a restricted hotel manager that gives Phil the opportunity to stare prejudice in the face. We learn that the film's title refers to an assumed agreement to refuse service to Jews, and that even within the Jewish population there are dogmatic notions.From the very beginning, hints of romance dot the screen. Phil's son Tommy (Dean Stockwell) mentions his late mother and discloses his live-in grandmother's comments about Phil's finicky taste in women. Not long after, Phil meets his boss's niece, Kathy (Dorothy McGuire), and a courtship emerges.Though their relationship has its sparks (the first kiss is underscored by a conspicuous push-in that should be hammy, but instead is remarkably affecting), I began to contemplate the necessity of the romantic element in what was shaping up to be an otherwise pedagogical examination of a pressing social topic. How will Phil's relationship with Kathy play out? Do great movies avoid the romance, or is it a necessary and harmonious component?The film turns to its third act when Tommy comes home crying after anti-Semitic comments were hurled at him during school. It's not true, it's not true, Kathy consoles, you're no more Jewish than I am! It's just a horrible mistake. After Phil takes his son away to comfort him on his own, he returns to Kathy and her underhandedly prejudiced remark. I've come to see that lots of nice people who aren't anti-Semitic&#x97;people who despise it and deplore it and protest their own innocence&#x97;help it along and then wonder why it grows.After Kathy unknowingly reveals herself (and the latent nature of prejudice), the romance component becomes much more compelling. In a scene shortly after, Phil visits Anne (a coworker and longtime admirer of Phil, played by Celeste Holm) to discuss the nature of outspoken but inactive liberals. They haven't got the guts to move from talk to action, Anne concludes.Concurrently, Kathy meets Dave (Phil's Jewish childhood friend, played by John Garfield, who's moved to New York for a job and is looking for a home for his family) for dinner where they discuss an anti-Semitic comment that arose at a recent social gathering. And what did you do? asks Dave. I just sat there and felt ashamed. We all just sat there. Again, Hart's screenplay lectures us on words vs actions, expatiating that apathy and indolence only perpetuate the problem. It's got to be more than this, reasons Kathy, after the rest of the film had reached the same conclusion pages earlier.In the penultimate scene between Phil and his mother, she reads his finished article and waxes philosophic about the potential future, pondering what this time in history will turn out to be. Soon, Dave shows up to tell Phil that Kathy has become a woman of action, not merely words. She's letting Dave and his Jewish family use her house in Connecticut while she stays with her sister, promising to chastise any anti-Semitic remarks that may arise.As we begin to admire the ease with which the elements of Hart's screenplay come together, Phil races to Kathy's apartment, leaving us with only one&#x97;the romance, here revealed to be necessary, congruous, and perhaps fundamental. Though Gentleman's Agreement is an odd amalgamation&#x97;part romance, part academic exposition of postwar anti-Semitism&#x97;it succeeds in shedding light on a heated topic, the zealousness of which is matched only by the impassioned romance it plays alongside. "},{"Title":"Delivers a Strong Message but Lacks Subtlety","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 2008 Review It has become popular to refer to this Best Pictue Oscar- winner about anti-Semitism as dated, but the points it makes about bigotry are always relevant, although the target of discrimination may change with generations. The performances are uniformly good, with Holm especially good in her Oscar-winning role. Peck is earnest while Garfield, who was Jewish, is effective in a small role. McGuire has the most difficult role, that of a person who thinks of herself as a tolerant liberal but whose passive tolerance of discrimination indicates otherwise. Kazan does a fine job of keeping things balanced and showing the subtle forms of discrimination that many are guilty of without being aware of it.2013 Review On subsequent viewing, the film comes across as heavy-handed. What seemed subtle on initial viewing now feels somewhat contrived. Reduced rating from 8 to 7. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile sermon saved by an engrossing film","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If they still make films like this, they keep very quiet about it. Calling it 'preachy' really doesn't do it justice &#150; and not just in the sneery way the modern reader might feel inclined to read that comment. And any modern-day film-maker intent on making a similar film with a message must either be be lucky enough to be married to the studio boss' son or daughter or will have to content him or herself with making a low-budget movie for the indie market. Gentleman's Agreement ostensibly concerns itself with post-war anti-semitism when Jews were persona non grata in many 'restricted' WASP establishments however distinguished, rich or otherwise notable that Jew might be. (And, very ironically, getting backing for this film in post-war Hollywood was probably as easy as kicking in an open door.) But now that - or at least I, a 'gentile', assume &#150; things aren't half as tough for Jews, discrimination continues. Blacks, gays and lesbians, and many other minorities continue to feel the cutting edge of others abject disdain. Perhaps things aren't as bad in our cities, but move to any of our more rural communities and things are perhaps not quite as easygoing. What distinguishes Gentleman's Agreement and what makes it a better film than it might have been in the hands of a less capable director is that it acknowledges both the subtlety of discrimination and that those who inadvertently perpetuate discrimination are not necessarily evil. They are thoughtless, perhaps, or crave the approbation of their peers a little too much. Often they simply want to fit in, not rock the boat, be accepted, and they find it easier to run with the hounds than stand up for what on greater reflection they might acknowledge to be the harder, but more moral position. Not every one of the 60 odd million 1930s Germans was evil. In fact very few of them were, no more than you would find in any cross section of any society any where. But what allowed the Nazi evil to flourish was the unthinking acquiesence of those millions. This is, by extrapolation the point this film makes, and despite having been made over 60 years ago, it is a point which is still valid today and will always be valid whenever and wherever someone is discriminated against. But what also distinguishes this film is that the story employed to get this &#151; well preachy &#151; message over is quite engrossing, adding as it does a love story, a friendship and believable mother/son and father/son relationships into the equation. In lesser hands with less talented actors it might well have not come off. Thankfully it does, despite the sermon. "},{"Title":"worthy, though a little dull","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crash of its day, a movie about intolerance and prejudice on American's doorstep - only in this film the object of WASP society's disdain, distaste, disgust or downright hatred was not African-Americans, but Jewish-Americans. Like Crash there were Oscar nods that reflected the worthiness of the endeavour rather than the accomplishment of what actually went on screen, and also like Crash there are some elements that are too worthy to actually feel in any way real, and also like Crash there are some that are bang on target, mainly in the performances, but also in a series of well-written scenes. Gregory Peck's contribution is a matter of taste I have always found him a pretty unconvincing younger substitute for the likes of Cooper, Tracy and Fonda. If you liked him in To Kill A Mockingbird you'll like him in this. The supporting cast are another matter it's difficult to fault any of them, particularly the women, led by the ever-wonderful Dorothy Macguire, and backed up by the unimpeachable Celeste Holm and Anne Revere. Excellent work also from John Garfield, June Havoc, Albert Dekker and - a dazzler - the young Dean Stockwell.The overall structure of the film is the problem the exposition seems to take forever, the integration of the public and personal is just too neat - Crash has a sprawling structure more suitable for its subject, but that kind of movie really comes out of Robert Altman's work, which was twenty years or so down the line in 1947. The movie's theme, anti-Semitism, is alas as current as ever, and on a wider scale racism will probably never go away. In that respect, the case presented in Gentleman's Agreement cannot be considered closed, and it remains an important contribution, even if it is, unfortunately, a little dull. "},{"Title":"Very solid, preachy yes, but important stuff to continually face","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gentleman's Agreement (1947)A gentleman's agreement is a euphemism for a polite, unspoken act of racial bigotry. Yes, a sort of wink to not allow blacks or hispanics or Jews into a certain resort or club or restaurant.That's the real point of the movie. Not hard core racism or prejudice, but that subtle stuff, the stuff that goes on every day even now. And ultimately, it is aimed at the people who say, I'm not prejudiced, and yet who let other people wink and act like polite bigots.There is a lot of background to the movie, in the making and acceptance of it in the industry and in the country (in short, Hollywood insiders avoided the idea and the public liked it). But the main point is how the movie works and plays out as a story, then (in our heads) and now (on the screen). The answer? Very well. Yes, it's preachy of course. Of course! That's what a message movie does. But does it do it well? Yes, but it does mean there is a lot of talking. The key talker and thinker is main character, goy journalist Phil Green, played by Gregory Peck. He struggles out loud through how to approach an article he has to do on anti-Semitism with his mom, and then struggles through the actual highly veiled anti-Semitism of his potential wife, played by Dorothy McGuire. We know they are made for each other, but McGuire's character just can't quite get how her looking the other way or feeling outrage isn't enough.The real acting gem is by Celeste Holm, who plays a sidekick, another writer, and someone who audiences probably want to see with Mr. Green because she has innate principles and the guts to show them. (She won an Oscar, too!) John Garfield, who was Jewish, plays an openly Jewish character in a deliberately restrained role as a returning G.I. It's 1947, and the country that has helped to save the remaining Jews in concentration camps is now wondering how to save them at home from internal barriers.It might have been a mistake to set the movie in New York City, which was over a quarter Jewish at the time and probably had more familiarity with assimilation and difference than the movie implies (especially at the publisher's). But the scenes in stuff Connecticut make more sense. There is the love plot pushed on the whole thing, and the weirdly perfect house that was built and decorated but never lived in as if that's the future, waiting and ready. And yes, there is all the talking and moralizing.But give director Elia Kazan credit for making this as fluid and involving as he has, and cinematographer Arthur Miller's beautiful post-War visuals hold up that end of the experience really well. And you know what, the lessons built into this kind of message film are worth sitting through because we all need reminders of how insidious our own prejudices can be, and how we need to constantly address them, openly. "},{"Title":"Solid issue and solid direction by Kazan","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Another classic by Elia Kazan, very much in par with On the Waterfront and Streetcar named Desire. Just like other Kazan movies, the lead pretty much pulls the whole movie on his shoulders. Peck gets the chunk this time and delivers one of his finest performances. His relationship with his son, mother and especially his new found love is quite touching. The unpredictable, the urge to keep to oneself and then loosing it all the other moment has been presented nicely. Here again Kazan, like in On the Waterfront, shows the inner struggle of a man who is trying to take a stand against a social issue and simultaneously has his own personal life. The movie runs around the issue of anti-Semitism and shows how it is affecting life of many people in many ways. Such movies are a pleasure to watch, there was just one twist in the movie that makes it different from other movies. A must watch for people who want to know about this country's past, from where it is coming.. "},{"Title":"The Many Masks of Hate","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked up Gentleman's Agreement at the DVD store mainly because it had the Elia Kazan's signature. I knew the film dealt with antisemitism and I had my misgivings about it - it was an early Kazan and I thought that I would be served a melodramatic and superficial treatment of the subject. As some people would say Boy, was I mistaken! Gentleman's Agreement is (like many Kazan films) a deep study of man and society. The plot goes beyond antisemitism - it's about intolerance and conformism in society and shows that intolerance is part of our society (no matter what kind of mask it wears or against whom it's directed). Intolerance is something that should be fought daily and the only way to win the battle is trying to develop a new consciousness - people should learn to think for themselves and not follow blindly tradition or leaders. This said, let's go to the film.I was astounded by the large amount of antisemitism in the American society during the 40s. The films deals with a reporter, Philip Green (Gregory Peck) that is writing a series on antisemitism for a newspaper. In order to understand better the issue he decides to pass for a Jew in order to experience for himself what is antisemitism and this experience will be a turning point in his life - he will discover a big web of hate kept by intolerance, indifference and hypocrisy. And this will affect not only his life, but his son's and his girl's as well.Everywhere he goes he will be persecuted by funny jokes, refusals, polite apologies and hypocritical smiles. When he finishes writing the series on antisemitism his old believes have been shattered. He realizes the time has come to fight against a strong and elusive enemy - intolerance.This film was made just before the onset of McCarthism and it was a warning light against the persecution wave that followed and that would destroy everything the film and other idealists were striving for. Elia Kazan and many others would be victims of the witch hunt that was slowly raising its ugly head. The idealism contained in the speech of the reporter's mother expressing the hope in the growth of a new world of peace and understanding is touching and naive.Elia Kazan is an excellent actor's director and the acting in this film is touching and has the ring of truth in it. All in all is an excellent and thought-provoking film. "},{"Title":"Bitter Truths","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It happens all the time. Someone tells a joke--or perhaps you tell one yourself. Just a little joke about those people. I've done it, and very likely you have done it too. But it's really okay. We're not prejudiced, and we're not hurting any one. It's just a little private laugh between friends.Based on the celebrated but now sadly neglected novel by Laura Z. Hobson, GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT is a story about the little jokes that people tell because they want to fit in--and the jokes that people let pass because they don't want to make a scene. And it is about the way in which such incidents enable still darker prejudices that strike directly at the heart of all the people we make the little jokes about.Philip Schuyler Green has been employed to write an expose of anti-Semitism in post-WWII America--and he has an inspiration. He will pretend to be Jewish himself and experience anti-Semitism first hand. But the little jokes are soon followed by little patronizations, the patronizations give way to ill-concealed racism and religious prejudice, and what began as a magazine job begins to shake Green to his very foundations. It will threaten his friendships, his relationship with the socialite he hopes to marry, the well-being of his mother, and ultimately the safety of his child.Critics are fond of pointing out that the film is flawed. That is true enough the first quarter hour feels a bit slow, leading man Gregory Pecks seems to lack conviction in his earliest scenes, and the script often calls upon its characters to philosophize in an unlikely way; the last scene in the film also rings false. In terms of performance, the cast is stylistically divided half perform in what might be called the standard Hollywood style of the day, half adopt an approach that we recognize as modern. Nonetheless, these become trivial issues in the face of the powerful statement involved; everything goes down before it, and if you unexpectedly and most unpleasantly see yourself reflected in one or more characters or situations, don't feel alone.Critics are also fond of stating that changing times have left the subject dated. Well, you tell me... when was the last time you heard one of those little jokes? True enough, it may not have been about Jews. It might have been about African-Americans. Or Mexicans. Or gays. Or was it, given today's environment, just a little joke about Moslems? To our great shame, the overall point of GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT remains as deadly accurate today as it was more than half a century ago.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"Made good by Peck & Garfield in spite of many serious flaws","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gentleman's Agreement is Elia Kazan's film from 1947 that stars Gregory Peck as a writer (Green) who pretends to be Jewish to find out about antisemitism. The concept is a good one, but there are many serious flaws to this film. First there is Dorothy McGuire completely miscast as Green's fiancée Kathy. And the idea of confronting relatively subtle antisemitism with no mention whatsoever of the Holocaust which ended just two years before the book and film is like ignoring the six million pound gorilla in the room. But that's not unique to this film; the Holocaust was a taboo subject in film until relatively recently.The story is an interesting one, but much of it is filled in with preachy dialogue which is overacted and hurts believability. Especially some of the speeches given by the characters, such as when Green tells Ms. Wales (June Havoc), Feel my hand, it's the same hand, the only thing different is the word 'Christian'. Seems a heavy-handed overreaction to say the least. And an inconsistency here is that Ms. Wales is at first an ally with Green as she tells him about the antisemitic policies of the magazine they work for, but then in the next scene she becomes the antisemite (though she is Jewish). Also the fact that she did the same thing he did (sent out two resumes, one Jewish and one not) seems more contrivance than coincidence.John Garfield is great as always as Green's Jewish army buddy. But there is a scene with he and Kathy where he tells her to hit back at antisemites. Discounting McGuire's mediocre performance (Can I? Can I?) the answer of hitting back is acceptable, but the film treats it as a profound truth.Peck and Garfield are both great actors, so the flaws aren't a reflection on them. The film seems to begin on a first rate level, but goes downhill in dialogue quality. I like how Green tells the staff, I'd feel the same way about this even if I wasn't Jewish myself, and the Jewish guy's reaction, just let us handle it in our own way. Green's son Tommy is played by Dean Stockwell who was later excellent in Long Day's Journey into Night. One flaw here is when Green tries to explain to Tommy what antisemitism is. He ends up defining Jewishness in the religious sense, though that's contradicted later by Dr. Lieberman's speech, since many Jews are not religious there is only such a thing as a Jewish TYPE. I tend to agree with Lieberman (no relation to the right wing Senator thankfully) on that.Green's mother is played by the great Anne Revere, who was blacklisted under McCarthy (ironically she's a direct descendant of Paul Revere). The final speech she gives is overly intense and rambling, suddenly I want to live to be very old...it's not the Russian century or the American century...it's got to be soon...I don't know, it doesn't work for me.Garfield was also blacklisted and some still don't forgive Kazan for cooperating with McCarthy. Anyway in spite of all this the film is worth seeing as a rare 1940s take on antisemitism. "},{"Title":"Sad Realization","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sad to say that I've finally viewed a film by Elia Kazan that I detest.Gentleman's Agreement is a well meaning film that goes so far into highlighting anti-Semitism as to border on the absurd.  It is true enough that America had (even today) its share of leading citizens who openly practiced anti-semitism.  However, this film goes much further.  So far in fact as to highlight anti-Semitism in people who did not have the requisite intent of being anti-Semitic.  In other words, the well meaning gentile, Green, denounces even jews who innocently regurgitate stereotypical statements about Jews.  This obviously enters the realm of Orwellian 'thought crimes.'  To Green, the fraudulent gentile, purporting to be Jewish, one is guilty when private thoughts are merely spoken.  So much for freedom of speech.  Clearly this is the more dangerous poison than the one Green wished to snuff out.Its interesting that all of this 'hate crime' hunting predates Mao Tse Tung's Cultural Revolution by almost twenty years.  Thus, one can conclude that the seeds of political correctness were taking root many decades ago in our own land.Even if all the above statements are ignored, the film is a tortuous plodding mess.  Investigative successes and bold denunciations by the perfect Green are nullified by restatement piled upon one another.  After 30 minutes, this film offers no more surprises.The audience, unless in a stupor, is apt to scream, O.K. I get it, anti-Semitism is bad.  Unfortunately, a film such as this takes hold of the audience and turns them hostage.  In other words, you will accept this benevolent message or you are just as guilty as the pigs in this movie.This type of movie making is completely unfair.  Its not a triumph to guilt trip the audience into agreeing with the supermortal views espoused by the taint free Peck/Green.I found Peck's secretary to be a much more believable character.  She was a Jew who recognized anti-Semitism in the mainstream business world yet overcame it.  Of course Kazan had to demonize even her and highlight her own anti-Semitism, something I truly doubt as authentic in one who understood first hand the perils of prejudice.Please don't take my word for it.  I urge you to view this film and see how bad it is for yourself. "},{"Title":"An excellent early work of Kazan's that's still timely now","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just two years after Kazan's feature-film debut (and the end of WWII) came this firecracker which became up to that point his most successful film (although A Tree Grows In Brooklyn and Boomerang would also garner Oscar nominations), and it's ironic that so shortly after a great war was won, mainly against racism and the killing of Jews overseas, Gregory Peck's Schuyler Green, in undercover work for an expose to satiate his new, New York City boss, discovers rampant anti-Semitism uncomfortably much closer to home. I love John Garfield's work, rather late in his short career, in the supporting role of Dave Goldman (he should have received an Oscar nomination as well). The film was very successful, taking in three trophies for eight tries altogether (for Best Director, Picture and Supporting Actress--Celeste Holm), and its ending--stressing that forgiveness and tolerance are possible (when Green returns home and forgives his wife)--is very important, though he chose the wrong woman... "},{"Title":"A Well-Timed Denunciation","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A reporter (Gregory Peck) pretends to be Jewish in order to cover a story on anti-Semitism, and personally discovers the true depths of bigotry and hatred.Looking back, this film may seem a little bit over the top at times. But it likely is not terribly exaggerated. Even now (2015) being Jewish means something. The prejudice may not be quite as strong, and I don't know if restricted hotels still exist, but the subtle dislike has certainly not gone away.What makes this film extra good is the timing, not long after World War II. Sometimes we (America) likes to say we were heroes who saved the Jewish people from the Holocaust. But, this is not really true, and even if it was, it does not mean the Americans were not prejudice in the 1940s. "},{"Title":"The film is more fitting to be greeted as a wake-up call than an actually sensible guidance of conducts","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A proselytising drama against anti-Semitism in the post-WWII America, GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT is an Oscar's BEST PICTURE winner and also gives Kazan his first BEST DIRECTOR triumph at the age of 39, his second win would come 8 years later for ON THE WATERFRONT (1954). It stars Peck as Philip Green, a reporter is assigned to write a serial about anti-Semitism in NYC, and being a Gentile, his unorthodox method is to purport himself as a Jew, and during an eight-week stint, his new identity causes some unexpected adversity which will endanger his nuptial commitment with a demure divorcé Kathy Lacy (McGuire), by whom he meets in the city and captivated.Anti-Semitism may no longer appear on the headline in today's media, but the astute depiction of bigotry and prejudice from this sterling classic can cogently transposed to any kind agency of discrimination, whether it is sexism, ageism, racism or homophobia, trans-phobia. Actually, there are only two direct confrontations throughout the entire film, one is when Phil insists to face the spurn from the hotel manager of a swanky hotel where he has booked for their honeymoon and is noted for restricted clientele only. Another case is when Phil's eight-year-old son Tommy (Stockwell), yes, Phil is a single father who lost his wife years ago (so it is a carefully calculated match between him and the childless divorcé Kathy, divorce has always been another long-standing target of prejudice), being bullied by other kids for being a Jew (kids are the worst, since they would become the most reactionary resistance of this human frailty). Otherwise, which is the most appalling fact that the vicious prejudice permeates in every corner of one's daily life, sometimes it seems trivial in its inception and even the participants cannot realise themselves, however, through time, it will transform into a rigid mindset, it may not be overtly violent, but the inculcating hostility will concrete and sooner or later, the collective aftermath is an invisible shield which segregates Jews from the rest of the crowds, and makes them the victim of being the minority. Plus, another interesting angle is that sometimes even among Jews, the discrepancy inconveniently breeds.So the fundamental divergence between Phil and Kathy albeit they both abhor this unfair situation, is that he is a man of action while she is a passive recipient, and in Phil's principles, there is no alternative in this, when you are against it, you must speak it out, confront it, otherwise, fuming inside but doing nothing also makes you an Anti-Semite, this may be a too radical statement, but the film points out that it is Kathy's superiority of being a Gentile, which superbly symbolises the most detrimental core of any form of prejudice, it is this self-appointed superiority harmfully sets individuals apart and like Kathy it is way too easy to be infected by it since it can be shaped in any aspects of life (like she emotionally contests, being rich instead of poor, being beautiful instead of ugly, being healthy instead of sick, this toxic superiority is omnipresent)until it becomes a part of your personality, then the damage is permanently done. What a catharsis one can get from it!Great performances galore, Anne Revere who plays Phil's mother, upstages Peck in her everyone's century speech for a better future, only now we are already in the 21st century and looking back, her expectation doesn't actually materialise, the leap is not big enough to be complacent. Celeste Holm is Anne, a spontaneous and nimble socialite who turns out to be the most prejudice-free character towards Phil's tactic. McGuire as Kathy, is the one being disciplined with a learning curve, it is not a grandstanding role, but she emanates gracefully her various sentiments confusion, doubt, passion and disillusion. Peck, in his prime shape, is adept in the righteous good guy mode, adamantly juggles romance with his own conscience. All four are Oscar-nominated, with only Holm wins her trophy. However, one cannot leave John Garfield behind, who was in his heyday but accepted a third billing in a supporting role, he is Dave Goldman, Philip's Jewish friend, he is the one who has been battling against the miasma all his life, and becomes a significant bridge between Phil and Kathy in their strained disparity towards the sensitive subject in the coda, it is quite bizarre how he was left out in the Oscar race. Also, I must name-check Stockwell, such a wondrous child performance in it.When all is said and done, GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT might not possess a visual flair to be outrageously engaging or innovative in its cinematic creation, in fact, it is a dialogue- laden (by the way, a compelling screenplay from Moss Hart) censure piece delivering a foremost message even today deserved to be watched by everyone, preferably in every high school, in spite of the black-or-white treatment of the problem. Overall it is more fitting to be greeted as a wake-up call than an actually sensible guidance of conducts, and that's exactly what a reporter's job should be, to arouse awareness, but in the field work, it takes different stratagems to achieve that noble goal, we are still fighting for it, relentlessly. "},{"Title":"A much-needed hit at bigotry which was very effective","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this outstanding production from 20th Century Fox, prejudice is blatantly exposed, and the matter of apathy toward it is clearly shown as well-i.e., hardly anyone takes a strong stand. Gregory Peck is quite a fine actor is this piece as a widowed reporter who pretends to be a Jew to learn empirically the anti-Semitism attitudes which prevail in New York. (The setting is a moot point, since this attitude has world-wide application.) In the story the reporter becomes very passionate about the attitude of bigotry, so much so that he even becomes bitter toward the lady with whom he falls in love. Dorothy McGuire is such a sweet lady in this dramatic production that you would be unable to see how the reporter could be so terribly hostile toward her. John Garfield,(who himself plays the role of a Jew in this movie) Jane Wyatt, and Celeste Holm lend great support. Anne Revere adopts well the role of Peck's sympathetic and supportive mother. Dean Stockwell, here is his pre-teen years, plays well the role of Peck's son. Again, the matter of prejudice is blatantly exposed in this film, and because of the story and the professional acting, it is no wonder that this movie won the Best Picture Award for 1947. "},{"Title":"Still happens today, but to other religions as well...","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I always admired Kazan's bravado in the face of Hollywood. He was brave in creating real adult dramas that took us to the edge. From revolutions to Unions and adultery, he didn't shy away. Gentleman's Agreement would have to be his most adventurous politically, but with time it seems a bit lame, maybe a little too preachy.The main fault falls on the screenplay. It took forever to set up the angle the journalist was to take. Once it kicked in, it was intriguing, but then lost its momentum midway through when it became repetitive and too dialogue driven.Peck was charming, but not too convincing as a hard-nose journalist. I believe this roll was a precursor for To Kill A Mocking Bird. The surprise was John Garfield, who knew how to work a campy drama. When together in scenes, they had your attention and lit up the screen, compared to the love interest which was weak, typically standard for its time.The movie was made almost 70 years ago, and still is relevant to today's current political climate. "},{"Title":"Lovers' Quarrel","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Newly arrived in New York City, journalist widower Gregory Peck (as Philip Phil Schuyler Green) takes 11-year-old son Dean Stockwell (as Tommy) to meet grandmother Anne Revere and buy some new shoes. At that age, feet grow quickly. After he is asked to write a series of articles on anti-Semitism, Mr. Peck meets divorced schoolteacher Dorothy McGuire (as Kathy Lacey) at a party. They are mutually attracted. Peck is initially unhappy with his writing assignment, but becomes excited after thinking up a new angle. Peck decides to pretend he is Jewish and write about his personal experiences. I Was Jewish for Six Months is the title of Peck's account. Authentically Jewish childhood friend John Garfield (as Dave Goldman) arrives for a visit. As you might expect, Peck encounters prejudice...This famous film about religious bigotry is really a love story, although the backdrop is certainly preeminent. Incidents of anti-Semitism involve young Stockwell being teased on the playground and adult Jews finding upscale areas lack welcome mats. Today, kids are beat up and can sometimes die; around the world, people are shot at Jewish businesses. Gentleman's Agreement sticks mainly to cocktail hour inequities. Multiple award-winning director Elia Kazan and Peck take it slow. Additional award winners include supporting actress Celeste Holm (as Anne Dettrey) and juvenile actor Stockwell. Often, it seems like characters are lecturing the audience and retelling unseen incidents; to be more effective, cinema should show more and tell less. Still, it's a good production and nicely performed.****** Gentleman's Agreement (11/11/47) Elia Kazan ~ Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire, John Garfield, Celeste Holm "},{"Title":"Superb in every way!","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I admire this great film. Gregory Peck is wonderful as well as all the rest of the cast. I am 80 years old and I'm proud to list some of my past experiences. In high school I played for an undefeated State Champion football team. We had some great black players who stood out on the field. After one play I noticed that our right end had a broken arm. He gave me strict orders to shut up about it because he said he wasn't going to sit on the bench. Our full back was Jewish and he was one of the most admired guy any of us could hope to know. It was the same story in Prep school and in college. Going to class with Jews and being friends was something I have good memories about. Today my son is a Green Beret-Navy Seal and his beautiful wife is Jamaican. My daily greeting to her is--Hello beautiful- I love you. Count Basie was a good friend of mine. So was Duke Ellington. I owned a house and one day some idiot knocked on my door and wanted me to sign a zoning agreement saying that I would not sell to Jewish or black people (1960). I told him that I had a black customer who was going to buy my property and if he or they didn't like it----. My 22 year old Grandson is a Fireman-EMT man and a Police man. He has saved many lives. I am proud to be an American and this is the greatest country in the world. There is no room in my heart for hate. Thank you. "},{"Title":"What It Is Really Like to Pretend to Be a Jew","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reporter Phil Green is hired by magazine publisher John Minify to write an article on anti-Semitism, but he just cannot figure out how to approach the subject. We watch the movie patiently waiting for him to come up with the idea of pretending to be a Jew. When he finally reveals that on a previous occasion he pretended to be an Okie in order to write about the plight of the Okies, and that on another occasion he pretended to be a coal miner in order to write about coal mining, we are a little irritated that it took him so long to think about pretending to be a Jew. Having done this sort of thing twice before, it should have occurred to him right off. This delay might have been improved dramatically if someone else had suggested the idea to him. We might imagine his mother saying, You once pretended to be an Okie to learn what it was like to be an Okie, so why don't you pretend to be a Jew? But since the movie has Phil come up with the idea himself, we can't help thinking, It's about time!When he finally does start pretending to be a Jew, he is shocked by all the prejudice he encounters, as when he tries to check into a high-class hotel and is refused service. Well, what did he think was going to happen? In fact, he seems to know less about anti-Semitism than everyone else in the movie. We get the impression that the person most ignorant about anti-Semitism has been picked to write an article about it. His girlfriend Kathy has to tell him that people with houses in nice neighborhoods have a gentleman's agreement not to sell or rent to Jews. Why is it that she knows about this, but he does not? Maybe she should be writing the article. At the very least, Phil could have collaborated with his Jewish friend and his Jewish secretary. Instead, the man who knows least about anti-Semitism thinks he has to write the article all by himself.And this raises the question, Why not have a Jew write the article? It does turn out that the magazine Phil is going to write the article for discriminates against Jews in its hiring policy, which Minify changes when he becomes aware of it. But that doesn't explain why Minify, who seems so determined to combat anti-Semitism, did not hire a Jew to do the job from the very beginning. We almost get the feeling that the article (and the movie itself, for that matter) would not be meaningful unless the Jewish experience were filtered through the mind of a gentile.Furthermore, since Phil is not a Jew, it is hard to believe that he would feel the effect of prejudice the same way a real Jew would. Phil acts deeply offended when he encounters prejudice. But if I had pretended to be a Jew in order to be able to write about anti-Semitism, every time someone offended me, I would gleefully sneak off to the restroom to write down notes, thinking, Boy, this is going to be good stuff for that article I'm going to write. "}{"Title":"polemic on antisemitism","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Part of this movie is watching Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire and Celeste Holm lounging about in rococo luxury looking fabulously glamorous. Over and over Peck and McGuire insult each other, apologise overly profusely and kiss with the passion of Siamese fighting fish.The rest of it is a bit like a George Bernard Shaw play, where the actors have a philosophical discussions about anti-Semitism exchanging long speeches. It is contains quite deep discussions of various types of prejudice. It gets a bit preachy at times. At times it backs speeches with music reminiscent of Battle Hymn of the Republic -- way over the top.Dean Stockwell plays the son Tommy. He is an angelic, hyperactive child who provides the only welcome action in the rather static film.The basic plot is Peck pretends to be Jewish in order to write a magazine story about the prejudice he experiences. The prejudice is relatively subtle. I could hardly see it being sensational enough for a series in a magazine. I suppose the writer did not want the audience to discount that such prejudice happens, rather to say, That is pretty bad, but what really happens is much worse.There is no scene when Peck gives the bad guys a swift kick in the pants. The fight has just started and it is up to you in the audience to do battle. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking, but Viewed Today it has an Inevitable Clunk","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While Trying to Introduce a Controversial Subject Like Anti-Semitism in 1947, a Road Not Traveled in Cinema, there were Bound to be Awkward Inclusions and Vague Misrepresentations. It was not going to be a Smooth Ride and the Picture Shows Signs of Preachy Pronouncements and Stilted Scenes.There is a Heavy Romantic Angle that Works in the Way the Relationship between Writer Gregory Peck and Dorothy McGuire Vacillates between Love and Mistrust. Although it does Seem Forced at Times it Contains Moments of Conflict and Strife that Adds to the Intensity.John Garfield, as Peck's Jewish Friend, Delivers a Restrained and Soft Spoken Character that Relays some Experienced Wisdom. The Whole Idea of Peck Pretending to be Jewish to Write a Truth Telling Article is a Contrived Method the Movie has to Deal with and it does with Varying Degrees of Success.The Heart of the Film Relies on the Relationship of Peck and McGuire more than Actual On the Streets Experience and is One of the Film's Shortcomings. Much of the Story is Internalized, Like a Child's Inquiries and Bullying, and More Externalization from the Writer could have been More Impactful. The Acting is Superb Considering the Uncharted Territory. The Movie was an Instant Critical Success, Very Popular, and Awarded Best Picture. Eight Nominations and Three Wins from the Academy. Director Elia Kazan and Celeste Holmes also took home Statues. But Viewed Today, the Strain of the Subject Matter Shows and the Lack of Forerunners in Films is Evident. It was a Noble Attempt and is Recommended for its Historical Importance. Negroes and Homosexuals would have to Wait Their Turn with Similar Struggles. But Without this One Leading the Way, along with Some Others like the Film-Noir Crossfire made the Same Year, the Wait would have been Longer. "},{"Title":"Somewhat preachy and dated but still powerful","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Magazine writer Philip Green (Gregory Peck) is hired to write a series on anti-Semitism. He decides to let everybody thinks he's Jewish and see what happens. He quickly finds out how strong bigotry and hatred against jews really is.I've read back when this was made in the 1940s anti-Semitism was accepted and tolerated and this movie showed people how evil it was. I'm not Jewish but I've never had a problem with it and find it hard to believe people ever did. So this movie was an eye-opener for many people. Unfortunately it also comes across as obvious and sometimes overly preachy especially at the end when we get THREE speeches against it. Still it's not a bad movie at all and went on to win three Academy Awards including Best Picture.Peck is good in his role and Dorothy McGuire was also OK as his girlfriend--but those two had no romantic spark between them. Their kisses came across as awkward and forced and I never believed they were in love. Celeste Holm is great in a supporting role and won an Oscar for it. Also John Garfield has a small but crucial role. Wonderful character actress Anne Revere is also in this. The script is sharp and intelligent and doesn't pull punches in its dialogue. It moves quickly too. Still, as a very liberal guy, I found it so obvious that it didn't really have a huge impact on me. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Intolerance.","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Elia Kazan directed this Academy Award winning(best picture and director) film that stars Gregory Peck as magazine writer Philip Green, who is chosen by his editor to do an expose on anti-Semitism in their city. Initially reluctant, he nonetheless goes ahead, but decides the only way to find out first-hand is to pretend to be Jewish, and is shocked by the subtle but distinct prejudice he discovers. Dorothy McGuire plays his girlfriend Kathy Lacey, who supports the project, but discovers how much of the prejudice she supports through her silence, and fear of losing friends. John Garfield plays a Jewish friend who knows first-hand about bigotry, and Celeste Holm(who won a best supporting actress Academy Award) is memorable as a fashion editor at the magazine who supports Green. Well-intentioned and acted film was controversial at the time, but seems tame now, even dull, though remains an otherwise interesting and still timely drama. "},{"Title":"A powerful film for its time &#x96; and for today","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's no doubt about the subject of this movie. It tackles prejudice head-on. Moss Hart wrote an excellent screenplay from a book by Laura Hobson of the same name. All aspects of this film are outstanding &#x96; the acting, direction, cinematography, etc. It won the Best Picture Oscar for 1947, along with two more Academy Awards of a total of eight nominations. The plot is about anti-semitism and one journalist's efforts to expose it anew in post-World War II America. But it encompasses all prejudice and discrimination. The script and story are masterfully done in showing the depth of anti-Semitism at the time. Peck's character is constantly finding people who aren't prejudiced and who believe they aren't anti- semitic. But he unveils the truth of the core of prejudice. Many people are apathetic in the face of anti-semitism. Others are apologetic. Some people of the Jewish faith (it is not a race, as one of the characters points out) make excuses for not stirring up trouble. The movie gets its title from a statement by Peck's fiancée. She said that wealthy neighborhoods don't officially discriminate. Rather, they practice a sort of restriction by gentleman's agreement. The message that Peck's character drives home is that so long as people tolerate intolerance, make excuses, or sit by apathetically in the face of discrimination, they contribute to it by their very inaction. A powerfully-done film, Gentleman's Agreement was controversial in its day. But it earned its due recognition at the box office, in the public arena, and at the Academy Awards. This is a great example of when and how Hollywood shone by weighing in on a major social and moral issue. The movie is as valid and relevant today as it was when it was made. As Peck's character said more than once in the film, concern for such social injustices should always be foremost for a civilization to survive. "},{"Title":"Guess who's coming to dinner","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Overly dated and at times embarrassingly preachy but still hard hitting movie on anti-Semitism with investigative gentile reporter Phil Green,Gregory Peck, going undercover as a Jew to do an explosive expose magazine story on the subject. Green realizing that the only way he can get into the meat of the subject,anti-Semitism, is for him to become or pose as a Semite or Jew himself and goes undercover with a change of identity, from Green to Greenberg,doing it. The first shock that Green gets is that he finds out that his own secretary at the magazine Elaine Wales, June Havoc, is not only Jewish in that her real last name is actually Wilinsky but had to anglicize it to Wales in order to get a job at the publication! This the very magazine Smith Weekly that's out to expose the evils of anti-Semitism!Green gets so deep into the subject,in being Jewish, that it starts to effect his love life with his fiancé the magazine's editor John Minify,Albert Dakker, niece the just divorced Kathy Lacy, Dorothy McGuire, whom he accuses of if not in her being anti-Semitic herself but tolerating it by not quitting an exclusive country club in her all white and Waspy hometown of Darien Connecticut that doesn't allow Jews in as members! Things really start to get out of hand when the widowed Green's, who's wife died nine year ago, 12 year old son Tommy, Dave Stockwell,was set upon by his schoolmates who accused him of being not only Jewish but a Dirty Jew and kicked him out of the school yard! That's in them thinking that his motor mouth and outspoken father, in him letting everyone know that he comes in contact with, is in fact Jewish! Even though he doesn't look a bit Jewish and really isn't Jewish at all!It's Green's just back from the war army buddy Capt.Dave Goldman, John Garfield, who's himself Jewish who puts him straight on the matter in how obnoxious he's behaving and is instead of fighting anti-Semitism is actually encouraging and promoting it by is actions! It's also wise old and liberal thinking Moma Green (Anne Revere) Phil Green's bed ridden, from a series of strokes, mother who also sees just how destructive her son has gotten over this anti-Semite story that he's writing which is just about ruining his life! In him pretending to be Jewish her son Phil has become an overly touchy person with a chip on his shoulder the size of the Titanic! Green after his give me your best shot like actions, by insisting that he's Jewish and demanding a room, gets himself kicked out of an all white and no Jews allowed hotel that he finally gets the message as well as his act together. In him banging or typing out an award winning ten page article on the evils of anti-Semitism but also educating himself on the subject. That's by dealing with it in a clam cool and collective way. Not in overreacting to it by stirring the pot in him accusing almost everyone of being anti-Semitic as well as his aggressive and somewhat rude actions where he in pretending to be Jewish almost ends up making it-anti-Semitism-acceptable! P.S Check out actor Sam Jaffe playing the Albert Einstein like Jewish professor Fred Lieberman in the movie. Jaffe was to repeat that role four years later in the movie The Day the Earth Stood Still as the world renowned Jewish physicist Professor, and smartest man in the whole wide world, Jacob Barnhardt. "},{"Title":"important issue, mildly hokey treatment","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With the atrocities of the Third Reich exposed, anti-Semitism became a major issue on the world's conscience. Elia Kazan's Gentleman's Agreement is asking people to look at the stereotypes that they as individuals have. While the focus is a journalist (Gregory Peck) who poses as a Jew to write an article on anti-Semitism, it really brings up the question of discrimination towards any minority.Unfortunately, the movie isn't as good as it could have been. Specifically, the ending is really hokey. I suppose that the movie's release indirectly encouraged the creation of a Jewish homeland, and Israel became a country the year after it came out.While anti-Semitism has subsided (at least as far as we can tell), and people are now afraid to be open about their prejudices, prejudices remain everywhere. Are any of us TRULY without prejudices, asks the movie.Anyway, not a real masterpiece, but still worth seeing. Also starring Dorothy McGuire, John Garfield, Anne Revere, June Havoc, Celeste Holm and Dean Stockwell. "},{"Title":"Let's all agree to listen...","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I feel that there is a massive difference between being 'anti-something, and simply being plain ignorant about it...I'm disabled, and I don't consider people who have never considered the possibilities for those in my position to be 'anti-disabled'; they're well meaning, but through lack of experience they don't understand that we're the same as everybody else...That's why, when he meets the guy who assumes he's in PR and not a G.I, I think he's being a little harsh. Being anti-something is grasping the significance of why your attitude might be considered offensive, yet displaying it anyway; being ignorant is just assuming something without thinking because you've never had occasion to recalibrate your ideas.I suppose that here I'm being defensive of people with little tact, but I believe that nobody will ever learn anything without first promoting understanding... That LEADS you to acceptance.You'll never change people's outlook by hectoring them. The way to do it is to intently focus on commonality. "},{"Title":"subtle and interesting film","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The comments on this film seem to go to extremes. People either love it or hate it for the most part. I fall in the middle, for as I felt that the first hour was slow to get going and overly talky, when Peck actually began playing the role of a Jew, the picture gained considerable momentum. I found it very interesting that I was constantly made unsure by the film maker as to whether the people Peck was interacting with thought he was Jewish or not. For example, I think that it is left purposefully vague as to what the Mcguire character tells her Darien friends and family about Peck, (whether he is Jewish, or actually just posing as a Jew). It puts us in his shoes at the party, which is an interesting, albeit uncomfortable place to be. A preachy film perhaps, but I found it ultimately effective and extremely thought-provoking. And Celeste Holm's was The Performance, in my view. "},{"Title":"Thought-Provoking Study Of Religious Intolerance...A Genuine Film Classic...","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The subject of Anti-Semitism is tackled daringly by director Kazan in his first big hit. Gregory Peck stars as the reporter who goes undercover for a story to investigate Anti-Semitism, by pretending he is a Jew. His experiences and treatment as a result of his 'experiment' form the backbone of the rest of the film.Gentlemen's Agreement paved the way for political issues and controversial contemporary issues to be explored in film. It has impeccable credentials winner of Best Picture, Best Director and Best Supporting Actress. And it lives up to it's accolades- Peck gives a great performance as the reporter, and Garfield is terrific when he finally appears late in the film as Peck's Jewish friend. McGuire handles her role efficiently, giving a quiet yet confident performance. Holm gives perhaps the best performance of the picture, a well-deserved winner of her award.Unfortunately GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT is seen by many as preachy and dated...yes, it does force the issue of anti-semitism and religious intolerance on you, but it is a powerful film classic nonetheless, intelligently written and movingly acted. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Indictment and Solution to the Hidden Segregation of the Restricted.","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THAT there is conflict between varying groups of people has been a fact of life ever since the dawn of Man on the face of the Earth. Rivalry, competition and even hatred of me for you and those for them has been, is now and always will be a flaw that is right below the surface; quick to raise its ugly head at any time.THE practice of pitting whole groups of people against another, regardless of individuals own behaviour can be traced to what has been called the Blood Feud. Hence, regardless of innocence, age or social condition; it would matter not! If you were one of them, all of us would hate you. We'd have no other choice.SUCH obviously irrational conduct has been handed down to us from previous generations. While the infamous Hatfields vs. the McCoys feud, which lasted some hundred years, is a fine and example of the irrational and anti-social mass-application of hatred.ONCE started, this hatred is very difficult to ferret out of the collective social conscience. One hates another simply because he is one of them! No other explanation required.LIKE as any other group hatred, Anti-Semitism knows no rationale. The perpetrators just hate because they want to.IT seems that the problems start when the concept of self and individuality are tossed aside. Once this has been done, there is no longer the measurement of the individual. This is revealed as it manifests itself in the spoken word. What do YOU PEOPLE want or What about YOU GUYS are a couple of commonly used phrases that may well reveal so much.ULTIMATELY we may reduce prejudice and group discord simply by remembering to address all occurrences that come down the pike, be they good or bad, as being the responsibility of individuals.CONCERNING today's review for the Film, GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT (20th Century-Fox, 1947), it is a record of another dark occurrence in our country's history. It relates the practice of excluding Jews from using certain public accommodations such as Hotels, Country Clubs and Restaurants. While there were no written directives or compacts to look at as evidence, these exclusionary practices were both real, as well as wide spread.OUR STORY&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;.Our main Character, Phillip Schuyler Green (Gregory Peck) is a writer of some note who is being hired by a big-circulation weekly magazine to put some fine, literary stories with real social content in their regular output. In trying to think of a story that would have real impact on a real problem, Green decides to pass himself off as being Jewish. Widower Green's secret is known only to his Mother (Anne Revere), Son Tommy (Dean Stockwell), his Publisher John Minify (Albert Dekker) and his Fiancé Kathy Lacy (Dorothy McGuire).IN the process of doing even the simplest of activities, he soon sees how even some of the more seemingly harmless aspects of this discriminatory way of life are hurtful to the spirit of a group of people.AFTER a while, the pretense of being something he is not becomes too much for him, as his nerves seem to be coming unglued. He finds that he cannot enter into any conversation, even with his confidants, without his becoming flustered and angry.SAVING grace comes from War Buddy, Dave Goldman (John Garfield), who really is Jewish, proves to be the saving grace in his emotional struggle. With this help and his own perseverance in his writing ability, he completes the last of his articles. His friend, Dave Goldman gets his New York housing and new job. Phil Green makes peace with Fiancé Kathy and the story ends upbeat, if not exactly happy.DEVELOPING the story for the screen, 20th Century-Fox head guy Darryl F. Zanuck gave the movie going public a gem of a film that extended far beyond a light entertainment. The depiction of those occurrences invites all to put themselves in the place of those getting mistreated. The film dramatizes how each and every person can do his part to eradicate this and any social blight.IN the end it all can be put right quite simply. Just remember; Do unto others as you would have them do unto you, IT seems that the guy who originally said that was a Tradesman, a Jewish Carpenter.POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Perceptive Film","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As I viewed this now sixty two year old film (which happened to be telecast on New Year's Day 2009) I was struck by its contemporary relevancy. This film happened to be about social prejudice directed toward Jewish people in the late forties. However, I made some substitutions, with starling results.Instead of jews I first replaced it with the word blacks, then gays. While bigotry and discrimination against the African Americans has significantly lessened, it's the homosexuals who are today's target.The subtle reasons for discrimination covered so well in this film's script are alive and well in 2009. Many people now use the moral rationale as opposed to civic. Still, the results amount to the same denying American citizens of their human rights because they are gay, lesbian, bisexual and also--in the case of aspects of the current Boy Scouts of America's charter--atheistic and agnostic.The reasons June Havoc's Jewish secretary stated for supporting her company's anti-Jewish hiring policy (We can't allow the wrong ones get in here, you know) are parallel to today's rationales (They might destroy the institution of marriage or They might molest our children or warp their minds).Today, however, the gentlemen's agreement regarding gay rights has fortunately passed the hidden stage, and has been brought into the public forum, which requires voting for or against rights issues. Thanks to this superbly directed (by Elia Kazan) and acted (by Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire, John Garfield, Anne Revere, et al.) film, humanity has progressed toward the day when equality and freedom indeed means all people.We are grateful for 1947's Gentlemen's Agreement for helping pave the way for social progress in America. Here's a case in which the entertainment industry (much thanks to Darryl F. Zanuck) made a significant contribution toward social change. I do trust that by next year this time (and years to follow) my comments here will be dated and no longer relevant._________________________11/29/2014 Addendum Today, 5 years after writing the above, I reviewed this film, and it held me mesmerized. What a lean, honest and well-focused cinematic artwork. It is standing the test of time well, and my previous reflections still hold up. Thanks to Laura Z. Hobson's brilliant novel, Moss Hart's fine screenplay and Darryl F. Zanuck's administrative tenacity, Elia Kazan and company produced a superior creation. "},{"Title":"Gentleman's Agreement- A GREAT MOVIE AGREEMENT","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The picture is absolutely outstanding. I know that director Elia Kazan didn't think much of it but was he wrong. From the beginning, when we hear the musical score of Alfred Newman, we know we're in for a treat. I'll never forget the music from the end of the film. Phil Green was the embodiment of the late Gregory Peck- a man who had a social conscience and fought for social justice. Peck was perfect for the part. It's amazing that he lost the Oscar that year. Ronald Colman was great in the Shakespearian classic A DOUBLE LIFE but it was Peck who got the viewer to think of how anti-semitism and all other forms of religious and racial prejudices play a role in our everyday lives. As Cathy, the late Dorothy McGuire was also quite effective. She was perfect for the part of a woman championing civil rights as long as it didn't adversely affect her. It is interesting to note how many people in this film were subsequently blacklisted- Revere, Garfield, Dekker and those others who came under such scrutiny. Anne Revere strived for perfection as the mother which she well achieved. Celeste Holm pulled no punches and that's why she probably won the coveted Oscar for best supporting actress. Equally sympathetic was Albert Dekker as the editor and John Garfield, who took the supporting role of Dave Goldman, because he believed in the picture. Too bad that writer Laura Z. Hobson did not live to see Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut (of all places) run for the vice presidency and receive a majority of the popular vote. Even Ms. Hobson would have to admit that we've come a long way baby. My rating for this film ****Those viewers who knock this film must realize that it came out 2 years after World War 11 ended.An interesting side bar is that how many reviewers realize that Roy Roberts, the gentleman, who denied Green access to the hotel, played a very similar character 20 years later in the film Hotel? In the latter, he denied access to a black couple seeking a hotel admission. Talk about type casting! "},{"Title":"Compelling Subject Matter, but Less Than Stellar Peck and Kazan","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If there is one thing that everyone can agree about Elia Kazan, it is that he was controversial. In East of Eden, Lana Turner's character had a child out of wedlock (something heavily frowned-upon in those days). In On the Waterfront, he used Mafia control of dock unions as a metaphor for the hearings of the House Un-American Activities Committee (better known as the McCarthy Hearings). And Kazan himself faced much criticism for testifying at those very hearings in 1952, so much so that in 1999, when he received his Honorary Academy Award, many audience members protested by remaining in their seats. Well, I think his path down the road of controversy begins here, with 1947's Gentleman's Agreement.The term gentleman's agreement means an unwritten rule which basically states that Jews are not permitted to patronize businesses, get jobs, or find a place to live, simply because they're Jewish. Author Laura Z. Hobson tackled the issue with a story she was sure would never sell. To everyone's surprise, it did sell, and it did open eyes, and Darryl F. Zanuck snapped up the rights to the book and put Elia Kazan in the driver's seat.Ironically, many members of Hollywood's elite (more than a few of whom were Jewish) tried to convince Zanuck to not go forward with the movie. They wanted the subject to remain quiet, so no feathers could get ruffled. All that did was press the project forward, with the keeping it quiet topic addressed in an early scene of the film itself. Okay, enough history; let's talk about the movie. Gregory Peck stars as Schuyler Green, a freelance writer sent to New York to write a series of articles about anti-Semitism. At first, he's cool to the idea, until the day he tries to explain to his son (Dean Stockwell -- yes, of Quantum Leap fame) what anti-Semitism is. After stewing over his angle for a few days, it dawns on him He will call himself by his first name (Phil), tell everyone he's Jewish, and he will see for himself how they are really treated. Some the results of his research are surprising. Without throwing up a Spoiler Alert, let me just say that he discovered anti-Jew behavior everywhere, even within the ranks, so to speak.The subject matter of this movie is quite compelling, but I still had problems with the film itself, especially with its romantic angle. Dorothy McGuire plays Kathy, a divorced schoolteacher and niece to the magazine's publisher, but her scenes with Peck were quite melodramatic, almost to the point they nearly upstaged the main plot of the film. And Gregory's Peck's performance appeared wooden to me. Oh, I found believability in his character, but his acting looked paint-by-numbers to me, as if Peck himself was thinking Oh, yeah, I should put on my hat now. John Garfield and Celeste Holm are much better cast as Phil's friend Dave Goldman (a Jewish Army captain) and Anne Dettrey (fashion editor of Smith's Weekly Magazine).The script had some problems, too. The undercover Jewish reporter side of the story was fine, it was the romantic side. And Kazan's direction also appeared that way, too. I'm not going to outright say that Kazan fumbled with this one, but he did direct and co-write this movie.To me, Gentleman's Agreement could have been a better film, but unfortunately, it wasn't. True, it was quite a groundbreaker in its day, and very few films addressed the issue of Anti-Semitism prior to this one. But there was one film, released in 1940, which (at the time) drew much fire and criticism for tackling the same issue head-on, and it was a far more brilliant motion picture Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator. "},{"Title":"A Decent Job With Some Difficult Material","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Given the difficulty of the material, this is a decent job of making an interesting and creditable movie. Any story on such a contentious topic can very easily become either labored, strident, contrived, or all three, if not handled with care. Gentleman's Agreement is imperfect, but it is better than most such efforts.Gregory Peck was a good choice to play the leading role, although that was probably not so obvious at the time. Eventually he become one of the finest of all actors at playing the role of the earnest advocate for a good cause without becoming phony or annoying. As one of his earlier efforts, his performance here is not without flaws, and it hardly compares with his excellence in, for example, To Kill A Mockingbird. But he does already seem to realize that it is often more effective to keep things low key in such a role, and to save the energy for a key point in the story.Dorothy McGuire has a nearly thankless role, and though her character does not come across very well, her performance is pretty much what the part called for. The rest of the cast generally does all right as well, with Celeste Holm probably getting the best moments, and making good use of them.The story is told at a good pace, and there are only a few occasions during the picture when things don't quite ring true. It's honestly not among the best movies of its era, but it is a creditable attempt that is worth watching, and it certainly looks good compared to the smarmy, heavy-handed movies that present-day directors too often turn out whenever they tackle this kind of material.  "},{"Title":"Prejudice in America circa 1940s","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having known a talented woman who couldn't make it into any of the big companies she applied for just around the time where Gentleman's Agreement takes place, resonated with this viewer, as the reason for watching it. Never having read the Laura Z. Hobson's novel, we can't opine whether this adaptation by Moss Hart and Elia Kazan is true to the book. Arthur Miller, a distinguished writer, dealt more or less with the same problem in his novel Focus, which was made into a film a few years ago.As directed by Elia Kazan, this film will probably look dated, as most of the insidious prejudice in the American society seems to have vanished. Gentleman's Agreement, as has been pointed by other contributors to IMDb, seems preachy dealing with the subject matter anti-Semitism.Phil Green, the man at the center of the story, seems to be a decent individual. He is hired by a New York magazine to write an expose about anti-Semitism in the society of that era. In order to get down to the root of the evil he was to cover, Phil makes himself pass as a Jew, a fact that is revealed to all the editors of the magazine, who turn a cool shoulder to him. The only one that became friendly is the fashion editor, Anne Dettrey, who seems to be the only one with an open mind in the whole place.Although the prejudice toward Green is not blatant, it's ironic that he would encounter more opposition to his passing for a Jew, from unexpected sources. The well intentioned Kathy Lacey, the niece of his boss, shows she is a decent woman. However, she is not one to speak up about what she feels in her heart is wrong. Also, Green's secretary, Elaine Wales, proves to be an insensitive Jewish woman who has assumed a new personality in order to get employment in the magazine.Gregory Peck makes a good appearance as Phil Green. This actor was a solid performer when he got decent direction, as the one he got from Mr. Kazan in the movie. Mr. Peck is an imposing sight as the man that wants to expose the narrow mindedness of prejudice by impersonating to be Jewish himself.Dorothy McGuire, as Kathy doesn't come out as well. In fact, at times, she proves to be an irritating woman because she wants to be upright, but in fact, she is a coward who never stands up to speak when she hears jokes, or comments disparaging Jews.Celeste Holm makes a better impression as the woman who befriends Green and stays by him no matter what is going on around the office. June Havoc, as Elaine Wales, the secretary, made the best out of the limitations of her character. John Garfield is seen as the childhood friend Dave Goldman, who can't imagine why his friend Phil is doing what he is doing, but stays by him. Anne Revere, plays Mrs. Green, the understanding mother.This is a curious film that made history at the time it came out because what it decided to tackle. "},{"Title":"Not one of Kazan's best.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gentleman's agreement was certainly a courageous move at the time,1947,but now it seems Hollywoodian,dated and rather static. From the start,the dice were loaded .I've been a miner (for a heart of gold?),to be able to describe their lives,I became one of them,I thought like them,and I endured all they had been thru,says the hero .Who could buy such claptrap?Only a minor can think like a minor,only a minor can feel what a minor feels ,only a minor suffers like a minor doesthe hero knew from the start he would become a chic journalist again,among the elite of the town.He knew that it would be for a very short time.Then ,the JewsKazan's manifesto is not convincing;McGuire's character is nothing but a spoilt child ,a millionaire whose frame of minds are sometimes infuriating;Peck is the journalist prototype that will be the hero of many a political movie afterwards ;he's hollywoodian to the core ,but the chances he takes are not that much horrendousbest/worst examplethe scene in the luxury hotel for rich wealthy VIP 95% of the IMDb users (including myself) can only dream of!How could Kazan think that such a scene would revolt us ?All right it's unfair the poor Jews cannot go horse-riding in the sumptuous gardens !All right!Most of the movie takes place in chic apartments -special award for Celeste Holm's gourmet buffet,complete with caviar.John Garfield's character could have provided the movie with the character it cruelly lacked but it's an underwritten part,and his main purpose it to reunite at the last minute the two lovers to secure a ridiculous -and illogical - happy end.Melodrama elements come at the most awkward moment ,such as the mother's heart problems or the obligatory scene when they call the kid a dirty yid.A scene between this kid and Peck could have been wonderful,when he explained to him what a Jew is,but it's only skimmed over.In the world ,lots of people do not even know that the Christian,Jewish (and Muslim!)religions have the same basis .I was brought up a Catholic,and my best American friends are Jews. I remember the long evenings we would spend ,talking about what we had in common-much more than we ever thought of-.The one thing that puzzled me in the Jewish religion is that there's no life after lifeit's the only religion which does not promise something after;we survive through our children one of my friends would say.Had Kazan developed his scenes with the young boy ,instead of taking Peck from one reception to another.Directing is static,and the movie is very talky,without the greatness of Kazan's golden 1952-1963 heyday,from  a streetcar named desire  to  America America ,with these masterpieces of lyricism such as East of Eden and splendor in the grass or visionary works such as a face in the crowd. "},{"Title":"getting there first doesn't mean you win","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" considered groundbreaking, and even some posts say just amazed that there was anti- semetism before world war 2- like Hitler invented the idea; if you're that naive perhaps you will like this movie where a writer who wants facts and figures on the subject instead pretends to be Jewish and discovers it first hand; earnest peck, earnest script, with the one-note message; somehow everyone forgot that by the 1940s Jews headed all the major movie studios in America; look them up Zukor, Goldwyn, Schenk, Mayer, Selznick, Thalberg, Cohn, Fox, Shulberg, Warner, Loew; so Zanuck is credited with taking such a leap, but who was going say no? and if he lost money (with peck?) who was going to fire him? c'mon; okay, so as to movie making and story enough to say it takes peck half an hour to discover the shattering idea that he could pretend to be Jewish; then there's the absurd opposite of Hitler's caricatures where peck says dark hair dark eyes just like his Jewish friend, discovering on his sophomoric quest that you may not look like a jew (yes, he's still clinging to that) to be a jew; then there's the ardent kiss goodbye as he goes off to battle- oops, goes off to stay in restricted hotels- and can bail to his office any time he feels like it; so a few stars for getting there first, but the rest is obvious, non-stop preachy, and predictable "},{"Title":"The Internal Mirror Reflected","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie description states it is about anti-Semitism. If that's all you remember after viewing it? Some more life experience is coming your way in a situation near you. In blazing Technicolor. There are actually two leading ladies in this film. Neither were Dorothy McGuire. She did her best, and it was a satisfactory performance. She was out shined. Gregory Peck, his son Tommy (Dean Stockwell of Quantum Leap fame), and his mother, played by Anne Revere (a direct descendant of Paul Revere) all performed so well in constructing a family that the viewer feels the depth of their characters. So, who's the two leading ladies? Anne Revere as his mother and Celeste Holm, who plays Anne, the Fashion Editor and co worker. Celeste rips up every scene she is in, building her performance into a tense crescendo by her final scene. Many of her lines are classic and definitely qualify for memorable quotes. She was gifted the best part in this movie. Anne Revere is brilliant as his mother, and her final scene is one of the best I've ever seen committed to film. What I gleaned from the undertone of this movie and what I think is the second and equally important lesson is this How do you tell those you love and are close friends with the truth about themselves. What happens when you, who's opinion they value, tell the blunt, honest truth. Where is that precise moment when the mirror they see themselves in turns inwards and forces them to SEE themselves as they truly are? What is their reaction when they remove the rose tinted glasses, only to be pricked by the thorny truth? THAT is what makes this movie an under rated gem and not an overblown one. Turn your mirror inward. If you can see it, learn from it. If you cannot, tint those glasses a wee bit more. Life goes on either way. BUT. Does that make you less of a person? Some movies have layers that can illuminate, amaze, and astound. THAT fact is what makes this movie a true CLASSIC. "},{"Title":"Walking A Mile in Someone Else's Shoes","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If there is a way to make an audience feel the rage and pain of asking for accommodation in an establishment that simply will not do so, though both you and the evasive schmuck on the other side of the desk know why, and he will not say because he's aware of how shamefully his actions are viewed, then that way is how your movie should play out. Such is the case with Gentleman's Agreement. No, it was not a favorite of its renowned director's own work. No, the execs didn't want to green light the thing. But the very discomfort expressed by its makers is the very reason for the picture's importance. It's just the anxiety endured by this film's protagonist, which is one of the reasons why the film is so emotionally powerful We, the audience, undergo the very same shocking indignation that he does, and begin to see how the attitudes of those around us that we take for granted so much of the time are the carrying out of the poison.Gregory Peck brings his signature righteous ire and passion to the role of the film's hero, a journalist assigned to write an expose on anti-Semitism in the affluent communities of New York and Connecticut. The movie begins moving in a very minor direction. So far I've been digging in facts and data&#x85;I've sort of been ignoring feelings. Yadda, yadda, yadda. All of us white gentile Americans are familiar enough already with such armchair outlooks. But! Soon he's the recipient of great inspiration. What if he poses as a Jew? His name is convenient enough for the task Philip Green. Would you pass this fascinating first-hand sociological role-play up? Many variations have been made on this plot over the decades since Gentleman's Agreement. I'm sure you saw Soul Man, either with your high school friends in the '80s or on Comedy Central in the '90s. There was also the Texas native who posed as a black man to write his famous expose, which was parodied cunningly by Eddie Murphy on SNL. Actually, my creative writing teacher in the 6th grade told us about an incredible tan she had one summer that managed to prohibit her from admission into a swimming pool when she was a kid, leaving an indelible impact on her social and political sensibilities. It's a brilliant concept that Laura Hobson came up with. But very few offspring and variation on her premise bore the real-life outrage of this ultimately captivating story.Kazan found the romantic elements of the plot contrived. To me, Green's building rapport with Dorothy McGuire's Kathy goes hand-in-hand with his arc from complacence to active progressivism. She's his editor's divorced niece, who initially proposed the expose. Her uncle pampers her with a lavish apartment and wealth. Later, Green attempts to describe anti-Jewish intolerance to his bright young son, right after parading some male chauvinism. Green expresses to his ma his bafflement that the idea for the assignment came from a girl. Ma retorts, Next thing ya know, women will be thinking. The film remains a keepsake that bigotry has countless features, all of which are threatening but not all obvious. It doesn't take long for the symptoms of discrimination to shock Green. A doctor warns against seeing a Jewish consultant. Tommy is harassed at school when his supposed heritage becomes known. And Kathy wants Phil to abandon his charade when they attend a high-class get-together.This movie's handling of racism starts off braying, to ensure we all recognize the characteristics and implications of anti-Semitism. But as the movie clears from the preliminary stages, it surveys deeper, more insinuating manner of intolerance. Kathy supports Jewish equality, but she doesn't want Phil or his son to be mistaken for Jews. She understands life is harder for Jews and wants her loved ones to take the simpler road. Is that mindset prejudiced? When someone tells a vulgar Jew joke, she claims she quietly took offense, but made no bones. Does her silence embody an unstated tolerance of prejudice? In this Zanuck production, there's cost to narrow-mindedness, and Kathy represents many of us. She talks the talk, but does she walk the significantly more scarce ideal reasoning liberal walk? Her adoration for Green grows so speedily as to distend gullibility, but it's essential for events that occur later. It compares Green's viewpoint of prejudice with Kathy's. We find hers lacking. She's not bad, and he loves her, but when the situation arises for him to decide between her or his ethics, he's compelled to forfeit. This, sequentially, builds a crisis of ideals for Kathy.Seeing this film now, I find it everlastingly pertinent, if not for how other minorities are observed. Frequently, when someone denies accusation of homophobia, they'll say, Some of my best friends are gay. Here, someone with an incontrovertible anti-Semitic penchant asserts Some of my best friends are Jews. Everybody knows that spewing hate and using violence against a certain group is intolerance, yet what some don't see is that smaller, more understated acts can be destructive. Many hold preconceptions but are loath to be truthful about them, even to themselves. This is something this cinematic indictment compels us to face, and that's why it's as commanding now as when it secured the Best Picture Oscar only a few years after Hitler. "}{"Title":"Classic film","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film about Phil Green played by Gregory Peck who is a journalist just after World War II that poses as a Jew to right about anti - semantics. This is a classic film that won 3 Oscars including best picture. The film follows him falling in love with a women played by Dorothy Mcquire. He also lives with his mother who got nominated for best supporting actress.This has some great messages about prejudice and how to overcome those things. Jews have been prosecuted for years and it is a shame some people can't get past that.This is a great film and I recommend it "},{"Title":"How would you feel?","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From a cinematic perspective, Gentleman's Agreement does a superlative job of integrating the romantic sub-plot with the main theme of the movie. The interplay between Peck and McGuire as the undertones of antisemitism emerge help illuminate what a Jew might actually feel in such a situation, as well as drive the plot. It is well written and well acted.The movie does a good job of exploring the various forms prejudice can take, and generating a powerful response in the viewer, without being manipulative. I say prejudice because greater lesson transcends antisemitism. Today we see it more commonly as prejudice as against Islam, as well as some Muslim's prejudice against Americans. It continues to exist because people don't speak out when the see it occurring, a point the movie drives home at the end. I would like to think that the movie is ancient history regarding antisemitism, at least in America. I never experienced anything like what is seen in the movie, but my name isn't Jewish, and never was. What little prejudice I have experienced was from people I felt sorry for for being so ignorant. Most people don't have any idea who is Jewish and who isn't among the people in their community or public figures because all they know of Judaism is a stereotype, which most Jews don't fit. But given the politics of hate that are infecting some regions of the country, I am afraid antisemitism could be on the rise. outside the U.S. the situation is worse. In some Asian countries I have met educated people who accept, unquestioning, nonsense reminiscent of Nazi propaganda, like that Jewish bankers control the U.S. There is all sorts of prejudice against non-Asians and even against other Asians of different nationality. They would do well to learn the lessons of this film.That this movie was made at all in the U.S., especially in 1947, and had excellent attendance, while not all that surprising, still illustrates what is great about America. While there has been all sorts of prejudice in the past, it was something our country, as a whole, has striven to overcome. America is not, and never was, a nation of antisemites or racists, as a whole. And so I would caution viewers that while the movie is painfully accurate, it might give the impression that antisemitism was more common than it actually was, especially in New York City. A Jew not able to find an apartment or house in New York City or the suburbs? You must be kidding. Housing was short after the war, but there were more than a million Jews living in New York City, and plenty more in the suburbs. But, hey, this isn't a documentary. Keep in mind that this is condensing a catalog of antisemitism. I doubt it was an everyday thing to encounter it in the U.S. Keep an eye out for a young Dean Stockwell. He got everything just right, without a touch of overacting. Three years later he showed his stuff in his starring role in Kim and went on to a fine adult career, including one of the finest television series ever made, Quantum Leap. I hope one day he gets the starring role in a major motion picture he deserves. "},{"Title":"Gentleman's Agreement","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From Oscar and Golden Globe winning director Elia Kazan (A Streetcar Named Desire, On the Waterfront), any award winning film is worth trying in my eyes. Basically magazine writer Philip Schuyler Green (Oscar nominated Gregory Peck) recruited to write articles about anti-Semitism in America, but he's not liking it as he doesn't know how to tackle it. He'd be pretending to be Jewish, and he could experience racism and prejudice, and it doesn't take long for him to experience bigotry. He finds out his firm doesn't Jews, and that his secretary changed her name and likes to party, and can't stay with his son being called names on the street. Knowing how he is being treated, it affects his relationship with Kathy Lacy (Oscar nominated Dorothy McGuire), his publisher's niece, and the person who suggests he writes the articles in the first place. Also starring John Garfield as Dave Goldman, Oscar and Golden Globe winning Celeste Holm as Anne Dettrey, Oscar nominated Anne Revere as Mrs. Green, June Havoc as Elaine Wales, Albert Dekker as John Minify, Jane Wyatt as Jane, Golden Globe nominated Dean Stockwell as Tommy Green, Nicholas Joy as Dr. Craigie and Sam Jaffe as Professor Fred Lieberman. I have to be honest, I dozed off in a few moments when it was boring, but as an overall film it did open people's eyes in its days, and I can see why, so it is a sort of worthwhile drama. It won the Oscar for Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Good! "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Recap Phil, a talented writer, relocates from California to New York for his toughest assignment to date. He is asked to do a series on anti-Semitism. But not as it has been done before, but with a special angle. He is going to pretend to be Jewish, so that he can not only talk about, but also feel it, live it. And gets the full experience. Job applications turned down, hotel reservations suddenly invalid, and so on. And it infuriates him. At the same time he meets Kathy, the chief editor's niece. From the first moment they fall in love, but their relationship is not without hard edges. In fact, Kathy might be his biggest obstacle of all.Comments Very well done, and as such, deviously frightening. In many ways much more frightening and sickening than other later movies, like American History X, that has dealt with the subject. They are frightening because they show the extremist elements in our society. A Gentleman's Agreement is much more frightening because it shows the ordinary in our society. You and me. Where anti-Semitism (or really any anti-feeling you can think of. It is easy to change with anti-equality (feminism), anti-Islam, anti-&#x85;) can find hold and grow unnoticed, and show it hideous fangs without no one really seeing it. There is a saying For evil to prevail, all that is required is that good men do nothing. A Gentleman's Agreement try to show this.One of its main strengths is that it made me think. Made me feel and made me search myself. It is very easy to identify yourself with the good people in this movie. And it made me wonder who I was. Was I a Kathy or a Phil? Or rather, when has I chosen to be who, and why? Am I more of the deeply good people, but that seems to do nothing, or am I Phil, that tries to speak up whenever I sense evil? I hope I am the latter, but I'm not entirely sure, and that is what is so frightening. What I am sure of, is that it is important that we constantly searches ourselves, questions ourselves so that we can be Phil. A Gentleman's Agreement did that, it made me do that. And that is why it is equally important and relevant today as the day it was released. Phil's mother says she wants to grow old and see a time when everyone lives together without hate or fear and hopes it will come about in the next century. That is now, and we still has a long, long way to go.Well, the important issue aside, something more direct about the movie then. As mentioned above it is very easy to identify with the different characters. And that wouldn't have been possible if not for two things. First they would have been defined and crafted well in the script, and then acted out flawlessly by the actors. They are and the do. It is really an achievement by Peck and Dorothy McGuire strongly supported by their colleagues. And certainly Kazan's direction is well enough. It is only one thing I wish would have been done differently. Phil and Kathy keep having arguments, and what is somewhat tiresome is that it is the same argument over and over again. It gets a little old. On the other hand it is one of the main points of the movie, leading right up to the ending so I wouldn't cut them out for the world. But somehow you might focus a little different upon them or at least dress it up with different words. I'm not sure, it is a very delicate matter.Can't say I enjoyed the movie. Enjoy is the wrong word. And interesting is too weak a word to describe it. I sat glued to the screen for the entire run, that's for sure. It's frightening and captivating at the same time. And desperately relevant. I recommend it highly! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Solid, stolid, polemical feature","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stolid workmanlike expose of latent anti-semitic behaviour in America, enlivened, if that's the right word by the excellent acting of the leads and especially John Garfield in a brief but telling role (he enters the screen for the first time well over halfway into the feature). The film today betrays its age and literary origins with the principals pretty much all speaking in speeches rather than sentences (there's a particularly ludicrous example of this at the end of the film as Peck's down-home mother, just recovered from a stroke gives an I have a Dream speech worthy of Dr King himself). I also found the ending just too pat for its own good as Peck forgives his socialite fiancé her latent bigotry after she too finally sees the light following a heart - to heart meeting with Jewish army-vet Garfield. That's not to denigrate what has gone before. Although slow to get moving and slow-paced at the best of times, this does at least help the viewer settle into the film as the film's theme and arguments are developed through minor characters' attitudes towards Jewishness. I was particularly taken with the scene where Peck berates his snobbish hypocritical Jewish secretary for her casual use of derogatory terminology, especially when he fleshes out his point with reference to the discrimination of other minority groups, such as Negroes. The casting of Peck in the lead role adds the required gravitas around which the film is centred and the introduction of Garfield (amazingly about the only member of the cast not to receive an Oscar nomination) gives the film a lift both in terms of his character's real - life experiences of bigotry and just generally adding a spark to proceedings. Like many I have a problem with Kazan's conduct in the 1950's Hollywood blacklisting era but can't let that deflect me from the appreciation of him taking on an important subject and bringing it to fruition. His direction is sure, the monochrome photography excellent, the sets are beautifully dressed and I also enjoyed the real-life settings around central New York. Comparing this to its cinematic near contemporary in the high art / serious argument stakes, King Vidor's Gary Cooper vehicle The Fountainhead is like night and day - this feature engages and intrigues whereas the latter (accidentally) bemuses and amuses. "},{"Title":"No, they didn't take back O.J.'s Heisman . . .","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . and they won't pick a new best picture trophy-getter for 1947 just because its Oscar-winning director got one of his leading actors from GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT killed in REAL LIFE a few years later by doing the EXACT SAME THING himself that he had been lauded for preaching against in this film. Un-American super snitch Elia Kazan might as well have plunged a knife into John Garfield's (David, here) back. What makes Kazan particularly odious as the most infamous creep in Hollywood history is him being such a hypocritical wolf in sheep's clothing, which is probably why GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT rings about as false as ON THE WATERFRONT (Kazan's Mea Culpa for making fascists squirm with his first best picture). To foist these two diametric opposite films on Americans featuring actors such as Gregory Peck and Marlon Brando suggests that Kazan himself was the best actor of them all, cleverly hiding his two-faced willingness to sacrifice anything or anyone in the interest of his own self-preservation and personal aggrandizement. GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT is poorly scored, unevenly paced, and wildly implausible. Its characterizations bounce around like Ping-Pong balls, at the mercy of a sermonizing plot. In 1947, they were handing out Oscars for buzz words. "},{"Title":"Its social significance makes it one of the most important films ever made","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One has to judge Gentleman's Agreement in the context in which it was made. This was a landmark film, one of the first socially responsible films in movie history that barely escaped the clutches of the government's inquisition of communism in Hollywood as well as numerous movie industry bigwigs who didn't want it made. Few films are true achievements in a socially relevant sense, even today, but Gentleman's Agreement managed to reach that level in a time when the movie industry almost always kept its nose out of real-world issues.The film's focus is anti-Semitism in the United States, which more Americans had become aware of due to the crimes of the Nazis during the Holocaust. Initially a novel by Laura Z. Hobson, the title refers to the unspoken agreement between members of a community to not allow Jews to live in their neighborhoods. It tells the story of an investigative reporter named Phil Green (Gregory Peck) who decides the best way to report on the issue is to experience it firsthand, so he tells everyone he knows that he's Jewish. Judaism is abstracted in Moss Hart's screenplay. Other than talking about anti-Semitism and John Garfield's role as Phil's Jewish friend David, there's no actually Judaism in the film. Conceptually, however, it looms over the entire picture. The actual portrayal of anti-Semitism is small at first and grows into a few blatant acts that finally add some drama to the film.Understandably, the film tries to be as equal parts a classic Elia Kazan romance with intimate and fragile characters the audience grows fond of quickly. In 1947, producers could never make a picture that dwelled entirely on an issue, let alone something as taboo and hush- hush as anti-Semitism. Romance was a must and Gentleman's Agreement delivers that entertainment value. Phil's romance with Kathy (Dorothy McGuire) is passionate and convincing, even if their arguments, spurred on by Phil's devotion to his project, seem ticky-tacky.Kazan transfers the passion of their rocky love to the film's message of discrimination in the form of ignorance, not merely in outward verbal attacks or violence. Powerfully brought to light by Garfield's character, Gentleman's Agreement begins to introduce the concept of prejudice to the American people. That anti-Semitism can be as easily perpetuated by remaining silent as much as by acting out is something I would imagine the public needed to hear.The scripts construction comes off slightly amateur, but with intention to spell out the issue at hand. Things take some time to get rolling and the plot can be slow at times, trying to find conflict in the small anti-Semitic errors some of the characters make, but the cast really holds it all together, conveying the urgency of the problem so well to the audience. How much clearer does it get than having an Oscar winner in Anne Revere, who plays Phil's mother who has taken ill, deliver a passionate speech about wanting to live long enough to see a world in social harmony? If that doesn't get your attention, then you haven't quite found the true significance of Gentleman's Agreement.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"It's not just about Jews","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now that we are far enough from the time in which the film was made to view its politics with detachment, it's clear that sexual politics are at play here too. While some reviewers have wished that Gregory Peck would end up with the clever, outspoken Celeste Holm instead of the conventional, genteel Dorothy McGuire, that isn't an option. McGuire, Peck's fiancée, is a wealthy woman while he is a middle-class wage earner. She is from a higher social class. So there has to be some levelling before they can make a marriage of equals. The way it is done is by Peck demonstrating that he is the moral superior, so McGuire will have to acknowledge her inferiority in that respect and change in accordance with his wishes. She isn't a bad person--she's just very well mannered and conciliatory. In her milieu people do not make a fuss except about something really appalling, and even then if it is already a public issue, not just a private one. (They would see anti-semitic remarks as a dinner party as a private matter, without public implications.) The irony is that McGuire shrinks from fighting low-level anti-semitism because of the soft, womanly quality that attracts Peck and makes him think she would be a good wife and mother. Holm is too independent, too brash to be seen in that light (at least at the time the picture was made), and she has no obvious imperfections for Peck to fix so that he can feel superior to her.In a general political sense, of course, it is necessary for Peck to win McGuire over rather than reject her because she stands for all the nice people at whom the picture is directed. There would be no point in his getting together with Holm because then the picture would be saying that those who think the right way should stick with each other and leave the other people alone.This was a very brave and honest picture for its time, and it is still far more so than most movies made today. However, it is also dishonest and overly restrained in many ways that seem hypocritical today. The most painful instance of this is the abuse heaped on the Jewish secretary who gets a job by changing her name and who disparages Jews who conform to a vulgar stereotype. Surely, only two years after the discovery of the Holocaust, Jews didn't need to be blamed for anti-semitism. (And, while one can accept that the filmmakers wanted to concentrate on America and everyday life, it seems bizarre that there is not a single reference to the treatment of German Jews, as if the war in which millions of Americas died never happened.) She is attacked much more strongly than any of the actual anti-semites in the movie, and Peck's doing so seems very bullying because he is her employer, so he has power over her. Indeed, NO gentiles are shown saying or doing anything really vile, and none attacked to their faces, except for one who is a drunken troublemaker. The rest are made to feel only mildly embarrassed. The man who tells the disgusting joke is never seen or heard or quoted--we only hear a reference to him and a paraphrase. When Peck's little boy comes home crying because he has been called a dirty Jew (another secondhand story, rather than showing the children and evoking a visceral rather than a rational response), he asks Peck twice, Why do they do this? and both times Peck doesn't answer him. He does not say because their parents are disgusting or because many (most?) people, especially males, use anything they can to get power over others. It would probably have been wrong for him to say it, because the film is bent on converting people, not just attacking them, and also because most people at that time would have rejected such remarks as radical and crazy. But one does, still, wish he had not just been evasive, had not shrunk from the idea that all is not well in apple-pie America. And the answer to the boy is ridiculous--that if he likes he can tell the other boys that he is only PART Jewish! It reminds me of what Groucho Marx said about this type of compromise solution when his family (his wife was gentile) was excluded from a beach club that did not take Jews My children are only half-Jewish. Can they go in the water up to their knees? A particularly strange omission is Peck's previous experience of anti-semitism. He acts as if he has never heard an anti-semitic remark in his life, even though he is a mature man and has been in the army AND has a Jewish friend! The movie would have been much better for just a few lines in which he acknowledged that, when he heard such remarks in the past, he said nothing. That also would have kept him from being so boringly virtuous. And, of course, the film entirely avoids one of the major sources of anti-semitism--the Christian churches, particularly the Catholic. "},{"Title":"Great characters, good notes, mediocre writing and bad acting.","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First thing to say, I liked this film. If I gave the rating based on simply by how I felt and how much I was entertained by the film, I'd give it an 8. I really liked the characters and the conflicts between them, as well as many surprising notes on where Jewish people are mistreated. Unfortunately, the film has quite a lot of faults in it.I should mention that in Finland, you can't find too many Jews. At least I can't say I personally know anyone. Also, I haven't read the novel. Plus English is not my native language. These things in mind, I try to give as perfect a review as I can.First off, my favorite character in the film was the Jewish scientist and I wanted to see more of him. Unfortunately, he's in a one scene only.Luckily, there are more great characters. The main character, Phil Green, for instance. He's high values and a little naive straightforwardness make him a respectful person. His son, Tom, seems similar to his father, but without all the knowledge. Phil's mother's the same breed, but quite a bit more subtle. So what's nice here is that the Greens almost fit the same mold, but still have enough characteristics of their own.There's, of course, Phil's co-workers. His boss seems a little like a father to Phil, having the same ideals and all. Anne is the same. She's the cheeriest person around, but she's not a dizzy blond. Phil secretary is Jewish, but due to her experiences considers herself to be of lower breed than the catholic Christians. Very different from Phil's all-time friend Dave, whose Jewish also.Then, there's Kathy. She's Phil's love interest. Their chemistry works right away and all seems well with them. However, soon we realize what and unlikable person she is. My mother, with whom I was watching the film, said that she'd began loathing her. What's interesting, after the movie she said she'd probably be just like her. When she said the first comment, I realized that Kathy was what you could call a normal person. She's the one that most of the people should relate to, but she gets the opposite response. She's the mirror placed in front of the viewers.Having said that much about the characters, it's time for the acting. It was bad. First I figured it was because of the script that stated out everything they thought, which was quite unnatural. This could've been what made it difficult for the actors to breath life into the lines. Soon I noticed that the actors couldn't even get it right with the lines that had no problem in them. There was this particular scene I'm thinking of, quite early in the film, where Gregory Peck hits the wall with frustration. It seems as if he's thinking My character is frustrated. I am supposed to be frustrated. instead of I am frustrated. Then there's the first scene, where his talking with Dean Stockwell who plays his son. When delivering their lines they take these strange pauses. The dialogue goes this I'm saying this now. This sentence ends now. I'm changing a subject. Now I'm saying a new sentence. I don't know whether it's the actors' or the director's fault, but for some reason the acting is rarely natural.The visuals are basic stuff, not bad, but nothing special. The writing varies from bad to good. Sometimes the characters say too much of what they're thinking which isn't natural, as I stated before. This is a problem with a lot of films made in the US. Another common problem this film has is that it's a bit too preachy. I think that could also be put as the fault of the typical US film-making. Of course, it would be fair to mention that most of my favorite films and a lot of great ones come from the US, it's just that they usually have these two things that bother me.Overall, this movie's nice, it's got great characters and it makes a lot of interesting notes about anti-Semitism. These are the main reasons I liked the film. There's just a lot of technical issues that stops it from being great. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Production","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's often been debated whether art really can affect attitudes, which can in turn impact cultural behavior.Gentleman's Agreement argues well that this is possible. Today anti-Semitism seems dated and passé. It's the gays who are now on the firing line. And after them, who's next? Following the civil rights movement, people who treated Martin Luther King like a dog have now made him a saint. So what else is new? What is it in human nature that some person or group must always be looked down upon or castigated? It seems people have their minds made up so well on issues that they don't even want to entertain facts, which might to confuse them.I used to blame religion and religious leaders for helping to promote divisions amongst people, until I realized it takes two to tango. Without followers there would be no leaders, and most people seem to choose to be sheep to be led. So, I say, let 'em.In this film my identification is with Philip, who detects the prejudicial underpinnings of people's remarks--and points it out (often to these people's chagrin).Kathy represented the average sheep, who may loathe injustice, yet goes with the flow, not speaking up or doing anything which might cause herself to be ostracized . These types avoid confrontation, rather bending with the wind and letting the stronger ones do battle.Dave symbolizes those who are the targets, and can't escape it; their solution is to push it to the back burner and negotiate their emotions.Only Anne and Philip have the courage to speak up and call a spade a spade. However, in this case, neither is actually a real target one is pretending and the other just an empathizer.Moss Hart's script is well written, and the method cast can't be bettered. This is right down Elia Kazan's alley, and he directs with strength and conviction. Peck and McGuire together make for a great combination, and Holm makes a powerful impression.Last but not least, Darryl F. Zanuck must be credited with allowing the film to be made at all, then giving it a major budget and full studio backing. "}{"Title":"a greatly overlooked performance","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A reporter decides to experience racism. He tells everyone he is Jewish and witnesses first-hand that which he had only heard about. Many films have covered this topic, and most stop there. Gentlemen's Agreement goes beyond this. It examines the validity of such an experiment, the audacity of one to think he can suddenly become Jewish, the betrayal to the community, and most importantly, the fact that he never ever really finds out what it's like.Gregory Peck gives an excellent, insightful performance and under Elia Kazan's masterful direction, he makes you resent then love him in the same scene.  "},{"Title":"Movie's subtle message affected me deeply","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was in elementary school sometime in the late 1950s. My mother had me watch it and we discussed it. Over the years, I have seen it many times. Every time it brings home to me how we can not let racism, bigotry, sexism, prejudice of any kind go by us silently.The movie is set in late 1940s, is done in B&W, shows many aspects of Anti-Semitism (discrimination in hotels, schools, jobs, people's expectations, social settings, real estate), includes how non-Jews and Jews themselves propagated Anti-Semitism. It recommends action, not neutrality.This movie would be great in a high school class coupled with debate on prejudice. Today with an unfortunately heightened suspicion of Arab-Americans and Muslims seemingly in some people's minds, this movie might be good to view and help bring home how subtle discrimination can be.The movie maybe could have been done better, more exciting, whatever. But for me, the movie causes dialogue and provokes thought. That is all one can ask. I don't want movies to solve things for me, I want them to cause me to question myself and my world.  "},{"Title":"Badly dated, but effective in context.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gentleman's Agreement, the 1947 movie starring Gregory Peck, suffers from one major problem It was only powerful for the first twenty years of its existence.In 2001, the age of tolerance reigns and anti-Semitism is one of the least-worried about descriminatory attitudes. Not only that, but movies that make social commentary generally do it in the forms of analogies, metaphors or satire nowadays. They don't take the final half hour to repeatedly make short sermonettes blatantly expressing the point of the movie.That said, Gentleman's Agreement must be put in context. In 1945, the world reeled in horror as Hitler's concentration camps were opened and thousands of emaciated, burned, tortured and agonized corpses showed forth the excesses of Hitler's anti-Semitism. But two years later, when the novel and then the movie Gentleman's Agreement were made, anti-Semitism was very much alive and well. Both the novel and movie were controversial both for their subject matter and their respective treatments of it. In that context, Gentleman's Agreement is still a powerful movie, an illumination of the underbelly of one of the most glamorized periods of American history.Gregory Peck plays a magazine writer who is assigned a series on discrimination against Jews. In order to get the proper feel for the story, Peck - who has recently moved across the country and has no connections in New York - becomes a Jew and faces the insults, cold shoulders and harrassment that real Jews received every day. The process changes him  - and his family and his outlook on life - forever.The good parts of this movie are plentiful. Peck, although never a great actor (there were many actors who would have been much better here), does provide a good amount of sincerity and earnestness required for the role. (Unfortunately Peck was somewhat of an underactor, although this could make up for Celeste Holmes' shameless overracting in her final monologue.) The movie does an excellent job developing his romance with Dorothy McGuire's character, especially in light of the end. In general, Gentleman's Agreement did an excellent job in shining a light on the comfortable upper-middle class white suburbia and its quiet, subversive racism. No doubt in 1947, Gentleman's Agreement made quite a few gentlemen severely uncomfortable.But the movie was made in 1947 about a subject that was unique to that time period and immediately following. To watch it after nearly 60 years have passed is to watch a movie that beats you over the head with sermonette after speech after discussion after message about how bad anti-Semitism is. Especially towards the end, where the characters all take turns delivering their own views on precisely what anti-Semitism is and what should be done about it many times over. Gentleman's Agreement just doesn't age well at all, especially in light of Holmes and McGuire's acting performances, which were notably overdone and close to distracting at times.Overall, this movie is worth seeing. And yes, it did deserve the 1947 Oscar for Best Picture, thanks to its subject matter and potent delivery (even if it does not seem so potent today). This was a groundbreaking and controversial movie, and it highlights the productive effect Hollywood can have on society, even 54 years later.7/10 "},{"Title":"Propaganda with an important message","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gentleman's Agreement is a thought-provoking movie about a magazine writer, Phil Green (Gregory Peck), who is assigned to do an article on anti-Semitism.  After searching for an angle, Green decides to pose as a Jewish man in order to experience anti-Semitism first hand.  Temporarily changing his name to Greenberg, he soon discovers what it is like to be viewed inferior in a society filled with prejudice and hatred.  Phil searches for a way that he can help rid society of the bigotry, which eats away at the souls of even the good people, most of who are unwilling to take action.  This includes Phil's new fiancée, Kathy Lacey (Dorothy McGuire).Still to this day, very few movies, if any, have taken a more realistic and effective look at the issue of discrimination.  The film shows us the many angles of discrimination, opening our eyes to the vastness of the problem. Gentleman's Agreement is a timeless lesson in the importance of reminding ourselves that we are one people under God, and that no man is superior to the other.  However, some people may regard the film, considering the time of its release, as Hollywood propaganda with sincerity.  In certain ways this is probably true, but the film's theme is still an important one.Directed by Elia Kazan, Gentleman's Agreement won Oscars for Best Director, Best Supporting Actress (Celeste Holm), and Best Picture of the Year in 1947.  "},{"Title":"It does not get better than this film","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outstanding movie...everyone involved on and off camera make for a perfect 10, and of course Gregory Peck and John Garfield were extraordinary. A movie with great relevance today as well as when it was made, perhaps even more so today, and a movie which could never be made as well because there are no more Gregory Pecks today. "},{"Title":"Of Bigotry And Bystandery","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gentleman's Agreement bores in on the problem of American anti-Semitism in unrelenting fashion, even at the cost of being a bore about it.Gregory Peck stars as Schuyler Green, a journalist who pretends to be Jewish in order to discover intolerance. Only it works too well, both at work and at home, where Green's budding relationship with Kathy Lacey (Dorothy McGuire) unravels as she sweats disapproval from her upper-crust friends in Manhattan and Darien, Connecticut. Will helping do away with a societal ill cost Phil a relationship he holds so dear?No question Gentleman's Agreement is a compelling demonstration of the power of film, as it shed a light on an aspect of American life as no popular entertainment dared before, with marked success. It won an Oscar for Best Picture of 1947, and seemed to change attitudes about what was and wasn't acceptable discourse.If it wasn't for the acting, directing, and screenplay, Gentleman's Agreement might even be a great film. Peck gives another of his characteristically stiff performances, denuding his exchanges with other characters of the slightest traces of doubt or humor. McGuire is a vapid compilation of trite romantic phrases, telling Green she's all his and he's right about everything but could he please give the Jewish thing a rest for just one night? John Garfield shines as Green's Jewish buddy and voice of conscience, mainly because he avoids the same over-the-top acting mannerisms Albert Dekker as Green's publisher and Anne Revere as his mother employ with mind-bending regularity.Moss Hart's script and Elia Kazan's direction come off strident even when not addressing the film's central concern. When we first meet Green, walking around Rockefeller Center with his son (Dean Stockwell), they look up at a statue of Atlas carrying the world, which the boy compares to his Dad. Later, as Green sweats over what angle to use to get at this anti-Semitism thing, we see him actually cracking a nut in order to underscore the point.But when the film has an effective scene, it really makes it stick. Like the famous one of Green trying to get a room at the Flume Inn, and confronting the smug manager about whether his hotel is restricted. Do you practice the Hebrew religion yourself, or are you just making sure? the manager asks. Or Garfield noting Green's strain from such exchanges comes from not being insulated by constant exposure. Even McGuire rallies a little near the end, telling Green she hates what he's made her feel about herself and then confessing her own hypocrisy to Garfield.I feel a hypocrite myself. If Gentleman's Agreement had died at the box office in 1947, I wouldn't be giving it a passing grade now. It's badly dated, and often sloppy in its aim (I wince for that poor guy who gets both barrels for asking Green what he did during the war and thinking it was PR.) But it asks tough questions, gives tough answers, and leaves me thinking like Kathy about all the times I could have said and done more than I did when confronted with intolerance toward others.It's really each house, each family that decides it, Green says, and there's no question that Gentleman's Agreement has helped many decide it the right way. "},{"Title":"Decent Premise Bad overall show","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well to say the least this movie had some fairly decent acting. I do concur with other reviewers that they gave you a overdose of drama on the situation on antisemitism. they could of put in more plain english instead of staging and wanting of a academy award. Overall however for the time the movie was well put and at least put the issue on the table for discussion  "},{"Title":"An Historically Important Film","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the approach and presentation of anti-Semitism is a bit dated by today's standards, that should not detract from the historical importance of this movie.  For the first time, a movie showed anti-Semitism as being a part of mainstream American thinking.  And it took two non-Jews, producer Zanuck and director Kazan, to bring it to the screen.  No Jewish producer would touch this project.  They were afraid of negative reaction. (Apparently, the fact that the book on which the movie was based was a best seller escaped their notice!)Oddly, Kazan once said he hated this film.  He did not want a happy ending, but Zanuck insisted that the love story should cure all.  "},{"Title":"Fine, preachy flick, dated but good....","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...Well intended liberal polemic, your average 'Very Special Episode of Everyone Loves Raymond' prob. is more controversial now. But in it's day, on the heels of WWII, the Holocaust and the like-it's def. made it's mark.Peck was fine as the lead guy, though it's true, what prejudice he runs into is kinda minor as compared to what you or I could think of.  I liked McGuire-I kept getting Celeste Holm and June Havoc mixed up(they look alike, trust me here...), and to be honest, some of the scenes were diatribes and preachy, not dialogue per se.  Both McGuire and Havoc are talked down to like they're kids, which was not quite the intention, just typical patronization of women in Hollywood's B and W days.John Garfield-best part of the movie, kept thinking of Charles Bronson when he came on save he was def. a better actor then Bunchinsky. You can see the Method acting/50's Brando types coming w/ Garfield's approach and ability in every scene.Overall-I rate this as a *** very good flick, but not one in which much happens, they simply talk things right to death.  Kudos to for any movie that has Dean Stockwell, Jane Wyatt, Victor Killian AND Ben Casey(Jaffe) in it.  "},{"Title":"A bold examination of WASP prejudice","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While dated and heavy-handed, this picture remained compelling. Peck's character experiences just about every form of anti-Semitism except for its most extreme forms, which is true-to-life.I was astonished at how deeply the movie delved into privileged WASP prejudice. I don't know of any other picture that takes on this angle in this way.The constant references to anti-Semitism's being un-American were too ham-handed to stomach, even though I agree with the sentiment behind it. But overall the film continued to surprise me with its many layers. It must have really gotten people talking in 1947, because it still does today!This might be a good film to watch with tweens or teens as a basis for discussion about prejudice and bigotry. Not just in related to anti-Semitism, but as a broader base for the many prejudices we all bear.Other than that, I suspect I'll think about this film for a long time, though I won't need to see it again. Well done. "}{"Title":"Borcht Circuit Blues","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has been available on DVD for a couple of years but I've resisted buying it having seen it on TV several years ago and aware that 'message' movies seldom stand up in later years. Actually I was pleasantly surprised although I do agree with several of the points made by other posters here; yes, there is a lack of chemistry between Gregory Peck and Dorothy McGuire and yes, he would have done much better to opt for Celeste Holm (whose Best Supporting Actress Oscar was well deserved) and yes it was asking a lot to make us believe that Albert Dekker would have been unaware of employment policies in his own organization etc. I have always found Peck a highly watchable and vastly underrated actor who, in common with Jack Lemmon, exudes decency from every pore so that it is hardly coincidence that he has in his screen personas fought racism against Jews and Blacks. John Garfield for once playing a decent person is strangely muted; Garfield came out of the Group Theatre and embodies the virility and raw passion of that outfit lots of it provided by Clifford Odets and he would have been more effective opposing Peck rather than supporting him. On the other hand the film was made in 1947 and did, for the time, take an unpopular stance. Gadge himself emerged from the Group and had already directed Pinky, another of Fox's moral statements and he was reunited with Garfield as Garfield was reunited with Ann Revere who had played his mother in Body and Soul that same year. In mentioning these names I have perhaps put my finger on one of the problems with this movie; it is, by any stretch of the imagination, a great cast yet comprises conflicting styles from McGuire's 'soft' feminine image to Holm's brittle, wisecracking stylist to Garfield's raw virility to Peck's basically decent nice guy. Somehow the whole is greater than the parts and it remains very watchable. "},{"Title":"Greg Peck, Dorothy McGuire are eye candy; supporting actors mostly GREAT!","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Garfield and Celeste Holm are REAL.So is mom to the hero (Anne Revere). But Gregory Peck and Dorothy McGuire are too preachy...too dated.Important Subtext A few years earlier, the world saw the films General Eisenhower had made---of the Nazi Concentration Camps and their alive/and dead victims. The HORROR of unchecked prejudice against a group of people...was shown in all its murderous conclusion...Here the film shows its own insular prejudices...where it assumes that Liberal politically is the gold standard for Better Thought. Please. From Eisenhower on down, there were good people of conscience on both sides of politics, who were properly horrified by the murderous Nazi anti semitism.Peck's character is way too solemn. Yes, prejudice against Jews is wrong. But one wishes for a few comic moments (maybe with him & John Garfield) which could have given us a chance to laugh and relax and which still advanced the movie's theme. Garfield's slightly sardonic humor could have advanced the theme better than all the little sermonettes by various characters...John Garfield (a Jewish actor playing a Jewish man) gives it to us straight. No posturing. Totally undated performance... Celeste Holm is also undated...compared to too-brittle Dorothy Maguire.While it is worth seeing at least once, Gentlemans' Agreement is a bit creaky. "},{"Title":"2 Great Things","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gentleman's Agreement might not be the most well-made film I've ever seen. Some of the acting was too melodramatic. Some of the plot devices were forced. Sometimes you question whether or not a person would have reacted a certain way. That said, two things make this movie stand out to be a great film.The first is the message. Considering when this film came out, it was very daring to make such a grandiose statement about anti-Semitism in America. After the horrors of WWII, it was conceivable that no one would want to look in the mirror and compare themselves to a Nazi, or suspect that the underlying sentiment of our country was the same. This movie brought those sentiments out into the open and announced them to everyone. Surprisingly, it was very well received. It was as if everyone wanted to say what the film said, and was relieved when someone else did it. It won Best Picture that year, and rightly so.The other thing that sets this movie apart from many others is the acting of Gregory Peck. He took a chance in this role, as he was advised it may adversely affect his career. He took the chance, and it earned him an Oscar win. Peck is famous for playing the righteous hero, and his conviction and personality really came through in this part. It was as if the part were made for him, and he for the part.In the end, one could pick apart the things that were wrong with the film, but I think it is better to just sit back and enjoy Gregory Peck in one of his finest roles, and to let the message sink in. It may still be an important message today.  "},{"Title":"Compelling film with outstanding Peck","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gentleman's Agreement, directed by Elia Kazan, is a compelling film which explores the prejudices of regular people and how it affects the victims of discrimination. This film won an Oscar as Best Picture in 1948. Although it was released only a couple of years after World War II ended, its theme of anti-semitism, unfortunately, is still a problem today.Gregory Peck is outstanding as a magazine writer who poses as a Jewish man to see how he is treated. His co-workers snub him, he is denied admission to a fancy hotel and his son is treated roughly by the other kids at school. Dorothy McGuire and John Garfield provide supporting performances and Peck's son is played by a very young Dean Stockwell.Watching this movie today, we are reminded that while many things have changed over the last 50+ years, there are some things which will never change. "},{"Title":"A mediocre film","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was extremely disappointed in this film.The acting was unconvincing, and the message of the film&#x97;this could be everyone's century&#x97;is glib and sweet enough to give one cavities.The dilemma between Gregory Peck's and Dorothy Maguire's characters could have been intriguing but it is so bogged down by a too-sappy-for-words love story that it never gets the chance.I can see that back in the 1947 this film would have been daring, which is probably why it won the Best Picture Oscar. But the historical value of the film did not save it for me. By the standards of what makes a classic, this film never manages to be more than mediocre.The only good things about this film are the scenes between Philip and his secretary (June Havoc delivers her shockingly hypocritical lines perfectly) and the fact that we get to see the handsome Gregory Peck a lot. "},{"Title":"Missing - the crime of the century","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's fascinating that a worthy, sincere and serious examination of anti-semitism, made barely two years after WWII, should make not a single mention of the holocaust. After all, would it not suit Gregory Peck's righteous campaign to cite the state-sponsored, industrialised murder of millions of people as the ultimate consequence of 'nice people' standing idly by? Apparently not. But perhaps it's not so surprising after all. The subject remained taboo - certainly in cinema - for many years after the event. It was only in the 60s, when films such as The Pawnbroker followed on from the Eichmann trial, that it began to be examined directly. Straight after the war, the west was too busy mobilising for the Cold War to preoccupy itself with berating Germany, its new ally in that struggle. In this post-Schindler's List age it's difficult to imagine an era when the holocaust was a 'verboten' theme, one indeed in which the term itself hadn't even been coined, but Gentleman's Agreement is an illuminating document of just that. "},{"Title":"A great, often-misunderstood film...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It interests me that several people have compared this film to its contemporary, Crossfire. What most people probably don't know is that the latter film is based on a novel, The Brick Foxhole, about what happens to a gay man. Homophobia was not acceptable as a topic; anti-semitism barely was. Gentlemen's Agreement remains one of the few serious examinations of the prejudice it discusses. As evidenced by some of the above critiques, its message of hidden, even unconscious anti-semitism is still misunderstood by viewers today. It isn't necessary to intend to be anti-semitic, or homophobic, or racist; those traits are passed on from parent to child, and often reinforced by the biases of the society as a whole. If the screenplay of Gentlemen's Agreement seems to hammer at its topic, it's actually what was needed at the time, and what is still needed, even now. A great film for its time, superlatively written and directed, and acted by an expert cast at the top of their forms; a great film now. "},{"Title":"an undeserved Oscar winner","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now don't get me wrong this is a good movie but this did not deserve the Oscar another film the same year Crossfire also with an (anti semitic message) was a better filmThis same year Great Expectations & Odd Man out were also much better I always have wondered if studio politics had anything to do with it I am not that naive... but it did Gregory Peck was as usual his own swell guy. John Garfield who was one of my favorite actors did his usual shtick. & the requisite heroine Dorothy Maguire was pretty in perfect costumes.Thats enough on this. It should be seen as a period piece today , & you may like it It never deserved the OscarthanksJay Harris "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Practically every comment I've seen for Gentleman's Agreement has been a negative one.  But why?  I think it's a wonderful movie with a powerful message.  Gregory Peck is outstanding as Phil Green, the man who poses as a Jew so he can write an article about anti-semitism.  John Garfield is great as Dave, the man who understands the ridicule, because he's a Jew.  In fact, the only thing I don't like about this movie is that Anne doesn't end up with Phil, he ends up with Cathy.  But Celeste Holm, who played Anne, won an Academy Award for the part, so that makes me happy!~I love Gentleman's Agreement, and I think everyone should see it.  In my book, a movie that won 3 Academy Awards shouldn't get such bad reviews!  I proudly give this movie a 10! "},{"Title":"A bit preachy, a bit dated, but worth seeing, especially now.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A little bit preachy, as these sort of films always are. The topic is somewhat timely, even as the movie is rather dated, inasmuch as anti-Semitism seems to be back in style, especially in Europe, where the greatest sins/crimes against the Jews were perpetrated. Growing up and living in the South, I really never saw much anti-Semitism, but also there were very few Jews, at least that I knew of. I expect that this film's Best Picture and Best Director Oscars were bestowed more because of the subject matter, than completely on merit. I did think that Celeste Holm was exquisite in her role. A film definitely worth watching. Grade B-  "}{"Title":"exceptionally dated film","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When it was made, this was a noble effort to counter antisemitism. However, due to the passing of many decades, in the 21st century the film seems really dated and dumb. The entire idea of a Christian American suddenly pretending to be Jewish seems absurdly simplistic and perhaps insulting to those who have had to deal with racism and prejudice their entire lives. And, to make things MUCH worse, the reactions to this are downright cartoonish at times--particularly in his fiancée. Her role was written to be about as believable as the average Huckleberry Hound cartoon. AND, to make that even worse, Peck eventually agrees to marry this shallow bimbo AFTER she realizes how shallow she's been and asks for forgiveness! Hmmm,...this lady loves you and respects you until she thinks you are Jewish,...then later apologizes and all is forgiven?! Gimme a break! One of the only genuine performances in this preachy mess was by John Garfield's character--no doubt influenced by Garfield's real-life experiences growing up Jewish. "},{"Title":"Obviously not the most insightful movie on this subject","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A little preachy, except by the character by John Garfield. They nailed his part. You can't know what to do about any kind of bigotry except you have lived it.For all his good intentions, Gregory Peck's character lacks so much wisdom about how to tackle any bigot. His character is astounded by how he is treated, when he first poses in guise of a Jew. Has his life been so sheltered? Even if he didn't know anything about Anti-semitism, I doubt that even a kid would be as naive as he is.Ironically, when his son is subjected to the intolerance, it takes him no time to make the son understand. It's strange that Peck hadn't experienced anything like this at all, even as a casual observer, when he was growing up.That's what is so brilliant about the character played by Garfield. He knows it starts on the playground, whether it be somebody being called fatty or chink (as I have been called several times, being of Korean origin). He knows that you can't win every fight, and you have to have tolerance for everybody, even those who don't possess that quality, That doesn't mean you don't have to put a drunken idiot in his place as he does here.Anyway, the movie itself does have merit. It was a bold move to even scratch the surface of such a controversial subject. Not that it is anywhere near a riveting gem. Many scenes are way overlong and the Dorothy Mcguire character is a bit too one-dimensional. Celeste Holm deservedly won an Oscar for her smart performance, but I think John Garfield is the best written character in this whole endeavor. I understand he was nominated for another part that same year. I have never been a huge fan of his, but I do think his death was a great tragedy. "},{"Title":"Not very gentlemanly...","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Apparently, GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT was the first major studio film to use the word Jew. I could jump to a thousand conclusions on the gutlessness and bigotry of the American Film Industry, but I'll just let that fact air out, like an unspoken indictment, a gentlecucumber's agreement. A taboo unspoken.A Gentleman's Agreement is a tacit understanding between people of a certain party, caste or club. In this Elia Kazan film (from the book by Laura Z. Hobson) the gentleman's agreement is anti-Semitism. Not very gentlemanly, and not very agreeable...In researching an investigative piece on anti-Semitism for his New York newspaper, Phil Schuyler Green hits on the idea to go deep undercover and pretend to be Jewish; to live in Jewish skin and report how society reacts to him. His scheme goes all too well, as he is dis-invited to certain parties, loses work, learns the bitter meaning of restricted hotels, has to defend his son at school, and even uncovers deep-rooted, unrealized anti-Semitism in his fiancé.Gregory Peck is Phil Green, widower, father to Tommy (Dean Stockwell, only 11 years old!), fiancé to bigot, Kathy (Dorothy McGuire, constantly in annoying soft-focus), and all-round Noble Guy.Released just after the Holocaust, can any of us in 2009 apprehend how this anti-Semitism sermon would have felt like electrodes on the testes of society? Yet in 2009, the film still retains its electricity. Because, much like the electing of a black president did not stop racism, the prominence of Jews in powerful media forums does not stop anti-Semitism.If you can navigate the naive boy-girl interaction of close-mouthed kisses and fully-clothed embraces; if you can grimace past the theatrical acting stylings of Dorothy McGuire, and make your way to the close-jawed passion of Peck, there is a powerful movie lying in wait.In GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT, an executive speaks out against Phil's article don't bring up anti-Semitism and cause waves. The editor replies, Pretend it doesn't exist and add to the conspiracy of silence? And the executives at the movie studio - 20th Century Fox - argued over the same thing! The film itself almost turned into a gentleman's agreement. Additionally, the Jews who owned the studio didn't want to call attention to themselves as really running the industry! They were right to be wary of repercussions. The small minds of the House un-American Committee came calling on the filmmakers...Peck called the movie, Entertainment with an idea behind it. (If you can say it without opening your jaw, you'll sound just like him...) With his tiny tie and Brylcreemed 'do, shoving the words Jew and Christian in people's faces, he unearths all the myriad masks of anti-Semitism not just the overt shouted insults or bullies, but those who ignore it or let others off the hook for it; even the inculcation that Christianity is superior to Judaism, allowing some Jews to let others think them Christian without denying it.The film's major failing is in the character of Phil's girlfriend, Kathy, who somehow retains his affections through her closemindedness - when Tommy comes crying of bullies calling him kike, Kathy consoles him by telling him he's not really Jewish. But Phil's point is that you have to fight it even if you're not Jewish because Jews can't simply fall back on Christianity. She doesn't get it. She argues and rationalizes and wears those annoying pointy bras.Dramatically, we understand Kathy needs to be there so that her character can arc from prejudice to apprehension, but even her recant is grudging, and the soft-focus is out of control, and I think I cut my finger on her bra.Meanwhile, the film provides Phil with a perfect soul mate, Anne (Celeste Holm); honest, telling Phil to his face of Kathy's wimpiness; intelligent, with a hatred of hypocrites that she proves by her actions; open-minded, looking like she'd take three guys in the backdoor if you plied her with enough Vodka, unprejudiced - AND blond; Anne even makes a sweet, sensual, loving pass at Phil. The FOOL! Drop the meadering Jew-hater and never let this beauty go! During their coffee scene, Infidelity was screaming at Phil to open his stupid eyes. He doesn't.There is such a thing as being too much Gentleman. Are we in Agreement? --Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"A Story that should be heard, even today","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that is not highly aggressive in its method, but effective in its goal of exposing anti-semitism.  Ironic that what Peck's character was doing in the movie, the movie was doing the same for audiences back in 1947, when this problem was at a peak.However, if you think this is just a movie about prejudice against Jews, you'll miss the point.  I've lived in either Florida or North Carolina my whole life, and the subject of Jews has never really come up, so I can't personally relate to this specific subject.  Yet, in the South, we deal with racial prejudice, as well as healing prejudice against the Hispanic population here.  As John Garfield's character explains, it's not about the Jews.  It's about the equality and freedom that this country and Constitution is supposed to stand for.  In this film, Peck learns what it's like to be a Jew during this time period, and from an audience standpoint (if you're not Jewish, you will too.)One complaint  Too much of that love story (Of course, that fits a lot of films.)The performances in this movie are all great.  Probably the most underrated is John Garfield at his best.  Not a 10, but close.. and a must-see for everyone at least once. "},{"Title":"Very realistic, even today 50 years later.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although made 51 years ago, this movie is very realistic about anti-semitism even today in 1998. The top three stars- Peck, McGuire and Garfield are great in their roles. Garfield was a superstar at the time, but took third billing in this and gave a great performance. The other key players, including Holm (who I believe won an Academy Award), Havoc, and Dekker are also great. Havoc's role as the prejudiced Jewish secretary who is trying to pass is particularly understated and underrated. "},{"Title":"Some of His Best Friends Are Anti-Semites.","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to give this movie bonus points, not because it approaches cinematic perfection, but because of its pioneering exploration of a politely ignored social problem. Gregary Peck is a journalist given an assignment to write a story about anti-Semitism. His Maw, Anne Revere, gives him the idea of pretending to be Jewish himself. His name -- Phil Green -- could be anything. He can now write the story from an emic or inside point of view, like a cultural anthropologist, instead of just using statistics or historical archives. But to make the trick work he must keep the pretense secret from everyone except those who already know him for the shagetz he is -- those in the know include his Maw, his fiancée Dorothy McGuire, his son Dean Stockwell, his editor Albert Dekker, and his visiting friend John Garfield.Well, I'll tell you. The reaction begins popping up all over, including the most unlikely places. Small, itchy kinds of abrasions at first. His secretary, June Havoc, slyly admits she changed her name from Walensky in order to get the job she has. Then his son is called a dirty Jew at school. Then he informs his fiancée that he's simply going to tell everyone I'm Jewish, and is startled by her response -- Oh, but you're NOT. I mean, are you? In a tense scene he confront the manager of a restricted hotel, who bluntly turns him away, leaving him humiliated and enraged. Peck's friend, Garfield, playing a character named Dave Goodman is realistic and reassuring. He's been through it all his life, he says, but Peck is meeting it for the first time so for him it's all telescoped. Peck gets the series finished and it's evidently a knockout for the paper, but his anger has driven away McGuire and ruined their plans for marriage. In the end, through the offices of Garfield, the two are reunited -- but only after McGuire has agreed that one must fight back at anti-Semitism in all its isomorphs, whether small or large.In fact, though, I found myself rather sympathetic towards McGuire's character. In his pursuit of truth, Peck has driven himself half nuts. The slightest HINT of prejudice raises his hackles. He goes about in a constant state of irritation, a walking raw nerve.What he's demanded of McGuire is the impossible. She's going to dish it out. She will from now on object to ethnic jokes among her friends and neighbors and get all serious about things. And her neighbors in Darien, Connecticut, are portrayed as pretty dumb, too. They all seem to be cackling old ladies. One of them inquires of Peck's journalist, Tell me, do you get your ideas first and then write about them? Or do you write first and get your ideas later. You want a WASP stereotype? How about that one. Well, the old biddies aren't much, true, but if McGuire turns as edgy and hostile and intolerant as Peck, she's going to lose them all anyway. She and Peck will wind up like the two boarded-up sisters in Shirley Jackson's We Have Always Lived in the Castle. Those of us in our dotage will remember where a claim to victim status got people during the 1960s when everyone of good taste became intolerant of any sign of discrimination, of jokes or remarks at the expense of any minority group. You couldn't say anything about Jews, Indians, or Brobdignagians (unless you were inside the social borders). That was a nice peaceful gumbaya decade, wasn't it? Yet so many of us seem compelled to find an Indian or a Jew or a dwarf or a woman in his ancestral tree. Why? There's a good deal of moral authority that comes with defining yourself as a victim -- even if you've never been victimized. If a stranger at the next restaurant table mentions something, anything, about whatever disenfranchised group we think we belong to, we can lean over and give him a verbal kick in the pants.Well, that's the anthropologist in me running off at the fingertips. I will now step down from the box. Oops. Thank you.Dorothy McGuire is from Omaha. And I have a question. Why are so many famous actors from Omaha and environs? She grew up there in the 1920s. So did Montgomery Clift, Marlon Brando, Fred Astaire, James Coburn, Henry Fonda, and a bunch of others. I did a chi square test of famous performers from Nebraska, as against Oklahoma, Kansas, and North and South Dakota, with an equivalent population. The results were significant. Is it something in the water? The founder effect? Back to the movie, following our usual linear progression. Peck is pretty good. He's hit his stride here as the easy-going man of strong principle. McGuire is breathless and vulnerable and turns in a fine and mostly understated performance. The movie dates, of course. This isn't 1947, thank God, and anti-Semitism is not as rampant as it was then, and perhaps not as rampant then as the movie depicts. It's a bit heavy handed and overly dramatic, despite the reality of the social problem it deals with. But it took guts on everybody's part to make it. The studio moguls of the time were hardly behind this kind of effort, since they had names like Mayer, Zukor, Cohn, and Goldwyn, and Warner, and they were reluctant to draw attention to that fact. Some of the people involved wound up before HUAC and some were blacklisted. A shocker for its time, because nothing like it had really been done before. "},{"Title":"Relevant Film","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting movie about a man who goes undercover as a jew in the 1940s. His entire life is disrupted, and so are the lives of his family. Some reviewers have called this movie outdated and preachy. I can understand the outdated charge. Since the 1940s, Jews have in many ways managed to assimilate into the caucasion population, and many of the past prejudices are not as relevant today. But its possible to consider that movies like this that force people to look at themselves and society played a role in changing Jews' status in the US. The preachy charge is also interesting. I believe that the preachy aspect is negated by the fact that other characters in this movie also accuse the main character of being too preachy. But people who say that its preachy aren't entirely wrong. With each scene, the viewer wonders how anti-semitism will come into play. The most interesting and auspicious aspect of this movie is the revelation that many people who are Anti-semetic are nice people, and many don't even realize they are being anti-semetic. "},{"Title":"Excellent and underappreciated","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In 1947, Gentlemen's Agreement was an overdue and needed commentary. While all too many today believe they've been there, done that, the film remains an interesting comment on society in general.  Replace anti-semitism with political correctness and the film could be rewritten and restaged to form a brilliant statement that is as needed today as GA was in 1947.  Despite the many inroads into prejudice of all forms, businesses, churches, political affiliations, and organizations of every class, color and preference practice exclusionary methods of P.C. that say you must think like they do, act like they do, dress like they do, talk like they do, and never question the leader(s) when you see these prejudices conflicting with common sense and common truth.  Gentlemen's Agreement is a far more thoughtful work, despite its shortcomings, than most care to see. Additionally, a question  Does anyone out there know what the title theme of this film is?  I think it was rather popular in the late '40s/early '50s.  I don't believe it's  indicated in the credits.  "},{"Title":"Good message but very poorly stated also confusing","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has much promise but unfortunately just doesn't deliver the goods - I was expecting a superb story about anti-semitism.  Actually I found there were very few scenes, maybe 20 minutes at most, which show the movie's hero Mr. Green being discriminated against.  It seems most of the movie is devoted to Mr. Green love's life, which makes me wonder if the movie is really about anti-semitism or about some guy's love life.  If the director's intent was to show how the discrimination against Mr. Green affects his love life, then I think he did a very poor job as I couldn't make much sense out of it. Simply put, the promising subject of anti-semitism is very poorly explored by this movie.  I think the Academy made a very poor choice in awarding the Oscar for Best Picture to this movie in 1947.  Surely there must have been a better movie made that year!  I give this movie a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the way we still are","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though dated, this film is still applicable. The 'gentleman's agreement' to be politically correct and not to say what you really think is certainly the way it goes among my middle class family and friends. Substitute the word 'Jew' with 'gay', 'black', 'redneck', 'woman' -- I could go on. Yes, Gregory Peck is too earnest but there really are people like him. I thought Dorothy McGuire was the average person who's not anti-anything but makes her underlying prejudices obvious to those who are earnest. The movie seemed preachy and same old same old at times, but that was the script and the actors in 1947, and the 'progress' of over 50 years. Like Shakespeare, it's human nature, which doesn't change no matter what method of writing or acting you've studied and no matter how much you've learned. See this movie when you're in the mood to think, and for Sam Jaffe's comment, If there were no anti-semites, I wouldn't be Jewish. "}{"Title":"Gentleman's Agreement","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While many consider the issue of Anti-Semitism a bit dated, this Elia Kazan classic is still worth a look and still worthy of attention. One of Peck's better performances and Oscar winner Holm is riveting.   "},{"Title":"Has all the potential of being a great film...but doesn't deliver","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gentleman's Agreement could have been a great film if it had wanted to, however it just doesn't come through in its delivery at all.  Even though it won three Academy Awards in 1947, for Best Picture, Best Director (Elia Kazan) and Best Supporting Actress (Celeste Holm), I like to think that reason it won the highly coveted award was for what it said at the time.  Keep in mind that this film was made on the heels of World War II and our victory within it.  So, naturally, the country wanted to award a film that dealt with the topic of Anti-Semitism (the first film of its kind to do so, way before Spielberg's Schindler's List).  Also, they gave it to Kazan I think because he was gutsy enough to try and make a film that dealt with a topic like that.  I think Elia Kazan should have won for A Streetcar Named Desire instead of Vincente Minelli for An American in Paris, but that's another story (and review) altogether.All in all, Gentleman's Agreement is a good film if only just to see a very young Gregory Peck, but also this film can be seen as a bit dated and quite plain if you ask me.  In my opinion either The Bishop's Wife or Miracle on 34th Street should have one Best Picture that year.  They are both far better films than this one could ever hope to be, irregardless of the messages found within it.My rating  1 star "},{"Title":"Outdated Elia Kazan...","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 1947's Best Picture Oscar winner, based on Laura Z. Hobson's novel, features a direction by Elia Kazan which is forthright, determined, and colorless. Kazan was a director who paid great attention to his actors and whipped up considerable steam and controversy within the themes of his films; but, decades on, this approach is both pro and con. Gentleman's Agreement, like many of Kazan's films, features 'shocking' subject matter handled in a gravely serious, almost self-righteous manner which doesn't play very well today. It's outdated and unconvincing, and many of the actors are stiffly self-conscious. Gregory Peck stars as a reporter who poses as a Jew to get the scoop on America's (apparently rampant) anti-Semitism. The notion behind the plot--that most Americans are closet-bigots and hate-mongers--is actually rather insulting, especially the way it unfolds here. Yes, the picture was groundbreaking for the 1940s, and Kazan was awarded an Oscar for his work, yet the film simply doesn't hold up. Celeste Holm also won an Oscar for her flashy supporting role as a fashion columnist. Slick, professional, workman-like, but fearfully unenthralling. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Dated Classic About the Intolerance Against Jews in North America","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In New York, the reporter Philip Schuyler Green (Gregory Peck) is hired by a progressive magazine and his editor assigns him to write a matter about anti-Semitism in North America. Green decides to pretend that he is a Jew, and fells the humiliation, prejudice and hate people of this religion were submitted. This situation affects his relationship with his fiancée Kathy Lacey (Dorothy McGuire) and the life of his son Tommy (Dean Stockwell).I have just watched this dated classic about the intolerance against Jews in North America. The final message would be good, if extended to the Afro-Americans, which were also victims of the prejudice and bigotry of that society in those times. I personally did not like this story, I believe the character of Schuyler Green is too much simplistic for his own convenience and self-promotion in his career, but I recognize that Gentleman's Agreement is not a bad movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Luz é Para Todos (The Light is for All) "},{"Title":"Unartful","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of the last hundred films I have seen, this is the least artful. It is heavy, blunt, preachy and totally lacking in any depth. Production values and acting are poor.While the goal is lofty, one must see this primarily as a  historical artifact, as sanctimonious propaganda tooting America's moral superiority at the beginning of the Cold War. At root, it ironically celebrates the difference between us tolerant Americans and those other guys. "},{"Title":"Is it possible that Phil Green's (Gregory Peck's) parents were  Jewish?","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although no one seems to have commented upon this, it is possible that there is a hidden message in this movie. Based on several scenes, it appears that Phil Green's (Gregory Peck's) mother, and perhaps his father too, might have been Jewish. What are the indications? First, in an early scene, while Peck and his mother are talking, she unwraps two candlesticks that definitely appear to be Sabbath candlesticks, and places them on the mantlepiece. Second, when Peck's mother is having an apparent heart attack, she cries out Oy!, definitely a Yiddish expression. These are the two key clues. The third clue, perhaps a bit more subtle, is that near the end of the movie, when Peck's mother reads from the magazine story in which Peck decries anti-Semitism, she says Your father would be proud. Of course, the father would be proud regardless of whether he, the father, were Jewish, but in light of the other two clues, I felt this comment by Peck's mother was another sign that his parents were Jewish. I wonder if anyone else noticed these clues and if anyone has written anything regarding this matter. If so, I would like to read their point of view. "},{"Title":"Important and still relevant","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever since I first saw Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch in `To Kill a Mockingbird' years ago, I considered him to be the `ultimate good guy/hero' in film.  Fifteen years earlier, he played another hero, Phil Green, in `Gentleman's Agreement'.  Directed by the controversial director Elia Kazan, `Gentleman's Agreement' is a serious and envelope-pushing depiction of discrimination, both blatant and unrecognized.  Phil Green is a newly transplanted magazine writer in New York City who is asked to do a series of articles on anti-Semitism, only he cannot get a sufficient angle on the theme.  He eventually decides to pose as a Jew for a couple of months, enlisting the support of his family and close friends.  What he finds is that life was a lot easier as Phil Green the Christian instead of Phil Green the Jew, and all the while he finds that most of his peers may not be blatantly racist, but possibly even worse &#150; sympathetic, yet passive.  The latter is personified mostly by his fiancée Kathy, (Dorothy McGuire) who claims to be a non-prejudicial liberal, but when things get intense, hides her supposed views.`Gentleman's Agreement' explores several different aspects of anti-Semitism without coming across as preachy, and this is due in large part to Gregory Peck's strong and believable performance.  When he stands up for his beliefs and his convictions, he is completely convincing.  The script pulls no punches and is so solid and progressive that it does not fall into the usual classic film pattern of appearing even slightly dated, rather it would be just as relevant today as it was sixty years ago.  This is a true commendation to its direction, writing and performances.  Since the first time I saw it, `Gentleman's Agreement' has been included on my short list of films that everyone `should see' at one point in their lives because of its heart and progressive theme.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"We Can Agree to Disagree.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Elia Kazan's (Oscar-winning in directing) hard-as-nails Gentleman's Agreement was just as controversial as it was loved in 1947. Its subject matter was shocking and its risk-taking won the film the Best Picture Oscar. Reporter Gregory Peck (Oscar-nominated) is doing a story on anti-Semitism in late-1940s New York. He figures he can pose as a Jew and write a deep and intriguing story. Peck has no idea how deep and intriguing his experience will be. Fiance Dorothy McGuire (Oscar-nominated) starts to struggle herself with the change in Peck as his experiences multiply. It is made clear by Kazan that Peck and McGuire are in fact bigots themselves in their own quiet way. Jewish friend and World War II veteran John Garfield is the heart that seems to resonate throughout the production. Kazan always pushed the envelope on the issues and this is no exception. He shows the odd views upon the Jewish community in a very complex way that is simple to understand. Anne Revere (Oscar-nominated) and Celeste Holm (in a sleight Oscar-winning performance) complete the cast. Not an excellent film and not nearly the best movie Kazan worked on, but still an important production. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Propaganda","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When will Hollywood do a movie where the Jew is the villain and the Goy is persecuted by the Jew? Answer - when hell freezes over or when the Goy wrest control of Hollywood. Hollywood is and always has been run by Jews. They control the narrative, which always puts Jews in the best light. Christians are generally portrayed as religious fanatics, murderers and imbalanced people. When Gibson did the Passion of the Christ with his own money and without Jewish Hollywood's blessing, Jews freaked out and immediately began vilifying the movie and Gibson. As Goebells taught us, propaganda is a powerful weapon and the Jews in Hollywood know it well. "},{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that this is one of the Boringest movies I have ever seen... and i'm all up for a good old movie any day...it so obviously tries to prove a point that it gets boring.. and lacks the charm of a good old movie.. I for one can't believe this even got nominated for best picture let alone won ....the only reason this did win... was because of the controversy surrounding it.... bad effort... "}{"Title":"Entertaining Movie of a Tough Subject","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just as Green wants his readers to get a glimpse of life as a Jew, I  assume the director of this film wanted the same thing for the audience.  This same mechanism worked brilliantly in Schindler's List, where we saw a character transformation in Schindler as he too goes from being an indifferent outsider to one very close to the Semitic plight.  We can relate to Schindler, and so we get sucked in to the story.  Yet I can't relate to Peck's character.  It doesn't help that he has that Keanu Reeves-like blankness to his emotions to begin with (which didn't work in The Fountainhead either).  He just seems out of place as an overzealous, predictable preachy guy from nowhere.  The Jewish characters are the most interesting, and yet they are in the background.  Last but not least, the film bleaches God out of the entire equation to the point where the religions seem little more than social clubs. "},{"Title":"Discrimination is the word. Not bigotry, hatred or prejudice.","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" TOO BAD today's audience, who have easy access to this Academy Award Best Picture via VHS, DVD or cable, can't view it with the eyes of an American (Jew or non-Jew) living in 1947 or 1948. Only then can they see the true picture as intended. Since then, beginning with JUDGEMENT AT NUREMBERG, the Hollywood spin machine has re-written World War II and made it ALL ABOUT THE JEWS, which the war definitely was not; with today's generation giving only second thought to the Czechs, Poles, Dutch, English, and oh yes the American victims of Hitler's Germany. Anyway, Elia Kazan, as always, is 100% on-target in presenting the discrimination against Jews as I remember it from the 1948 era. To discriminate is what people do when they choose between things, such as Chevrolet or Plymouth, between ESSO and Mobilgas; making informed choices based upon first hand knowledge; however limited. Some call it freedom of choice, others freedom of association, others use the PC term of bigotry, understanding nothing by closing their minds. Freedom of Association is in the US Constitution, by the way; freedom to kill a baby is not. GREGORY PECK is far better in this movie than in his more famous and dreadful role of Atticus Finch. If you haven't seen this picture yet; well it's 57 years, how about now? "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly Bad, Especially For McGuire","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That this movie won the Oscar for Picture Of The Year is laughable and ludicrous.....and totally predictable considering the bias in Hollywood. Put an anti-Semite message in a film and you are guaranteed two things 1 - great reviews by Liberal critics; 2 - awards will come your way. Make a film about anti-Christian bias and you won't find anyone who will even put up a dime to help finance the film. Ask Robert Duvall or Mel Gibson or anyone else who has tried. As long as the subject matter is politically correct, man, you can't lose! The fact of intolerance toward any group or religion is wrong hasn't hit the film world yet. Even back in '47. It's only gotten worse.I say all of this because this film simply isn't that good. It didn't deserve the award. You have to be completely naive to think it won on its merit. I guess it's okay to be preachy if your content comes from the Left. If it comes from the Right, it's called heavy-handed but in this film it's called thought--provoking. This film is a wonderful example of the double standards that have dominated the Academy Awards for decades. One of the main characters is so bland and so forgettable I almost puked when I saw her performance in this film. It's one of my favorite women, too Dorothy McGuire. But, hey, I have to be honest, and she stunk in here. A good share of that, however, was the ridiculous character she was made to play. She minded of Olive Oyl's fickleness with Popeye and Bluto! What idiot wrote this screenplay?McGuire's role is notable because for most of the film, it is more about a romance than a cultural statement. A lot of this is simple melodrama between McGuire and fiancé Gregory Peck.....and it's boring and extremely dated. That includes several segments about Peck and his mom, which has nothing to do with anything here. I guess anyone who takes care of his mom will look even better in the eyes of the writers. Well, duh.It's also very appropriate one of the biggest left wing extremists of all time - John Garfield - was involved in this. No surprise there!It's a good message, but very poorly presented. Watching this film in '47 might have been okay, but watching it today is not an entertaining or enlightening experience. "}]