[{"Title":"Director's grandson's comments","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"48 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bing Crosby's cameo in My Favorite Brunette     bob hope and bing crosby had an arraingement to do cameos in each   other's movies, however, bing had already done a cameo in bob's last   movie, so it wasn't bing's turn. Bob wanted bing to do this cameo so   badly that bob offered to pay bing $5000. which bing donated to   charity. Bing Crosby walked on set, skipped makeup, ( already made up   from another movie he was shooting on the lot), stopped at wardrobe,   (which consisted of donning a prison guard shirt), and did his bit in   one take, leaving the soundstage in just 5 minutes, making a Hollywood   record for the most money per minute payed to an actor. scource My   grandfather, Elliott Nugent, directed this movie and wrote about it in   his autobiography Events Leading up to the Comedy Oh yeah, about Alan   Ladd playing the private eye, Elliott Nugent directed him in 'The Great   Gatsby. Jonathan Elliott "},{"Title":"Hope Is Very Funny in This Enjoyable Light Comedy","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hope is very funny in this enjoyable light comedy.  The plot is deliberately crazy and implausible, but creative, and it sets up some funny situations.  The rest of the cast is good too, and it all works very well as light entertainment.Hope plays a photographer who longs to be a detective, and then gets his chance, only to find out that it's a lot more than he can handle.  It's a fine role for Hope, and the script also gives him a lot of good material to work with.  Dorothy Lamour is suitably mysterious as the woman who involves him in a complicated situation.  Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney Jr. add atmosphere and humor as two of Hope's adversaries.Anyone who likes Hope should enjoy seeing him in My Favorite Brunette, and it is also recommended for anyone who likes light comedies of the era. "},{"Title":"Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour reunite in fast moving enjoyable comedy/thriller","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The 1940's was a very prolific period for Bob Hope as he made 21 movies during that decade including some of his very best (the Road films of course with Crosby and Lamour, The Paleface with Jane Russell, and My Favorite Blonde with Madeleine Carroll). However, Brunette rates as high, if not higher, than any of these as it had a very funny script and a wonderful supporting cast including Peter Lorre, Lon Chaney Jnr, John Hoyt, Ann Doran, Reginald Denny, Ray Teal, Jack La Rue and a couple of surprise star cameos. Peter Lorre in particular seemed to enjoy sending up his usual image as a sinister killer.San Francisco baby photographer Ronnie Jackson (Bob Hope) has unfulfilled ambitions to be a private detective like his neighbour in the next office Sam McCloud. When Sam goes out of town Carlotta Montay (Dorothy Lamour) comes in seeking help and mistakes Hope for the detective who thinks this could be the big chance to prove himself but as usual in a Hope film he runs into more trouble than he can handle. Lamour persuades Hope to look for her uncle who has been kidnapped by the villains and a double put in his place. The plot thickens as he accompanies Lamour into many ludicrous situations, unforeseen danger and one hilarious episode after another.Some favourite lines from the filmBob Hope You see, I wanted to be a detective too. It only took brains, courage and a gun - and I had the gun!.Bob Hope I was cut out for this kind of life. All my life I've wanted to be a hard boiled detective like Humphrey Bogart, or Dick Powell ... or even Alan Ladd!.Bob Hope (to Peter Lorre) Nice cheerful place - what time do they bring the mummies out?.Bob Hope It always looked so easy in those Tarzan pictures!.Bob Hope (to Dorothy Lamour) I don't know how much more of this I can take - you've had me in hot water so long I feel like a tea bag.Bob Hope could always be relied upon to bring us the laughs with even the most average script but in this film he excels as he is given some great material to work with and certainly makes the most of it. 10/10. Clive Roberts. "},{"Title":"Delightful Detective Daffiness!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When baby photographer Ronnie Jackson (Bob Hope) office-sits for traveling p.i. Sam McCloud, he finds his dreams of playing detective coming all too true all too soon when mysterious damsel-in-distress Carlotta Montay (Dorothy Lamour) sashays into his office. Soon our hero is up to his ski-nose in trouble as he and his comely client are chased by a gang of cutthroats with designs on Carlotta's uncle's uranium (that's right, uranium!). One of Hope's best comedies, BRUNETTE deftly spoofs hard-boiled private eye thrillers of the era with a barrage of uproarious one-liners and set pieces. Hope and Lamour's usual comic/romantic chemistry is at its finest amid a nifty supporting cast including Peter Lorre, the unfairly uncredited Jean Wong (a delight as Mrs. Fong, mother of a tot so loathe to smile that Ronnie quips, This kid's gonna grow up to be a sponsor!), Lon Chaney Jr. (essentially playing his classic and oft-imitated OF MICE AND MEN role for laughs), and a couple of cameos too hilarious to spoil here (including the Paramount tough guy who appears as McCloud)! The DVD currently available doesn't have the most pristine print, but it's got some fun interactive features, including a trivia quiz. I only hope somebody decides to give this cheeky, cheerful farce the Criterion-caliber treatment it deserves! UPDATE for 2011 There's a remastered Bob Hope DVD collection available from The Shout Factory, including a gorgeous print of MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE, complete with Paramount logo! HOORAY! "},{"Title":"The Pepsodent Kid takes a bite outta crime","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Hi, Everyone, As this movie begins, count the stars in the Paramount logo. You will see there are 24. That means it is an old Paramount Picture. Paramount's new logo has only 22 stars. I am not sure when that was changed but certainly by the mid fifties.Interestingly, this movie has a speaking part for an African American man and an Asian American woman in the first five minutes of the film. Neither gets screen credit. There is also a child actor who chews up the scenery, that scenery being Bob Hope's finger.It is nice to see Bob Hope actually climbing a tree. Bob was in excellent physical shape in those days of the 1940s. If you want to watch him dancing watch The Seven Little Foys where he tap dances with Jimmy Cagney during the mid 1950s.It is fun for those of us who remember dictaphones and wire recorders and disc recorders that made big 78 rpm records as we watch Bob trying to operate a recorder. Where were the digital MP3 recorders when you needed one in 1947? The cars are fun to look at. This is like a trip to a museum with an old friend.One scene I ran back and forth a few times and I have not yet figured out how they did it. There is a scene where Bob is the target for a knife thrower. I think they really threw the knives and barely missed his head. It looks real to me.Not Bob's best movie, but worth a look. I recommend Paleface, Fancy Pants, Son of Paleface, Seven Little Foys, Beau James and That Certain Feeling.Tom Willett "},{"Title":"Have a Happy 100th Birthday, Mr. Bob Hope!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hope is back!  This time with Dorothy Lamour.  This is the ninth film they both have been in and they were in five more together after this one,  Bob Hope is the age of 43 or 44 in this film.  Bob Hope plays a baby photographer who has always wanted to be a private eye...a detective.  Next to his office is the McCloud Detective Agency.  He begs for Sam McCloud (Alan Ladd in a cameo appearance) to give him a chance.  But nothin' doin'.  While McCloud trusts Bob to answer the phone while he steps outside to work on a case, who should walk in but Dorothy Lamour.  The distraught woman needs help and thinks Bob is McCloud the detective.  Well, what is Bob to do?  Especially as lovely as Dorothy Lamour is.  So here is Bob's chance to play detective.  Here is where the fun begins.  Bing Crosby also has a cameo appearance.    "},{"Title":"A Very Private Eye","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In My Favorite Brunette Bob Hope got a grand opportunity to satirize all those noir private eye films and he made the most of it. He even got to drag in Paramount's favorite noir star Alan Ladd along for the fun.Hope as Ronnie Jackson, baby photographer, has an adjoining office to private eye Sam McCloud and Hope would like to get into his line of work, having completed a correspondence course. He's even got a gun, although God only knows who'd give him a license. Sam McCloud, played by an unbilled Alan Ladd, tells him to stick to babies, but to mind his office while he goes out of town.Wouldn't you know it, a beautiful mysterious brunette right out of The Maltese Falcon comes into the office asking for help. Of course Dorothy Lamour thinks Hope is the real deal as a private eye. And Hope following his hormones plays along. Isn't that what got Jerome Cowan killed in The Maltese Falcon? It gets kind of wild and wacky after that. A trio of fine players, Lon Chaney, Jr., Charles Dingle and Peter Lorre are our villains and all of them goof on the roles they've played in more serious films. Chaney does an imitation of his gentle half-wit Lenny from Of Mice and Men, Dingle satirizes his rapacious southern businessman from The Little Foxes and Lorre spoofs all the sinister henchmen roles he's done in innumerable films.It all almost ends on death row in San Quentin where Hope is arrested for a murder of a British Intelligence Officer played by Reginald Denny. A very disappointed executioner watches Hope get Lamour for once knowing full well it would have been him if he had had a bigger role in the film.I'm not so sure. "},{"Title":"Child photographer turned private eye","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was one of the three films that Bob Hope did for Paramount with the theme of favorites blonde, spy and brunette. He was at one of the best moments of his career when this spoof about the detective movie genre went into production. My Favorite Brunette was directed by Elliott Nugent with a style that made it fun and light to watch. The screen play by Edmund Beloin and Jack Rose parodies those films that showed a charismatic private eye get into all kinds of dangerous situations. In this film, Ronnie Jackson, a photographer in San Francisco is suddenly, thrown into a web of intrigue when he steps into the office of his neighbor, the real P.I, Sam McCloud, who is fed up with the job and is leaving town.Enter the femme fatale, something that is a must in this type of film, Carlotta Montay. She will get Ronnie into all kinds of difficult situations and even the gas chamber as he tries his best to deal with all the bad people that are chasing Carlotta.Bob Hope was excellent in his take of Ronnie Jackson. Dorothy Lamour, in all her beauty, made the most of her Carlotta. Two cameos in the film were notorious because they are uncredited and unexpected Alan Ladd, and Bing Crosby. Others in the film are Peter Lorre, Lon Chaney Jr., Charles Dingle, Frank Puglia, Reginald Denny, among the supporting cast.The film is still a lot of fun as it makes fun of other more dramatic movies thanks to the direction of Elliott Nugent. "},{"Title":"Lots of laughs and fun to watch!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie offers an abundance of laughs with Hope as a baby photographer turned detective who is clearly out of his element.  Dorothy Lamour is sexy and funny as Bobs love interest.  Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney Jr. add the sinister part to the movie and are good straight men for Hopes antics. This type of comedy was popular in the 40's but few could pull it off as well as Hope could.  He is, in my opinion, better without a partner such as Bing to bring in the laughs.  It is a fun picture to watch. "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Funny Film","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ********************MILD SPOILERS AHEAD*********************************Bob Hope plays a baby photographer who wants to be a detective like the guy in the next office over from his.  And when the detective (Alan Ladd) goes out of town, that's just what he does. A mysterious femme fatale (Dorothy Lamour) strolls into the detective's office thinking Bob Hope is the detective, and it's too good of an opportunity for the daydreaming Bob Hope to pass up.  Dorothy's in real hot water and soon Bob ends up in the middle of it too.  Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney are hilarious villains in this comedy spoof of detective thrillers which has an entertaining story line that keeps things lively and watchable.In my humble opinion, I like this film better than the 'Road' films (Road to Bali and Road to Utopia) I've seen so far with Bob Hope, Bing Crosby and Dorothy Lamour.  This one is a gem.  Another Bob Hope film I would recommend is Son of Paleface with Jane Russell and Roy Rogers.  It's a hoot, just like My Favorite Brunette is.  It's an 86/100 in my book and a wonderfully funny film that has stood the test of time. "}{"Title":"Two Road Escapees","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour team up for this spoof on private eyes movies, particularly Sam Spade. Hope plays a baby photographer who dreams about being a real private eye, like his friend. One day he is mistaken for being his friend, which Hope chooses not to correct, by Lamour's mysterious lady in distress character. Soon Hope finds himself running from Lon Chaney and Peter Lorre, at their spookiest best. This was the first movie I ever saw with Bob Hope, and I didn't even realize that Hope and Lamour were famous for the Road movies they did with Bing Crosby. However, this movie is consistently funny throughout. Hope fit the character perfectly. Keep an eye out for Crosby's cameo. "},{"Title":"Good Hope comedy is a spoof of all the detective film noirs...","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The worst thing about MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE is the bad print TCM is showing. Looks like a poor Public Domain print that is almost worn out with the years.The comedy itself is a bright one with clever lines and situations. BOB HOPE is a baby photographer mistaken for a private eye by no less than DOROTHY LAMOUR who asks his help in finding her hubby's murderer. Turns out she's really talking about her uncle, but she's a liar (like Mary Astor in THE MALTESE FALCON).The gags get off to a good start with ALAN LADD asking Bob to mind his office while he packs a gun and goes on a private eye mission. Hope obliges Lamour by showing up at the mansion she occupies, described by Hope as something left over from Wuthering Heights. PETER LORRE, JOHN HOYT, CHARLES DINGLE, REGINALD DENNY and LON CHANEY, JR. are excellent in sustaining the humor as they go about making things tough for detective Hope. LON CHANEY, JR. is particularly effective in a replay of his dimwit role from Of Mice and Men. Dingle, likewise, seems to be repeating his role of the crooked Southern gentleman in THE LITTLE FOXES.Hope is told that Dotty is a schizophrenic imagining that her uncle has been kidnapped and she's only dangerous when emotionally disturbed. He's supposed to believe that the map she talked about and a missing treasure is just part of her illness. Promise me you'll guard the map with your life, she tells Hope.Once Hope finds out Carlotta (Lamour) is telling the truth, the gags come fast and furious and he spends the rest of the film coping with the various dangerous situations involving the gangsters. Part of the comedy comes from the bad guys planting misleading clues in the hope that Hope will find them, to no avail. It's entertaining with Hope at his liveliest and Lamour at her prettiest and a supporting cast that more than compensates for a script that's only fault is that it's pretty predictable from start to finish.Despite flaws, if you can find a decent print of the film it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Smoooooth","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's funny.A baby photographer wants to be a tough guy in the Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer mould. While his neighbour ( a private detective played by Allan Ladd) is away on an assignment, Dorothy Lamour enters and mistakes the baby photographer for the detective...Love Hope's reaction to Allan Ladd's bourbon. Also good is the knife-throwing scene with Peter Lorre.My favourite Brunette is well directed, well acted and quite well scripted. It is based around catchphrases, the biggest catchphrase being the inclusion of Bing Crosby as the executioner. This was a kind of humour which was fashionable at the time, but now belongs to bygone days. I like the film, but it is not to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Rugged! But smooth","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Funny is a word that hardly does it justice - I've lost count how many times I've seen this Paramount Bob Hope classic down the decades, yet it still came on as fresh as ever last night. About as close as a Hope film came to noir but abounding with stunning smart ass one-liners and every one delivered with impeccable timing. It was so good it was immediately regurgitated into the equally classic Secret Life Of Walter Mitty with Danny Kaye for Goldwyn in the same year, Reginald Denny being in both.Hope is a San Francisco baby photographer hankering to be a private dick in the manner of his next-office hero Alan Ladd. Through misunderstandings he gets ravelled up in a life or death case involving dark-eyed dreamboat Dorothy Lamour and her shady husband/uncle and his enemies/friends. The witticisms are relentless, even down to little things like Peter Lorre bridling at Hope calling him Cuddles or Hope's initial worries about Lamour's sanity and his safety. I still don't know who the eighth President of the USA was. The plot lost its way slightly after the Sanatorium scenes, even so the script was still sparkling, favourite bits in the hotel room Lon Chaney wondering if he could crack walnuts with his eyelids; Hope resignedly looking straight at the camera while Lamour loudly badmouths him to the baddies. None of these bits and no one's essay can convey how relentlessly funny MFB is, watch it instead!To a fan of Bob Hope like me so many good bits make such a good film! Since then how did film comedy go so wrong? "},{"Title":"Affectionate Parody of the Film Noir Genre","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My Favorite Brunette shows that the parodying of film genres did not start with Mel Brooks or even with the Carry On films. Ronnie Jackson is a San Francisco photographer specialising in taking pictures of babies. His great ambition, however, is to be a private detective, and hopes to be taken on as an assistant by Sam McCloud, a private eye whose offices are in the same building as Jackson's studio. McCloud has always resisted, but one day Jackson gets his big chance when he is mistaken for the great man by a potential client. A young woman named Carlotta Montay asks Jackson, whom she believes to be McCloud, to trace her elderly husband who has mysteriously disappeared. Jackson eagerly accepts the assignment.The rest of the plot does not really matter. (It concerns a battle to control the mining rights to uranium deposits in South America). The whole point of the film is to parody the film noir style of film-making, particularly films based on hardboiled detective stories like The Maltese Falcon or The Big Sleep. (I am informed that the film to which My Favorite Brunette bears the greatest resemblance is Farewell My Lovely, which I have never seen). The film introduces a selection of stock characters from films of this type- apart from the private eye himself there is the sultry femme fatale (here played by Dorothy Lamour in a move away from her sarong girl image), the soft-spoken but sinister foreign villain (played by Peter Lorre, parodying the parts he played in The Maltese Falcon, The Man who Knew Too Much and other films) and the wheelchair-bound old man (like General Sternwood in The Big Sleep). There is a typically convoluted noir plot, a gloomy Gothic mansion, a frantic car chase and the sort of cynical, slangy, wisecracking voice-over one could imagine being delivered by Humphrey Bogart. (The house is so big that you could shoot quail in the hall).The film's central joke is that, not only is Jackson not a private eye, he is also most unsuited to that particular line of work. He is a character of a sort played by Bob Hope in a number of his other comedies, the man who pretends to be tough, brave and resourceful but who in real life is both cowardly and inept. (In his work as a photographer he even allows himself to be terrorised by a baby).Seen as a pure comedy, this is not the best, although there are a few amusing gags, such as the lunatic asylum inmates playing golf without a ball, Lon Chaney's musclebound but stupid warder, a joke at the expense of Hope's odd-shaped nose (I'll personally punch you in the nose so hard it will look like other peoples' noses) and the scene where Hope, trying to record Lorre's confession to a murder, keeps pulling the plug out of the socket. Anyone, however, who is familiar with the conventions of the film noir genre will be amused by this affectionate parody. 6/10. "},{"Title":"You see, I wanted to be a detective too. It only took brains, courage and a gun, and I had the gun.","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I never tire of Bob Hope's brand of humor, whether it be stand up or in films, and My Favorite Brunette is a great showcase for his comedic talent. I got a kick out of an early scene where he uses his famous beak to slide open the peephole of a door leading to death row. It's a self deprecating move and clearly shows that the man was big enough not to take himself too seriously.There's an element of understated glamor attached to the presence of Dorothy Lamour here. She looks elegant in whatever the wardrobe department throws at her. Didn't you just feel the heat when she croons to Hope's character - Please baby, do it for mama.Peter Lorre's always a favorite when it comes to the weaselly gunsel routine. Funny how you never hear the word 'gunsel' anymore. Lon Chaney Jr.'s on hand too as a henchman for Major Montague (Charles Dingle), but it seems like he considers himself more of a friend to Hope's character than he is a bad guy.The cameos are great, but who else did a double take with Alan Ladd looking like a young Robert Mitchum? I fully expected Bing to make an appearance, so no disappointment there - Boy, he'll take any kind of part.I'm not so sure that My Favorite Brunette is the best title they could have come up with for this picture, but you know what, it doesn't matter much. It's mile a minute quips and one liners from one of the masters, who looks like he's having just as much fun whether dishing it out or taking it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful spoof of film noir detective thrillers","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Usually in the film noir thrillers of the 40's, the principal character in the movie would serve as narrator, many times telling his story to someone. In Double indemnity, Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray) relates the events of his downfall to his boss at the insurance agency Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson) via a dictating machine; in Murder My Sweet, Philip Marlowe (Dick Powell) explains his predicament to the police as they third-degree him; in Sunset Boulevard, Joe Gillis (William Holden) explains his condition--a dead body floating in a Hollywood swimming pool--to the audience, and so on. In My Favorite Brunette, baby photographer Ronnie Jackson (Bob Hope) gives an interview to reporters from death row where he is minutes away from being gassed. Hope wryly comments, They don't even have electricity yet. The story Jackson gives the press becomes a humorous satirical spoof of the genre.Hope was a master of one-liners. One of his running jokes for half a century or more was that he had never received or even been nominated for an Academy Award. While Bob never took his film roles seriously, he was in fact a great actor as well as one of the best comedians of films, radio, and television. Others with much less talent that Bob have received that prestigious award. Yet Hope was always taken as a mere funny man by the Hollywood big-wigs. He was a consummate entertain who could sing and dance, act, tell jokes, you name it.It's good to see Hope in action on the screen. My Favorite Brunette is a place to see him at his best. The Road Pictures were entertaining and parts of them will still bring out the belly laughs, but because of the topical nature of much of the humor, parts of them are also quaint and somewhat silly by today's standards. That they still work at all is due in large measure to the chemistry between Hope, Crosby, and Lamour. Bob was always best when he worked alone. Before his humor dried up with changing times and he ended his film career with a few turkeys (too bad for he truly deserved so much more), he made many of the best comedies of his era.My Favorite Brunette is filled with wit and clever lines from a cast that includes Dorothy Lamour, who is given an opportunity to go beyond her Road Picture image and show genuine acting talent, Peter Lorre, who is as always creepy and sadistic--he also doesn't like to be called Cuddles by Hope--Lon Chaney Jr., a much underrated actor who was always in his father's shadow, and Jack La Rue, whose face the viewer is sure to recognize. Plus there are two significant cameos that add much to the total effect of the film.Hope usually played the same type role in films, no matter what name was given him. The average American could readily identify with his character traits. Though he was a coward, an unsuccessful womanizer, and a braggart, he was also lovable, patriotic, and at heart a pleasant guy. In My Favorite Brunette, Ronnie Jackson is telephone sitting for a private detective when a gorgeous client walks in. As a result, Jackson gets overly involved in a kidnapping, murder case that eventually lands him on death row. How he gets out of this mess makes for the hilarious hijinks that keep the audience rolling. "},{"Title":"Wise cracks and wacky situations; a definite watch.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film in one word? Hilarious. The good natured Bob Hope humor is in rare form. Dorothy Lamour, as always, is perfectly cast in this kind of comedic role. I've always thought that she and Hope make a great team on the screen. Although not joined with Bing Crosby in a starring role, the two still manage to pull out a swell comedy along the lines of the Road pictures. The story is extremely zany and contains everything from foreign conspirators to a mixed up murder charges. Alan Ladd and Crosby join in the fun for short cameo appearances; with a wisecracking Hope making appropriate notice. Needless to say, if you like a fast talking, joke cracking comedy, this Hope classic is a definite must see. "},{"Title":"An entertaining parody farce comedy...with Bob Hope's brilliance non stop","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My Favorite Brunette (1947)Bob Hope is fast, smart, and darned funny. And it is his one-liners, constant one-liners, that makes this a fun movie. Like a lot of the entertaining movies made by pure entertainers, including the many Hope/Crosby films, this one is a thin, contrived, and fun plot. The plot is a twisting parody of detective movies, a vehicle for gags and stunts and one-liners.We could stop this review there and most people would know whether to see it, and whether they'd like it. If all these names are unfamiliar, just picture a 1940s black and white musical without the music and dance. You aren't meant to care about the characters, not deeply, or even what happens, very much. You just go along from situation to situation enjoying the company of some talented and likable folk.Like Bob Hope. Some people might find his sharp edge a little cold, and that he's full of himself without the self-deprecation that makes other comics warm and lovable. But he is up for anything, and he's non-stop, which is part of the fun, trying to keep up with all the lines. In fact, you could easily watch it twice in a row just to get all those jokes you missed the first time.The plot here is complicated on purpose, but the key set-up is having a baby photographer (Hope) mistaken as a detective (which he always wanted to be). He gets in the middle of a crazy plot filled with further mistaken identities, and of course a woman who is part femme fatale and part heroine. And yes, she's brunette, played by Dorothy Lamour, a longtime partner in crime with Hope and Bing Crosby. In fact, her inclusion (and the title) is part of a great number of inside jokes which the public, well aware of the three of them, would probably get, including a reference to FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, who was perhaps romantically involved with Lamour.Hoover brings to mind the right wing tendencies of all these people, and with Hope's longstanding Republican flair which was openly part of his persona. He was a huge supporter of the troops in WWII (like everyone else, of course, but he was actively entertaining them like no one else), and so was Lamour, by way of the pin-up. None of this taints the movie (if you are of a different persuasion) but you might see the references differently if you catch them. Most of the time though it's just funny plays on words and twists of meaning, all ticklish or hilarious or both. "},{"Title":"Just simply great fun!","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" With a plot of spies and intrigue to hang the one liners on this is nothing but fun all the way.As a solo effort (Without Bing Crosby - who does make a killer appearance eventually) this is one of Bob Hope's best. Every line is delivered just right and he and Dorothy Lamour are great.Every situation is milked for its comedy potential and sure, it's corny - but boy, it don't half work!This is just a wonderful comedy with an edge of excitement and a great send-up of some of the clichés of Film Noir.One to relax and laugh along with - Hope and Lamour at their best! "}{"Title":"When Hope Met Hitchcock","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" On the streets of San Francisco, a mysterious woman named Carlotta appears out of the blue asking a man to help her. He's not really a private detective, but he's so swept off his feet he acts the part anyway. Then her story unravels. He suspects her sanity, not realizing he's only one step behind her en route to the sanitarium.Nutty as a fruitcake, but with all that beautiful frosting! That's not James Stewart talking about Kim Novak, but rather Bob Hope on the subject of Dorothy Lamour, his co-star in this farcical takeoff of the film noir, made more than ten years before Hitchcock's Vertigo. Maybe the Master should have called it Deja Vu instead.That's not entirely fair. Vertigo is a classic on many levels, whereas My Favorite Brunette is an amiable timekiller with Hope solid if not sharp, making the best of an uneven set of wisecracks and a wrong-man story even weaker than the one Carlotta spins at the outset. Still, Peter Lorre is on hand to lend the film some Hitchcockian gravitas as one of the key hoods, and the opening set up showing Hope at San Quentin telling his tale to reporters as he awaits the gas chamber gets things off right.Hope is Ronnie Jackson, a baby photographer whose office is next door to a detective he idolizes. The detective chooses to leave Ronnie alone in his office just as Carlotta walks in, to tell of a man who is either her husband, her uncle, or neither, hand him a ring and a map, and lead him on a chase involving keyhole cameras and invisible golf balls which pits him against Lorre (Ol' Shortenin' Bread Ronnie calls him), slick southerner Charles Dingle (Mint Julep) and muscle man Lon Chaney Jr. (Boulder Dam with legs).Seeing Hope's mock-tough-guy persona go through the paces of a Raymond Chandler-style potboiler is fun. He's all show but never learns, to the point that when he jumps a middle-aged woman in one scene, the joke isn't him losing so much as him thinking he could win.In the beginning we see him on Death Row asking the warden about a reprieve from the governor No word, huh? Well, I'll know who to vote for next time. Every time he smokes a cigarette, he tries to sneer at the guard, only he ends up nearly coughing instead.Director Elliott Nugent keeps the story moving, which helps with the holes, but the film-noir mood he establishes at the opening quickly dissipates into a shooting gallery for Hope's one-liners. Edmund Belion and Jack Rose, the screenwriters, miss a good opportunity to use the story as more of a send-up. Alas, the mystery is played too much on the level, and except for some reaction shots from Lorre, we never see the villains as part of the comedy.But it's Hope, it's the 1940s, which means you are in for a good time. Plus one thing Vertigo didn't have, a terrific last line. Watch it once, and it will be the biggest smile you take away from this underbaked charmer. "},{"Title":"Everything you touch turns to rigormortis.","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What a wonderfully entertaining and funny movie! Bob Hope and Company do an incredible job in My Favorite Brunette of parodying the dark detective movies that were so popular at the time. The situations in which Hope finds himself are perfect for his brand of humor. The jokes come fast and furious and, fortunately, most hit their mark. Hope is joined by an excellent cast that includes Dorothy Lamour in the femme fatal role, Peter Lorre as a knife-throwing killer, and Lon Chaney, Jr. as a simple, but ultimately kind gangster whose efforts to help Hope only seem to get him in deeper. The whole supporting cast is great. And director Elliott Nugent keeps the pace flowing with never a dull moment. In fact, it's a first rate job from everyone involved. My Favorite Brunette is one that any fan of classic movies (especially film noir) should not miss. I only hate that it took me so long to see the movie. "},{"Title":"Good laughs","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When I recall my favorite bits from this film I'm assured of a chuckle every time. Visually it's hilarious and certain scenes stick in my memory in their entirety. Admittedly that could be because I'm a fan of all the performers but it's definitely a worthwhile purchase now that it's available at a budget price on DVD. Bob Hope reliably plays the part of a full-time photographer/part-time detective but I must admit the supporting players amuse me most. Lon Chaney and Peter Lorre make terrific villains, particularly when sharing the screen together. Midway through the film they hold the fort at an asylum where Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour are being held prisoner. In probably my favorite scene Chaney is eating in the kitchen while helping Lorre study for his American citizenship exam. Lorre impatiently quizzes him on the three levels of government while Bob and Dorothy try to escape without being seen. Dorothy makes it but Bob is cornered by Lorre and makes the same mistake he has before, calling him Cuddles. Lorre objects to the nickname which sends him over the edge. He responds by tossing several kitchen knives in Bob's direction with menacing accuracy. Even though the camera doesn't catch Lorre in motion there's a humorous tension that adds authenticity to the moment; and though Chaney plays a backward character he's smart enough to know when a man's in danger, sending a loaf of bread into Bob's hands when the knives come too close for comfort. You can picture what will happen from there. The action never slows down for a minute. The dangers continue in this fast paced film and though formulaic in many ways, it's like going on a roller coaster ride...you know where you're going but it's fun getting there. The witty dialog and one-liners keep on coming and there's a comical resolution near the end. It's worth a first viewing, at least, even if you don't want to go back to it as often as I do. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" An awfully silly and quite formulaic yet still rather enjoyable little comedy, the film has some amusing moments in the mix and it actually manages to spoof the Sam Spade type detective genre quite well. Bob Hope is a bit hard to take seriously, even given that he is playing comedy, but Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney Jr. are a lot of fun to have on hand. The elements of mystery actually work reasonably well, and for whatever lame jokes it uses, there are some good gags to compensate. Overall, the film passes the time as a light comedy and an okay parody of detective film noir. It is not a great film, but it serves its purpose. "},{"Title":"Nice, cheerful place. What time they bring the mummies out?","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Very funny send-up of film noir private eye movies. Bob Hope plays a baby photographer on death row for a murder he didn't commit. As he awaits his execution, he recounts how he got there by getting mixed up in a conspiracy involving a beautiful woman (Dorothy Lamour). One of Hope's best movies. Lots of funny lines. Features a terrific supporting cast, including Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney, Jr. There are some funny cameos from Alan Ladd and Bing Crosby. This one's in the public domain now so anybody can see it online for free. But that also means most copies are pretty lousy, quality-wise. It's worth the effort to try and find a decent copy. "},{"Title":"I'm going back to 'watch the birdie' and stop looking at the chicks!","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bob Hope in one of his better comedies of the 1940s, a clever satire of noir mysteries (Raymond Chandler, in particular) which substitutes hard-boiled for soft-boiled without losing the essence of a good crime story. A baby-photographer in San Francisco is found in the neighboring offices of a vacationing private detective by a femme fatale, who unwittingly hires the would-be gumshoe to help find her missing uncle. Edmund Beloin and Jack Rose penned the dandy original screenplay, neatly skirting the spoofy/silly undercurrent which marred many of Hope's starring vehicles of the era. Dorothy Lamour (with the wonderful character name Carlotta Montay) is the supposedly schizophrenic and paranoid client; Peter Lorre is her evil valet; and nobody cracks walnuts like muscle-stooge Lon Chaney. Fresh and witty, with a surprising hint of sex appeal, a solid production, and two terrific star-cameos as a bonus. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Fun noir-tinged spoof","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I caught this on Turner Classic Movies over the summer--my first Bob Hope picture. The plot concerns a baby photographer, Ronnie Jackson, whose office is just down the hall from a Sam Spade-ish private eye, Sam McCloud (played by the mostly absent Alan Ladd). When McCloud is forced to leave for a while, Jackson does the neighborly thing and looks after his office, thereafter getting mixed up in a murderous mystery where danger lurks around every corner and nothing is as it seems.My Favorite Brunette is no comic masterpiece, but it's fun light viewing. The solid script and direction are bolstered by a good cast. Bob Hope is Bob Hoping it for all he's worth, Dorothy Lamour is suitably sexy as the damsel in distress, and Peter Lorre is both menacing and hilarious as he sends up his screen persona. Lon Chaney, Jr. is also quite enjoyable as a hulking simpleton (obviously a take-off on his turn as Lennie in the 1939 adaptation Of Mice and Men) who's tricked into working for the bad guys.The mystery at the heart of the plot was satisfying--for me, anyway--working in enough zany twists and turns to stay surprising along the way. Ultimately, though, it's no more important than as the framework from which to hang Hope's mugging and one-liners. The film moves at a fast enough pace that, if one joke fails to take off, another comes along directly behind it. There's no time to get bored, and Hope's comedic style, while perhaps bland to some, is amiable enough for all ages to enjoy. This one's worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Don't Give Up Hope","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Baby photographer Bob Hope (as Ronnie Jackson) is on death row, for a murder he didn't commit. While preparing for his stint in the (laughing) gas chamber, Mr. Hope tells his story, in flashback&#x85; Hope isn't happy taking baby pictures. His real desire is to become a successful a private detective, like Sam Spade or Philip Marlowe. To wit, Hope is hired by beautiful Baroness Dorothy Lamour (as Carlotta Montay), to solve the mystery of her missing husband/uncle&#x85; Medium done Hope is better than most, not as good as some. The material is a bit lame, but Hope handles it expertly. Peter Lorre (as Kismet) and Lon Chaney Jr. (as Willie) lead a fine supporting cast. The frequent co-starred Ms. Lamour is a perfectly subtle spoof counterpoint to Hope's wisecracking coward. Alan Ladd and Bing Crosby bookend the film with two highly entertaining cameo appearances. The stuffing in-between gets a little too long and thin, at times.***** My Favorite Brunette (3/19/47) Elliott Nugent ~ Bob Hope, Dorothy Lamour, Peter Lorre, Lon Chaney Jr. "},{"Title":"The kind of house you could hunt Quail in the hallways!","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My Favorite Brunette is directed by Elliott Nugent and written by Edmund Beloin and Jack Rose. It stars Bob Hope, Dorothy Lamour, Frank Puglia, Lon Chaney Junior, Peter Lorre, John Hoyte and Charles Dingle. Music is by Robert Emmett Dolan and cinematography by Lionel Lindon. Ronnie Jackson (Hope) is on Death Row and tells reporters how he come to be there. He was a baby photographer who dreamed of becoming a hard boiled detective like his heroes, Humphrey Bogart, or Dick Powell, or even Alan Ladd. One day he gets mistaken for a detective in the office across the hall by a mysterious brunette in distress (Lamour) and gets plunged into a murder mystery. Blood! And it ain't mine, it's red! A wonderful film noir spoof that finds Hope in his element as the writing allows the gags to come thick and fast in almost scattergun explosions. This is as good a place as any to start for potential newcomers to Hope's films, the bonus here is that the back up cast is impressive as well. With Hope's chemistry with Lamour (gorgeous and hard looking) set in stone (they had already worked together at least seven times by this point), this is complimented by the likes of Lorre and Chaney who mimic past performances in more serious fare, while Alan Ladd pops in for a delightful little cameo to further nudge and wink to film noir iconography. The best scenes come at a gloomy mansion and at a Sanitarium (seriously enjoy a brilliant game of golf here), and Hope's narration throughout the film only furthers the comedy gold on offer. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Title's Reference to Noir.","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The title, My Favourite Brunette, Bob Hope, film is a reference to film noir! In other words, the best dark and mysterious detective thriller of the genre it satirises.The satirising of noir detective thriller films is made all the more plausible by the perfect casting of the likes of Lorre and Chaney Jr. It's by juxtaposing their characters with the wise cracking Bob Hope that makes the comedy work in a surreal way. It just wouldn't have worked out quite the same way with other actors.The film particularly satirises the far fetched, convoluted noir detective thrillers of the 40s era, and how the sleuth can never see the trees for the wood.The cameo role of Bing Crosby was particularly well placed and very witty in his disappointment at not being Hope's executioner. Meanwhile, Lamoue's character vaunts her charisma, and how her charm supplements Hope's wide-eyed, impressionable amateur detective.A nice reference towards Welsh born actor Ray Milland's sublime Academy award winning performance as the self destructive alcoholic writer, Don Birnam in The Lost Weekend (1945)A fantastic film for noir, detective, and satirical comedy lovers. Whether you're a Bob Hope fan or not, seems irrelevant!! "}{"Title":"cute Hope comedy","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bob Hope is mistaken for a detective in My Favorite Brunette, a comedy from 1947 costarring Dorothy Lamour and Peter Lorre. The film begins with Ronnie Jackson (Hope) making wisecracks as he sits on death row. He's visited by reporters whom he tells his whole story in flashback. A baby photographer who desperately wants to become a partner to the detective down the hall, Sam (Alan Ladd in a cameo), Ronnie gets his chance when a lady in distress (Lamour) visits Sam's office while he's away. Ronnie pretends he's Sam and before you know it, he's in all kinds of trouble, running from a gang of thugs that includes Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney who are looking for a map.This is an entertaining comedy with good performances all around. Lon Chaney, Jr. is particularly funny as a strong man/imbecile. Besides Ladd, there's another cameo as well that adds to the fun.I like these light comedies of Hope's but confess to liking My Favorite Blonde better. This is still good, with the exotic-looking Lamour an able costar - and let's face it, as Hope's costar, she'd had a lot of experience. "},{"Title":"Bob Hope comedy  where he becomes involved with killings and intrigues","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The film concerns upon Ronnie Jackson(Hope) a quite shy baby photographer gets mistaken with his next door neighbour Sam McCloud(Alan Ladd) a famous San Francisco private eye.The problems start when the Baronesa Carlotta Montay(Dorothy Lamour) contracts to Ronnie to find her husband(Frank Puglia) and investigate about a map what marks the location of a Criolita(uranium) deposit that would be the key for defense of free world.It will lead him for a way of international intrigue. Meanwhile he'll must to confront against a villain Major (Charles Dingle) and his heavies henchmen(Peter Lorre, Lon Chaney Jr,John Hoyt) .The movie is the following of ¨My favorite blonde¨(Sidney Lanfield)with Hope and Madeleine Carroll as partenaire. The picture is a spies caper with lots of fun ,giggles,laughs,tongue in check and a little bit of action and suspense. Appear cameos and guest appearance of famed stars ,thus Alan Ladd as typical tough detective and Bing Crosby in a liking final interpretation .Crosby along with Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour made a famous trio with much success and starred numerous films with title ¨Road to..Bali,Morocco,Zanzibar,Hong Kong¨. Besides appear as secondary actor Lon Chaney Jr repeating the role of the simple-minded in the film adaptation of Steinbeck's of ¨Mice and men¨(1939),Chaney's performance as an innocent burly is spectacularly touching and amused.Peter Lorre as always plays an astute villainous with skills for throwing daggers .The motion picture is well directed by Eliott Nugent. The flick will like to Bob Hope fans. "},{"Title":"One of Hope's best...yet oddly now in the public domain.","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The film begins with Hope on death row! How he got there is something you learn about through a flashback. It seems he was a baby photographer with hopes of one day becoming a private detective. And, through some accidents of change, he is mistaken for one...and ends up in the middle of a huge conspiracy. It seems that Dorothy Lamour is in need of help, but her story doesn't make much sense. But, what also doesn't make much sense is how all her 'family' react to Hope's presence--obviously SOMETHING is amiss. But what is really happening and how did Hope end up in the big house? Tune in and see for yourself with this charming public domain films. How it was allowed to lapse into the public domain is a puzzler, as often this might indicate the movie is a stinker--which this one certainly is NOT. Apart from the great cameos, some other things to look for are Lon Chaney, Jr. playing a character pretty much like his Lenny from Of Mice And Men.This is undoubtedly one of Bob Hope's best films for a variety of reasons. Most importantly, it simply is better written. By combining Hope's usual banter with typical film noir language, the combination is quite attractive--especially since Hope's usual style really hasn't aged as well. Also, having a really nice supporting cast sure didn't hurt--nor did the wonderful cameos (but I won't say more about these, as it might spoil the fun). "},{"Title":"Should be better.","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bob Hope's comedies could be hilarious, but this one isn't. He plays his usual character, a coward who imitates his private-eye neighbor and gets into all kinds of hot water with Dorothy Lamour while searching for a map that will break up a ring of international gangsters who want to locate a uranium mine that some other country is interested in. (This is 1947.) There were a plenitude of mock private-eye movies that came out about this time, generated by the popularity of the 1940s noir films and, later, given a second-stage rocket boost by the Mike Hammer novels. The climactic ballet of The Bandwagon is another example, from a musical yet.But I don't care about that. Well-done parodies can stand on their own, even if the target becomes a bit dated. The problem here is that the wisecracks and gags, though delivered by Hope with his usual élan, just aren't funny enough. Hope's dithering cowardice is amusing, but the rest of the film is below par for him. I'm trying to think of a gag that I can use as an example of mediocrity, but although I just finished watching the movie on DVD, none of them comes to mind. That's symptomatic.Good cast too. Lon Chaney, Jr., Peter Lorre, other good supporting players, cameos by Alan Ladd and Bing Crosby. And nice location shooting in San Francisco and on the Monterey Peninsula. The mansion that's the principal setting is still there, and visible from the nearby drive.The movie isn't an insult to the audience and not exactly a blot on the record of the participants. It has its comedic qualities. Kids might get a big kick out of it, especially if they're not acquainted with Hope's work elsewhere. If you want to join in the laughter, rent one of Hope and Crosby's better On the Road movies. "},{"Title":"Cute Film Classic","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a cute comedy classic for a reason - it's quite comical. There is a fun crime-mystery as the basis for the story and quite a bit of comedy to keep it fun.Bob Hope is good in this - such a strange and funny character Ronnie Jackson. Enter Willie (Lon Chaney Jr) and Kismet (Peter Lorre) and the fun really begins.I haven't seen this one in years - I finally seen it recently and I have to say the movie is even cuter than I recalled it to be. And I have to confess I forgot it was Chaney and Lorre in this particular film with Bob Hope. I'm glad I was reminded about this film - it's a worthwhile comedy.Fans of classic comedy films, Bob Hope, Lon Chaney Jr and/or Peter Lorre should like this one quite a bit.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"I hope this movie was alright and it was. I wasn't disappointment.","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's a favorite. Directed by Elliott Nugent, My Favorite Brunette is the second of Bob Hope's 'My Favorite' series of films. While, it's doesn't serve a sequel or a prequel to any of the other 'My Favorite' films 1942's My Favorite Blonde and 1951's My Favorite Spy. It's still pretty good, in their own right. While, 'My Favorite' film chain is not as famous as the 'Road to&#x97;wherever' series of Bob Hope's films; I found these series of film to be a lot more clever in its writing compare to Bob Hope & Bing Crosby's 'The Road' films. Scripted by Edmund Beloin and Jack Rose, the movie tells the story of children photographer Ronnie Jackson (Bob Hope), whom secretly fantasizes about being a private detective. When a lovely baroness, Carlotta (Dorothy Lamour), actually mistakes him for one and asks him to help locate her missing husband, Baron Montay (Frank Puglia), Ronnie finds himself madly in love, and agree to assist. What comes next is, a series of danger, comedy, and misfortunes, as Ronnie find out, that maybe pretending to be a private eye wasn't a good idea. Without spoiling the film, the movie has a lot of cool twist and turns, that make this film, very watchable, even in today's high standards. While, there are a few things that seem a little dated and corny, for the most part, the jokes were really good hits to the funny bone. Bob Hope could always be relied upon to bring us the laughs with even the most average script but in this film he excels as he is given some great material to work with and certainly makes the most of it, due to his great timing. A good example of this, is the game of golf with somebody who isn't all there. That was indeed, the highlight of the film. I love all Bob Hope's comebacks and witty wisecracks, one liners. I love, how he broke down the fourth wall in the middle of a movie and talk directly to the audience. That was pretty rare to see in, those days. Another is the several in-jokes scattered through the movie about big actors playing minor roles, aim at both his friends, Alan Ladd & Bing Crosby, whom cameo in the film. I like how he deconstruct the film noir genre, but references other detective films. I love how the film is almost a spoof on the hardboiled detective fiction movies of Director John Huston's 1941's movie, The Maltese Falcon and Director Stuart Heisler, the Glass Key. You can see a lot of authors Raymond Chandler & Dashiell Hammett's detective novels in this film. He even made fun of some of the genre funny tropes and often over-used film clichés. The voice over narration is spot on, making fun of that, type of filmmaking. Even sexual innuendos got past the radar of censorships, due to how clever hidden, they were. A good example of this, is the house of 'Joes'. Still, there were a bit, over acting. I couldn't get behind Bob Hope's character awkward love subplot with the baroness. It seem a bit forced. Dorothy Lamour was pretty good in her role, as the straight girl to Hope's funnyman. She indeed makes a great femme fatale with her crazy look. While, she might be, out there, she was very easy on the eyes. She was so good, that I often mistake the actress for Oscar Winner, Bettie Davis, best known taking crazy women roles. Like Hope's character would say, about Lamour's character, Nutty as a fruitcake, and with all that beautiful frosting. Dorothy Lamour did a good job. The supporting cast is just as amazing. I love how Lon Chaney Jr. seems to be channeling Lennie from 1939's Of Mice and Men. While, his character is bit, way dumb down. He was lovable & charming. I also have to give mad props to Peter Lorre as Kismet. Peter Lorre in full on evil henchmen mode. I love the way, he cover his tracks, using humor as a way to get out of sticky environment. His character is a knife throwing, light-fingered henchman who Ronnie amusingly calls Cuddles, and he's awesome. The movie is also full of pretty good car chases. While, the movie doesn't have much action in it, there were enough intense suspense sequences to keep you on the edge of your seat. Still, there were some faults. One is the confusing plot. I don't believe, the movie does a really good job, explaining the exposition, well. It doesn't help that Bob Hope's character isn't bright or well-observation. The movie moves in such a clumsy, clutch like matter. Another fault of the film is how the film entered the public domain in the USA in 1975, due to the copyright claimant's failure to renew the copyright registration. Since it's in the public domain, it would mean that anybody can copy off the original film footage, which hasn't aged well. This would, make some copies of 'My Favorite Brunette' very terrible to watch. The quality of some prints, are so full of dirt, it's hard to figure out, what's going on. Others, could be so dark and inferior that it distracts from enjoying the film. The good things about it, being public domain, is the fact that it isn't that hard to find. It has been widely available on home video, with most copies varying in alright picture and sound quality to pretty bad. The movie is also, easy to find on Youtube and other media sharing sources. Overall While, the movie isn't as popular as the previous film, its sure is a lot better than 1951's My Favorite Spy. Hope's comedic timing could not have been better. I don't know, why they never made, another one of these films. I was really hoping for a film called, 'My Favorite Redhead.' Anyways, I do recommended watching this film. It's worth it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly suspenseful screwball comedy","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What surprised me about this screwball comedy was its ability to maintain suspense throughout the film. (Well, until the end, in any event.) Unlike an Inspector Clouseau film--Peter Sellers--where there is no intention at believability, this film strived for believability. And by and large succeeded. The viewer ends up believing that someone as dumb as Bob Hope would get himself into a situation--Kafkesque--where others manipulate his reality which ends up sending him to the death chamber. The film had as many twists and turns as the proverbial highway. And somehow, they all seemed to work in the congregate.While it ain't The Maltese Falcon or Dial M for Murder--it comes close. "},{"Title":"Hope Does Sam Spade","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Lively Hope romp. He's a ditzy PI who couldn't find his shoes in a lighted closet. Good thing he's got Dottie Lamour to help him out of jams. Trouble is he's got to get a map before the bad guys do. Otherwise who knows what will happen. And get a load of the gang. Looks like Columbia turned out all their thick ears for this one, including the sly little Lorre. And what's with his name, Kismet, when I thought that was a Broadway musical. But I especially like Chaney Jr. as the little brain in the big body. Sounds like he's doing a version of Lenny from Of Mice and Men (1939), with even a reference to a rabbit. Funny how Chaney can be likable no matter how menacing he looks.Surprise, surprise, Hope's gag lines fly fast and furious. So if you don't chuckle at this one, there's another coming right up. Hope really has his cowardly alter-ego down pat. Heck, he even plays to the camera now and then, just to make sure we're not getting too serious. But oh my gosh, putting him on death row in the beginning had me really worried that his bad jokes had finally done him in. But not to worry, he's still got a long-term contract to do movies as entertaining as this one. Which thankfully, he does. "},{"Title":"***","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bob Hope is up to his usual antics in this 1947 film.Condemned to death for a murder he did not commit,Hope reveals the story of how he went from baby photographer to detective and gets mixed up with some really bad guys who have victimized Dorothy Lamour and her noble uncle.Problem with the film is that it never discusses the ramifications of the uranium even though we may imagine what they might be.Other than Peter Lorre doing his usual evil ways, Charles Dingle, who was so good as Bette Davis's brother in The Little Foxes, is as sinister as ever in this film. "},{"Title":"Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My Favorite Brunette shapes up as Bob Hope's finest vehicle since 1940's The Ghost Breakers, and this time he gets luscious Dorothy Lamour all to himself. When Dorothy bats those baby blue eyes, he forgets all about those 'baby blues' (he's a photographer) to play detective, with Peter Lorre around to add real knife-wielding menace when not stealing scenes himself (Hope constantly refers to Lorre as 'Cuddles!'). There are several familiar faces among the villains, but the most amusing is Lon Chaney, in his first feature since being abandoned by Universal nearly a full year before, playing a 'Lennie'-type henchman named Willie, cracking walnuts in the crook of his arm, and constantly calling Hope 'Chummy!' Lorre and Chaney had only appeared together once before, in 1938's Mr. Moto's Gamble, while Chaney would later join Basil Rathbone, John Carradine, and Vincent Price in the 1954 Bob Hope feature Casanova's Big Night (where he again taps 'Lennie'). "}{"Title":"Comedy with Horror Stars","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Enjoyed this 1947 film starring Bob Hope,(Ronnie Jackson),How to Commit Marriage '69 along with Dorothy Lamour,(Carlotta Montay),Marcus Welby,MD,'46 TV series who runs all around trying to get away from Peter Lorre,(Kismet),The Verdict,'46 who does everything he can to capture and kill Ronnie Jackson and Carlotta. Another character, Lon Chaney Jr., (Willie),Of Mice & Men,'39, seems to love walnuts and is constantly cracking them open in a most unusual way. At the same time, he is also trying to capture Ronnie, however, Willie does seem to enjoy Ronnie's company. A classic gangster character, Jack La Rue, played the role of Tony and added excitement to this great classic Comedy, with great actors. "},{"Title":"Mildly Amusing With A Confusing Mystery","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Superstar though he may have been, I have to confess that I was never that impressed with Bob Hope's comedy. Admittedly, my exposure to him came late in his career, mostly through his television specials in the 1970's which the elder members of my family insisted on watching. Given his superstar status, I thought I'd try out a Bob Hope movie when I came across this one. In all honesty it's what I would have expected - amusing rather than outright funny and with a somewhat confusing story that held my interest but was never well enough explained.This is one of those movies that starts at the end and then uses flashbacks to explain how the end came about. In this case, Hope played Ronnie Jackson, a baby photographer who as the movie opens is sitting on death row waiting to be executed. Jackson dreamt of being a private eye, and as the result of a case of mistaken identity, ends up being hired by Countess Montay (Dorothy Lamour) to help find her missing uncle. Here's where the confusing mystery comes in. What we're told is that Montay had an appointment at the State Department and that it had something to do with uranium. There's also a bunch of bad guys out to find a map which ends up in Jackson's possession. Aside from that, the mystery wasn't well explained. Of the bad guys, Peter Lorre was OK and somewhat mysterious, but I thought that Lon Chaney (in a somewhat limited role) was really quite good, as well as being a somewhat sympathetic character. Hope and Lamour were fine; Hope's type of comedy essentially what I remembered from the 70's TV specials. There's a very brief cameo from Bing Crosby at the end of the movie, responded to (out of character) by Hope, who says that guy will take any part he can get. It's not an outstanding movie by any means, and it's also not a bad movie. Mediocre seems to suit it well. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Hope is always good value but the jokes are too thin on the ground","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Baby photographer Ronnie Jackson is on death row.  He recalls how as a baby photographer he had aspirations to be a private detective like the office next door.  When his neighbour is away he poses as a detective when Carlotta Montay comes by with stories of kidnapping and dangerous men.  Ronnie takes the case only to find himself in a plot to capture a map of valuable reserves, kidnap and murder.This amiable little film is a spoof of the Chandler style detective film and it's structured quite nicely to resemble it.  The plot is actually good enough to be a straight detective film and that is a little of the problem.  The actual detective part of the story is pretty straight &#150; meaning that it isn't very funny.  A spoof will usually make fun of the genre whereas this is more a genre film with jokes.  This means that almost all the comedy falls onto Hope's shoulders.Happily Bob Hope is always good value for money and delivers his usual shtick with great confidence and humour.  The only problem I had was that his jokes were mixed with the material and occasionally I had a good wait before the next good line came.  Lamour is good even if she carries more of the serious side and the film has plenty of nice touches in the cast.  Lorre is good as is Chaney Jr.  Alan Ladd has a nice cameo but the best one is from Crosby.Overall I love Hope and if you do too then you'll enjoy this.  Hope is very funny and his style is well used here.  The one shortcoming is that the jokes seem thin at times and it isn't his funniest film by any stretch of the imagination. "},{"Title":"Stereotypical Hope Madness","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film is the best representation of what a Bob Hope movie is, a cowardly schnook operating with false bravado who gets in way over his head. With few exceptions this was the pattern that a good chunk of all of Hope's films would follow, some times it worked and sometime it didn't.Here the formula mostly works. The film is funny in ways that are stupidly punny and very clever. In many ways its the height of Hope's on Screen madness. However things aren't perfect.Part of the problem for me is that seeing this film again for the umteenth time I realized that the formula had been used so many times that this original has gotten lost in the crowd. This isn't a bad thing since the original is so good, it just means that we can't see this as clever as many people see it.Still it worth seeing, especially if you like Bob Hopes type of silliness. "},{"Title":"Strictly lightweight, by-the-numbers fluff, but if that's what you want, Hope delivers","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My wife's church did a Bob Hope Movie Night recently in an attempt to raise supplies and donations for a local women's shelter,and My Favorite Brunette was the featured attraction. Sadly, the turnout was quite sparse, but everyone who showed up had a nice time.I came to the showing expecting to see Bob Hope do what Bob Hope does (in the movies) - fire off one-liners and zingers while playing a woman-chasing schlemiel who gets in over his head in a zany, exotic situation and then somehow rises to the occasion. And that's what he did.The screenplay didn't try anything new, just aped the conventions of detective films (and Hitchcock, of course) and had a bunch of bad guys and fabulous dames (well, ONE fabulous dame) chase our hero Hope through a series of set pieces and classic situations (the sanitarium, the grand hotel, the prison, the detective office, the winding back roads, etc) and kept things moving briskly along until it reached the conclusion you were expecting all along.They don't make them like this anymore, and perhaps that's just as well...but My Favorite Brunette is a great example of the way they used to make them. "},{"Title":"This One Fell Off A  Lorre","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I thought it was too good to be true when I found this DVD in a bin where everything was £1 - also in there were the Bette Davis version of Of Human Bondage, One-Eyed Jacks and the Judy Garland Show. So far I've watched Garland which was at least ten frames out of sync and when I watched this there was more sparkle on the print than in the script. I have a weakness for the 'Road' pictures, especially the songs, and figured that with two thirds of the line up this would be half decent but it's hard to believe that I saw the same film as those who raved about it here. True, there are a couple of good one-liners and the private eye genre was ripe for sending up but the plot was little more than a re-hash of a dozen others of the same vintage - Ball Of Fire, The Secret Life Of Walter Mitty - the one where the mild-mannered unworldly innocent/dreamer gets involved with a gang of crooks who can't decide if they're meant to be tough of comical. A better print may have helped but even then I'd still have a hard time rating this anything more than ho hum. "},{"Title":"Not a lot of laughs","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This ill-advised followup to the wonderful MY FAVORITE BLONDE has Hope playing a baby photographer who yearns to be a gumshoe just like Alan Ladd (seen here in a cameo) and gets caught up in murder, mischief and mayhem. Hope is OK but he has done much better. See him in SON OF PALEFACE or THE SEVEN LITTLE FOYS or one of the early ROAD pictures for comparison. Dottie Lamour is along for the ride as a sexy baroness in danger of her life, but unfortunately she is no Ronnie Lake. Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney Jr. have modest parts as evil henchmen, with Chaney reprising his role as Lenny in OF MICE AND MEN. But this is really Hope's show all the way. He may remind some of Bill Murray here. "},{"Title":"Didn't elicit anything more than a modest chuckle from me","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My first Bob Hope movie. Has anyone noticed that he looks like Kelsey Grammar? Indeed their comic delivery is similar as well, though Hope's brand of humor is more physical and lowbrow than Grammar's in Frasier. My Favorite Brunette, one of Hope's many collaborations with Dorothy Lamour, was amusing - full of one-liners - but it didn't elicit anything more than a modest chuckle from me.  7/10 "},{"Title":"One of Hope's weaker efforts","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour star in this tired comedy. Hope is a photographer who specializes in baby pictures but really wants to be a private detective like his hero down the hall, Sam McCloud (a cameo by Alan Ladd). One day when McCloud is out of the office, Hope happens to be there when Dorothy Lamour slips in and, mistaking him for McCloud, hires him to unravel a mystery. This is just one more of Hope's mistaken identity comedies, and not a particularly good one. The writing is weak, Elliott Nugent's direction is flat, the supporting cast--other than Peter Lorre and Lon Chaney Jr.--isn't really up to par, and for some reason Hope and Lamour don't seem to have any chemistry at all. On top of that, the picture just looks cheap, like a later Bowery Boys movie from Monogram. Hope and Lamour made much better pictures than this. It's not really worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Expired","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After Hope had established a franchise with the road pictures, studios scrambled to extend its reach. This may be the most interesting direction they took. I'm not a fan of Hope's faux zaniness. Its all too artificial when we see the baby, we know we'll see some excess like a bitten finger. But this story is framed as a parody (not a spoof, something that has less respect for the template) of a particular type of noir film &#151; the hardboiled detective bit.Except for the kiddie sequence (which is important to the story), it starts out rather well as a parody. But after twenty minutes or so, the routine TeeVee quality skit level kicks in. If you like the standard Hope routine, you'll like it from there on out. The only part I liked was Lorre trying to place a ring where Hope would find it and being foiled over and over.But the beginning is fine and of interest in the history of noir. When the studios dictate a parody, the genre is mature.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]