[{"Title":"Violence, voyeurism and perfumed bullets","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Set Up! or Framed! might be better titles than Railroaded!  While it's true that the police pursue their suspect (Ed Kelly) with undue alacrity, it's also true that they're only following a trail of maliciously planted evidence.  And an odd feature of the movie is that Kelly remains almost an incidental character (not even appearing in the credits); the focus stays on the police and the real behind-the-scenes villain.Brash blonde Jane Randolph operates a little beauty salon that's really a front for a back-room book.  One night a couple of masked robbers knock it over, but things go wrong A beat cop is killed, and one of the gunmen (Keefe Brasselle) takes a bullet.  Soon detective Hugh Beaumont knocks on Kelly's door, led there by the boy's monogrammed navy scarf, a sighting of his van at the scene, and a description provided by Randolph.  Even Brasselle, bandaged up like the Invisible Man, names Kelly in deathbed testimony. The only one who believes his innocence is his sister (Sheila Ryan).  Luckily, Beaumont knows her from the old neighborhood and still is a bit sweet on her.  Unluckily, so is the man who set up her brother (John Ireland) as part of a coverup to swindle the head of the syndicate both he and Randolph work for.  Little by little, the craftily stitched-together ruse starts to pull apart at the seams, and the hotheaded Ireland grows more reckless and violent...Directed by Anthony Mann just before his collaboration with cinematographer John Alton took his work to a new plateau, Railroaded! displays some of his trademark tricks (a taut story line; swift and unexpected burst of violence; shadows used not merely as mood but visual metaphors). And Ireland gets not only top billing but one of his best roles.  When he's not slapping around Randolph for her sloppy drinking (in the grand tradition of alcoholic molls like Claire Trevor in Key Largo and Gloria Grahame in The Big Heat), he's fetishistically perfuming his bullets.  He's quite the sex-equals-violence kind of guy; when Randolph and Ryan get into a hair-pulling tussle, he watches from an alcove with a nasty smirk on his face, and his gun barrel unconsciously traces the action.  It's as if it's deciding who will be the lucky recipient of its payload. "},{"Title":"class picture","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This film has it all, great photography, well developed plot AND story, snappy dialogue and passable acting. I suppose I shouldn't say it has it all in that case, as the characters are not particularly round and because of that the acting is not always completely satisfying to me. But that doesn't prevent me from popping this movie in again and again, just because it's non-stop action and so so pretty to look at.Leave it Beaver fans should see this, of course, but might be slightly disappointed that Beaumont is a bit more rigid than the sit-com serial allowed him to be - I wished for more warmth from his character, as I know he was capable of conveying. John Ireland, however, was brilliantly evil and his acting, at least, was top notch. "},{"Title":"A fine example of Film Noir","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" John Ireland is a cold blooded and vile villain and Hugh Beaumont is an honest detective who's not so sure that he and his fellow overzealous cops have the right suspect (Ed Kelly) in the murder of a police officer in a gangland robbery. Toss in an evil cat fight between Sheila Ryan and Jane Randolph and Railroaded! becomes a prime example of Anthony Mann' superior post-war Film Noir direction. Using low lights and a suggestive script despite a low budget and grade B actors, Mann jumps right into the action from the start with a botched robbery that leads to not just the death of a cop, but the railroading of an innocent man. Mann builds the story up with tension and skill until the taught finale filled with gun shots, breaking glass, and confusing camera angles. It may be a B movie, but Mann deserves a A for his effort. "},{"Title":"Tight Noir Crime film, bogged down by weak script.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" John Ireland's portrayal of a cold obsessed killer is the best thing in this movie. His performance is edgy, sexy and menacing. A brutal thug who loves his gun. Unfortunately he is hampered by a weak script, where his actions often make little sense. (For instance, why would he contact the sister of the suspect he framed?). Jane Randolph is also strong as the moll, although her character seems to change midway through the movie.One of the first noir films directed by Anthony Mann, the movie is well shot, fast paced, tightly edited and tough. One wishes the focus could have stayed on Ireland, or, alternatively, the strong scenes of Ed Kelly being framed and pushed around by the cops. Mann will better develop these themes in his later films (noirs and westerns). Still a pretty enjoyable movie and a must for film noir fans. "},{"Title":"Noir  procedural takes the cake","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A nice moment between John Ireland and Wilma, his boss' mistress. She teases him with a nickname, and he answers The name is Duke. She jokes You petrify me! A quip that is a nod to Bogey's Duke Mantee character in Petrified Forest, but Ireland's Duke is relatively without Mantee's charm, he is definitely not go to fall in love with the leading lady, or do her any favors. He is only looking out for his own hide. And brutally so, even while perfuming his ammunition.Keeping his lascivious eye on Ryan's sister while pretending to help her with her brother's case, he is always a leering physical threat to her. Fine noir ingredients include dark streets and dangerous shadows. Much camera movement and interesting closeups keep up the pace. Watch Turner Classic for future airings. "},{"Title":"The Term Noir Applies To Anthony Mann In Two Ways","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Anthony Mann directed some of the very best noirs of the 1940s and early 1950s.This one is brutal, hard-hitting, and unrelenting till its Hollywood ended. (The ending may have been tacked on. I don't know. But it works organically with the whole, unlike many others.)The problem for me with some of his movies, this one included, is that they are so dark they're almost impossible to see at times. Yes, it's atmospheric. But it's also frustrating.The literal noir in some -- not all -- of his movies reminds me of the staging of Wagner at the Metropolitan Opera. Yes, it's brooding and intense. But it's also really hard to see. "},{"Title":"Unknown film noir is definitely worth catching...","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" After watching RAILROADED, I'm convinced JOHN IRELAND could have taken his place alongside men like ROBERT MITCHUM doing grim little film noirs during the '40s. He's excellent as a tight-lipped gangster with a scowling expression as he methodically kills anyone double-crossing him or standing in his way. He knocks around his blonde girlfriend (JANE RANDOLPH) with woman-hating contempt and fires bullets with casual lack of concern for fatalities. In short, he makes an ideal film noir anti-hero.HUGH BEAUMONT, known by most fans principally as Beaver's dad on TV, is only lukewarm as the detective who falls for SHIELAH RYAN and decides to help her track down the killer after Ireland frames her kid brother (ED KELLY) for the murder of a policeman. Their final fade-out kiss looks a little clumsy but--hey, the accent is on crime and action, not romance.Anthony Mann does the best he can with a low-budget crime melodrama and turns it into a taut, well-made, shadowy film noir with Ireland showing his stuff as a ruthless gangster.Summing up Brisk and entertaining, it's well worth watching for fans of this genre. "},{"Title":"Another winner from film noir extraordinaire Anthony Mann","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Top billing for Railroaded! goes to the great actor John Ireland who plays the coldblooded killer Duke Martin. Today, Ireland is perhaps best remembered for his role as the gunslinger, Cherry Valance, in the John Wayne western classic Red River and for his Academy-Award- nominated performance as a reporter in another Hollywood classic All the King's Men. Duke Martin, as with most of the heavies in noir flicks, is a misogynist. But this time the woman hater doesn't get away with it completely. Both Clara Calhoun (Jane Randolph) and Rosie Ryan (Sheila Ryan) put him in his place. When Duke misquotes Oscar Wilde, Some women should be beaten regularly, like gongs (it was actually Noel Coward who used the line), Clara is quick to respond to the effect that if that line belonged to Oscar Wilde, then let him have it. When Rosie and Duke first meet at Duke's club, Duke calls women dames. Rosie responds sharply, I don't like that term. Duke backs up and uses the still somewhat derogatory gals.The plot involves Rosie's brother, Steve, portrayed by unknown actor Ed Kelly, who only made three films to my knowledge. Duke and his girlfriend, Clara, frame Steve for a bookie heist, during which time a patrolman is killed. The police are after a quick conviction and are getting ready to go to trial and ask for the death penalty when Police Sgt. Mickey Ferguson (Hugh Beaumont, aka Ward Cleaver) falls for Rosie and decides that her brother may not be guilty after all. Ferguson attempts to help Rosie find the real murderer when Rosie decides to conduct her own investigation by becoming chums with Duke. This all leads to more murders until the ultimate confrontation between Ferguson and Duke. The film is fast-paced and somewhat violent for its day.The creative use of darkness and shadow was an important ingredient of noir cinema, but as one IMDb reviewer has already noted, there is so much darkness in Railroaded! that at times it is difficult to see what is happening. One reason for this may be viewing the film on a TV screen. Perhaps on the big screen there was no problem. Outside of this minor weakness, Railroaded! is a winner all the way. "},{"Title":"I Guess I Expected Too Much","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Once I got into collecting film-noir movies, I had to have this one, so I paid big bucks for the VHS. I say that because it added to my disappointment. The film is okay, but if you have really high expectations before seeing this, you'll probably be let down, as I was. I liked this more on the second viewing when I knew what to expect.In the beginning, it dwells too long on the innocent man-being arrested theme but after that part is over, it picks up, but then bogs down again. For people who grew up watching Leave It To Beaver on TV, this film offers Hugh Beaumont as a main character. Since I did, I always find it interesting to see Beaumont in different roles. I also enjoyed ogling a pretty brunette, Rosie, played by Sheila Ryan. The climax to this story was good, and it was surprisingly realistic. There was some decent film-noir photography in spots, too. Overall, okay but not what it's cracked up to be. "},{"Title":"Some amazing stuff here. Forget the formula backdrop. This one propels.","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Railroaded (1947)An almost amazing movie, well made, beautifully photographed, held back by a stiff script but still it manages. And it has a dark current that makes it both creepy and contemporary. Director Anthony Mann seems to have made a dozen great films that are just under the radar, noirs and westerns that have some edge to them to keep them from falling into the abyss of their genres.This is Mann at his mature earliest. He had made a few films in the earlier 40s, but this, along with Desperate, marks his coming into his own. Yes, you might find too much of a formula at work here, but it's not derivative, just a little stilted in the dialog. And yes, you might ask, near the beginning, why the cops couldn't see how easy the frame up would be (anyone could have stolen the truck and committed the crime), but remember, this one fact was supported by several others, including an eyewitness confirmation. So, once over these humps, you are for a good ride.Who to watch for amongst these relative unknowns? John Ireland, most of all, for his bad guy personification, all charm and heartlessness, simultaneously. His girlfriend, played by Sheila Ryan, is his match, in a sharp performance also dripping with selfish cruelty, but tempered, critically, by doubt and remorse.The third star is the little known cinematographer Guy Roe, who must have been inspired by the young, rising director. The filming right from the opening, subtle crane shot of the beauty parlor facade is artfully gorgeous without becoming baroque the way Orson Welles had become (beautifully) by 1947 with The Lady from Shanghai. Both are great examples of where the movies were just after the war, both with a dark, brooding, searching uncertainty. And both showing off the amazing movie-making machinery of post-War Hollywood. I say this because both films were smaller budget affairs, and yet they have uncompromised production.Give this a serious look. It's imperfect, for sure, but it has such high points, including some dark dark filming that is so kinetic and scary it surprised even an old film noir fan like me, you'll be glad. "}{"Title":"Crime Drama Done with Style","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A faked robbery goes awry and a cop is killed, causing the perpetrators to frame an innocent kid to take the rap. What they don't foresee is the kid's stubborn sister.John Ireland makes one nasty bad guy, and when he lovingly polishes that gunbarrel with perfumed bullets, we get the idea. Yes indeed, he's more than just a bad guy. The movie's a crime drama done in noirish style by the expert Anthony Mann. There's little of the hallmark ambiguity of classic noir in the characters. Nonetheless, there's the innocent kid Steve (Kelly) who looks to be the victim of a malevolent noirish fate. Of course, there has to be a cheap dame in the crime mix, and Jane Randolph flops around effectively as Duke's (Ireland) brassy blonde punching bag. Note how the movie starts out in slam-bang fashion, and how effectively Mann uses close- ups, especially of the suddenly terrified Marie (Converse), to turn screen violence into a sense of real violence. This, I think, was a Mann specialty and one reason he's treasured by fans of noir. Then too, that shootout in the shadowy nightclub amounts to a clever touch of visual imagination. No, the story itself is not exactly novel, while Beaumont makes the kind of cop you'd expect from Beaver Cleaver's dad. Still, the movie's done with style and conviction, with an outstanding turn from Ireland, and rightfully belongs in the canon of 40's noir. "},{"Title":"It's Duke, be petrified!","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Railroaded! Is directed by Anthony Mann and written by Gertrude Walker and John C. Higgins. It stars John Ireland, Sheila Ryan, Hugh Beaumont and Jane Randolph. Music is by Alvin Levin and cinematography by Guy Roe.When an innocent young owner of a company van is framed for a robbery and killing of a cop, his sister takes up the case to prove his innocence. Forming an uneasy alliance with the detective in charge of the case, it is touch and go as to if innocence can be proved since the evidence is stacked against the youngster. But someone is responsible, and that someone is moving close to the action&#x85;A difficult film to recommend with confidence to those interested in noir/crime cinema, Anthony Mann's Railroaded has some good moments but unfolds merely as a solid noirish frame-up picture. Narrative holds no surprises and goes exactly where you wish it wouldn't. The tiny budget shows and the acting away from Ireland is pretty average at best, while important points of worth in the plotting drop in only to not be expanded upon thereafter; including the poor innocent youngster sitting in jail!However, it is that portrayal of villain Duke Martin by John Ireland that more than makes it worth sitting through. This is a villain who is not particularly bright in his decision making, but he has some odd kinks (perfuming his bullets, caressing his pistol) and he thinks of nothing to handing out violence to women. Mann and Roe utilise his menace with some good shadow play and lighted close ups. Elsewhere there's a hugely enjoyable girl scrap scene between Ryan and Randolph, made more dangerous by the presence of Duke in the shadows. Duke's setting-up of a wino stooge carries with it the requisite nastiness and his kills pack a punch for dramatic impact. The finale, as expected as it is, is well constructed by Mann and at least closes the film down with double bang instead of a whimper.With Desperate and Railroaded released in 1947, Anthony Mann was still crossing over and learning about his film noir capabilities. It would be T-Men made in the same year, with his pairing with ace cinematographer John Alton, where Mann found his mojo and began a coupling that would produce a run of film noir classics. Railroaded is passable, but best viewed as a time waster or appetiser to better pleasures. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Railroaded! (1947) *** (out of 4) Anthony Mann directed this thriller, which has a Detective (Hugh Beaumont) trying to clear an innocent man of murder charges. The Detective eventually falls for the suspect's sister (Sheila Ryan), which leads to a wannabe gangster (John Ireland) who we know is the real killer. This is a pretty suspenseful and highly entertaining little film that has a whole lot going for it. Mann does a terrific job at keeping the film moving very nicely and he has enough interesting characters for two films. This was my first time seeing Beaumont outside of his role of the father on Leave it to Beaver and I was shocked to see how well he played a tough guy. His Detective has all the charm, energy and toughness, which is expected in a film like this. Ireland is terrific as the thug and Ryan does a nice job, although she's not on the same level as the two men. There's also a wonderful fight between two women, which has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Hardened criminal John Ireland frames Sheila Ryan's brother, Keefe Brasselle","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Railroaded! (1947) is a classic lower-budget film noir, directed by Anthony Mann with cinematography by Guy Roe. While Mann is very well known to noir fans, Roe is not; but he lensed a number of other noirs (Whispering City, Behind Locked Doors, Trapped, Armored Car Robbery and The Sound of Fury). All I can say is that the production team created a 100% noir in this film. The staging, the story, the lighting and the photography are all squarely in the noir ring. I am aware that this film doesn't generate great enthusiasm in some circles, and that comparisons to Mann's and Alton's later and perceived-as-greater work are partly responsible. However, this film even if lesser is still strong and should neither be dismissed nor overlooked. I'd rate it a solid 3/4 or 7.5 if I could. An 8 is not too generous either. It's a film I've watched quite a few times.There is a lot of reaching for would-be noirs and hoped-for discoveries of overlooked productions that qualify as noirs. The criteria of what constitutes noir are already uncertain and porous and this encourages such attempts. Railroaded! lies far beyond such loose applications of classification. If it were the standard by which noirs were judged, many other films would pale in comparison. For example, right after watching Railroaded!, I watched another noir, Destination Murder that I'll review next. It looks a lot more flat and bland than Railroaded!, and its staging is very conventional and unexciting.Beyond staging and look, John Ireland's well-written character and Ireland's nuanced performance are central to this film. But all the other characters add a great deal. Keefe Brasselle is the innocent who is framed. His sister, Sheila Ryan, plays a dangerous game with Ireland and vice versa. Jane Randolph has a juicy part as Ireland's shaky lover whom he may have pushed too far. Hugh Beaumont is a solid cop, and Clancy Cooper's string-'em-up cop makes for a fascinating counterpoise to Beaumont's growing sympathy toward Ryan and her brother.The script and editing of the story are interesting in their indirectness and non-linearity, respectively. Scenes do not follow one after another in a predictable linear way. The motivations of the characters are subtle; the games they are playing are shaded and on the complex side. The police captain played by Charles D. Brown can side with Cooper one moment while the next moment wanting to catch a cop-killer fairly and squarely. There are depth and sophistication here, with characters who can be confused, contradictory and wavering.I consider this film as on the underrated side. "},{"Title":"Framed!","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Anthony Mann directed this thriller that stars Jane Randolph(cast against type) as a gun moll of gangster Duke Martin(played by John Ireland) who have staged a holdup of a back-room bookie operation that goes wrong when a policeman is killed. Detective Mickey Ferguson(played by Hugh Beaumont) investigates, which leads to the brother of his girlfriend(played by Sheila Ryan) who insists he has been framed, since the getaway car used was his stolen automobile. Can her brother be cleared before the real bandits get away? Good thriller with unusual but effective casting. Plot is nothing special, but is handled with care by its director, making it exciting and interesting. "},{"Title":"I Liked the Picture and I Liked the Frame","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This powerfully-directed thriller by Anthony Mann is about somebody who gets framed. Mann knew how to deliver, and it is very gritty. There are some crackling lines of dialogue and sharp performances. Jane Randolph is outstanding as a hard-bitten moll with a vulnerable streak, who starts out determined and then wobbles when things finally get too extreme. The film is about the frame-up of an innocent boy for a robbery and a killing. Behind it all is the ruthless psychotic gunman John (don't give me that love stuff!) Ireland, who never had any trouble making people believe he would kill them as soon as look at them. (He was also a bit of a lady-killer off screen, at least one gal thought so and told me about it, but she lived.) Sheila Ryan is convincing as the good girl who gets it all wrong and makes things worse by suspecting the good guy and trusting the bad guy. Things get pretty tense, John Ireland just seems to want to shoot everybody, and he always seems to be one move ahead. It's amazing what you can do with a gun if you know how, or with a camera if you are Anthony Mann. "},{"Title":"Hidden gem","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This was the first time I heard of this movie and it was really good,dark and is B/W still the best in those 40's crime movies. John Ireland really good as villain and woman beater,Leave It To Beaver father Hugh Beaumont a surprise as good guy detective. The police methods Pre-Miranda are frightening,no lawyers and roughing up suspects and obvious shaky evidence and possible frame-up. But the one great thing about the movie is that great fight between the Babes(rarely ever seen today) It was great to watch. This has to rank as one of the all-time woman fights on screen! Great cars and of course nightclub with people all dressed up and smoking. "},{"Title":"Actress Jane Randolph","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Compare Jane Randolph in her role in Cat People or Curse of the Cat People with her role in this film. I think she did equally well as Kent Smith's perky, caring, white bread wife in the Cat People films as she did as Clara, the hard-bitten alcoholic criminal in Railroaded. She showed a special sensitive quality in both roles, I thought. "},{"Title":"Far-fetched but interesting low-budget film noir.","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Some people refer to PRC films as Pretty Rotten Cinema, but like Monogram, in spite of its historical place on the ranks of Z Grade movie studios, it had a very interesting output of entertaining movies that are now coming to the light of day thanks to such DVD distributors such as Alpha and Kino. Railroaded is a typical post-war Film Noir where someone is accused of a crime they did not commit and the law must find the culprit with the help of various types of characters. At the beginning of the film, we meet the typically cynical film noir femme fatale, blonde Jane Randolph. She is a beautician who runs a bookie joint in the back room of her salon, and when it is robbed, a cop is killed after hearing one of Randolph's co-workers scream. A young man (Ed Kelly) is identified as the killer, even though Randolph's co-worker insisted the killer had a different hair color. Kelly is booked after he is fingered by the wounded robber (shot horrifyingly in the throat!), and his sister (Sheila Ryan) vows to prove his innocence. She begins to work with cop Hugh Beaumont (Ward Cleaver again in one of his typical film roles) as well as villainous John Ireland, who is involved with the shady Randolph and has kept her under wraps from the cops ever since the shooting. In a short span of 71 minutes, we see the shooting, the accusation, and the investigation, which leads to a rather typical conclusion. It's what happens during the investigation that is interesting and unique. The photography is definitely typical film noir, dark and moody, and filled with some twists that are both frightening and riveting. It's also fun to watch Randolph sink from wise-cracking and hardened to drunken desperation, one of the few times a femme fatale is allowed to crack enough early in the film to see what's underneath their hardboiled surface. She is great. It's pretty obvious throughout who the guilty party is and that they'll get their come-uppance, but how it happens is fun to watch. There is one sequence that did occur to me as senseless. That is when someone is shot at close range and manages to pull out the shooter's handkerchief which will identify them. The shooter had plenty of time to notice this, but steps over the body and leaves even though the handkerchief is lying plainly in site. Other than that and other predictable moments, it gets a higher rating thanks to crisp dialog, great photography, and rip-roaringly faced pacing. "},{"Title":"RAILROADED! (Anthony Mann, 1947) ***","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is another fine Mann noir &#150; though I'd personally rank it lower than, say, RAW DEAL (1948) or SIDE STREET (1950).On the debit side are the weak male leads &#150; Hugh Beaumont as the cop (though he's better here than in BURY ME DEAD 1947) and Ed Kelly as the framed boy &#150; and the somewhat familiar storyline. On the other hand, John Ireland (surprisingly top-billed) is impressive as the heavy and Jane Randolph (hair dyed blonde) makes for an interesting femme fatale &#150; but, just as striking, is lovely Sheila Ryan playing the spunky if naïve leading lady.As befits the genre &#150; in which Mann excelled, before changing course eventually with the psychological Western &#150; the film is at its best when relying on shadowy lighting to create mood or highlight moments of suspense, menace and outbursts of violence (notably the final showdown between Beaumont and Ireland in a darkened bar-room). The film is available on an old and expensive bare-bones DVD from Kino, from which the DivX copy I watched was culled. "}{"Title":"Excellent unheralded Noir","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is just the sort of Film Noir film I love--one that features realism and gritty dialog PLUS some dynamite actors who are anything but what you'd expect to be starring in a Hollywood film! Like many of the great Noir characters, John Ireland is menacing, kind of ugly as well as cruel and unrepentant. The way he slaps around his girl and the darkness of his soul made him a great leading thug in this movie. His nemesis is Hugh Beaumont (yes, that's the Beaver's dad) and he did a decent job overall as the lead investigator except for one very, very brief moment when he planted a very clumsy kiss on the leading lady--this just didn't make much sense and didn't fit at all into the film.The bottom line is that this is a good detective film--much like the original DRAGNET movie or T-Men. While you don't see the familiar Noir stars (such as Edmund O'Brien), it does deliver in regard to mood, snappy dialog and intensely gritty realism. "},{"Title":"Great 1947 Classic","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The story opens up with a woman leaving a beauty shop and a brief talk between the shop owner, Clara Calhoun, (Jane Randolph) and a customer who is leaving the establishment. Clara locks the front door and goes to her living quarters and opens and closes the back door a few times, and all of a sudden two bandits enter her shop and steal five thousand dollars. Clara Calhoun also runs a bookie racket besides being a beautician and the crooks were after her gambling money for the week. There is also a policeman who is shot as he was doing his rounds and one of the crooks is injured by the policeman's gun shot. Rosie Ryan, (Sheila Ryan) has a brother named Steve Ryan, (Ed Kelly) who manages to get railroaded for this crime because he drives a laundry vehicle which was at the scene of the murder and also a U S Navy scarf with his initials on it. John Ireland, (Duke Martin) gives an outstanding performance as a ruthless crook who will shoot anyone at the blink of an eye. Great entertaining film from 1947. "},{"Title":"Routine Crime Melodrama","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" John Ireland plays Duke, a thief who dumps his wounded partner, sets up a frame for an innocent young man, then goes around knocking off people who are wise to what's going on or who have money he wants or who otherwise crimp his cool, manipulative style. At the end he is caught and killed in a shootout with the good-guy cop. C'est tout.The acting isn't as poorly done as the script. Ireland is one dimensional, but the head honcho is kind of neat, an older guy fond of quoting Oscar Wilde. I'd never heard of the good girl, Shiela Ryan, and now I know why. I keep getting her name mixed up with the far more appealing and vulnerable girl from Odd Man Out. Jane Randolph plays a hardened whorish blond who is Ireland's property. It's impossible to fathom what appeal he has for her. He slaps her around, scowls constantly, insults her, and tells her things like, Why are you getting tough with me? Crackin' up like that. Drinkin' like a fish. I don't like people who get tough with me. She's his devoted accomplice in the frame too, at least until her conscience gets the better of her and she wants to spill the beans to the cops, at which point what happens to her is what happens to all of the people who try to cross or get tough with John Ireland. When she whines she sounds like Claire Trevor in Key Largo. But I don't care is she's garish and nasty. To me she'll always be the pointy chinned adoring friend of Kent Smith in The Cat People. Try to shake it as she might, she still has the screen presence of a light cream-filled pastry.The problem with the movie is that -- directed by Anthony Mann or not -- it has no flair. None of the characters has much complexity to begin with and the director adds nothing to what is essentially a routine B crime movie. Nothing INTERESTING happens on screen. When someone is shot, he or she falls down and dies -- period. The camera placement and staging are functional, no more than that. Nobody is quirky. Well, maybe the Oscar Wilde quotes and the perfumed bullets are a nod in that direction but they don't clear the bar. Neither has anything to do with the story. And the guy who is in the hot spot? The innocent young man who was framed? He disappears half way through and we don't see him or hear about him again.I guess there IS one particularly noticeable feature of the movie. It's dark. The photography in fact isn't bad. At least we can feel the photographer trying to do something. There are lots of table lamps casting like upward and making sinister faces into images of evil. Sometimes the lighting overreaches. When Ireland is plugged (oh, so implausibly) at the end and sinks down out of the frame, the only lighted object we can make out is his right ear sliding deliberately from our sight. "},{"Title":"Dark Look  but NOT film noir","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Railroaded! is hyped as film noir but it is not...classically. The look is dark and the mood is somewhat somber, but, the principal characters are aloof. Classic film noir involves principal characters with whom we empathize at least a little (Walter Neff, Dix Handley)but who either die or are fully demoralized in the end (whom the French called the 'damned man'). The only person we give a hoot about is poor Steve, the accused. Steve (Ed Kelly) is a small role not really involved in the story despite being the object in it.Maltin rates Railroaded! with 3 stars. That's one star too many. Ireland and Sheila Ryan give good performances but standard all the way. The best line is by Steve's mother about her cake (Who could eat a cake with a gun in it?). "},{"Title":"Standard issue film noir","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  When I finally got around to seeing Anthony Mann's westerns with Jimmy Stewart and Gary Cooper, I was impressed. The film intelligentsia, such as Jonathan Rosenbaum of the `ChicagoReader,' had been praising these films for years, and they were right. These movies were more complex and interesting than your typical western.So I figured that I'd try Mann's film noir movies from early in his career. However, if `Railroaded!' is any indication of the kind of movies he was making then, I'm not going to bother seeing any more. This movie is very predictable - almost paint-by-the-numbers. About the only unusual touch is a villain who likes to quote Oscar Wilde. In a few scenes, the direction has some flair, such as the opening burglary and a later scene when John Ireland threatens Jane Randolph. But if you want to see a good Mann film, check out `The Man from Laramie' or `Man of the West' instead.Still, `Leave It to Beaver' fans might be amused by watching Hugh Beaumont (aka Ward Cleaver) as the detective.  "},{"Title":"The Beave's father in a B crime drama","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Hugh Beaumont, known to millions as Mr. Cleaver, stars with John Ireland in Railroaded, a second feature that also features Sheila Ryan, Jane Randolph, and Ed Kelly. This is a fairly routine story of a young man framed for a murder/robbery he had nothing to do with. The robbery was an inside job, and the insider (Randolph) deliberately leads the police astray with her I.D. Poor Ed Kelly, who plays the wrongly accused man, is interrogated harshly with no lawyer present. Meanwhile, the police can't find the gun that killed the policeman on the scene or the stolen money. The accused's sister (Ryan) gets involved in trying to find out who did it. And of course, that would be the sinister John Ireland, a mean, violent man who's easy with his gun and fists.The thing that's unusual about this movie (for me anyway) is seeing women shot. Not only that, but Ryan and Randolph have an amazing catfight. The violence shown against the character played by Randolph is disturbing - but we've seen that before.I know some of the other comments mentioned that this is film noir and a real treasure - well, the print was pretty dark, but calling this a film noir is a stretch. Although well directed by Anthony Mann, this is a run of the mill B. As they say in the antiques world, Just because it's old doesn't mean it's valuable - well, just because this is old doesn't make it a classic. "}]