[{"Title":"Exquisite romance, like fine china","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"55 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" If I may say so this film is one of the most haunting and lovely romances ever on screen - ghost and all. Once you step back in time into that prim, Victorian world it is hard to turn away. That's what makes for great movies.Gene Tierney is perfect in her role as Lucy, a young widow, very strong-willed and with a mind of her own. She decides to leave the home and relatives of her late husband to find a new life of independence for herself and her daughter. She is shown Gull Cottage by an agent and is determined to rent the seaside cottage although it's known to be haunted by the ghost of a sea captain.Eventually, once settled into her new surroundings, she is confronted by the apparition of Captain Daniel on a blustery stormy night. Their acquaintance does not get off to an easy start but he decides she can stay and won't trouble her with his houndings which would have ordinary people put to flight and making a hasty retreat. Her amusing exchanges with the captain, played by Rex Harrison, are a delight. I particularly liked her expressions which were corrected by him, such as (she describes) sheets bellying in the wind, (he, correcting her) sails billowing; (she, in a flurry for him to be gone, asks him to) decompose, (he haughtily retorts) dematerialize, madam!When she develops an interest in a certain outsider, Miles Fairley, suitably performed by that perennial ladies' man, George Sanders, well the captain becomes very annoyed and tells her, I said you should see men, not perfumed parlor snakes, which I thought was amusing and a very apt description.I think the overall tone of the story tends to confirm a universal belief in an afterlife form of existence, a conviction as old as mankind itself. However, in this story the emphasis gradually shifts to supplanting the experience of a ghostly dialogue exchange with that of a dream state as being the source of reality, in effect Lucy dreamed it all, even the writing of the book, which is something I would question but that's another matter.The exquisite music throughout the film sets the mood beautifully in expressing the many changes varying from haunting, romantic atmosphere to frolicsome (when the captain is up to his pranks), as well as the churning turbulence of the majestic waves along the shore.I've recently acquired the DVD and appreciate having the subtitles now which brings out more details of the dialogue. This is a very special movie one doesn't easily forget, and so well done, pure artistry on film. "},{"Title":"A fabulous two-hour genre tour","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"61 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" After her husband dies, Lucy Muir (Gene Tierney) decides to move away from London to a small seaside resort. She has to persuade the real estate agent, Mr. Coombe (Robert Coote), to show her the home that sounds most attractive to her--Gull Cottage. At first she can't figure out why he's so reluctant to pursue the home with her, but while she's looking at the cottage, she experiences an apparent haunting. Both she and Mr. Coombe go running out of the house. To Mr. Coombe's surprise, Lucy decides to rent the Gull Cottage anyway.Director Joseph L. Mankiewicz' The Ghost and Mrs. Muir combines a number of genres in an unusual way, gently poking fun at the conventions of each as they arrive in turn. The film begins as if it will be a somewhat traditional 1940s horror story. The setting is reminiscent of Alfred Hitchcock's Rebecca (1940) and Lewis Allen's The Uninvited (1944). Mrs. Muir's first visit to the home has classic understated eerie moments, with Mrs. Muir dressed in a creepy, Gothic black veil, coat and dress (ostensibly, she's still in mourning).Shortly after, the film quickly moves into more comic territory. A more straightforward dramatic section follows, then romance, back to drama, and finally it ends as a fantasy film. That might sound like a bit of a mess, but Mankiewicz easily unifies the proceedings so that the genre tour is really only apparent on analysis. In a book about the film by Frieda Grafe, published by the British Film Institute, Mankiewicz is quoted as saying that he considered the film to be hack work, and that his intention was primarily to show the studio that he was capable of delivering efficient craftsmanship. While a quick glance at my rating confirms that I wouldn't denigrate the film as hack work, the genre parade is interesting in light of Mankiewicz' stated intent.A central theme throughout The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, directly hinted at a number of times by dialogue about progressivist attitudes in the twentieth century, is that of gender roles. The theme is most overtly realized when Mrs. Muir pens a salty seafaring book and takes it to a publisher. She is dismissed at first with an assumption that she must be presenting shallow, sappy women's literature, but is quickly published once Mr. Sproule (Whitford Kane) realizes the novelty of the book. Of course, he assumes that she must have been shopping it for her husband, or some other gentleman friend.The theme is worked throughout the film in countless more subtextual ways, also, and leads to an interesting interpretation of the bulk of the film--is Captain Daniel Gregg (Rex Harrison) real? Or is he a figment of Lucy and her daughter's imaginations? There is a strong suggestion that he was just imaginary, sparked in Lucy's mind by his portrait, the house, and the maritime décor still present. Literally, the film suggests at one point that Lucy and her daughter are fooling themselves into believing he was imaginary, but it could be read as a double cross (or a double negation)--we are fooled into believing that they're just fooling themselves, and the reality is that Captain Gregg is a catalyst for allowing the gender role changes exhibited by Lucy and her daughter, who even basically asks her boyfriend to marry her, rather than the other way around.At any rate, real or not, Captain Gregg is an enjoyable character in an enjoyable, lightly comic film that pleasantly mixes a variety of genres. Fans of the film should be aware that it was based on a novel by R.A. Dick, and spawned a television sitcom with the same title that first aired in the U.S. in 1968 and ran for 50 episodes. "},{"Title":"I discovered it because of the music, but love it for the story","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I discovered this movie when a friend recommended that I listen to a recording of the score - by the vernerable Bernard Herrmann - and his score is indeed fine! But what keeps me coming back to this film is its heart and soul - and it is odd to be able to say that about a very proper Victorian mannered tale. It is a carefully structured story that would really be well suited for the stage. In particular, I love the comic relief in this film and its colourful supporting characters. Our heroine, Lucy Muir (Gene Tierney), is blithely courageous, though naive and against all advice lets a cottage on a bluff overlooking the ocean. The location is eerily remote and I'm continually struck by how spooky the setting is in the plain, bright light of day. The ghost of Captain Gregg (Rex Harrison) is at first brash and frightening but we come to find that he is a salt of the earth man of high principles.Get over slick and callow modern film making and take a few steps back in time to watch this most charming and romantic of love stories well told on all sides an ornate confection of a story, carefully and lovingly photographed, acted with aplomb and riding on top of a musical score that is as moving and powerful as the tides that beat throughout this film.I find a personal connection to this story in that it takes me back to the days I lived on a northern island that was similarly beautiful though tinged with the bittersweet loneliness of a remote place awash in the deep undercurrents of sorrow and melancholy. "},{"Title":"Enchanting, Comical, as well as haunting love story.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Lucy Muir, a widow of one year, decides to start life anew, with daughter and faithful housekeeper, in a cottage by the sea, despite the warnings by the real estate salesman that the house is haunted by the ghost of its former owner, a seaman, Capt. Gregg. After Mrs. Muir encounters the ghost, the two strike an eerie, yet deep relationship, which grows even more when Lucy, forced to earn the money for payment of the cottage, writes a book about the captain's sea encounters. When Lucy sells the manuscript, she meets and falls for a fellow writer, a relationship, which does not sit well with the housekeeper, the daughter, and especially the captain. Will Capt. Gregg have to roam again to find eternal happiness? A beautiful film from all standpoints, with brilliant performances by Tierney and Harrison, who play extremely well off each other with tender, humorous, and bickering encounters, and Sanders, who is as usual, his charming self. A touching and romantic ending set this film off as one of the all time great cinematic love stories. Rating, 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"Charming fantasy set in a seaside cottage...","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Gene Tierney is an impoverished widow who manages to find a suitable seaside cottage for herself, her maid and her daughter (Natalie Wood), only to discover that its former occupant is a strong-willed, salty sea captain (Rex Harrison) who is opposed to anyone else living at Gull Cottage. How their relationship grows and changes is the basis for the rest of the fantasy.Tierney has her best role since 'Laura' as the lovely widow, engaging in many witty dialogs with Harrison's ghost with their relationship ultimately leading to a wistful ending. The mood of the period fantasy is enhanced by Bernard Herrmann's exquisitely sensitive score, capturing the atmosphere of the seaside cottage at the edge of a cliff. George Sanders has an amusing role as a man who almost convinces the widow that he's not a married man. Touches of humor abound in early scenes of Tierney with her relatives who are opposed to her independent decision to find her own lodgings.Later remade as a TV series in the '60s which never captured the charm of the original story filmed with such tender care by director Joseph L. Mankiewicz from a screenplay by Philip Dunne. A delightful movie that will remain fresh and young forever. "},{"Title":"This ole house is haunted","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Joseph L. Mankiewicz was the right choice for directing this film. He created a film that survived the passage of time. The R. A. Dick's novel was adapted by Philip Dunne. The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is blessed with one of Bernard Herrmann's best film scores. The music greatly enhances what one is watching on the screen. Charles Lang's cinematography gives the illusion we are somewhere on a remote spot of England, when in reality the film was shot in California! The Ghost and Mrs. Muir gave its star, Gene Tierney, one of the best roles of her career, after Laura. Ms. Tierney had the fragility to portray Lucy Muir, the plucky young widow that decides to move to the coast against her in-laws wishes. The idea of the film plays well as it unfolds because obviously, it's all in Mrs. Muir's mind all what she is experiencing.Rex Harrison's Capt. Daniel Gregg was also one of his best opportunities as a leading man in the movies. Mr. Harrison is perfect as the crusty old seaman that refuses to abandon his beloved home overlooking a beautiful view of the sea. Mr. Harrison plays well opposite Ms. Tierney; their chemistry works well because it combines his rugged good looks and her beauty.The supporting players are good under Mr. Mankiewicz' direction. George Sanders, Edna Best, Natalie Wood, Robert Coote, Vanessa Brown, all give good performances and enhance the film.This film will always be a favorite for fans, young and old. "},{"Title":"Great performances in an excellent fantasy film","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Ghost and Mrs Muir reunited the Dragonwyck lead actress Gene Tierney, and its director Joseph L. Mankiewicz for an even better film. The Ghost and Mrs Muir, while a little pretentious at times, stands out as one of the finest romance films of Hollywood's golden period, and an interesting and entertaining fantasy film to boot. Over four decades before Demi Moore fell in love with a ghost in the sentimental, sappy trash flick 'Ghost'; Gene Tierney was doing it in far better style with this film. As you might expect from a film that features a woman falling in love with a spirit; there's more than a few plot holes on display. However, the film has this great ability to make the audience believe in it - and that is mostly down to the fabulous performances from all concerned. The plot follows a widow who moves into a house by the sea in order to escape her meddling in-laws. She knows that the house is haunted before she moves in, but the idea of living in a haunted house fascinates her; and she's fascinated further when she finds herself falling in love with the ghost of the previous owner.It has to be said that, with the characters, what you see is pretty much what you get. Gene Tierney, whom I'm becoming a bigger fan of every time I see one of her movies, is the headstrong widow - while Rex Harrison is the cantankerous seaman. The characters mostly bathe in their own traits, but this helps the film immensely as it means that it's their relationship that always takes centre stage, and that is the biggest draw of the film. The film is very romantic, but it never gets dull or sappy. The ending brilliantly shows the film in its best light, as it's as heart-warming and tragic as the film deserves. Aside from romance, there's a strong comedy element in the film - and the best is often made of that, most notably in the hilarious sequence that sees the in-laws visit our heroine's new house. One thing I love about old films is the way that they show how different things are nowadays - this is best shown here by the fact that, in one scene, Rex Harrison is told off for swearing; after saying 'blast'. Overall, this is an excellent and criminally under seen movie that comes with high recommendations! "},{"Title":"A Love To Last Through Time","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film I can't see too many times - I probably watched it 3 times the week the DVD came out - it only gets better. Gene Tierney wasn't the greatest actress in the world, but she was a very competent and sincere one, as well as beautiful, and she had the great good luck to be in excellent films such as this and THE RAZOR'S EDGE, LEAVE HER TO HEAVEN and, of course, LAURA. She and Sexy Rexy (Rex Harrison) are a perfect match in this film, although only through her death are they finally able to - to, um, to do whatever it is ghosts in love do! When anyone's confused about what happened to Old Rose at the end of James Cameron's TITANIC, this is the film I refer them to - the final scene of MRS. MUIR never fails to get my tear-ducts going. There really isn't anything I don't like about this film - Bernard Herrmann's haunting score, the photography, wonderful performances.. .and a love to last through time, the kind we'd all like to believe is possible. . .  "},{"Title":"In my opinion, you are the most obstinate young woman I have ever met.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Delightful is the best word I can think of to describe The Ghost and Mrs. Muir. It's got everything &#x96; drama, comedy, romance, fantasy, good acting, solid direction, interesting cinematography, a beautiful score, atmosphere, nice sets, and a well-written script. It's taken me a while to finally get around to watching The Ghost and Mrs. Muir. From what some friends of mine (whose opinions I am now highly suspicious of) warned me that it was a sappy, sentimental movie and not my kind of thing at all. They couldn't have been more wrong. In short, it's very nearly a prefect movie.While I could write pages about most every aspect of this film, I'll instead just mention a couple of areas that really stood out to me. First, the acting. Over the past couple of years I've become something of a Gene Tierney fan. I've still got a way to go see all of her films, but I sincerely doubt I'll enjoy her performance in anything as much as I did The Ghost and Mrs. Muir (and that includes Laura). I can't imagine anyone doing a better job of bringing life to Lucy Muir. It was easy to forget I was watching a character on a screen and not peeping into the life of a real person. Well done.The second area I'll mention is the score. Bernard Herrmann's music fits every frame of The Ghost and Mrs. Muir flawlessly. The music adds immensely to the emotional roller coaster that is the plot. There are very few scores I would rate any higher than this one. "},{"Title":"Romantic film about  a supernatural love story","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The picture deals with a beautiful widow (Gene Tierney) and her daughter (Natalie Wood) who acquire a haunted cottage on the English coast . The ghost (Rex Harrison) of a sea captain will appear and is romanced with the attractive woman but the jealousy incarnated for a suitor (George Sanders) spoil the relationship .It's an agreeable romance story in which the protagonist duo is magnificent . Gene Tierney is wonderful and charming with her sweet and enjoyable countenance . Rex Harrison as the enticing and ironic ghost is top-notch . The storyline by Philip Dunne relies heavily on the continued relationship among them but it doesn't make boring , however the film is pretty amusing and entertaining . The picture is a brilliant romantic tale and although is sometimes slow moving , isn't tiring . Excellent and sensitive score by Bernand Herrmann though is added Samuel Barber's classic musical . Exceptional and awesome cinematography by Charles Lang . The film is correctly directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz , author of several classics cinema . Many years later is followed by a Television sitcom series . The flick appeal to romantic movies fans . Rating  above average . Well worth watching . "}{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest love story of all time","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The Ghost and Mrs. Muir was a very original story; The authoress, Josephine Aimee Leslie Campbell was the daughter of a sea captain. The study of the two main characters is very interesting; you have a rather gruff sea captain, who has led a man's life and is proud of it. He makes no excuses for himself; he is a man who takes responsibility for his actions. He is an honest man. Marriage is not for him- although he has two demanding mistresses; his ship and the sea. Mrs. Muir is a true product of her time; she has done what society expects of her; she has married, and bore a child. Her husband is a respected man. She has fulfilled her obligation. We see that Mrs. Muir is more than an average fin de siecle woman. She is deeper; we can see from her brief description of the late Mr. Muir that he was mediocre. From here the love story begins; we see the mutual respect and admiration that Captain Gregg and Mrs. Muir have for eachother.The love is pure and true,on a higher plane; not hindered  or comprimised by sexual intimacy.The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is a love story that like its characters transcends time.  "},{"Title":"A truly romantic story","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is the story of a young widow named Lucy Muir (Tierny)who decides to make it on her own, away from her overbearing in-laws. She moves into the former residence of a deceased sea captain named Daniel Gregg (Harrison)named Gull Cottage. From the first day she steps foot into the home, she realizes that the captain never left.The romance that follows is both heart warming and tragic-if they stay together, Lucia, as the Captain calls her, will sacrifice any chance at a relationship with a live man.Daniel does the noble thing and leaves quietly while Lucia slept, making sure he will only remember it as in a dream.I couldn't imagine this movie being any better...it is subtle and sweet.Rex Harrison is great at being gruff and sexy at the same time. Gene Tierny is sweet and lovely. She makes you want to take care of her, but still conveys a quiet competence that you can't deny. "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite that withstood the test of time","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was very young - maybe 9 or so - when my mother rented it. I remember watching it over and over again. When I saw that the DVD had come out I didn't even hesitate; I bought it right away. I'm glad I did.There are many themes that find their way into this movie feminism, romance, the supernatural, etc. The one that struck me the most was a longing for something that could never be while maintaining the practical to survive. There is a constant tension between Gene Tierney (Mrs. Muir) and Rex Harrison (Captain Gregg) that is never really satisfied. Words of love are never spoken, not even in the passionate monologue from Rex Harrison. But they are unnecessary because the undercurrents are so strong. Through this tension they work and live normally because what else is there to do? Because of this there is a layer of sad acceptance in the actions of Mrs. Muir and Captain Gregg, which is understandable to all of the audience - this is an emotion that all people are forced to feel at one point or another.From a technical standpoint, the film is obviously in black and white which does nothing to detract from the story. The cinematography was nominated for an Oscar, and should have won in my opinion. I also am one of many that want to rebuild the house and live there forever. The passage of time should definitely be noted, as it was masterfully portrayed.On the whole, it is a wonderful movie which I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Love Can Transcend Death","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a gloriously charming romantic comedy/fantasy, that should be shared with everyone.Gene Tierney gives a tender performance as the widow, Lucy Muir, who decides to leave the home of her stifling, controlling in-laws to make a new life for herself and her young daughter Anna (Natalie Wood). She chooses a seaside cottage, although she is warned not to take it, and when she visits the residence she finds out why she has been cautioned - the place is haunted by a grumpy sea captain, Daniel Gregg (Rex Harrison), who very much wants things his own way. Despite her delicate femininity, Lucy refuses to let Gregg intimidate her, and moves in. Their relationship, at first a bickering one, becomes one of mutual interest and it blossoms as Lucy (whom Gregg christens Luchia) finds that she is bankrupt and can't afford the house, so helps her write a novel based on his seafaring adventures. As they fall in love, it becomes very complicated, as he is a ghost and she is among the living, and when George Sanders' untrustworthy rake comes into Lucy's life, Gregg makes the painful decision to leave and tells Lucy as she slumbers that it was all a dream - she wrote the book, she dreamed him up, although there is regret as he takes one last longing look at her. Lucy resumes her life, having completely forgotten about Daniel, only to discover that her flesh and blood suitor has a wife and children, and Anna Lee shines brightly in her small role of Sanders' long-suffering but understanding wife.As time passes, Lucy every now and then has a tinge of remembrance, but it's not until her now grown daughter (played by Vanessa Brown) comes home for a visit and talks of a handsome sea captain who engaged her in conversation when she was a little girl . . . . . . . . Although she again dismisses it as a dream, Lucy appears to be serenely at peace, and time passes and she becomes elderly, she dies in her sleep in her favorite chair, only to be greeted by Daniel, who extends his hand to her, and her young and vibrant spirit exits the cottage with him . . . . . I can't think of a lovelier ending for this movie, or a better revelation that young Anna also made Gregg's acquaintance. Bernard Herrman's score, somewhat echoing some of his work for Hitchcock, fits the story beautifully. You can't help but love Daniel's references to his monkey puzzle tree, and the sense of humor when he advises Lucy to tell her in-laws to shove off!. Everything in the film echoes the influence of the ocean and its romantic associations - even the surname of Muir is symbolic, since translated from Gaelic it means the sea. I don't think that was a coincidence, and the fact that Gene Tierney was of Irish descent makes this film all the more perfect . . . . . . . . .Into the sea of love divine, where it is no longer a dream . . . . . . "},{"Title":"Romance From Plane To Plane","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Anyone who remembers the television series based on this film that starred Hope Lange, Edward Mulhare, and Charles Nelson Reilly from the late sixties will not get that at all in this film. All that you can say is that this The Ghost And Mrs. Muir have as the lead characters, the ghost of a dead sea captain and a widow named Muir.The recent widow Muir played by Gene Tierney has decided to rent a cottage by the sea in Edwardian Great Britain, party for solitude and grieving and partly to get away from her interfering in-laws played by Victoria Horne and Isobel Elsom. She insists on seeing a lovely cottage as she's motoring with rental agent Robert Coote. But even despite the fact that it's former owner is haunting the place, she insists on taking it.The late owner is irascible sea captain Rex Harrison. Harrison became the first word in irascibility when he portrayed Henry Higgins in My Fair Lady. But there's a whole lot of difference between Captain Daniel Gregg and Professor Henry Higgins. Both may be irascible, but Gregg is by no means an intellectual snob. But they're both solitary souls and don't like the world intruding.Even though physical consummation is impossible this romance between individuals on a different plane of existence is as charming today as it was back in 1947. Tierney has a daughter played at different stages by Natalie Wood and Vanessa Brown who also experience Harrison's ethereal presence. There's a strong resemblance between this and the romance suggested in Maytime between the late Nelson Eddy and the aging Jeanette MacDonald. Harrison's character has quite a bit more bite to him than Nelson's does, wit replaces baritone high notes here. George Sanders has a nice supporting part as a living individual much interested in Gene Tierney as well, but who turns out to have a lot less character than meets the eye.The film has been proposed for a remake a few times, maybe it will be some day, but to find players of the ability of Rex Harrison, Gene Tierney, George Sanders and the rest will be a considerable challenge. "},{"Title":"Weaves an intriguing spell","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This supernatural love story snuck up on me and has left a lingering imprint that's somewhat difficult to place. Part of the impact no doubt derives from the third-act twist that I didn't see coming, because I was sure the film would take the clean, conventional route. But this is a much wiser, world-weary film than one might assume from its glossy premise. Rex Harrison plays the seaman ghost as a bawdy pleasure-seeker, but his cackling laughter and stern mien can't hide his desire for mortality, or his regret over the ludicrous accident that ended his life; Gene Tierney's widow buys his old seaside manor to make a life for herself and daughter Natalie Wood apart from her nosy, old-maid relatives. They strike up an instant rapport that leads to mutual attraction when she types his seafaring life story. At this point, it's a fairly standard&#151;albeit sophisticated and enjoyable&#151;Hollywood romance. Then, George Sanders begins wooing Tierney to Harrison's dismay, and the film employs a well-executed false ending of real gravity. Philip Dunne's script features many nicely observed moments of quiet disappointment, doing so without lugubriousness but with a low-key honesty that lays the groundwork for the powerful conclusion. The film certainly weaves an intriguing spell. I'd like to see this again with adjusted expectations, as I think I may have underestimated some of what came before the false ending. "},{"Title":"One of the most wonderful classic romantic films of all time...","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This has to be one of the best classic romantic films of all time. Few classic films with a period setting have as much ambiance as THE GHOST AND MRS MUIR, which is remarkable given that it was very much a studio product with with very little location shooting. Instead, Gothic interiors are lovingly created, Hermann provides one of his most beautiful and haunting film scores, Lang's black-and-white cinematography shimmers, the script is both salty and tender, and, best of all, Tierney and Harrison play off each other marvelously. There is very little to fault in this superb picture.Mankiewicz effortlessly makes us believe in this fantastical notion- that a widowed woman could fall in love with a ghost- and audiences have been swept away since it's initial release by the sheer wistful longing of it all. Who hasn't, after watching this film, fantasized about living out this plot? The film is remarkable in that it makes us believe entirely in it's characters and it's setting.As I said earlier, the film has so much atmosphere that we really do believe that the stunning Gene Tierney and the gruff yet very sexy Rex Harrison (in probably his best screen performance, I always thought he was much better here than in MY FAIR LADY)are having this wonderful deep relationship (close, but never consummated for obvious reasons) by the English sea. And it's an intelligent love story too- not once do we have the resilient, beautiful, independent yet sadly alone Tierney faint in a swoon over her dilemma (loving a man that to others doesn't exist) or cry out Oh, darling I love you!. The script is so strong in every nuance and small detail.I also enjoyed the supporting performances of a large cast, namely George Sanders doing his usual caddish bit (yet could anyone do silky Enflish cad better than Sanders?), a very young Natalie Wood as Tierney's daughter, Edna Best as the housekeeper Martha, Robert Coote as Mr Coombe, a very lovely Anna Lee who shares such a poignant late scene with Tierney and the gorgeous Vanessa Brown as the daughter when she grows up.Anyone who can sit through this film without a shed of tear or feeling a rush of emotion as Harrison farewells a sleeping Tierney (What we've missed Lucia....what we've both missed) must truly be a cynic. And that's a real shame, because you are missing out on a wonderful film experience. However, I am a romantic and the sight of Tierney, painfully alone, walking along the shores (with Hermann's lyrical score dragging us further and further into the mood of the film) with no earthly or unearthly companion always sends me into romantic delight. "},{"Title":"a charming old romance--be sure to have a box of tissues nearby!","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It is important to note that other than the title and a few names here and there, this movie really has nothing in common with the television series. It is NOT a comedy but a very touching romance about a woman (Gene Tierney) and her daughter (played by a young Natalie Wood) moving into the home of a deceased sea captain. Unlike the lightweight TV series, the Captain (Rex Harrison at his dashing best) is smitten with Mrs. Muir and an unrequited romance begins to grow. Finally, because their love cannot be (after all, he IS dead), the captain lets go and makes Mrs. Muir forget.The part of the movie that always gets me bawling is the end--after Mrs. Muir herself passes. You just have to see it to understand. It's simply beautiful and rips your heart out due to the masterfully way it is handled.A must see tearjerker. "},{"Title":"For Lovers of both Land and The Sea.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Written under the pseudonym of R. A. Dick by Josephine Leslie, who wrote the 1945 novel The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, and muir also being Gaelic for the sea . This publication was bought by 20th Century Fox, who then turned the helm over to Joseph L. Mankiewicz. Mr. Mankiewicz has the credit of directing this quaint little love cum ghost story, set around the fictitious English coastal area of Whitecliff-By-The Sea and its rustic Gull Cottage around the time of 1900. With the guest of honour going to the very beautiful Gene Tierney, as the head strong and fiercely independent young widowed mother, Mrs. Muir. Also piped on board is the charismatic and extremely talented Rex Harrison, as The Ghost. The ever suave and sophisticated actor George Sanders, as Miles Fairley, meets this three-way split love triangle at one point. With a young child, Anna, on board, played by an exceptionally young Natalie Wood, as well as her maid, she sets sail and looks for her new life, away from London and her demanding and blasted in-laws. Besides the early observations of Lucy's independent mind, the most noticeable piece in this movie is the beautiful musical score of one Bernard Herrmann. Mr. Herrmann was born in 1911 in New York City, and whose work consists of Citizen Kane, The Day The Earth Stood Still, including, The Man Who Knew Too Much and Vertigo. This was to also include greats such as North By Northwest, Psycho, The Birds, Jason and the Argonauts and the 1976 movie Taxi Driver, which was to be his last work before he passed away on Christmas Eve, 1975. The score here has to be one of the most emotionally driven film scores I have had the pleasure to listen too. With its driving winds that highlight the ghostly suspense to the feeling of a ship lost in the doldrums of loneliness. This work has weighed anchor and cast adrift to the seas of emotion and the complexity of Love that only Old Father Time can Captain. Breathtaking and heart-warming. To govern this toward the horizons in the light of day and with the stars at night is Charles Lang, with his sextant as his visual guide, a cinematographer who has set the course to stunning, majestic, haunting and most certainly atmospheric, to help propel this story of two love birds flying over the oceans of companionship. He has worked on The Magnificent Seven, How The West Was Won and Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice amongst others. His work on Mrs. Muir was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography, Black-and-White in 1948.Adapting the novel to a level of emotional audience participation has been the work of Philip Dunne, who has the pedigree of The Last of the Mohicans and The Robe. This script has set sail to lands of intelligence, wit and humour, then to set anchor, occasionally, to remind us of the forbidden love and the seemingly impossible future, that a living being can fall in love, and be the recipient of love with a soul passed over. This is a script that will have your heart in the storms of both love and loss. Mr. Dunne has opened the heartstrings and made us look into the future, and the significance of the human need for Life. A powerful and deeply touching and mature script to set sail to. In all, the name of this ship The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, is a ghost story, a love story that concerns both sea-lovers, land-lovers and with nothing but sea-grit, we are never to be shipped wreaked and marooned on the island of solitude. With a story this powerful, the sea-change will have us in our own vessel, to tick away the hours, the days, the months and the years of self-sacrifice, searching for that inevitable box of tissues. The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is a Grand Old Lady, sail upon her, and set the right course for Life. "},{"Title":"A delightful,  warm-hearted ghost story","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Although I don't generally care for Rex Harrison's films - his typical role is that of a slick, sophisticated, superficial snob* - in The Ghost and Mrs Muir he projects a very engaging, masculine warmth and heart as the ghostly mariner, attractive to women and likable to men. He does it so well that I wish he'd done more work of the same kind, instead of swanning around in Mayfair drawing-rooms on stage and screen. Gene Tierney is infinitely lovable and vulnerable as Mrs Muir, and George Sanders is as delightfully devilish as ever (he played the same role all his life) in playing her lover. It's a pity that Hollywood seems to have lost its knack for warm-hearted, good-humoured ghost stories like this since the 1950s.*Noel Coward, author of Harrison's greatest success, Blithe Spirit, once told him If you weren't the best light-comedy actor of your time, you'd be fit for nothing but selling second-hand Rolls-Royce cars in Curzon Street.** ** For the benefit of readers outside Britain, I should explain that this is an extremely high-class commercial street in the West End of London, formerly the centre of the up-market end of the used-car trade. "}{"Title":"The Ghost and Mrs. Muir","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This powerful romantic gem rich in human warmth and spirt and moments of rare humor brought together screen legends Gene Tierney and Rex Harrison.Lucy Muir (Tierney), a young widow, moves into a seaside cottage with her maid, Martha (Edna Best), and her daughter, Anna (Natalie Wood). To her surprise, the house is haunted by the ghost of the former owner, Captain Daniel Gregg (Harrison), who makes himself known only to her. When Lucy's source of investment income dries up, he inspires her to write his memoirs. The book becomes a best-seller, and Lucy can now afford to stay in the house. Eventually, the unlikely pair fall in love, only to be challenged when a flesh-and-blood suitor (George Sanders) appears on the scene.A beautiful film from all standpoints, with brilliant performances by Tierney and Harrison, who play extremely well off each other with tender, humorous, and at times bickering encounters. (Tierney?s 'Blast! Blast! Blast!') This film also features probably the best acting of Tierney's entire career. I'm really tired with the whole  not a good actress, but a beautiful woman' crap. She's one of my all time favorites.With its heartwarming story, acting and Oscar nominated cinematography, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is a moving classic in Hollywood's best style. Curl up and watch it on a rainy day "},{"Title":"What we've missed, Lucia....","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The true beauty of The Ghost And Mrs. Muir is that the romance which ultimately springs forth from its two stars is fully realized, fleshed out, and consummated without them ever having physical contact. I won't spoil anything by going over too much of the plot, but suffice it to say that what begins as a verbal battle between the sexes never disappoints as it gradually turns into the most thoughtful and sensitive banter betwixt a man and woman. And even though there are no kisses or exchanges of I love you's, the friendship, longing, and love which passes between Gene Tierney and Rex Harrison is smoldering, even bewitching. (Consider, in particular, the exchanges of dialog between Lucy and the Captain he accurately sums up her practical, but somewhat loveless union with her late husband; she asks about his life as a sailor and what made him go to sea in the first place, and so on.) Every exchange they have is like two concert instruments playing in perfect harmony. And yet there is an unspoken yearn for them to take their friendship to the next level. Add to this a positively stunning music score by Bernard Herrmann, whose orchestral crescendos begin weaving a spell as soon as the Fox logo appears on screen. There are later, equally glorious, scenes- like Lucy and the Captain, at the end of their pen collaboration, gently revealing their affection for each other for the first time (what's to become of us?); Harrison's late-night departure from a sleeping Tierney which will make your heart race and simultaneously bring tears to your eyes; and a particularly moving epilogue (which I think often goes unappreciated) of a middle-aged Mrs. Muir with her beautiful college-age daughter, who has her own revelations about the salty sea captain. At once lovely and bittersweet it is. And that *still* isn't the climax of the film!! "},{"Title":"Ghost Writer","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I picked up this DVD because I just had to have it for some reason. I'm so glad I found it! From the opening scene I was hooked and I was off on a great adventure. Gene Tierney must have been the most beautiful actress ever to grace the silver screen, and she is stunningly beautiful here. The scene where she looks at Gull Cottage for the first time is beautifully photographed with great music as we enter the haunted house. The only thing I found puzzling was why or how Mrs. Muir could rent the cottage for like 40+ years! I have one other criticism and that is that Gene plays Mrs. Muir as a saint. I'd love to see her lay into her husband's mother-in-law and sister-in-law but that didn't happen. Rex is great, strong and yes, virile! There did seem to be some missing scenes, especially with Natalie Wood. She's barely seen throughout the film. Despite all of my comments, this is a movie I'll watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Gruff sentimentality and subtle comedy","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The ghost of a manly sea captain, haunting his old seaside digs, is pleasantly surprised when an unfettered widow, her child and housekeeper move in and promise to bring new life to the place. Glossy romantic comedy isn't smothered with sentimentality, but rather uses it to a proper advantage (by disguising it in sly ways, as with Captain Gregg's salty machismo--which quietly gives way to very human feelings). Gene Tierney is appropriately proper and pinched (it's a period piece, after all), but she subtley blooms and has great chemistry with enchantingly buffoonish Rex Harrison, who isn't afraid to look like a windbag and yet makes points on Mrs. Muir besides. My only complaint would be in the second-half, in which the ghost decides to exit and leave Mrs. Muir to the human men of her choice (and after one failed dalliance, she gives up on love!). Otherwise, this is a first-rate fantasy, lovingly detailed and well-filmed, with the barest minimum of special effects (which enhances the emotions). Made into a very decent TV-series in the late 1960s. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A touching romance","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Gene Tierny and Rex Harrison enjoy a very touching romance, which starts off on the worst possible foot, in this very poignant drama. The film is of course a supernatural fantasy and at first you wonder about Gene's sanity but the experiences of the rest of the townfolk confirm that others have witnessed odd occurances at the house as well. The romance develops eventually after Gene penetrates his gruff exterior and he admires her determination and persistence. The George Sanders character is one he can easily play and here he almost ruins something precious. Thankfully for the romantic in me there is a nice conclusion that is both logical and satisfying. A young Natalie Wood makes an appearance as one of the daughters here. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"More than simple romance","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is one my favorite movies. But I had a little different take on it. While agreeing with the many other comments concerning its romance and humor and while not being an admirer of Freud I still thought there was a strong sexuality to the story. We start with a young woman with little life experience married early to a pleasant but unremarkable young man. By the strength of the mother in the story he was probably dominated by the mother. He dies. Despite being born into a rather repressed society and an even more repressed segment of that society she determines to strike out on her own. The question is then is she simply looking for her own living arrangements or are other powerful drives involved? She meets the ghost and while others have been affected by him she is only one who talks to him(other than the daughter which is found out later). So you have this young lonely woman with if written differently could be imagining this masculine rough sea captain with whom she talks of his adventures many of which are rather ribald. She meets a charming man, Sander's character, and the ghost goes away. Ghosts are not good lovers. She then finds out the man is a cad and already married. The movie doesn't speak about her life much after that but it is easy to imagine that having discarded the ghost and it was unlikely there were many suitable mates for her in the area were she lived, disappointed she moves on to middle age. In the movie her adaption to this life seems to be acceptable. Up until this point she could easily imagined the seaman. Then her daughter tells her that she also talked to the captain. This is my favorite point in the movie and it changes the context. So where is the sexuality? For me it was in the music and the sea. Powerful, alive and uncontrolled it surges during different parts of the movie. There is a rawness about it that is not part of apparent settled life and character of Lucy but is the place she, despite her frailty, is attracted to. It is the tension in the story. It's the captain's world outside her rather prim life. Hopefully this isn't too Freudian. It says to me how movie makers of that period could say a lot without being too graphic. "},{"Title":"No woman has ever been the worse for knowing me.","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Few motion pictures can boast a love story that echoes through an eternity, but here is a film that certainly can. In the earlier years of American cinema, the role of ghosts and supernatural apparitions was traditionally not to frighten, but rather to aid and educate their earth-bound contemporaries. For at least the first few minutes of the film, 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir (1947)' seems as though it might be treading dark and menacing territory. An independent but lonely widow, Lucy Muir (Gene Tierney), still grieving one year after the death of her husband, rents an old and isolated cottage by the coast, where she can live peacefully with her young daughter, Anna (Natalie Wood), and her housekeeper, Martha (Edna Best). From the moment of her first visit, Lucy senses a supernatural presence in the house, but her tendency towards common sense proves dominant. The haunting manifestation turns out to be the home's previous owner, Capt. Daniel Gregg (Rex Harrison), a gruff and roguish seaman, whose accidental death was misattributed to suicide.After Capt. Gregg's first appearance, an absolutely stunning entrance from the darkened corner of the room, we find it difficult to keep our eyes off him, a man of rugged looks and personality. Despite his salty and often-crude disposition, the ghost soon comes to respect Lucy's independence and conviction, the two striking up an intimate relationship that inevitability sprouts into love. However, after Capt. Gregg dictates his bawdy memoirs to be published, Lucy attracts the attention of a suave suitor, Miles Fairley (George Sanders). Not wishing to interfere with her romantic desires, Capt. Gregg nobly retreats for an entire lifetime, leaving Lucy to discover that her all-time love may not actually be flesh-and-blood at all. It is this protracted ending that gives 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir' the bulk of its emotional power, offering a sense of resolution that surpasses that of almost every other romance ever made. Though Lucy Muir lives the remainder of her life alone and isolated, her memories of Capt. Gregg reduced to a vague inkling of a dream once had, she can never overcome the fact that he is her one and only love. For Lucy, death is not an occasion to be feared, but rather the moment in which her youth is reinvigorated and she is reunited with Capt. Gregg, with whom she can now spend an eternity.Contributing to the success of 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir' is how director Joseph L. Mankiewicz who also directed the fantastic 'Sleuth (1976)' triumphantly blends so many cinematic genres. The film contains noticeable elements of fantasy, horror, drama and comedy, but never loses sight of its main role, which is that of a touching romantic fairy-tale. Both Gene Tierney and Rex Harrison dominate the film with their strong performances, sharing an intense, but always enjoyable, chemistry. Additional praise must also go to cinematographer Charles Lang, for his excellent use of shadows and light to evoke mood, and who fittingly received an Oscar nomination for his work. The film is accompanied by a haunting musical score from none other than the great Bernard Herrmann, and the set decoration of the sea-side cottage (by Thomas Little and Stuart A. Reiss) is also notable. 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir' is a film that I enjoyed substantially more than I had initially anticipated, and it truly is a triumph of inspired film-making. The combination of clashing genres might easily have resulted in disaster, but somehow Mankiewicz made it all work, and very well at that. "},{"Title":"A Must-See Romantic Film","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film is great to watch if you like romantic movies and/or ghost stories. Rex Harrison is superb as the ghost of a sea captain, trying to scare a widow ( Gene Tierney ) and her daughter ( Natalie Wood ) from his house after they rent it. This film was the basis for the TV series of the same name in the late '60s and early '70s, starring Hope Lange as the widow and Edward Mulhare as the captain. This one is absolutely one of my favorite black and white films. It is romantic, comedic, and a little scary without going to extremes. This is also a family-friendly movie without bad language or scary images. All in all, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, romantic movie...I loved it.","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I happened upon this movie by accident this morning while it aired on AMC and I couldn't stop watching it. It was so charming and innocent and I thought that the characters interacted with great chemistry. Gene Tierney was beautiful as Lucy Muir; she struck a perfect balance between portraying a young, vulnerable widow and a strong, independent woman. Rex Harrison, playing the gruff yet lovable captain, manages to bring a lovely melancholy element to the film while at the same time injecting it with doses of humor to keep the mood from being somber. I was almost sad when it ended simply because I was enjoying watching it so much...I felt like I was reading a good book that I wished to continue forever. I was surprised that I had never heard of this movie before and (being young) was not familiar with its actors, but then upon looking it up I was happy to see that it has been labeled as a classic romance. If you yourself are a born romantic, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir definitely will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Classy romance with a twist","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" As you can see from the high ratings this movie gets, it strikes a chord with almost everyone who sees it. What makes it good are of course the two beautiful actors Gene Tierney and Rex Harrison (Gene more so than Rex), and the classy way the story is told. Lucy Muir is a woman with a head on her shoulder and does things little outside of the box. Maybe in every age there were women who had independent sparks like her, but in the 20th century they were coming out of their mold. She's a recent widow and none the worse for it because her husband was too ordinary for her and she see it as an opportunity to explore the lifestyle she always wanted to live. And then she stumbles on to Capt. Gregg (or his ghost self). She finds him fascinating, but keeps even toe with him. But deep inside, she knows she's in love with this man. The only issue being that she's here and he's there.Young Natalie Wood plays the role of the daughter Anna Muir. No time soon will we see such classy people appearing in the latest Hollywood movies. A treat to watch. "}{"Title":"The Ghost and the Suffragette","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  There are many levels of meaning to `The Ghost and Mrs. Muir'. It can be seen as pure feminine escapism, as a kind a romantic comedy borrowing elements of `Wuthering Heights', its supernatural overtones, its setting and romance-driven mismatching of partners, which are present in all Gothic novels from the Bronte sisters to the Harlequin dime-store novels with a shirtless Pirate Fabio on the cover. I am not discounting this element and I might add that making a love story between a living woman and a dead seaman has to the ultimate erotic paroxysm of this kind of impossible, star-crossed mismatch. Talk about impediments to this marriage! But, on another level, Captain Gregg is not only an impossible ideal of truthfulness, fidelity, masculinity, nobility and courage that Mrs. Muir sees lacking in every man she has come across, he is also the mentor of her economic and psychological liberation from the oppressive forces that drove Victorian women to bad marriages or unsuitable living arrangements with strangers or family members they despised. On that level, Captain Gregg is a product of her imagination, but one that is also conveniently a product of her own will for identity and independence. Like the song says, she would rather be blue thinking of her unattainable ideal than be hap-happy with any less perfect man of flesh and blood; she would also much prefer to be left to her own devices than to depend on anybody else for survival. Having said this, the Gothic aspects of the story, the extreme polish of the script and dialogues, the magnificent acting, the intelligent direction, the lighting and photography, and, most of all, Bernard Herrmann's music score all combine to make of this story a true `spoken-word opera'. Nothing compares in the way of transcendentally powerful arias with Captain Gregg's goodbye to the sleeping Lucia. On the DVD, I played this scene in French and found it just as alarmingly beautiful. I played it in Spanish and was amazed by its passion and overtones of Luis Bunuel's own `Wuthering Heights' (despite the fact that for some reason, the Spanish versions of Fox films did not have access to a separate music-and-effects track and had to improvise their own music as background to any scene overlaid with dialogue). But most of all, it is the English-language version with (on this DVD) the slightly expanded fake stereo version of Herrmann's score that takes the prize for sheer bravado and operatic grandeur. I watched this over and over again, wondering why in the world there never were Oscar nominations for `Best performance by a sleeping beauty' and `Best performance by a departing Shakespearean ghost', two staples of the operatic repertoire.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Romantic Fantasy","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This 1947 film is a timeless delight for fans of classic Hollywood romantic films.  Gene Tierney is stunningly beautiful as the independent widow Mrs. Lucy Muir, who takes her daughter (Natalie Wood) and housekeeper (Edna Best) along with her to live in the seaside abode known as Gull Cottage. The rumours of the cottage being haunted don't bother this rather bold young lady one whit - in fact, she's quite amused by the idea. As Captain Gregg, Rex Harrison is suitably manly and gruff the chemistry between he and Tierney make the film work - in less capable hands, the film would appear ridiculously ludicrous in some ways. Edna Best is fine as Lucy's loyal companion/servant and Anna Lee is memorable as the uncommonly empathic wife of a roving cad - who is played with expertise by George Sanders. The black and white photography is exquisite and the special effects are first-rate. The ending will bring a happy tear to many an eye, so be forewarned & keep a tissue handy! "},{"Title":"A hidden but precious gem","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is a hidden but precious gem. It is essentially perfect from every point of view the direction by Mankiewicz, the acting by Gene Tierney (Mrs. Muir), Rex Harrison (captain Gregg), George Sanders, the performances by the supporting cast, the beautiful cinematography and the evocative setting on the lonely shores of Southern England.  The basic idea in the plot is simple but original. The script is brilliant and sharply written typical English wit and subtle humour, mingled with a nonsensical, funny, yet truly romantic love story. An amusing touch is one of the motives of the movie the way captain Gregg's raw language affects Mrs. Muir's perfect manners. In the very opening scenes she utters My blasted in-laws nothing scandalous, but a bit strong for the mouth of a dignified English gentlewoman, isn't it? Remarkably, this movie is just Heaven for Gene Tierney's fans she is on the screen from the first scene to the last one. Her beauty is like Mozart's music it is both exciting and relaxing. Gene Tierney's presence is a worthy crown upon this little masterpiece, a pattern of good taste, well-used talent and professionality.  "},{"Title":"Gene Tierney is Mrs. Muir and perfectly so...","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Ghost and Mrs. Muir (1947)What do you call this kind of contrivance, a situation set up by a fabulous circumstance, and then the inevitable unwinding of those circumstances? It's so artificial you want to scream for some sincerity, and yet it's so sincere, within its artifice, you are convinced, and intrigued.So here's the set-up. A widow moves to a house overlooking the ocean haunted by the ghost of a seaman who once lived there. And she decides she likes it, or wants it. And so we have the ghost in the form of Rex Harrison, and Mrs. Muir, the woman played with usual cool poise and cinematic good looks by Gene Tierney. The two don't quite fall in love at first, but a relationship grows, and a book is written.But that is just still the set-up. Mrs. Muir needs more that a pretend reality and a make-believe boyfriend. In comes a charming and somewhat dubious (at first) writer and painter played by George Sander. Conflicts arise, ideals are threatened, and the sky broods. It's a U.S. production but it is set in Britain (ostensibly) and has a very British, conversational feel. (Sanders and Harrison are British, of course, but Tierney is a Brooklyn girl.All of this is mostly amusing. Yes, American director Joseph L. Mankiewicz has made what almost feels at times like a romantic comedy, though more romance than laughs, especially after the first half. The set-up dilutes the impact of both the comedy and the drama a little. A true madcap could survive this kind of dreamy falseness, but a romance, to really move you, can't keep tripping over little tricks in the plot, and in the filming. So as good as all of this actually is, and as entertaining, it doesn't rip your heart out. And isn't that the idea?Maybe not always. It does move as much as it tickles. Its mystery is a little restrained, but it's still mysterious. It feels a bit literary at times, controlled and clever. But the actors, all three of them, fit that notion of sounding literate, and speaking clearly, of projecting never-ending poise. In the end, it's Gene Tierney's movie, and she holds it all together through its three distinct phases of the plot. By the last (fourth) brief section, the emotional threads pull together and it becomes a real tear-jerker for a few seconds. Which is plenty. "},{"Title":"Love the film and the book Better than Twilight!","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I am writing this review to remind people there are better works of supernatural romance out there than Twilight. The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is one such example. The novel was written in 1945 and then adapted into a film with George Sanders and later a TV series. The ghost and Mrs. Muir tells the story of a young widow, Lucy Muir who has decided she wants to break away from the control of her over-bearing and dominating in-laws. Already by this point the feminism and strength of the protagonist of the 1945 novel exceeds that of the more modern supernatural romance Twilight. When Lucy Muir finds a house to her liking she discovers very quickly that it is haunted by a very vocal spectre of an old sea captain by the name of Captain Daniel Gregg. The ghost of Captain Daniel Gregg is one of my three favourite fiction ghosts. The list consists of Captain Daniel Gregg of The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, Sir Simon de Canterville from The Canterville Ghost by Oscar Wilde and Hrothbert of Bainbridge AKA Bob from the short lived television series adaptation of The Dresden Files by Jim Butcher (Hrothbert of Bainbridge doesn't exist in the actual Dresden Files novels). Despite the ghost's seeming misogyny Lucy and the captain develop a quirky and strangely affectionate relationship. For all of his roughness and snark the captain is actually a gentleman inside. The character portrayals are realistic and very human unlike the protagonists of Twilight in which the characters are two dimensional archetypes to appeal to a shallow demographic. The Ghost and Mrs. Muir isn't just a sweet romance. It also has a running wit and humour completely lacking in most modern romances. It seems today all attempts at humour in romance become self-parodies. There's more to the story than just fluff. It's about taking control of your own life, standing up for yourself, independence, love and moving on, the power of love and friendship, and the value of love, life and family (no matter how unusual the definition might be) all told with excellent wit and humour. The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is highly underrated. It deserves more attention. It is a brilliant story far ahead of it's time. I actually wish there would be a new film adaptation of The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, not because I think there is anything wrong with the first film adaptation, but because I think a new generation should be introduced to good supernatural romantic fiction and opposed to what is currently trendy and sadly many of the current generation won't watch a black and white film or read a novel more than twenty years old because they make negative assumptions about the content such as assuming it would be out dated, stuffy, cheesy or hard to follow. The ghost and Mrs. Muir is none of these things. It's a head of the curb and I certainly would rather re-read The ghost and Mrs. Muir than Twilight. Thanks to Terrence Mann's portrayal of Hrothbert of Bainbridge in the short lived Dresden Files TV series I can completely see him as Captain Daniel Gregg if there was a new film version to be made. I strongly recommend The Ghost and Mrs. Muir to anyone interested in supernatural romance, ghost stories, dry wit, or just good literature in general. This semi-obscure gem needs more attention and I truly feel it is of a higher quality in writing than what is currently fashionable in supernatural literature and fantasy. "},{"Title":"The Ghost and Mrs. Muir","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Any film that features in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, well, and has one or two good stars is worth seeing, so I found this one from director Joseph L. Mankiewicz (All About Eve, Guys and Dolls, Cleopatra). Set in 1900, the turn of the century, strong-willed independent widow Lucy Muir (Laura's Gene Tierney) is looking for a house, and she finds and leases haunted Gull Cottage by a Victorian Britain seaside. Soon after moving into her new house, with daughter Anna (Natalie Wood), she meets the ghost of the house, crusty former owner sea Captain Daniel Gregg (My Fair Lady's Sir Rex Harrison), and she isn't going to be scared off. They become friends and allies, Lucy is getting used to the ghost being around, and with her help he is able to write his intriguing autobiography. Also, Lucy may have Miles Fairley (George Sanders) around her trying charm her, but she may in fact be falling for Daniel, and they do get their happy ending when she dies naturally from old age. Also starring Edna Best as Martha Huggins, Vanessa Brown as Anna Muir as an Adult, Anna Lee as Mrs. Miles Fairley, Robert Coote as Mr. Coombe, Isobel Elsom as Angelica, Mother-in-law and Victoria Horne as Eva, Sister-in-law. Tierney and Harrison make a very charming couple, it may not be as heart-warming as 1990's Ghost, but it is a good early version and a likable romantic fantasy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Cinematography. It was number 73 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good! "},{"Title":"High sea dead people.","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Quite simply, one of my all-time favourite movies and the film that made me fall in love with the luminous Gene Tierney.The story concerns young widow Lucy Muir (played by Tierney) and her move into Gull Cottage with her daughter and housemaid. The only possible hitch in the proceedings is the fact that Gull Cottage is haunted by Captain Gregg (played by Rex Harrison) but that would only be a problem to anyone less headstrong and determined than Mrs Muir. Once contact has been made between the new, lively tenant and the deceased ex-owner things start to develop into an enjoyable, sparky relationship. Affection grows between the two, unlikely as it would seem from the start, and the problems that crop up to make Mrs Muir's life difficult are problems they share together. Until the irrepressible Miles Fairly (George Sanders) comes a courting.I could ramble on and on and on for days about this movie and still not cover every element that I love about it. The mix of supernatural elements with the comedy is all just perfect. As is the romantic strand woven throughout. Part ghost story, part comedy, part love story, it gets them all spot on. Joseph L. Mankiewicz has the pleasure of directing a perfect cast. Tierney is adorable as Mrs Muir, Harrison is at his very best as the salty sea dog and George Sanders is in fine fettle as the cheeky chappy out to woo Mrs Muir and to complicate matters.It's most amusing, even by today's standards (although, obviously, the coarse language is rather tame), most entertaining and also surprisingly moving by the time things reach a satisfying, heartwarming conclusion. Highlights include a visit from Tierney's in-laws, some sparkling interplay between ghost and gal and the subtle changes that sneak their way into Tierney's vocabulary, making her quite comfortable with language not always tolerated by landlubbers.Just make sure that you catch this film whenever it's on TV and treat yourself to one of the greatest little movies you could ever hope to enjoy.See this if you like Topper, Dragonwyck, Ghost. "},{"Title":"Charming, Romantic, and Touching","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film several times as a child growing up in the '70s, and it has always stuck with me. It's the kind of fantastic and innocent romance that just doesn't get made very often in Hollywood anymore, more charming for being unapologetically sentimental about love and the supernatural. I wish this film would be shown in a theatre so that I could take a first date to it! "},{"Title":"A classic love story, with supernatural overtones","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is something of an ignored classic, a well-made, intelligent romantic fantasy. The relationship of the two central characters is what gives this movie its distinction and heart--they are meant to be together, even though he's a ghost and she's very much alive when they meet. He's a surly sea-captain, and she's his unexpectedly feisty, pre-feminist match. Rex Harrison and Gene Tierney are perfect in the roles. They have a strong chemistry together, and the writing allows them the opportunity to play the subtext and undercurrents of their attraction to each other.  By the time you see how the captain chooses to solve the problem of his being a ghost and how that resolves, you should be charmed and moved.  This movie is finally being released on DVD April 1, 2003--and the black and white photography should look gorgeous. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!  Everything works well!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a charming and romantic period piece with two truly great actors portraying the Ghost Rex Harrison and Mrs. Muir Gene Tierney.  It is funny, poignant and sad all at the same time and definitely provides a few laughs and a good cry! "}{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is an old fashioned romance with a strong dose of fantasy. The perfect movie for a rainy Sunday afternoon. If your only memory of Rex Harrison is My Fair Lady you will be surprised to see he was quite the hunk in his day. "},{"Title":"Simply great, a movie that can bring a man to tears....","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when I was sixteen,  now almost thirty years have passed and I still cry  every time I think about the film. . My favorite image is the deteriorating pier with her daughters name carved into it...what a beautiful and sad way to convey the passing of time.I recently watched it again and the lump in my throat has not passed as of yet.So sad, So beautiful! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of my first older movies that I watched and I remember falling asleep through half of it (because I was so young and really didn't understand much of the concept).  Luckily, I was able to remember the name of the movie and decided to watch it when I found out it would be airing later on.  What a delight.  The more I would watch the film, the more involved I became in the plot.  Rex Harrison was charming, yet standoffish at times, but yet he played his character to where you felt as if you could love him.  As for Gene Tierney, even in black and white her beauty shines through.  Her acting is faultless and she plays the part of Mrs. Muir to where you can put herself in her shoes.  As for the film itself, the scenery and background where the house was filmed was breath taking and if you think about it, very well done for the time it was filmed in.  The script supports the cast and background to spin such an intoxicating lure that it keeps you hooked and you can't help but to fall in love with it.. or to feel with the characters are feeling at that moment.  More so now, I love this film and I'm trying to find a copy on DVD (I don't know if it's made onto DVD's yet). I made my husband watch it with me because he's not into many of the older films/classics and even he said that it was a great film, which I already knew.  I just hope that they continue to air some of the classic films such as this one that deserves a chance to be watched and known. "},{"Title":"A Lady, Who Befriends A Ghost","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Rex Harrison, did a great job, of playing the ghost of Captain Daniel Gregg. He also had compassion, for Mrs. Muir. The part I like best was when the old bitties came in and tried to get Mrs. Muir, to move out.Captain Gregg became invisible, he picked them up bodily and tossed them, out the door. Good for him. Also getting Mrs. Muir, to write a book was a plus. I give this movie an A+. "},{"Title":"An undiscovered classic...","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Having only discovered Gene Tierney in Laura recently I'd taped this, but had never got  beyond the first ten minutes. Last night after a hard day at work I thought I'd give it a go  and boy was I surprised - this is a GREAT film moving, subtle, eloquent and with a great  story that gradually unfolds drawing you in. At times it's dark, sometimes funny,  sometimes comical, which as a period drama/romance adds to its charm. Both Harrison  and the ever beautiful Tierney are superb, believably tender in their acting, slowly  developing their rapport and intimacy. The ending is a surprise, which although we might  now conventionally term 'cheesey' is actually very touching. The art direction and  cinematography are excellent, accentuating both the beauty of Tierney, the house and  surrounding countryside. In the scene where Harrison's character appears for the first  time a great long shot unfolds, moving from angle to angle, but all in one long take.  Similarly, the feel is dark and mysterious, present but never threatening.This is yet another GREAT film that deserves to be seen and preserved as a classic for  all to see. Going straight into my top ten without a doubt, fantastic. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a wonderful fantasy love story.  It's got romance, humor, good music, beautiful settings, just about everything that defines the word classic.  The plot is certainly supernatural, but you'd have to be extremely cynical not to appreciate this film anyway.  There's not much else I can say about it except,  see it whenever you get the chance!  "},{"Title":"Timeless romance story.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I first viewed this movie in 1947, and, after 52  years found it to be just as endearing as the first  time I saw it.  The scenery, great cast, and relaxed  atmosphere is a welcome change to some of the  offerings of Hollywood today.  Being a perpetual  romantic, it was still a one (1) Kleenex movie.   Besides the romance, there was a confidence in the  living of a life fully with the awareness of good  things to come.         Alice Boxell "},{"Title":"The Ghost and Mrs. Muir","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie decades ago while I was a teenager. I remember thinking it was a little too romantic and lacked the action that a young boy relishes. I saw it again many years later and have seen it several times since then. I never miss it when it comes along as one of the classical flicks that you see on Sunday afternoons or at 3 a.m.. The heroine is a recently widowed mother who moves into a cottage by the sea which has been described by previous tenants as haunted. The original inhabitant was a rough but endearing old sea captain who refused to vacate the building when he died. He soon makes his presence known, but is unable to scare off the heroine. Instead, during his attempts to dislodge her, he develops a deep love for her and she develops similar affection for him. Eventually, the Captain decides that the heroine mustn't be in love with a ghost who can never be a flesh and blood lover and he disappears in order to allow her to have a sufficiently open heart to welcome another lover. She never has much luck in her attempts to meet the right man and simply lives on through the years at the cottage, surviving quite nicely on her writing. She has dim memories of the ghostly sea captain with whom she'd had a romantic relationship years earlier, but he never reappears in her life. In the end, she dies alone, not unhappy as she has enjoyed reasonable success in her life as a writer, but alone none the less. If the final scene, she is an old woman sitting back in her easy chair with a glass of milk, just before bedtime. Her eyes close and the glass of milk tumbles to the floor. At that moment, the ghost of the long forgotten sea captain comes to her and takes her hand, raising her spirit from the lifeless body that still lies in the chair. They walk off together into eternity. This is the most romantic ending I have ever seen in a movie before or since. "},{"Title":"the most romantic movie I Love the Captain","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" When the Rex is standing over Gene and he whispersto her You must make your own life amongest the living and whether you meet fair winds or foul, findyour own way to harbor in the end. That is THE MOSTromantic thing I have ever heard in my life.. I think no man has ever completely caught me totally unawares and I would treasure forever in my heart if I was ever whispered those words to me.Gene was one lucky woman to have been loved like that. I truly wish they made movies like that nowa days the world would be a better place. "},{"Title":"A Study in Intimacy","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  As a man, I have always had a special place in my movie heart for this 'woman's film'.... The Ghost and Mrs. Muir (1947).  What is it there is not to like, romance, humor, intriguing story, great script, timeless acting performances, even the sea and it's changing moods.  I would love to know where the location was for this film production.  Near Carmel, California? Mendocino, California?One of the wonderful aspects of this film is its intimacy....until the last scene in the film, the leading man (a ghost) and the leading woman never touch, embrace, or kiss....yet a marvelous intimacy is exchanged between Lucy (Tierney), and 'the Captain' (Harrison), ....and with the audience. Perhaps it is this among its many other fine qualities that makes this film a favorite especially with women.Gentlemen! If you're in need to re-introduce yourself back to your wife, this is a great film to watch together. "}{"Title":"Charming","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" How could anyone not like this movie? Gene Tierney, never a great actress but a great beauty for sure, is sound. Rex Harrison plays essentially the same role he plays in Anna and the King of Siam> (In my view, that is a considerably better movie.) He also is much as he is in the brilliant Unfaithfully Yours. That said, he is very good as the salty but slightly sentimental sea captain -- or ghost of a sea captain.Gene Tierney plays a very independent woman. Such characters dominate the director's movies.The waves separating periods of times strike me as a little corny. They are like blackouts in a stage play. But it's well cast and directed. And as I say, how could anyone not be touched by it? "},{"Title":"I cannot help it, I cry every time","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Eschewing grand proclamations of passion and overblown romance, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir (1947) is a lovely, quiet little film that gets under your skin. I have watched it multiple times over the years and it never gets old. Due to the lovers being a living woman and a ghostly man, their attraction is based more on intellectual and emotional affinity than sexual passion, though that does not stop the sexual tension from being there. The atmosphere is windy and moody, conveyed to perfection through the black and white cinematography and music score by Bernard Hermann. Combined with Gene Tierney's performance as the independent young widow and a very virile Rex Harrison as the ghostly sea captain who inspires her to write a book about his adventures, this is one of the best cinematic romances out there. "},{"Title":"Guy Ghosts Rule!","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Gene Tierney is a most beautiful, talented and unpretentious actress and she is absolutely stunning in this production. I just cringe at the thought of someone like that relegating most of her life alone with a kind housekeeper and the sea. Really??? If you have recently lost a most loved mate or companion and are traumatized by the tragedy and think you will never experience joy in your life, just watch this promising flick! I know this is a likely outcome for many an elderly widow and the cads out there trying to take advantage of them are ubiquitous.Well, enough for fair warnings against high winds. I enjoyed the paranormal aspect and found the treatment even handed and natural, surprisingly. The ending was unexpected and I imagined her being bored with him after 100 years or so and moving on to Herman Melville perhaps.Very romantic for a phantom relationship and wondered why she chose to remain single for all those years when she clearly admitted how lonely she felt during her imaginary friend's absence, scratching head on this one still.... "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews....","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Ghost and Mrs. MuirThe difference between landlubber and seafaring ghosts is the latter's ectoplasm reeks of chum.Mind you, scent isn't enough to ward of the widow in this romance.Moving with her daughter (Natalie Wood) to a cottage on the English seaside, the independently wealth Mrs. Muir (Gene Tierney) soon finds her new home is haunted by the previous owner Daniel Gregg (Rex Harrison), an ornery sea captain.When Mrs. Muir's fortune vanishes, her transparent tenant proposes she pen his biography, and live off the royalties.During the process, the two grow fond of each another. But when a shifty author (George Sanders) enters the picture, Gregg concedes to his able-bodied competitor.Light on frights but formidable in premise, this unorthodox odd- couple ghost story is a charming romp with loads of ethereal chemistry between the principal leads. But be forewarned, if your ghost boyfriend is abusive no one will ever believe you.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A Romantic Classic from the late 1940's","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" An independent minded widow with a young daughter decides to free herself from her late husband's overbearing sister and fawning mother. Harboring a desire to live by the sea, the widow, Mrs. Muir, overrules the objections of a local real estate broker and rents the charming Gull Cottage in Whitecliff-by-the-Sea. Mrs. Muir, played by the incredibly beautiful Gene Tierney, soon discovers the root of the brokers objections the cottage is haunted by its former owner, a wily sea captain, Daniel Gregg. Undaunted, Mrs. Muir adapts to the situation, and, when she runs low on funds, the ghostly captain dictates his memoirs to her, which she then attempts to publish. Needless to say, the widow and the lusty spirit have a mutual attraction to each other; opposites do attract.Ably directed by the formidable Joseph L. Mankiewicz, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir overcomes the implausibility of its premise to enchant viewers willing to indulge in a sentimental, but engaging love story. Tierney's acting talents never matched her ethereal beauty, and she often seems too cool and icy to convince as the love interest of an earthy man who has seen the world and sampled all its pleasures. However, she is adequate in the part, although Rex Harrison as Captain Gregg steals every scene he plays with her. Harrison appears to relish the juicy part and playfully toys with Tierney and other non-spirits, especially during an amusing scene with Mrs. Muir's visiting in-laws. George Sanders is on hand as a caddish artist, who unwittingly becomes the third member of a romantic triangle that includes a spectral rival. Nine-year-old Natalie Wood has a small part as the young daughter, Anna Muir, and Edna Best, Robert Coote, and Anna Lee also have small, but well played roles.Mankiewicz utilizes footage of waves pounding on the shore and a deteriorating post with young Anna's name carved upon it to show the passage of time. However, the film actually feels short; the later years pass too quickly to fully appreciate Mrs. Muir's aging and loneliness. However, Charles Lang's Oscar nominated black-and-white cinematography captures the cozy feel of Gull Cottage, full of shadows, nautical paraphernalia, and a hauntingly bold portrait of the deceased captain. Equally fine are Bernard Herrmann's score and Philip Dunne's screenplay, adapted from a novel by E. A. Dick. Rare is the film that a viewer wishes would last longer, but The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is among them. More playful scenes of Rex Harrison harassing the living, more depth to the relationship between Mrs. Muir and Gregg, and a better sense of the long passage of time following the early eventful years would be welcome. However, the quibbles are minor, the film is a treasure, and viewers will likely want to revisit Gull Cottage regularly over the years. "},{"Title":"Lovely )","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing the TV show when I was a kid, but the film is very good. The chemistry between the Captain Gregg and Mrs Muir is really good and makes me often laugh. To be a film from 1947 is surprising progressive for what concerns Mrs Muir character quest for independence; it is also progressive for the attitude to marriage (not necessarily happy) and having children (surprisingly Mrs Muir says having children is not an accomplishment (Anna happened) and Marta the maid agrees saying that is what her mother used to say too after 11 children. It's a bit disappointing that they meet again only when she dies of old age. I found all those years of solitude quite sad and I would have liked to see more of them together.Blast! Blast! Blast! ) "},{"Title":"romantic comedy or comical romance?","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This 1947 movie from 20th Century Fox, directed by Joseph L Mankiewicz, is certainly a heart-warming movie. In some ways it is comical, thanks to Rex Harrison's irascibility; he, in this movie once a sea captain, is the ghost of the house into which Lucy Muir (played so well by the very beautiful and appealing Gene Tierney) moves with her little daughter (performed by the precious Natalie Wood at about age nine.) Yes, you had to laugh at Harrison when he does become so unbearable toward Gene Tierney. But also, you had to feel for him when he does feel rejected by Mrs. Muir in the movie. For that reason it is difficult to say whether it should be placed under the rubric of comedy or romance. Definitely, I could feel no sympathy for the character George Sanders portrayed, a man who was disgusting and two-faced. Bernard Herrmann's music, beautiful but haunting, contributed well to the eeriness sometimes found in this production. The turn-of-the-century London was depicted fairly well. Truly, Tierney and Harrison clicked so well, and for that and other reasons it is a movie with magnetic appeal. "},{"Title":"Nothing else like it!","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A masterpiece? No kidding. This is such an unusual and beautiful film. Gene Tierney plays an early 20th century widow who is unknowingly more liberated than any woman of the 21st century. The film is stunning to look at. It is amazing to think that it was made in California, it looks as English as any English movie, so much so that one wonders why so many Hollywood movies set in England look so phony. What a screenplay. It is as if we are reading a book and every dissolve means a new chapter. Tierney was not a great actress but that face is fascinating and the role sits more comfortably with her than any of her others. Harrison is one of the sexiest creatures ever seen in a movie; their scenes together truly do smolder. I dare anyone not to cry during the last three minutes. It is so rewarding to see a Hollywood movie, with a great supporting cast that is all unrecognizable except for Natalie Wood. This is simply one of the very best and it will never date since it is a period piece. That score has to be among the greatest and most effective. "},{"Title":"The Ghost and Gene Tierney.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Ghost and Mrs. Muir (1947) Dir Joseph L. Mankiewicz / Cast Gene Tierney, Rex Harrison, George Sanders, Natalie Wood, Edna Best Sad romantic comedy about loneliness as widowed Mrs. Muir and her daughter move into a house at the seaside, against the wishes of her in-laws. The house is rumoured to be haunted by the ghost of a sailor but this only excites her. Her presence captivates the ghostly sea captain who forms a compromise. She will write his story and afford the house. Afterlife presented as depressing. Screenplay is sad but creative in structure and certainly inviting in introduction. Director Joseph L. Mankiewicz is aided by splendid locations particularly the ominous appeal of the house. Gene Tierney plays the vulnerable yet strong willed Mrs. Muir. Rex Harrison steals scenes as the foul sea captain whose stubborn actions are met with the opportunity to reveal his story. George Sanders plays a scheming author who attempts to romance Mrs. Muir. Natalie Wood is too brief as Mrs. Muir's daughter. She just seems to not be there and we barely notice. Edna Best plays the maid who pipes things up during key moments. Loneliness is a cancer but it doesn't have to consume as it does here. Unfortunately for a film advertized as a lighthearted comedy, this message does just the opposite and leaves viewers wondering what's the point. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Best. Romance. Film. Ever.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Honestly, this is the all-time best romance movie ever made. Ever. Totally flawless. If you like romances, just watch this and you won't be disappointed. It's just so good. So wonderful and heartfelt without being maudlin or sappy, and, not to mention, also with an element of comedy. Thank goodness that it was made in black and white, because it adds the perfect atmosphere for this movie--color would emphatically not be an improvement. And, yes, this is the basis for the TV series, which I grew up on, and was really very good also. Really, I'm a guy, and I watch plenty of modern violent films, but If you don't tear up a bit at the end of this film, there's something wrong with you. "}{"Title":"Romantic Ghost Story","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" What's not to like in this film that covers so many categories and comes on top of all of them? The story, of course, is hyper-romantic but it's held in order by an under-stated treatment it so much needs. The music by Bernard Hermann is absolutely perfect in every way, unapologetically romantic and dreamy at the same time and never, never over-stated or saccharine. The leads are perfectly cast and feed off each other beautifully as if they were inventing the script as the events happened, which leads me to the point in particular that surprised me the most so many writer-directors make films that are labored with verbose scripts which lack anything else but words on paper. Mankiewicz is guilty of this on a number of occasions in other films he's directed but here he is ideal and even memorable in his role as virtuoso director. This is a film to treasure.Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"A Romance From Beyond the Grave","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In 1900, a young widow (Gene Tierney) finds her seaside cottage is haunted...and forms a unique relationship with the ghost (Rex Harrison).While not the most celebrated film of its era, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir has a few accolades to its name. The film received a 1947 Academy Award nomination for Cinematography, though it did not win (and rightly so). The American Film Institute (AFI) has included it among its lists, including 100 Passions and nominations for Film Scores and Fantasy Film.The horror aspects are very light, despite taking place in a haunted house. A realtor and some nosy in-laws are scared off, but for the most part the ghost of the captain is just salty, not actually violent or malicious. He is somewhat possessive, though, forcing Mrs. Muir to go decades without any romantic pursuits.In some ways, this film might be dated and may not appeal to today's audiences. Whether or not Mrs. Muir is a strong woman is hard to say, and the way the maid is treated is rather insulting. But it is not a bad movie, and a good example of the early directing talents of Joseph Leo Mankiewicz, who would go on to make All About Eve (1950). (Incidentally, Mankiewicz had previously directed Gene Tierney in Dragonwyck alongside Vincent Price.) "},{"Title":"A Childhood Favorite","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Fell in love with Ghost as a pre-teen long ago and for many of the reasons cited by many of the favorable reviews here at IMDb. Just archived it to disc (hadn't seen it for years) and was a little shocked at how very, very good it is. Tierney and Harrison clicked, driving the movie, and every other aspect, from script to cinematography, was equal to their performances; a 'little' movie, like The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca, that is flawless.Reviewing to point out one aspect that stood out for me as a kid and still resonates today Lucy Muir is written and performed as a strong, independent and unapologetically individualistic women. Particularly liked her use of the term 'Male conceit' in response to on of the few sexist remarks made by the Captain (he was actually expressing jealousy, not sexism). One of the last in a long line of such women just as Hollywood succumbed to the 50s.My childhood experience was limited to after school movies from the 30s and 40s so I can't say anything about the 20s but there were tons of 'little' movies from the 30s that featured similar characters, women who refused to buckle under to any kind of male domination whatever the cultural context.As a kid never ran into overt sexism and didn't pick up on any of the subtler versions extant so I interpreted those characters as individuals demanding to be recognized as individuals. In fact, wasn't til many years latter, well after college, that I did encounter bred-in, institutional and beaten-over-your-head-bloody sexism in, of all places, San Francisco. Yes, I was aware of the wage gap and glass ceilings and a few other general trappings, but had never seen any of them in action personally til I hit the city.So now I understood and came to value that sub-genre of little movies that much more. Unfortunately, can't remember any of the titles but do remember Betty Davis being in a lot of them. And that is the point of this review, the existence of a large body of these type of movies and the suggestion that they receive the attention they deserve.Ghost, itself, rises high above any particular genre. Tempting to pile on chapter and verse. Pick a scene, any scene, and wax poetic. It's like any you pick is worthy of a full film-school lecture.Especially one that stood out for me the Captain's leave-taking; a long, slow, intimate parting, heartbreaking but vital. I've seen most of Harrison's films but never saw him equal it in any of them. Or come close. "},{"Title":"Gene  Tierney","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Mrs. Muir is one of her great roles. the fragility and force of single woman, the delicate nuances of love stories, the opportunity to act with remarkable partners and under precise art of a great director are parts who makes her performance a splendid delight. but it is not only her movie. because it has all ingredients of genre. and more. seductive and mysterious, arena for Rex Harrison nuanced art and a special manner to do credible character by George Sanders, with magnificent British atmosphere and flavor of delicate age, it has all virtues to impress again and again. lesson of seduction, it is not exactly an adaptation but one of the special field for the art of a good actress. "},{"Title":"Classic Romantic Ghost Story.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Joseph L. Mankiewicz directed this classic romantic ghost story that stars Gene Tierney as Lucy Muir, a recently widowed woman who moves in(along with her daughter, played by Natalie Wood) with her in-laws, but feels oppressed living under the same roof, so buys a seaside cottage overlooking the English coast that turns out to be haunted by the ghost of Captain Gregg(played by Rex Harrison) the original owner, who is quite disagreeable, yet he and Lucy come to an understanding, and he even agrees to let her ghost write his autobiography, which turns out to be a success. Lucy and the Captain then form a long and lasting love that lasts until she is quite old... Wonderful film, much like The Uninvited in how it creates a distinct atmosphere that takes you to another time and place. Superbly acted, directed, and written, with a moving ending that may have later inspired Somewhere In Time & Titanic! Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"I'm here because you believe I'm here.","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a rewarding genre spanning film that combines elements of mystery, drama, humor, and romance in a uniquely compelling way. Gene Tierney is simply gorgeous in the title role of Mrs. Muir, while Rex Harrison's bombast as the ghostly sea captain mellows over time to engage his house guest as a worthy companion and suitor. It's intriguing that the story never goes in the direction of creating some sort of sexual tension between the principals. It's all believably platonic, with the interjection of a suitable cad (George Sanders) to woo Mrs. Muir in a relationship destined for failure. Depending on your approach, the film can be interpreted on many levels. Was Mrs. Muir's ghost a figment of her imagination, a dream, or some other unexplained phenomenon? One's own interpretation may change upon subsequent viewings. I've seen this picture a couple of times and found it to be a rewarding film with rich dialog, crisp photography and a wonderful Bernard Herrmann score to capture the ethereal mood. "},{"Title":"In every sense a classic.","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A classic, by definition, is something that cannot be improved, and one could hardly wring more old time charm out of a picture than this one does. Rex Harrison is great as the ghost of a cantankerous sea captain who haunts the seaside house of widow Gene Tierney. He makes an unlikely but compelling romantic figure and soon the mismatched couple fall in love despite the obvious handicap that Harrison is already dead. This is Old School Hollywood 200 proof moonshine to be sure - the production design and costumes seem quite posh for a young widow of supposedly limited means - but everything is so carefully contrived to manipulate the audience to rally emotionally around the unlikely twosome that a little extra prettying up just makes for an even more watchable experience. "},{"Title":"Change the grammar if you please, but leave the guts in","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In the post-war years, just as film noir was taking a gloomier look at life, there were also pictures which took a lighter look at death. The Ghost and Mrs Muir merges the jokiness of The Ghost Goes West with the pure romanticism of Wuthering Heights, under the guidance of that tastefully sentimental screenwriter Philip Dunne, who also penned How Green Was My Valley, Pinky, and some of the more thought-provoking 1950s epics.The tone of this picture is an unusual one. Obviously the supernatural theme must be sufficiently enthralling, but the story is essentially one of light comedy and tender romance. Striking the balance most excellently is cinematographer Charles Lang. The first scenes inside Gull Cottage strongly reference horror cinematography, with visible ceilings and looming shadows, but there are some crucial differences. There are large areas of white, and the depths of rooms are clearly defined rather than being lost in shadow. The overall impression is one of friendliness, albeit within a lonely, haunted spot. It's a fine example of how much importance there can be in the way a picture is photographed. And Lang's work often has a beauty to match its subject &#x96; there's nothing quite like a nicely-done black and white sunset.It's also a showcase of the maturing style of director Joseph L. Mankiewicz. Mankiewicz was a writer and knew the value of words, but he also had a wonderfully communicative visual style, without ever being too obtrusive. The opening scene is a nice example. Gene Tierney introduces us to the characters of Anna and Martha, but she only mentions them by name and gives us no clue as to who they are. However we cut to a shot of the young Natalie Wood eavesdropping in the doorway at the mention of Anna's name, and a shot of Edna Best in maid's outfit having joined her at the mention of Martha's name. With these two brief cuts we avoid the clunkiness of dialogue such as Anna, my daughter or Martha, the maid; we see who the characters are and can guess their relationship to Tierney, as well as get a clue about their personalities and the sense that they are on Tierney's side. This is really smart, fluent film-making.The casting choices were predictably to type yet for the needs of the picture they are spot-on. Gene Tierney was great at playing such strong-willed, independent women, and in such a way that we instantly sympathise with her. She is a match for Rex Harrison without ever once compromising her dignity or credibility. The rule of thumb for Harrison roles is that the closer they are to Henry Higgins (the part he was born to play) the better he is. And it doesn't matter that Captain Gregg is a seaman, he is really just a nautical equivalent of Higgins. So long as the character is wrapped in layers of curmudgeonly chauvinism, under which beats a heart the size of a ship, Harrison is your man, and he will be a joy to watch. And finally George Sanders, whose very appearance is a giveaway that his character is up to know good, but you have to admit slimy cynicism was never so enjoyable.At a time when dramas were turning into convoluted, twisting thrillers, The Ghost and Mrs Muir is a beautifully straightforward story. Its appeal is enduring because of its gentleness and sincerity to human emotion. In short it has the charm and simplicity of a fairytale, and that is the mode in which it should be enjoyed. "},{"Title":"I said men, not perfumed parlour snakes!","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Recently widowed Lucy Muir Gene Tierney, decides she has had enough of her overbearing in-laws and moves herself and her daughter out to Gull Cottage. A lovely place atop of a cliff and overlooking the sea, Gull Cottage has one other significant factor, it has the ghost of the previous owner and builder of the cottage, Captain Gregg Rex Harrison in residence.Long before Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore were apparently putting the supernatural romance on the map, came this sweet, tender and funny Joseph L. Mankiewicz directed beauty. Adapted from the novel by R. A. Dick alias Josephine Leslie, The Ghost And Mrs Muir successfully blends a number of genre strands romance/sci-fi/fantasy/comedy to give us a throwback to when Hollywood knew what worked for its audience.The first half of the picture is light and airy, as first Lucy and Gregg banter and bicker, only to find themselves drawn into a loving and warm relationship in spite of the impossibility of the situation. Any potential suitors to Lucy are unceremoniously dispatched by supernatural forces, as are the interfering in-laws. Here the chemistry between Tierney and Harrison is first class, and thus it really sets us up for the second half as Mankiewicz, adroit director as he was, is about to start pulling away at the old heart strings. Enter George Sanders Miles Fairley in suitably caddish mode. With he having designs on Lucy and she in a reality check reciprocation, the Captain Gregg and Mrs Muir bond is surely destined to fizzle away? Maybe? Perhaps? All of which is leading us to one of those finales, the kind that have been known to have the strongest of individuals reduced to mallow.Technically the piece is as stunning as the story is. Mankiewicz threads it together neatly, tasteful and mindful in approach to the nature of the piece, he knew how to utilise Tierney and Harrison's sexual magnetism. Some of the framing of the pair inside Gull Cottage is a treat for the eyes. Bernard Herrmann scores it beautifully, at times it's rightly whimsical, at others it's poetic orchestration, a truly fabulous score from a man who has many other pieces of work on his CV. The photography from Charles Lang is lush and atmospheric particularly the exterior seaside shots and the art direction from George Davis fuses nicely with Mankiewicz' vision.A bona fide gorgeous and moving film that comes from a truly fine decade for movies. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An original different take on the genre.","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Well, this is not the most likely of love-stories but it's one of the more original ones from its era.The movie is a rather enjoyable one, which story perhaps doesn't out as well as was supposed to but remains a good one to watch nevertheless. Problem is perhaps that the love-story isn't worked out to its full potential. The right chemistry isn't always there, mostly since its two main characters are such diverse ones. The same goes for the George Sanders character. It's hard to believe that the nice Gene Tierney would fall for such a slick guy, who obviously doesn't have very noble intentions, as can be seen pretty much already the first scene they are together in.But enough complaining. The movie still remains a good one to watch, due to its pleasant original story, that combines its drama with its romance and fantasy quite well, as well as the right amount of required humor.Main reason why the movie remains a good one to watch are its acting performances. Throughout the actors all give away some fine performances, especially Rex Harrison who impressed as the ghostly captain. The movie also has a young Natalie Wood in it, who started out her career as a child-star. This wasn't her first role and she already had 4 years of movie experience under her belt.All in all it's a nice movie to watch and above also a quite original one from the '40's. It provides a different- and welcomed, take on the genre.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Charming","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" If you have lost your blueprint for your time machine and fancy a break in the 1900s then watch this film instead.It opens to the exquisite musical direction of Bernard Hermann, whose musical score fits this film like the proverbial glove, but never lets the music dictate the theme or outstay it's welcome.The players are sensational from Rex Harrsion, George Sanders to Edna Best who plays the house keeper who is certainly one of the gems that help make up the backbone of this film.Gene Tierney is wonderful and so incredibly beautiful. It was slightly depressing to find that she grew older in the house without anyone to share her life with, ..what a waste I said to myself.But please make time to see this Movie, you wont regret it. "},{"Title":"The Captain of her heart...","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Pleasantly enjoyable fantasy film from the late 1940's bolstered by two fine lead performances from Rex Harrison (in his first cinematic outing in a ghostly plot, this time as the haunting ghost - a few years later he was being haunted himself by ghosts in David Lean's Blithe Spirit) and Gene Tierney, atmospheric background music from the celebrated Bernard Herrman and persuasive direction from Joseph Mankiewicz. Oddly enough for a film about a ghost is the almost complete absence of special effects, leaving everyone free to concentrate more on plot and character, never a bad thing in my estimation.Set in turn of the century England, the film makes good use of interior sets and outside location work. The latter in particular lends an airiness to the film which contrasts well with the stuffy interiors of the Captain's old house, now inhabited by recent widow Tierney, her young daughter and faithful housekeeper Martha.In any film of this type, a measure of disbelief is required, particularly here, where as indicated, Harrison's bluff old sea dog does very little to indicate he actually is a spirit from the beyond. Short of Avast behind, he gets to bark out a host of ever more ridiculous sea-faring oaths, but does so with such relish that you're convinced from early on that Harrison has successfully transcended his otherwise ever-the-debonair typecasting. Tierney is as pretty to behold as usual and while she doesn't try too hard with her English accent, she plays off all the other characters most assuredly. She is in fact the epicentre of the film, being rarely off camera throughout, but carries the weight with ease and develops a believable rapport with the initially crusty old captain.The film suffers a little from Tierney's overlong interlude with married philanderer George Sanders, which only distracted me from wondering just how the film might end. However, this becomes much clearer towards the end as you start to see Tierney ageing and the reunion with Harrison as she expires is nicely turned, without great sentiment but still plenty of feeling.I really enjoyed this movie, notable also for its Bernard Herrman soundtrack. Stirring as the music was, I found it occasionally a little histrionic and over-used at times. Nevertheless, this is a minor distraction from a very pleasant old-fashioned movie, very well put together in every respect, if not quite up there with It'a Wonderful Life, A Matter of Life and Death or Portrait of Jennie in the fantastical stakes. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it!","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Got this as a free loan from my local library. Despite being a movie from 1947 the DVD version was remarkably clear despite being black and white. Sound was also very good - an perfect transfer to bring the movie into the digital age.The story you all know well and all the cast perform admirably.I loved Rex Harrison as Dr Dolittle and he is great in this movie too. His sinister laugh is brilliant!Never be afraid of Ghosts. Serious! You can even (sadly?) fall in love with them.This movie is a gem and I heartily recommend it especially if you enjoyed the later colour TV series with the brilliant Edward Mulhare. "},{"Title":"Touching romance","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" When the young widow Mrs. Muir gets tired of her relatives, she seeks out a house at the seaside recently vacated by the deceased Captain Gregg. She quickly realizes that the house is haunted by this sea captain, but decides to stay anyway and soon develops a friendship with the ghost. Love triangles, sacrifices made in love, ghost writing and various other things all become part of the resulting story leading to a very satisfying (to my mind) conclusion.The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is a really beautiful and charming romance between the living and the dead that is a great illustration of love and patience. The acting is excellent, the cinematography beautiful, the plot charming, and the ending perfect. What else can one ask for? I would definitely recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"It's a good thing you can't read me thoughts","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, has a screenplay by Philip Dunne, is based on the novel by R.A Dick, has music by Bernard Herrmann and stars Gene Tierney, Rex Harrison, Natalie Wood, Edna Best and George Sanders.Young widow Lucy Muir(Gene Tierney)moves from London(and away from her annoying mother and sister in law)to rent a small cottage in Cornwall, with her young daughter Anna(Natalie Wood)and their maid Martha(Edna Best).Once they are settled in Lucy meets the ghost of the cottages former owner Navy Captain Gregg(Rex Harrison), a gruff yet appealing man who at first is loathed to let his cottage be taken over by strangers but then he gets to know them and doesn't mind them. The Captain asks Lucy to write his biography and get it published. The pair have great fun writing and Lucy discovers her own independence and strength. The Captain falls in love with Lucy but will she return his feelings? The Captain uses bad language and is very frank which leads to some very funny arguments between him and Lucy.Well of course their relationship cannot amount to anything more than friendship.This is a romance film with a difference and is beautiful and poignant tale of friendship and unrequited love. Rex Harrison is excellent as the salty sailor who tells it like it is and beneath a gruff exterior is kind and gentle. Gene Tierney gives one of her best performances as the young woman who has never been allowed to just be herself until now and finds life holds more meaning for her now, thanks to her interaction with the Captain.There's fine support from the ultimate cad George Sanders as Miles Fairly a man who steals Lucy's heart and breaks it as well,Sanders keeps the story realistic and really brings home how much better the Captain is compared to him.Bernard Herrmann's score is one of his most beautiful and really adds to the atmosphere of the film.This was turned into a TV series in the 60s with Edward Mulahare as Captain Gregg. The series is well worth a watch too and it's one of my favourite series but for me the film is the the one I watch again and again.There is a suggestion that the Captain could just be in Lucy's imagination. I think it's great that you can view the film either way, either as a charming fantasy where his ghost really appears or that she imagines him because his portrait is in the house. "},{"Title":"Haunting and Surreal! A Beautiful Film Experience!","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Rex Harrison and Gene Tierney do a masterful job of creating the illusion of the spirit world co-mingling with the physical world. This is a haunting and somewhat frightening film about a sea captain who cannot rest until his story is told. He falls in love with the physical world appearance of the Gene Tierney character. The brooding atmosphere and depressing story line, with the failed attempt of Mrs. Muir to find love with the George Sander's character, leads to her reluctant acceptance of being a widow for life. But her memory is haunted by the vague and only occasional recollection of a sea captain that she might have feelings for. In fact, she is in love with him but does not consciously realize it and so is confused most of her remaining life (as she only sees the captain for about a year when she first rents out his cottage at the beginning of the film). He casts a spell over her to forget and her remaining years become meaningless, dull and almost hopeless, hence the depressing tone to the film. A romantic upsurge in the end brings this film to a satisfying conclusion, as he comes for her when she dies which is really quite moving. There will be tears in your eyes. A good mood and atmospheric piece that I highly recommend. A bit depressing though. "},{"Title":"DVD Version Is Gorgeous","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Several people have written very nice reviews of the film here, so I won't repeat the comments. I just want to add that I bought and watched the DVD version of this classic and it is totally gorgeous. When you can see the film digitally you tend to notice details that escape your eye when you watch an old film on video. The beautiful sets of this film production really stand out on the DVD, and are a perfect complement to the two attractive stars Gene and Rex. The commentaries by the film historians on the DVD are well worth taking the time to listen to, after you have watched the film through first without them. They tell alot about the history of the studio and the production, how the music was scored by Herrmann, etc.If you are deciding between DVD and VHS, there is no comparison. Buy the DVD and watch the film on a rainy afternoon. Just lovely. "},{"Title":"A sweet and touching romance","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie about love that goes beyond the boundaries of life into death. Gene Tierney is excellent in the part of Lucy Muir, the widow who moves into a supposedly haunted cottage. She finds out it is haunted, by a dead sea captain named Daniel Gregg. He haunts the house because he wants things to be kept as they are. But he finds himself very attracted to Lucy, and decides to let her stay in the house. But Lucy has money problems, and might have to leave. This is when Daniel decides that Lucy will write the unvarnished biography of a sailor's life. Daniel and Lucy fall deeply in love with each other while writing the book. When it is published, and Lucy gets a lot of money and doesn't have financial troubles anymore. Lucy falls for a man named Miles Fairley, an author of children's books. So Daniel decides to leave, because of the decision Lucy has made to marry Miles. He tells Lucy in her sleep that their times together were only dreams. This part is especially sad, when Daniel says, Goodbye, my darling.(pronounced mudarling like he always says it!) But after he leaves, the plot twists, and the movie ends very differently than you expect it to. I won't give the ending away, but it's great! Everyone has to see this movie at least once, because it is one of the great classics! Rex Harrison is magnificent as Captain Gregg, and George Sanders is his devilish self as Miles Fairley.Therefore, I give The Ghost and Mrs. Muir a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any more romantic.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is hands down the MOST romantic film I have ever seen.  You  can feel the chemistry.  This is a film that has been shared with my grandmother, mother, myself and my daughter - it bridges all generation gaps.  Very fine acting, but most important - excellent writing.  A must see for all ages!  "},{"Title":"Pure Romance","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  What's not to love?  The story is compelling and ultra-romantic, with deft comic touches.  The performances are impeccable.  Gene Tierney's great beauty adds poignancy to the story, but Rex Harrison makes the Captain into a man worth waiting for until you get to the other side.  One of the very few movies guaranteed to make me cry every time. "}{"Title":"This One's a True Classic ...","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  There's not a thing bad I can say about this film.  It's both funny and moving, and even 50 years after it was made, Gene Tierney holds her own as an exceptionally beautiful woman.Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic movies of all times.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I remember the first time I saw this movie.  I was in my early teens and I thought Rex Harrison was very handsome and mysterious.  The whole concept of the movie was of a love greater than life itself.  I try never to miss it when it is on TV, I really should buy it then I can see it whenever I want.Anyway, if you love romance this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"One word, amazing!","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I absolutely love this film. It is so beautiful, haunting and somewhat poignant too. The Ghost and Mrs Muir hasn't dated I don't think, the cinematography is very fluid and beautiful and the sets and costumes are sumptuous. And the pacing is just fine, it adds to the haunting and poignant atmosphere. I also want to mention Bernard Hermann's score, it is truly outstanding and one of his best. And the story is wonderfully told with a great atmosphere, while the script is beautifully written especially the Captain's scene in the bedroom when he announces he is going away which not only gave me goosebumps but made me cry as well. The direction is spot-on, as is the acting. Rex Harrison is just superb as the ghostly Captain, gruff at first but he is quite sensitive as well. Gene Tierney- so entrancing in Laura- was a truly beautiful actress, and she looks lovely here and acts beautifully too, while George Sanders is quite dashing as Miles. Overall, an amazing film and I think it is worthy of a little more attention than it has. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Beautiful in every way","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is so dear to me. I first watched it with my mom when I was very young. She loved it, and I did too. The older I get, the more beautiful I realize this movie is. All of you young'uns brought up on chick flicks give this movie a watch and see what real grown-up men and women act like. Rex Harrison was never more handsome or charming, and that's saying a good deal! Gene Tierney was impossibly beautiful and hits just the right tone in her interpretation of this role. The score by Bernard Herrmann is gorgeous - somehow it reminds me of the score from Vertigo, which I also love. The film itself is gorgeously photographed. And choke me up? Oh, my gosh - when he leaves her, and laments ...What we've missed...what we've both missed. I defy you not to cry. "},{"Title":"An excellent film in almost every way","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" When I think of Joseph Mankiewicz, he brings to mind someone who directs a talkathon of film, roughly translated from stage or script to screen verbatim. His dialog is always impeccable but removing the words renders most of his films rather useless.In this case, he was helped out immeasurably by the musical score, some lovely photography and some wonderful performances. The direction was pedestrian as it always is with Mankiewicz but the film sizzles despite his heavy-handedness. It's a glorious love story, romantically told with no apologies and succeeds in an other-worldly way. The television copycat was beyond Hope but this one makes life worth living.Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"A haunting  romance.","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I think I love this movie too much to make an accurate case for it. It's a touching romance that plays out across time - sweet, haunting (sorry, no pun intended) and memorable, without saccharine sentimentality. Loves stories tend to have simple plots, but the exceptionally talented cast played well together - creating characters of dimension and thus lending a depth to the story most love stories lack. The idea of falling in love with the dead loses its laughability when tempered with the painful idea of having to wait for an entire lifetime to pass before it can be requited. The cinematography probably wouldn't win any awards today, but it was good for the time, and the score was absolute perfection.This movie still has a huge fanbase, but critics tend to overlook it. You, however, shouldn't make the same mistake. A must-see film for all ages. "},{"Title":"A voice out of the blue.","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Whilst I had my eyes off the screen I heard the voice of George Sanders and recognised his voice straight away but was at a loss to where I had heard it. Then by the end of the film it came to me ...after some IMDb research realised this charming, mellow voice was one and the same Shir Khan from Disney's Jungle Book. Surely that is the pinnacle of being an actor when one is recognised by voice alone. I must admit that I am a sucker for unique voices. Orson Welles, Honor Blackman etc. This film is the original Ghost except this concept is wittier, better acted and so much more interesting. Added to the fact that a black and white movie is so much more atmospheric for a ghost story; no special effects no million pound budgets and no egos to blight the film. "},{"Title":"Evocative, touching, but cuts some unfortunate corners","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The set-up of this movie, with its strong woman hero and delightfully drawn supporting characters, promises great things. And as we putter up to Gull Cottage along its windswept seaside road we are indeed entranced. The first appearances of the ghost are marvelous, as two lonely, wary spirits strike a bargain and, without saying so, grow quite fond of one another.But the ghost says what we know to be true and this dooms the movie to be less than it could have been The widow can't have a living, breathing relationship with a ghost. And so, with a bit of Hollywood voodoo, he vanishes and makes her think it was all a dream.When her one attempt at romance with a living man is dashed horribly, Mrs. Muir retreats to a life of spinsterhood, not even comforted by the presence of the ghost, whom she remains convinced was but a dream. Why couldn't he have returned to keep her company? It seems to me it would have been nicer all around that way. Instead we are witnesses to her life of long, quiet days, a life apparently spent in lonely isolation. It's redeemed at the end, yes, but still, how sad.I think the most evocative image in the film is the little girl's name carved in the piling by the sea, and how it's meant to last forever, and how we return to see the wood splitting and the name fading over time, and finally to see it washed into the sea itself. Such is life, and such has been Mrs. Muir's life. How nice she has Capt. Gregg waiting for her at the end to make it all OK. The audience is not so lucky.I like this movie but with these characters, these settings and the incredible score and cinematography, it could have risen to be so much more. A plot twist here and there and it would have been unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Blood and Swash!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A good, but not fabulous movie is The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, a movie which tells the tale of a recent (well, OK, 1 year +) who decides to rent a house, much to the realtor's horror, that is haunted by the sea captain who once lived there years ago. Rather then just be a n earlier version of 'The Others', Mrs. Muir thinks having a ghost is a definite change of pace from her drab life, and excitedly moves in. The ghost, who is played by Rex Harrison, doesn't really do much in the scaring department, I guess it's because he's, along with us, dazzled by how fabulous looking Gene Tierney is. Soon a somewhat awkward romance ensues, but then Muir is attracted to an author she meets while submitting a manuscript both her and the captain wrote (called Blood and Swash) and their relationship is tested...Although Tierney and Harrison have amazing chemistry, I just wished there was more of Harrison and less about the Muir character going through life neuroses. But ah, oh well, the movie's such as it is, and it's a good one! Catch it if you can. "},{"Title":"Class Romantic Fantasy; a Beautiful Production","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Attractive young Lucy Muir wishes to escape the stultifying attempts by her in-laws to circumscribe her life as a newly-made widow. She seeks another place to live, through a kindly, talkative and patronizing real-estate agent. Turning down the sort of genteel place to please a lady's fancy, Lucy demands a look at Gull Cottage. Inn this remote and slightly-daunting place, she falls instantly in love with its sea view and the light that floods its windows; and she is made aware that it comes with a ghost.. She settles into the house with her housekeeper and very young daughter and discovers that the place is indeed haunted, by a tall, dynamic ghost who in life had been its former owner sea captain Daniel Gregg. Instantly attracted, she sees no problem in sharing the place. Once they have settled rules of behavior, life goes on there, until her money begins to run out. The Captain suggests that he write his memoirs so she may sell them; he dictates them to her, with many an argument over language. She has to be told that sheets do not belly in the wind--they are ropes; and he has to conquer her Victorian prudery about language, by reminding her this book is to be the unvarnished tale of a man's life, The manuscript is completed; she takes it to a publisher fears it is another woman's tale and then in reading it realizes it is altogether something different. As her daughter grows up, the Captain has grown fond, perhaps too fond, of her; he calls her Lucia and, in the film's great passage, talks of the reef off Barbados and the beauties of its dangers he would wish to show to her, adding, Lucia, Lucia--what we've missed.! Shortly after, Lucy meets a plausible candidate as mortal husband material, Miles Fairley, the author of Uncle Neddy children's' stories. The Captain recognizes he is in the way and takes his leave. He tells Lucy to think his presence had been only a dream...Then Lucy discovers Miles has a wife already. Having lost both man and ghost, lacking a profession in the Victorian Age, she retires to Gull Cottage. Time passes. Her little girl, Anna, all grown up, brings back a sailor on the eve of WW I, planning to marry him. We learn the Captain had been real, because Anna saw him too; and that her love of seafaring men may have begun in those lost days of the captain's haunting them. At last, in beautifully-managed time-passage elements, Lucy grows old. She sends her maid off. Then a glass of warm milk falls from her hand, and we know she has died. Soon the Captain returns and says, And now m'dear--you'll never be tired again. Come Lucia? And with a sweet expression, as if she had expected him all these years, the spirit of Lucy Muir leaves her earthly body and existence and walks out into a fog that waits beyond the doors of the Cottage that magically spring open before them. They walk into an eternity we suspect is very much like our own world--and she is young again and smiling. This simple ghost story is mostly a romance with a fantasy element attached to it, I claim. Incidentally, it is also a fine indictment of the anti-feminism of Victorian times, and of the pretensions of those practicing hypocrisy and/or cowardice. Its theme is having courage to reach for what one desires and not be afraid of time --surely a very strong one for any film. The splendors of the production are evident everywhere, from Ben Nye's makeup to award-caliber music by Bernard Herrmann, to Philip Dunne's brilliant screenplay from the R.A. Dick novel, to Joseph L Mankiewicz's exemplary direction. Eleanor Behm and Oleg Cassini were responsible for the costumes, Charles Lang Jr. the luminous and award-level cinematography. But all the technical aspects are flawless in this film, from the art direction by George W. Davis and Richard Day to the set decorations by Thomas Little and Stewart Reiss. The stars of the film are Rex Harrison as the gruff but lovable Captain and pretty Gene Tierney as strong-willed Lucy Muir. He is occasionally powerful, and enjoys the part intelligently. Tierney is a bit weak-voiced, but very suitable to a Victorian film, and does rather well in the difficult later scenes where she must seem to be old. In the cast are Robert Coote, Edna Best as Mrs. Muir's loyal maid, Natalie Wood as young Anna, Vanessa Brown as her grown-up daughter, George Sanders as the philandering author, Anna Lee as Miles' wife; Isobel Elsom and Victoria Horne as Lucy's overbearing in-laws and Whitford Kane as her Dickensian publisher. This was not as director Mankiewics once claimed merely a project for him; it was a challenge, one that he had not chosen but to which he responded by trying to demonstrate his artistry upon it at every turn. The Cottage works as a strong pictorial locale; the footage has a sea-light, a definite and dense B/W style and carefully-thought-out camera-work that seldom intrudes on the passage of events. This is a fantasy, a situation which robs it of some power at times, adding power at others. the film shows no signs of tarnishing nor of fading nor of losing its relevance to the human condition. "}{"Title":"My absolute favorite movie!","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was about 8 years old, and I fell in love with it. Many years later I decided to buy the movie, and it was the best thing I've ever done. This movie has a great romantic plot that draws the viewer in, and keeps them interested until the very end. A must see, I recommend it for anyone. Rex Harrison does a wonderful job as the ghost, and the other characters - particularly the aunts when they come to bring her home - keep the illusion that he is, in fact, an invisible ghost. Natalie Wood does a lovely job as the daughter Anna - in fact it was well cast. They work well together and help make this movie the most awesome movie ever. "},{"Title":"Kiss her, Rex!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A nice romance calling for a mug of grog and a fuzzy lap blanket. The screenwriters did a find job adapting a charming book and making the characters live on the screen. The sexual tension is understated put still palpable, leaving me frustrated in the end. Kiss her, Rex! You've waited how long? "},{"Title":"One of the best romances ever!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Forget the TV show back in the 60's, take a look at one of the very best romance films in the history of cinema, made in 1946-47.  Rex Harrison and Gene Tierney are perfect in the roles.  Marvelous music and landscape add to their fine acting.  Don't worry about the fact the movie is in black and white.  You won't even notice.  The ending to the film will leave you with a big smile on your face and a big tear in your eye.  They just don't make them like this anymore!! "},{"Title":"A sweet, unassuming movie livened only by the appearance of Rex Harrison","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A terrific love story between stoic Tierney and old salt Harrison. They're wonderful together, to the credit of both actors - they employ completely different styles.I thoroughly enjoyed the scenes with Harrison, as crotchety a character as they come. I was laughing out loud. But when he's not there the only sign of life in this movie is Sanders' palpable smarminess. For all of Tierney's charm, she doesn't have the power to keep the movie going all by herself. This would have been a more interesting movie with someone who could more subtly portray deeper feelings. I'm not saying someone like Greer Garson or even Ingrid Bergman could have improved this movie, but it would have been a great deal more interesting.I had a big problem with the last ten minutes or so. I won't give away the ending, but I will say I had trouble believing the actions of Tierney's character, given the traits she had at the beginning. There isn't enough of a reason for this in the movie, so I have to blame the studio for foisting this kind of an ending upon us.I rated this movie a 7, with pluses for chemistry and the performances of the male leads. "},{"Title":"Down to earth yet rewarding","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Amiable, enjoyable, light fair about a determined widow who refuses to yield to the demands of a grumpy old sea captain who insists on haunting the home he built and died in.The plot is a simple affair from Philip Dunne (adapted from the novel by R. A. Dick), and Mankiewicz's basic direction, along with likable turns from the lead players, helps proceedings nicely. Charles Lang Jnr's photography was nominated for black and white cinematography at the Academy Awards and the production design from Richard Day and George Davis is most pleasing to the eye in a film that is essentially an old fashioned love story, and a most satisfying one.Mr. Mankiewicz's film never asks too much of us, and in turn we get no surprises, just a down to earth plot and two rewarding performances from Gene Tierney an Rex Harrison.Sunday, April 13, 1997 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Chick Flick","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Chick Flick.The performances (other than George Sanders and Nanessa Brown) seem awkward and unrehearsed.The mere mention of the name of Capt. Daniel's book, makes me giggle every time, and he finishes it off with all the naive simplicity of making a bed.I can't believe the Lady Miur wastes the entirety of her beauty, youth, and life because of an untimely death, and one cad. I kept thinking that the ghost of her dead husband was going to show up, and beat the crap out of Rex Harrison.The plot itself is clever, as the contrasting relationship between refined and gruff makes for a captivating and humorous tale. I'm sure the novel was even better.All in all, a good film.  "},{"Title":"ghost","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Natalie Wood, and Gene Tierney give wonderful performances in a classic haunting tale,, a woman writer moves into a haunted house by the sea to get some well needed rest and peace and quiet,, apparently the house is haunted by a ship's captain.. he tries to drive her out at first as he has gotten used to the peace and quiet,, but she is spunky and won't go quietly. the two seem to get along with each other after a while and so they agree on a truce of sorts. later on her finances are dwindling and she needs to raise money , so the captain agrees to let her write his autobiography.. , there is also a man in the picture a live one who wants the young lady and now has to contend with the ghost,, I thought this was a very good movie,, I didn't need any action,, didn't need that many scares either,, I think there were a few,, but overall I enjoyed the picture very well,, as it was told well, and the story had good pacing and moved along quickly so you the viewer were never bored. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Supernatural Fantasy","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is a supernatural fantasy film of a type which was popular in the forties; other American examples include I Married a Witch, Heaven Can Wait (which also starred Gene Tierney), It's a Wonderful Life and Portrait of Jennie. There were also British equivalents such as Blithe Spirit (which also starred Rex Harrison), A Matter of Life and Death and Pandora and the Flying Dutchman (this latter being from the early fifties). The film can, alternatively, be though of as a romantic comedy. Most rom-coms deal with the story of how a couple overcome an obstacle to their love, and in this case the obstacle seems a formidable one indeed- one of them is alive, the other dead. Although the film was shot entirely in California, it is set in Edwardian England. Lucy Muir, a beautiful young widow, moves into a seaside cottage with her young daughter Anna and her maid Martha. She discovers that the house is haunted by the ghost of its former owner, a sea captain named Daniel Gregg. Daniel initially seems like a difficult, testy character, but he soon shows that he has a decent, kindly side to his nature. When Lucy gets into financial difficulties he saves the day by dictating to her his memoirs of his seafaring life and allowing her to publish them and collect the royalties; when the book becomes a bestseller, Lucy becomes a wealthy woman. Lucy and the ghostly Daniel fall in love, but realise that theirs is a hopeless situation, and Lucy forms an attachment to Miles Fairley, a writer of children's stories. There were a number of contenders for the title of most beautiful film star of the forties (Ava Gardner, Jennifer Jones, Ingrid Bergman, Rita Hayworth, Lana Turner, Veronica Lake and others), but had I been a judge in a hypothetical Miss Hollywood contest, my vote would have gone to Gene Tierney. Although her British accent is not always spot-on, the lovely Gene makes an absolutely adorable heroine here. Rex Harrison (generally at his best in comedy, although he could also be good in serious films like The Agony and the Ecstasy) gives a good performance as the salty old seadog Daniel, playing him as a likable rogue. George Sanders was always a good villain, and here plays Miles as a suave but oily charmer; it comes as no surprise when (like a number of characters played by Sanders) he turns out to be an utter cad. There is also a good contribution from Edna Best as Martha; the young Anna is played by an eight-year-old Natalie Wood. (Like Elizabeth Taylor, Natalie was to become so famous as an adult that one forgets she started her career as a child star). I would not rate The Ghost and Mrs. Muir quite as highly as films like It's a Wonderful Life or A Matter of Life and Death, both of which have a greater depth and rank among the best films of the forties, but it is nevertheless a very enjoyable light fantasies. And, as in all the best rom-coms, there is eventually to be a happy ending of sorts. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Possess Your Soul In Patience.","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It's the turn of the century. Gene Tierney is the beautiful widow, Mrs. Muir. More or less thrown out by her priggish older sisters she moves into Gull House, a lonely cottage on the coast, with her young daughter and her accommodating maid. It's a charming, two-story place with a large window and balcony overlooking the foaming breakers, filled with the nautical flotsam of the previous owner, a ship's captain who died at sea.It quickly becomes evident that the place is haunted by the misogynistic captain, Rex Harrison in a dark skipper's uniform and a devilish beard. Only Tierney can see and hear him. She overcomes her initial fear and the two begin to chat in a friendlier manner, although Harrison is always gruff and she is constantly complaining about his blasted language.But she's running out of money. Harrison wants her to keep the cottage and so he helps her write his spicy biography, although hardly anyone can believe she's written such a blasted good, rattling tale. She spurns George Sanders, a caddish seducer (what else?), and gets to keep the cottage, but Harrison disappears for good. Her little daughter grows up into Vanessa Brown, gets married, and Tierney and her maid are left in an empty nest. When she dies, Harrison reappears, takes Tierney's visible spirit by the hand, and they stroll off into the setting sun with quiet smiles.Sounds emetic, doesn't it? It sounds like the kind of movie that, if you're not careful, with either have you puking or experiencing a wetting accident during a fit of laughter.However, it's actually pretty moody and well done, despite the sappy-sounding story. Gene Tierney, never a dynamic actress, gets the job done nicely hear and looks supernally gorgeous, even in her old age, with that bit of powdery white flour brushed delicately into her hair. Rex Harrison does well by the role of ship's captain, even when he begins to melt slightly and treats her less like a habitant of the forecastle and more like the spirited woman she is, even taking to calling her M'dear. No viewer would want anyone but Sanders for the role of the cad. He was perfection itself by 1947. And the supporting roles, even the minor ones, are affecting. Vanessa Brown was a pretty woman and Edna Best is Martha, the stalwart and sympathetic maid. It's certainly one of Bernard Hermann's better scores. Not as startling as Vertigo but a vast improvement over his BROOP-BROOP science fiction scores. It underlines the breath of mystery and slight melancholy that surrounds the place. You can almost taste the salt in the breeze.Trust me, men. Unless Rambo II is your idea of a splendid cinematic experience -- try this. You might like it. "},{"Title":"A quality that is underestimated by the ghostly theme","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The word that best describes Rex Harrison as the Ghost is dynamic and Gene Tierney as Lucy Muir is innocently beautiful in favorable way. Both the Ghost and Mrs Muir compliment & compensate each other. People who would think this movie is too dreary to watch is like judging a book by its cover. This movie has a winning combination with touch of drama, somewhat spooky, a bit comical, but mostly romantic. Only when the Ghost is active or Mrs Muir is interacting with the Ghost are the parts I like best. This is the kind of movie I could watch over and over. The 1968-1970 TV series doesn't even compare to this timeless masterpiece. "}{"Title":"old-fashioned and endearing","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir' is a ghost story but it's not at all a horror film. It's a romantic fantasy that uses the device of a deceased man's spirit to tell its tale. It's also a comedy with many amusing lines and situations, all gentle and good-natured, especially by today's standards. Lucy Muir (Gene Tierney) is a widow who buys a seaside property, not least so she can get away from the two busybody in-laws she's been living with since her husband's death. The nicer she tries to be to them, the more horrible they act toward her. She buys the house even though it is quite obviously haunted by the previous owner, a sea captain named Daniel Gregg. He's a crusty old salt, and his dialogue is full of sailors' jargon (for a more modern-day comparison, think Robert Shaw's Quint in 'Jaws'). Rex Harrison plays Gregg and does a good job; he also reminds me in a way of Clark Gable's Rhett Butler. They both speak bluntly to women and with a great deal of common sense. George Sanders is fine as always in a typical role as a cad, a children's book author who proposes to Lucy but neglects to mention that he's already married. When Lucy runs out of money and is in danger of losing the house, the captain suggests he dictate his life story to her which he is certain will be published as a book; she can claim authorship and live off the royalties, which is precisely what happens. But then she meets Sanders' character and when it appears the two will be married, Captain Gregg graciously steps out of the picture and using his ghostly abilities, removes himself from Lucy's memory so that in the future, their conversations will seem to be only dreams. The best scenes in 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir' are the ones between Lucy and Captain Gregg; they play off each other well, there are some genuinely funny moments and yet their relationship is tinged with melancholy from the start as they each know they can never really be together, at least not until Lucy dies. The film is beautifully photographed; set in turn-of-the-century England, the word 'quaint' comes to mind too, in its best sense. (For instance, Lucy is forever reprimanding Daniel for cursing when he never actually does. I guess 'blast' is supposed to pass for profanity here.) The screenplay is adapted from a novel by Josephine Leslie and it's definitely a woman's picture, though I found it quite enjoyable, something I wish I could say for most of today's chick flicks! "},{"Title":"A Haunting Romantic Epic","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This aging haunting classic has held up well over time. While there is some problems with the music being distracting and off-putting in the beginning and the ghost being a bit artificially tough and discordant, and the daughter's role almost an afterthought, this movie survives nonetheless. This period piece, even though its not particularly fashioned as such is quaint and captivating in its evocation of the 18th century with gas lights and candles and depiction of a time gone from our memories, but still understandable as something that our grandparents or great-grand parents may have lived through. The theme of this movie moves from slightly humorous, a bold depiction of an independent but emotional woman to something even more haunting even beyond that of the ghost. By the time the movie ends, the movie moves in a circle, but the ghost's role in the last part of the movie is something much more unusual than most ghost movies of today. The idea of who we are, what makes us happy, what are dreams and reality, of relationships, of love are all touched on in this movie. It's both funny and serious, a reflection of something much deeper than today's commercial romantic comedies. The movie eventually fast forwards through time, passed years and becomes more than a movie about dealing with ghosts, but with our hopes, dreams, and desires. Eight out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Ideal romantic movie...","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This captures it all. A love that will never be consummated, sexual tension throbbing through every scene, a man's man and a strong beautiful woman who makes her own way in the world.  What more could a woman want in a romantic movie? Gene Tierney is gorgeous in this and the scenery itself is breathtaking, not Cornwall at all, but California standing in for it. The house also is a beautiful old sea captain's cottage but in that way of movie cottages does not quite compute architecturally, but who cares, it all showcases the wonderful Gene and Sexy Rexy as they co-write a novel, he learns to be tender and she learns to swear like a sailor. Natalie Wood plays her daughter as a youngster and George Sanders plays the cad again, if ever a man had a part nailed to perfection it was George playing the sardonic cad. Great script, fabulous music, one of those special movies for a rainy night and a good fire. It ages beautifully. And oh, that final scene! Yes!  8 out 10.  "},{"Title":"The Dream of Marriage","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It is axiomatic that when a character in a movie falls asleep, there is a good chance that what follows is a dream, especially if that person falls asleep in a chair (falling asleep in a bed is too ordinary). And so, when Mrs. Muir, who is a widow, falls asleep in the chair of the allegedly haunted house she is renting, we are suspicious, especially when Captain Daniel Gregg makes an appearance. Is the ghost real, or is she just dreaming him?In any event, they get acquainted. And when she finds she is hard pressed for money, she becomes a ghost writer for this ghost, telling his story as a sea captain. When she falls in love with Miles Fairley, the captain decides to take his leave. He tells her while she is asleep that he is only a dream, and that she wrote the book herself. Now, is this a real ghost telling her this, or is she just dreaming that a ghost is telling her he is a dream?Years later, she sits in the chair and falls asleep again, and so once again we wonder if what follows is another (the same?) dream. The scene that does follow is one in which she finds out her daughter Anna is about to be engaged. Anna and Mrs. Muir have a talk in the kitchen, where it turns out that Anna had seen the ghost of Captain Gregg too, when she was a child, and they discuss whether they both saw a real ghost or simply had the same dream.This is followed by another scene many years later, in which Anna writes that her daughter, Little Lucy (Lucy being the same first name as Mrs. Muir), has married a captain (an airplane captain, but you get the idea). Mrs. Muir is tired and decides to take another nap in that same chair. She falls asleep and dies. Or she falls asleep and dreams that she dies. Or she is still in the first dream, and she dreams that she dies. And by now we are completely confused as to what is real and what is a dream.However we interpret this movie, it has a rather paradoxical attitude about marriage. On the one hand, it follows the usual Hollywood line for that period that marriage is essential for happiness. On the other hand, there is an undercurrent throughout the movie that marriage is not conducive to happiness. In the opening scene, Mrs. Muir announces to her mother-in-law and sister-in-law, with whom she is living, that she is going to get her own place and move out, along with her daughter and her maid. Her in-laws object, suggesting that it would be indecent. To this, Mrs. Muir responds, I've never had a life of my own. It's been Edwin's life and yours and Eva's, never my own. Since there is no indication that her husband was a bad man, the implication would seem to be that there is something oppressive about marriage itself, that it involves the sacrifice of one's life for the sake of others.After Mrs. Muir rents the house, Mr. Coombe, the man who brokered the deal for her, comes to visit her intent on proposing marriage, saying that she needs the protection of a man, which is absurd, coming from someone like him, with his high-pitched voice and nervous manner. Captain Gregg is disgusted, referring to him as a herring-gutted swab, and gets rid of him by causing Coombe's car to start rolling away by itself.After Mrs. Muir writes the book, she takes it to a publisher, where she meets Miles Fairley. She falls in love with him. We are suspicious of him, because he is played by George Sanders, who often plays characters who are smarmy and decadent. She intends to marry him, but it turns out that he is already married with children. Worse yet, his wife knows that Fairley does that sort of thing to women on a regular basis, and it seems to be no big deal to her.In a subsequent scene, however, Mrs. Muir tells Anna she saw Fairley years later at a dinner party, where he cried because his wife had finally had enough and left him. She also mentions that he was bald and fat. But if Fairley had turned out to be a decent man, and had married Mrs. Muir, he would still have become bald and fat, because that happens in a marriage, even a good one.When the old man carves Anna's name into a post on the shore, he tells her it will be there forever and a day. And yet, as the years pass, we see it slowly rot away and fall over. Is this not a metaphor for marriage, which begins with the illusion that love will last forever, only for it to slowly decay and fall apart?Now, we know that the idea is that for a woman to be happy, she must marry the right man, and the right man in this case is Captain Gregg. And so, at the end of the movie, when she dies, and she and Captain Gregg are together again, apparently forever, we know that she is finally happy. And she and Gregg both have their good-looking, youthful appearance, forever apparently. In other words, Gregg will never become bald and fat.The three real men in Mrs. Muir's life, her husband Edwin, Mr. Coombe, and Miles Fairley, were not suitable for her for different reasons, and only a dream-ghost was the right man. The message seems to be that a truly happy marriage is itself a dream, and that in real life, one is better off remaining single. As Mrs. Muir says to her daughter, You can be much more alone with other people than you are by yourself, even if it's people you love. "},{"Title":"Deeper, Richer and More Complex Than Its High Concept Suggests","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I saw The Ghost and Mrs. Muir years ago on television. I was just a kid and I noticed, mostly, the high concept romance A spunky, living, twentieth-century woman is in love with a pre-feminist, sea captain ghost. I enjoyed the film's wit and romance, but then I filed it and forgot about it, thinking of it as a clever concept, but not a classic.Because my own reaction to the film was rather shallow and clichéd, I thought that the film itself was rather shallow and clichéd, that it was just about its obvious wit and romance, with nothing deeper there.I recently rewatched the film. I saw the same amusing, stylish, witty, clever, high-concept romance -- living woman loves ghost -- that I had seen for the first time as a child. But there is a whole 'nother movie here beneath the surface style, a movie of great depth.As soon as the score began, while the Fox logo was still on screen, I was all atremble, as if bewitched, with goosebumps and near tears. That score brought home to me the story and its attendant feelings of profound yearning and mystery.Perhaps I had registered all this when I had seen it as a child, but not consciously.Ken Geist, who offers commentary on the DVD version, said this about the score I can't really say enough about it ... it's haunting; it's the most haunting thing about this ghost picture and he brings to it the same quality of his haunting movie with Hitchcock, 'Vertigo.' I think that Bernard Hermann is a great film composer, from 'Citizen Kane' right through to 'Taxi Driver' and this may be his finest...it's wildly romantic. There is the feminist subtext. Significantly, the film is set in early twentieth century England, the place and time of sufragettes. Women were breaking new ground. Lucy Muir, the lead here, breaks new ground by leaving her in-laws, living alone, and making her own living.Charles Lang's black and white cinematography is perfection, and it serves the story's various elements its spookiness, romance, and humor, in turn -- perfectly.Rex Harrison is a revelation. Yes, this is a romance; it's not great literature. And yet, like great literature, it takes on big, universal themes the passage of time, mortality, yearning, the complexities of love, the limitations of the legendary loves.Harrison's performance serves these themes in this frame perfectly. His Captain Daniel Gregg is a bit of a cartoon, but beneath the cartoon's exaggerations, you sense a real living, breathing, man, a boy who ran away from home and went to sea; his adopted mother yearning for him as his living lover would yearn for him once he died.I can't think of any other actor who could have performed this role with the utter perfection, the combination of intelligence, conviction, generosity, focus and flair that Harrison gave it.Gene Tierney is incredibly beautiful and that makes her believable as the target of the captain's yearning. she doesn't work 100% for me, though. She is perfect in Laura as the beautiful blank screen on which men project their fantasies; she's also perfect in Razor's Edge as a schemer.I never see Tierney connect with the women in her audience, though. I don't sense that she's up there doing what she's doing for *me,* and the rest of the women in the audience, as I do with other female stars, from Garbo to Jane Fonda.I would have liked to have seen Olivia de Havilland in the Lucy Muir part. She has that impossible combination of incredible, Fairy Queen beauty, plus human warmth and spunk so necessary in a romantic heroine.Too, Natalie Wood as Anna Muir is woefully underused. Did director Joseph Mankiewicz not realize what a goldmine of charm and talent Wood was? A scene where Lucy and Anna perform their mother-daughter bond would have added depth to the film.When i saw the film the first time, I had found George Sanders as Uncle Neddy / Miles Fairley to be a shallow snake in the grass and operator.Viewing it this time, though, I see that Miles is as human as Lucy and Daniel, with his own tragic incapabilities. Daniel can't be a real -- flesh and blood -- man; Miles can't be a real -- stand up -- man. Sanders' eloquent face, half supercilious, half tragic -- renders Miles' failed manhood poignant and tragic.Just as Daniel and Lucy yearn for what they can't have -- a flesh and blood romance -- Miles yearns for some impossible romance he can't have, and so he chases women by moonlight, and abandons them in the day.The Ghost and Mrs. Muir highlights gender differences in love. Lucy Muir yearns for a man most women would love to meet -- a manly, strong, competent leader of men who is also dedicated to her, hangs on her every word, helps her around the house -- he even helps her with her in-laws.In helping Lucy, Daniel is not belittling her; he leads her to become her best self. He rescues her financially, but, in that rescue, he reinforces her own strengths, strengths she had not been aware of before him. Finally, he sacrifices himself utterly for her, going so far as to remove her memory of him in order that she can live a happy life without him.What a man. Does he exist? If he did, he'd have a very long waiting list of women trying to get to him. This man may not be just a fantasy in the movie; this man may be a fantasy in life, as well.This film poses the question Is there such a thing as a soulmate? Someone you are destined to meet, no matter what intervenes between you and that person? Does love transcend death? "},{"Title":"Ghost-Writers In The Sky","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It's a wonderful conceit -though no one seems to have noticed it - to have a bona fide ghost dictate a book to a bona fide mortal who then publishes it under her own name and cleans up, giving at once a new meaning to and putting spin on the term ghost-writer, a term applicable mainly to volumes of memoirs/autobiography as in this case when the ghost in question, a sea captain (Rex Harrison) dictates a volume recounting his experiences at sea to the woman who's come to live in his old house (Gene Tierney). Mank had worked with Tierney in Dragonwyck and would work with Harrison again in Escape, Cleopatra and The Honeypot none of which were top-drawer Mankiewicz. You could argue that someone like Edmund Gwen would have been more suited to a crusty yet lovable sea captain but Gwen couldn't cut the romantic angle so Harrison was possibly the better choice though he failed to convince me on either count. On the other hand I've always been slightly bemused by the claims that Harrison was one of the best light comedians around. On the other hand there is no doubt that Gene Tierney did possess a slightly ethereal quality which made her ideal for the 'ghostly' Laura. George Sanders merely phones in his standard suave cad and there must be thousands of slush-pile victims staring in amazement at the way Tierney is able as a complete unknown to march into a publishers with her (technically not even HER) first book in her hand, obtain an audience with a publisher who reads it whilst she waits and agrees to publish it on the spot, that's how we KNOW this is a fantasy. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I don't care what's going on in my life, if this movie is on, it stops. I love this movie. It's beautiful, it's timeless, it's romantic. I love everything about it. It's my all-time favorite movie of all movies. Don't worry about scenery goofs, or Anna's name being written on the pilings facing the land instead of facing the sea, just watch the movie and enjoy the beautiful music, the beautiful love story and the wonderful actors. It's a simple love story. It's got beautiful scenery, and a wonderful score. Gene Tierney is at her best in this film. This is a ten of ten. See this movie. Don't miss it. I can't say enough about it. Timeless, classic, beautiful. "},{"Title":"Very few modern movies come close to this.","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was about 8 or 9 I think, it stuck with me for over 20 years until I was able to get a copy of it about 7 years ago and have since seen it many times since. I was also a huge fan of the TV series, which was also excellent. My childhood memory of this one was not to be disappointed. This is unlike many movies that I saw in my childhood and loved only to be disappointed when seeing it again as an adult. I am very happy to see that it was never ruined by colorisation. It is brilliant as a Black and White movie and would be ruined if colorised like many old movies are. This and the 1939 version of Goodbye, Mr Chips rate extremely highly as my favourite movies of all time.9.5 out of 10 for me. Very few movies come close to this. "},{"Title":"Goosebumps!","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"   This movie is my favourite movie of all time. There are just so many wonderful things about it. First up, is the impeccable casting; the chemistry, particularly between Harrison and Tierney is just electric, and you certainly feel that what they feel towards each other is genuine. This is the basis for what becomes a truly touching romance that gives me goosebumps, every time I watch it.  Rex Harrison is at his charming best as a rugged deceased Sea Captain who haunts a small sea side cottage which is occupied by an independent widow, the impossibly  beautiful Gene Tierney. George Sanders also plays his role to slimy perfection!Another thing that I love about this movie is the haunting score, by Bernard Hermann, the amazing black and white cinematography...I could go on all day about the wonderful aspects of this film! Truly, this is one of the most moving love stories that I have ever seen, and also one of the funniest. I can not recommend this film enough. It is just delightful in every way.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I love the way time passes in this film. The music is very haunting, and Rex Harrison puts forth a wonderful portrayal of a crusty sea captain. The English seaside provides a great setting for a haunted cottage, and the in-laws are so easy to dislike. Gene Tierney as Mrs. Muir, is a beautiful widow, who is very proper, yet grows tolerant of the captains salty ways. I don't think a better film was ever made. I hope they never attempt to remake it, there's no one around that could do this film justice. The breaking surf in black and white and the time worn post with Anna's name inscribed could not be presented with as much impact in color. "}{"Title":"Enchanting Love Story, Withstanding Test of Time","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" England of the early 1900s is the setting for this timeless love story only classic novelists seem able to capture. A young widow breaks free from her overbearing mother and sister-in-law, taking her small daughter and faithful maid servant along to live in a reputedly haunted house by the Seaside.Gene Tierney and Rex Harrison are perfectly cast in the leads, commanding the audience through two full hours. A love that can never be seems stronger than the fleshly affairs and relationships experienced by either of the two. A beautiful score by Bernhard Herrmann becomes particularly enchanting during the climaxing final scene. One of Hollywood's most beautiful endings...have some Kleenex handy! "},{"Title":"average","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This was one of Joseph Mankiewicz's first big hits but it's not as good as some of his later films like A Letter To Three Wives and All About Eve. The movie starts out with the death of Gene Tierney's husband and is she taking her daughter and moving away from her husband's family to the country. Tierney doesn't have much money but winds up renting a house right next to the ocean that everyone thinks is haunted and that is why it is so cheap. Tierney is glad to move into a haunted house and finds that it used to be owned by Rex Harrison, who everyone thought that he killed himself but was actually an accident, and his ghost is actually real. Harrison can let himself by shown when he wants and eventually lets Tierney stay there. It's a pretty good movie but Mankiewicz made some better movies. "},{"Title":"House on the Point of View","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers herein.The Mankiewicz brothers helped elevate film. This is not considered a particularly intelligent work, but it seems so to me. At least the notion of the untrusted narrator is. The story is presented as if it were true, as if there really was a ghost. But the point of view of the camera and subtle twists of direction leave the question of reality open. Perhaps much of what you see, even the existence of the daughter, is 'made up.' The Ghost is made up for the Book, and the Daughter (she of Dead Eye Dick) for the Movie.An example of the subtle wedge her lying lover is a children's writer.I think I liked this story better in its 'Rumor of Angels' and 'Might be Giants' incarnations.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Ghost of Henry Higgins and the Widow Doolittle","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" As a kid I got to had no choice watch the Ghost and Mrs Muir television show. As a kid it was utterly fascinating; of course, as a kid, ghosts are possible. I vaguely knew that it was a weekly version of The Famous Old Classic Film®.This last weekend I got to my choice watch the old classic.I wish I'd stuck to my memories, vague though they are, of the television series.I'd never seen anything, to my knowledge, with Gene Tierney in it before, and she was adorable. I was convinced that she could be a widow with no remarkable remunerative talents.Rex Harrison, though, was entirely too busy acting like Rex Harrison, which is to say proper, stuffy, eloquent and articulate. A sea cap'n, 'e warn't.I actually snickered when the salty tar was chastised by the widow for being ungrammatical while reciting his memoirs. Harrison's version of a grizzled owlde sea cap'n was almost as embarrassing to watch as Gregory Peck's version of the appalachian dirt farmer in The Yearling. Hint to you both dialect is not the boarding-school elocution of slang words.By George, Rex, you didn't get it. You needed Audrey's dialogue coach. "},{"Title":"Pleasant But Disappointing And Boring","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" What a disappointment this was, perhaps because my father raved about this film for years and I finally saw it as an adult and expected more. It was way too slow, especially in the second half of the film.Oh, it's nice to admire Gene Tierney's beautiful face and George Sanders usually plays an intriguing character but the rest is just typical what-I-call Hollywood theology in which everyone goes to heaven or comes back to earth as ghosts. The sad thing is how many people believe that.I would like to have seen more a young Natalie Wood but she disappears early on and doesn't returns until the end when she is grown up. Overall, it's a nice, leisurely-paced romance/ghost story but generally overrated. Sorry, Mrs. Muir. "}]