[{"Title":"Another Sadly Missed Type Of Movie.","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" RKO's Out Of The Past (1947) is regarded by many as the finest Noir ever to come out of Hollywood. But CROSSFIRE, made just prior to it the same year, was a fair contender for that coveted title. Produced by Adrain Scott for RKO, the recognized home of Noir, it was magically photographed in beautifully defined black and white by J.Roy Hunt. Written for the screen by John Paxton from a novel by Richard Brooks it was stylishly directed by Edward Dmytryk and was fleshed out with an imaginative cast headed by the three Roberts - Young, Mitchum and Ryan plus Gloria Grahame, Sam Levene and Paul Kelly.A Jew (Levene) is murdered in a hotel room by anti-Semitic GI Montgomery (Robert Ryan) leading to pipe smoking detective Robert Young investigating three soldiers who are suspects. Interestingly, in the original novel it is a homosexual that is murdered, but in 1947 homosexuality was very much a taboo subject to put on the screen so the murder victim was changed to be Jewish. The change had little effect on the story's impact for it is still a dynamic and potent drama.CROSSFIRE is not only a fascinating well produced motion picture but it also has a fascinating look to it. Taking place entirely at night the deserted dark wet streets, filmed with a bug-eyed lens, together with the shadow filled interiors make for some of the most startling and vibrantly shot sequences ever seen in pictures. Also, though it is sparsely scored by RKO's resident Noir composer Roy Webb there is a thundering and punchy Main Title and a reflective love theme. Webb must have been saving himself for his masterpiece Out Of The Past which would come later that year. Also heard in the night club scenes in CROSSFIRE is the great New Orleans trombonist Kid Ory (1886/1973) And His Creole Jazz Band (uncredited) playing some wonderful jazz numbers. And later in Grahame's apartment Ory can be heard again on the radio playing the marvellous Jelly Roll Morton composition Whinin' Boy Blues which lends a persuasive atmosphere to the drab surroundings.Performances are generally good! Robert Young is excellent in what is probably his best remembered role as the detective. But disappointing and wasted is Robert Mitchum! He doesn't really have very much to do in what amounts to nothing more than being cast in a sombre and subdued role. The acting honours however must go to Robert Ryan's blistering performance as Montgomery the violent Jew hating GI. His sneaky and scary portrayal deservedly earned him an Acadamy Award nomination. Also effective is Sam Levene as Samuels the ill-fated Jew and Gloria Grahame as the girl in the night club who picks up the naive George Cooper. And watch out too for a young Lex Barker in one of his first film appearances.Not as good as the magnificent Out Of The Past that came later that year but still an engrossing and tight little thriller from that once great RKO studio in Hollywood who produced exceptional movies that we can never forget and which now, sadly, Hollywood itself seems to have forgotten. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Noir with a dynamite cast.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  'Crossfire' is a very interesting movie. It begins like a murder mystery, but it becomes obvious very quickly who the murderer is, and the plot becomes more concerned with his motive. And it is his motive which makes the movie so interesting. 'Crossfire' is a message movie but it is also a cracking good drama, and that's what I enjoyed about it. Plus the cast is dynamite - Roberts Preston, Mitchum and Ryan, and the beautiful Gloria Grahame ('In A Lonely Place'). Mitchum doesn't have a big a role as you might expect (the movie was released the same year as 'Out Of The Past' in which he gives a much more substantial performance), but he's always great to watch, and Robert Ryan ('The Wild Bunch') steals the movie as a very nasty piece of work. I find many 1940s romance and comedy movies to be too corny for my taste, but the crime movies are much more to my liking. They are usually grittier and more realistic, and 'Crossfire' is a great example of this. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A gem from the past","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  'Film Noir' is a much-used (and misused), catch phrase, coined to describeHollywood films of the forties and fifties. These films were invariable in black and  white (hence the paucity of such films on Australian commercial TV), and shot  on tiny budgets in a matter of a few weeks. The plots are generally formulaic.  Someone is murdered, someone else will be framed for that murder, and a'dame' figures somewhere in the proceedings. Crossfire is low budget, and shot in black & white admirably so by J. Roy Hunt.  And yes, there's a 'dame' involved. What sets Crossfire apart from most of the other films of that era, is that it's not  just another murder mystery, however well executed. This is a film aboutreligious intolerance. That people are killed is but the flesh on the bones of a  film about (without preaching), racial vilification. The director, Edward Dmytryk was a fine, and now, a sadly neglected director.  He knew how to work within the confines of the studio system, and turn out aquality film like Crossfire The original thrust of the films' message, was,  apparently, about homophobia. This upset the Hays Office. and religiouspersecution was substituted instead. There is not a wasted frame in this picture. It runs a taught 86 minutes. For my  money, Robert Young, who plays the detective charged with solving whomurdered whom, and why, is a standout. This in face of an understated RobertMitcham, and a powerful performance by Robert Ryan as the psychoticMontgomery - think of his role as Claggart, in the film Billy Budd. Believe me when I say that it was truly refreshing to see a film (thank god for late  night TV), where the actors can act, the dialogue is intelligent, and wherecomputer graphics and special effects were not used  as a substitute for plot "},{"Title":"The best years of our livesturned film noir.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" SPOILERS Not only does this movie boasts three Roberts,but it also possesses all that makes a film noir greata murky sticky atmosphere, a fine supporting cast , a lot of characters we remember even if they appear on the screen barely fifteen minutes(Gloria Grahame and her husband for instance).The first scene sets the tonea murder ;we can only see the shadows on the wall.Edward Dmytryk,whose career would dismally end (the likes of Shalako) ,was here at the height of his powershe films his story with a stunning virtuosity and there are unforgettable momentsthe scene in the Jew's apartment seen thru the eyes of the drunken soldier;the way the director films brilliant Robert Ryan ,using dizzying high and low angle shots.He's arguably the stand-out and his performance is really spooky;the conversation during which you can only see Ryan's face in a mirror;all these stairs which seem to be death traps.It seems that these soldiers can only survive in the darkin the nightclubs,in Grahame's seedy apartment,in a movie theater.They are just about at breaking point,as if they had come from hell to wind up in another one.But one should notice that ,at least in the first half of the movie,their camaraderie,their solidarity remain intactbrothers in arms indeed;the police are the enemy.Robert Young's cop is a thousand miles above your usual detective routinethe scenarists achieves the feat of including his own story (actually his grandfather)in this murder mystery.He really pleads for the right to differencetoday the Jews,tomorrow the hillbillies from Tennessee ,then the guys with striped ties...His words have a contemporary feelit's because they don't know the Jews,the fags (check the novel)that some people use them as scapegoats.Robert Ryan's portrayal is one of the most frightening of all the film noir genre.It's interesting to compare his part with the one he plays in Robert Wise's odds against tomorrow(1959).In both movies ,his character is a racist or anti-Semite;in both movies no explanation.Ryan was known for his very liberal ideas,what a clever actor he was! "},{"Title":"Dmytryk transmutes message movie into stylish postwar thriller","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Taut and organically gripping, Edward Dmytryk's Crossfire is a distinctive suspense thriller, an unlikely message movie using the look and devices of the noir cycle.Bivouacked in Washington, DC, a company of soldiers cope with their restlessness by hanging out in bars. Three of them end up at a stranger's apartment where Robert Ryan, drunk and belligerent, beats their host (Sam Levene) to death because he happens to be Jewish. Police detective Robert Young investigates with the help of Robert Mitchum, who's assigned to Ryan's outfit. Suspicion falls on the second of the three (George Cooper), who has vanished. Ryan slays the third buddy (Steve Brodie) to insure his silence before Young closes in.Abetted by a superior script by John Paxton, Dmytryk draws precise performances from his three starring Bobs. Ryan, naturally, does his prototypical Angry White Male (and to the hilt), while Mitchum underplays with his characteristic alert nonchalance (his role, however, is not central); Young may never have been better. Gloria Grahame gives her first fully-fledged rendition of the smart-mouthed, vulnerable tramp, and, as a sad sack who's leeched into her life, Paul Kelly haunts us in a small, peripheral role that he makes memorable.The politically engaged Dmytryk perhaps inevitably succumbs to sermonizing, but it's pretty much confined to Young's reminiscence of how his Irish grandfather died at the hands of bigots a century earlier (thus, incidentally, stretching chronology to the limit). At least there's no attempt to render an explanation, however glib, of why Ryan hates Jews (and hillbillies and...).Curiously, Crossfire survives even the major change wrought upon it -- the novel it's based on (Richard Brooks' The Brick Foxhole) dealt with a gay-bashing murder. But homosexuality in 1947 was still Beyond The Pale. News of the Holocaust had, however, begun to emerge from the ashes of Europe, so Hollywood felt emboldened to register its protest against anti-Semitism (the studios always quaked at the prospect of offending any potential ticket buyer).But while the change from homophobia to anti-Semitism works in general, the specifics don't fit so smoothly. The victim's chatting up a lonesome, drunk young soldier then inviting him back home looks odd, even though (or especially since) there's a girlfriend in tow. It raises the question whether this scenario was retained inadvertently or left in as a discreet tip-off to the original engine generating Ryan's murderous rage. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic film that still holds up 57 years later!","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I first saw CROSSFIRE as a 10-year-old kid in his favorite neighborhood theater in Philadelphia one hot Saturday afternoon. Did I understand it? No, not completely, but one message DID ring through clearly ... that of anti-Semitism, which was alive and well during those years following WWII. But, as I matured, I happened to catch it on not less than three additional occasions, and came out each time with a totally different perspective. Today, at age 67, and having been around the block a few times, I can safely say that there is no room for anti-Semitism today, nor was there in 1947. Of course, to love thy brother is THE way toward a more sensible coexistence... especially in times when the security of ALL is threatened. As for the performances in CROSSFIRE, you couldn't have in any better Robert Mitchum was superb as a placid veteran in the company of Robert Ryan, who was dynamite as his psychotic counterpart who killed Sam Levene just because he was a Jew. Robert Montgomery did quite well as the detective trying to get to the bottom of an apparently senseless crime. This is TRUE film noire, in glorious black and white, short, sweet, and very much to the point. GOD! I LOVE those films from the late-'40s and early-50s! Happy viewing everyone!  "},{"Title":"A viewing treat","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Definitely a must see for all fans of film noir.Thanks to a fine script and crisp, razor sharp direction, a top cast comes together and works like a well oiled clock to produce a crackerjack psychological thriller. Wonderful characterizations articulate the movie's powerful message about the dangers of racial and religious intolerance. It's difficult and almost unjust to single out any one, particular performance because there isn't a weak link in the entire company. But Robert Ryan as the hateful and violent white supremacist is truly spine chilling.Making this film in the 1940s would have taken a lot of courage. Now,all these years later, at a time when contemporary movies are dominated by a ridiculous over abundance of foul language, bare breasts, crummy acting and deafening soundtracks, it's refreshing to get back to the basics of quality film making with a viewing treat like Crossfire.Another low budget gem from the Hollywood archives . "},{"Title":"A study of hate crime through the lens of film noir","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" As a rule, there are few things more dispiriting than Hollywood's attempts to be courageous. Mixing caution with heavy-handedness, message movies pat themselves loudly on the back for daring to tackle major problems. CROSSFIRE is not entirely free from this taint; it includes a sermon on the nature of senseless hatred that is embarrassingly obvious, assuming a level of naivity in its audience that's depressing to contemplate. As late as 1947, it was a big deal for a movie to announce that anti-Semitism existed, and that it was bad. (It was unthinkable, of course, for Hollywood to address the real subject of the book on which the movie was based&#151;its victim was a homosexual.) Nevertheless, thanks to good writing and excellent acting, CROSSFIRE remains a persuasive examination of what we would now call a hate crime.Postwar malaise was one of the major components of film noir, and CROSSFIRE addresses it directly. The film is set in Washington, D.C. among soldiers still in uniform but idle, spending their days playing poker and bar-crawling. Joseph Samuels (Sam Levene), an intelligent and kindly Jew, explains that the end of the war has created a void all the energy that went into hating and fighting the enemy is now unfocused and bottled up. Samuels meets three soldiers in a bar the sensitive Mitchell, who is close to a nervous breakdown, the weak-willed Floyd Bowers, and Montgomery, a tall, overbearing bully who nastily belittles a young soldier from Tennessee as a stupid hillbilly. The three soldiers wind up at Samuels' apartment, where the drunken Monty becomes increasingly abusive, calling his host Jew-boy. Samuels is beaten to death, and Mitchell disappears, making himself the prime suspect for the killing.Unraveling the crime are Detective Finlay (Robert Young), dry and by-the-book, and Sergeant Keeley (Robert Mitchum), a thoughtful and experienced friend who knows Mitchell is incapable of murder. Among the pieces of the puzzle are Ginny (Gloria Grahame), a nightclub hostess who met Mitchell and gave him her apartment key, and Floyd (Steve Brodie), who as a witness to the crime holes up terrified in a seedy rooming house. While there is no real whodunit suspense, the story remains gripping, and the trap laid for the killer is extremely clever.The strong noir atmosphere saves the movie from feeling didactic or sanctimonious. The cinematography is a striking shadow-play, with inky darks and harsh lights, rooms often lit by a single lamp filtered by cigarette smoke. World-weariness is as pervasive as noir lighting. Nothing interests me, Finlay says quietly; To nothing, is Ginny's toast in the nightclub. Gloria Grahame, the paragon of noir femininity, nearly steals the movie with her two scenes. Platinum-blonde, jaded and caustic, she's the quintessential B-girl, poisoned by the stinking gin mill where she works (for laughs, she says bitterly), her sweet face curdling when Mitchell tells her that she reminds him of his wife. Now and then a wistful kindness peeks through her defensive shell, as when she dances with Mitchell in a deserted courtyard, then offers to cook him spaghetti at her apartment. When he goes there, he meets a weasely, crumple-faced man (Paul Kelly) who seems to sponge off Ginny, and whose conversation is a dense layering of lies and false confessions. Gloria blows Mitchell's good-girl wife off the screen in a scene where she's asked to give Mitchell an alibi. Slim and frail in her bathrobe, with her girlish lisp, she lets us see just how often Ginny has been insulted and dismissed as a tramp.Robert Young is a nondescript actor, and he stands no chance against Mitchum's charisma, but he does a good job of keeping his pipe-smoking character, saddled with delivering the movie's earnest message, this side of pompousness. Mitchum, meanwhile, gets some cool dialogue, but not nearly enough to do; still, even when he's doing nothing but lounging in a corner you can't take your eyes off him. The third Robert, Ryan, creates a fully shaded and frighteningly convincing portrait of an ignorant, unstable bigot; we see his phony geniality, his bullying, his resentment of anyone with advantages, his Am I right or am I right? smugness; how easily he slaps labels on people and what satisfaction he gets from despising them.CROSSFIRE's message seems cautious and dated now, though not nearly so much as the same year's A GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT. Finlay's speech about bigotry cops out by reaching back a hundred years for an instance of white victimhood, reminding us that Irish Catholics were once persecuted; next it could be people from Tennessee, he says, or men who wear striped neckties. Or maybe blacks, or Japanese, or homosexuals, or communists? The script seems afraid to mention any real contemporary problems. It sweetens its message by making the Jewish victim saintly, as though his innocence were not sufficient; and it takes care to exonerate the military, having a superior officer declare that the army is ashamed of men like Montgomery, and stressing that Samuels served honorably in the war. Still, it did take some guts to depict, immediately after World War II, an American who might have been happier in the Nazi army, and the movie's basic premise is still valid. If Monty were alive today, he would have gone out on September 12, 2001, and beat up a Sikh. "},{"Title":"Redefining the Enemy","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Unlike most film noir, Edward Dmytryk's Crossfire, adapted from a novel by Richard Brooks, is not nearly as concerned with its murder mystery, which, at first sight, might seem superficially formulaic to the casual viewer, as it is with the complex motives of its characters and the oppressive ambience of its accurately rendered post-WWII setting, evoking feelings of disorientation, loneliness and entrapment. Under its classic noir exterior, it is about hardened and aloof veterans' struggle with postwar reintegration, utterly unable or unwilling to put their traumatic experiences behind them, and about their desperate attempt to redefine their goals. For those who define themselves by who their enemies are, such as hateful loner Montgomery (the brilliant Robert Ryan), this necessitates establishing a new one, a role filled here by Jewish intellectual Joseph Samuels (Sam Levene), who becomes the regrettable victim of a senseless hate crime.At first the film appears to simply be going through the motions After the ambiguously shot opening murder scene all evidence points, for reasons I cannot presently remember, to Corporal Arthur Mitchell (George Cooper). Captain Finley (Robert Young) investigates and is soon joined by the idealistic Sergeant Peter Keeley (Robert Mitchum), who is certain of Mitchell's innocence. Two minor military characters, Floyd Bowers (Steve Brodie) and Bill Williams (Richard Benedict) are also somehow involved. Monty murders the former, while the latter, after a stern, Hugh Beaumontesque talking-to, reluctantly aids Finley and Keeley in setting a trap for the dastardly ne'er-do-well. Or perhaps it was the other way around -- I watch so many movies that Bowers and Williams might as well have been stranded in the South Seas and mistaken for Gods by the natives. Or, possibly, they have to spend a night in a haunted house before they can claim their inheritance, where they find a monkey that can play baseball and helps the local team win some games. At any rate, there's also the obligatory femme fatale Ginny Tremaine (Gloria Grahame) and a compulsive liar (Paul Kelly, delivering a wonderful performance) who might or might not be her husband, and exists mostly for local color and comic relief.However, the real meat of the piece is the complex characterization of the veteran archetypes. Mitchell, for instance, suffers from a classic case of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (often also referred to as `shell shock,' `war neurosis' or `combat stress') and, like many suffering from this condition, is taunted and branded as a coward by his fellows. He has become utterly self-loathing and fears the return to normalcy. The scene in which is wife finally gets him to confront these fears and enables him to return to her (and his art) is one of the film's many highlights. Then there's Peter Keeley, perhaps the most positive military archetype on display here the natural born leader. He is extremely charismatic and persuasive, has great concern and compassion for his fellow soldiers, and manages to bring out these qualities in others. It is Keeley's considerable understanding of both human nature and his compatriots' dilemma that makes him so valuable to Captain Finley, the only other character of equivalent moral fiber. Their polar counterpart is Montgomery, a sadistic, racist bully who vents his frustrations by mocking and humiliating his fellow men. Left without an enemy, he creates elaborate rationalizations to justify his hate for a substitute. This really could be the member of any marginally different group (in the novel, I am told, the victim is a homosexual), but in this case it happens to be a Jew. While one's initial reaction might be that Montgomery obviously fought on the wrong side during the war, it is important to remember that, at the time, anti-Semitism was far from limited to Nazi Germany. Indeed, after World War One, the financial and societal crisis of the Great Depression caused anti-Semitism to reach its zenith, and violent attacks on Jews were quite commonplace in many major cities. Later, the U.S. refused entry to countless German-Jewish refugees, interpreted by Hitler as a clear sign of approval for his Final Solution.Still, as Captain Finley correctly points out, practically anyone would have done as a victim for someone like Montgomery.  "},{"Title":"The depth of Robert Ryan's acting","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Edward Dmytryk directed this shadowy movie about a murder investigation involving demobilized military personnel.  Robert Young gets to lecture us about hatred, Robert Mitchum walks through most of this picture, and Gloria Grahame revisits the feistiness she exhibited in It's A Wonderful Life.  It's Robert Ryan who gets at the heart of the matter anti-semiticism.  He goes so deep into his role as Monty Montgomery (Imagine parents named Lawrence calling their son Larry!), that the drama sits squarely on his shoulders, and he is more than up to the challenge. Without him, the movie would be commonplace.  Ryan has played a number of memorable villains in his day (Bad Day at Black Rock; Billy Budd), but this performance put him on the map.  With Sam Levene as the murder victim.  "}{"Title":"Powerful, well-made but a little overstated","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A bigoted soldier kills a man for being Jewish and tries to pin it on a fellow soldier.  Not as good as the novel it was based on (The Brick Foxhole) in which it was a gay man who was killed...but Hollywood wouldn't touch that in 1947.  That said, it's still a very good film.  The anti-Semitism is handled very well, but it's hammered into the audience that bigotry is bad...well duh!  But this was 1947.  The picture is well-acted by the entire cast (especially Robert Young and Robert Ryan) and the tone is very dark...as it should be.  Very atmospheric too.  A deserved big hit in its day...well worth seeing.     "},{"Title":"Murder and Prejudice","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In the Post WWII, Police Captain Finlay (Robert Young) investigates the murder of the Jewish Joseph Sammy Samuels (Sam Levene) in his apartment after a beating with his team. Out of the blue, soldier Montgomery Monty (Robert Ryan) comes to the apartment and tells that three soldiers &#x96; Corporal Arthur Mitch Mitchell (George Cooper), soldier Floyd Bowers (Steve Brodie) and himself &#x96; had been in the apartment drinking with Sammy, and Mitch would have been the last one to leave the place. Finlay finds Mitch's wallet on the couch and he becomes the prime suspect.Finlay visits Sergeant Peter Keeley (Robert Mitchum) and he tells that his friend Mitch is a sensitive artist incapable to kill a man. Keeley decides to investigate the case to protect and clear the name of his friend. When Keeley discuss the evidences with Finlay, the captain concludes that Mitch did not have the motive to kill Sammy, who was a stranger that he met in a bar. Now Captain Finlay has another suspect and he decides to plot a scheme to expose the assassin.Crossfire is a great film-noir, with top-notch director (Edward Dmytryk) and cast with three Roberts - Robert Mitchum, Robert Ryan and Robert Young; excellent story of murder and prejudice; magnificent screenplay that uses flashbacks to disclose and solve the mystery; and very impressive quotes. The theme &#x96; hatred against Jews &#x96; is unusual and this is the first time that I see a film-noir with this type of sordid story (and without the femme fatale). My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Rancor (Rancor) "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Noir.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I haven't read the source, Richard Brooks' novel The Brick Foxhole, which I hope is not as infelicitous as its title, but I understand the original villain was a homophobe not an anti Semite. (And to be honest, Sam Levene is written as a gay guy who picks up a drunken soldier.) But, okay, you have to go with the flow. Consider 1947. Not even anti-Semitism has been treated on screen yet. Many of the people responsible for contemporary movies were themselves Jews but anti-Semitism had been verboten for years because it was considered unpleasant. So we can hardly blame the makers of this film for not leaving the victim a homosexual. Now that's REALLY unpleasant -- and besides there might have been many among the audience rooting for Robert Ryan to get away with it. We are by no means free of prejudice but we've still come a long way since 1947.Watching this again for the first time in years I was impressed with the rather slow pace of the first half of the movie, the many shots of two people talking, the shadows, the time that passes between the question and the answer, the uninspired editing. But I could live with that because of the film's subject matter and because of a few other things.One of the things that keep me glued to events as they unfold so deliberately is Robert Ryan's performance. The guy does a splendid job. At times he can seem thoughtful, cheerfully subordinate and helpful to the police -- Any way I can help, yes sir. Then, alone or with another soldier, the simmering hatred rises to the top, not so much through what he says but the way he LOOKS. That scowl, that penetrating stare, those dark eyes glittering. Wow.The film has taken a lot of heat because of Robert Young's preachy speech about his Grandfather's murder. That doesn't bother me at all, although I guess Dmytryk didn't have to have Young shove his face into the camera while talking about MICKS and PAPISTS. Still, taking the context into account, it's one of the more shocking moments of the film. Part of its impact is due to Young's almost casual delivery of the message, and part of it is due to the message's not having been heard on screen before.Another feature of the film that transforms it almost into the surreal is the Paul Kelly character and his relationship to the whore Gloria Grahame. Holy Guacamole, what elliptical conversation Kelly is given to. You know what I told you? All those things I just told you? They're all lies. His character neatly crosses pathos with creepiness. It's impossible to know what to make of him. He adds virtually nothing to the plot but the movie would be a lot less without his presence.It's a moody, murky film. Its people live in the dark. And there is murder afoot. Practically no one screams or shouts. The horror that these men have experienced and that some of them still carry with them like malaria seems just beneath the surface.See it if you have a chance. "},{"Title":"Great Message, Great Symbolism, Very Good Movie","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire (1947)Great Message, Great Symbolism, Very Good MovieIt's hard to go totally wrong with Robert Mitchum, Robert Young, and Robert Ryan all together as the three male leads, and with director Edward Dmytryk pulling together a complicated murder and detective yarn. That's reason enough to watch it once and even twice.You might need a second look to fully catch the plot as it is explained (too much) or shown in flashback (also too much) because it's a little complicated without good reason. But it makes sense overall, and we see early on (too early probably) who the culprit is, and even why.Besides the drama, well done in typical noir lighting and filled with those short quips that make post-war films dramatic, there is the social message, the anti-anti-Semitic point of it all. It only borders on preachy once or twice, and it's such an obviously good point to make we watch it being made approvingly and wait for the plot and the dramatic acting to take front row. Which they do, especially Young, who is a brilliantly laconic and patient detective, and Ryan, who is mean in a believably crude and angry way (Ryan is good at that, his typecasting reasonable). Mitchum mostly plays a watered down version of what he is famous for, and the fourth known acting force, Gloria Grahame, is a great, brief, presence even if slightly dispensable.Though the movie is dominated by the sequence of events and by the message, both of which grow in force as we go, it is really easy to watch just for the lighting, camera-work, and acting, including the classic fight scene that opens the first few seconds of the film, all done with shadows. The archetypes of soldiers presented is very deliberate, and this might be something people at the time were very familiar with and could relate to as much as the anti-Semitism thread. The shell-shocked soldier rendered helpless (but still intrinsically capable), the modest youngster without confidence (but capable, too), and the weary but outwardly able veteran are all there. And of course, the angry, violent soldier who is a product of the war, too. This last is also a responsibility of society--even the army goes all out to make good on the injustices here, not just because they are criminal, but because they stem from the wear and tear of a long awful war.The audience then, more than now, could really get, but it's there to appreciate still. "},{"Title":"Good movie, could have been great","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire feels like an underdeveloped masterpiece -- it's well acted and beautifully filmed, but thinly written and way too short. As is, it's just a decent police procedural with hints of film noir (at its zenith in 1947) and social commentary (also trendy at the time) thrown in for good measure. It's remembered today as one of the first two Hollywood films to deal with anti-Semitism, and as being much better than the similarly-themed Gentleman's Agreement (no mean feat). But its real subject is the difficulty that WWII soldiers, as trained killers, were having as they made the transition to civilian life. (For a more genteel take on this topic, try The Best Years Of Our Lives.) A man is beaten to death in the first few frames of the film. We do not see his attacker. The movie is about the investigation of this murder, which is actually pretty straightforward, but it takes some unnecessary detours, like when the main suspect, a depressed soldier, winds up in the apartment of Gloria Grahame, a dance-hall hooker with a really weird pimp played by Paul Kelly. There's also a civics lecture halfway through the movie that slows the proceedings to a crawl, and the ending is tidy enough for a cop show. But otherwise it's a pretty decent mystery. Still, what a great noir it could have been. Director Edward Dmytryk drops a few hints at the subject of the original novel -- homosexuality, not anti-Semitism -- like when sadistic creep Monty seethes at the image of his friend Mitch talking with a strange man at a bar. And the cast is excellent. Robert Ryan makes for a very credible cretin, and even becomes a little sympathetic in his final scenes, not unlike Peter Lorre as the child murderer in M. He deserved an Oscar but lost to Edmund Gwenn that year (you can't beat Santa Claus). Robert Mitchum is onhand as a soldier friend of the accused killer. Was Mitchum a great actor or a great star? Someone else can figure that out, but his sleepy eyes and bemused half-smile work very well here since they imply that his character knows something everyone else doesn't. (And he does.) And Robert Young, as the detective assigned to the murder, is surprisingly gritty, discarding his usual avuncular affability even when he has to deliver the civil-rights sermon midway through the picture. There's no question that Bogart or Tracy would have been brilliant in the role, but neither of them were at RKO in 1947 so you'll just have to deal with Dr. Welby. Still, Young is good enough to make you wish someone had cast him in a detective drama instead of Father Knows Best, which he hated and which drove him to alcoholism and suicide attempts. The man deserved better than smarm and Sanka. "},{"Title":"Cradle Of Fear.","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A man by the name of Joseph Samuels is found brutally murdered in his apartment. It would appear that Samuels was visited by a group of drunken soldiers the previous evening, and with one of them seemingly missing, the evidence certainly implicates the missing soldier. But as detective Finlay digs deeper into the case he finds that they could be barking up the wrong tree, and that this crime is dealing with something desperately sad and vile; anti-Semitism.Crossfire was born out of the novel written by Richard Brooks, adapted by John Paxton and directed by the shrewdly excellent Edward Dmtryk. Crossfire (originaly titled Cradle Of Fear) is a taut and gripping picture that boldly tackles anti-Semitism. Tho the makers were forced to tone down the story from the original source, the novel is about homosexual hatred as opposed to anti-Semitism, what remains, largely due to RKO supremo Dore Schary and producer Adrian Scott, is a sort of creeping unease that drips with noirish style.The cast features three Bob's; Young, Mitchum and Ryan, with noir darling Gloria Grahame adding the emotional female heart. Tho only third billed, it's Robert Ryan's picture all the way, his portrayal as the bullying, conniving Montgomery is from the top draw and perfectly showcases the talent that he had in abundance. Ryan had good cause to give Montgomery some of is best work for he had served in the Marine's with Richard Brooks himself, both men having discussed the possibility that if the novel was to be made into a film, then Ryan wanted in and to play Montgomery. Thus the genesis of Ryan's career as weasel types was well and truly born!Gloria Grahame also puts in a wonderful and heartfelt turn, which is all the more remarkable since she was being plagued by her abusive husband at the time, one Stanley Clements. He was known to be violent towards her and his constant presence around the set irked other members of the cast, but Grahame, probably channelling real life emotion, became the character of Ginny and shone very bright indeed. Both Bob Mitchum and Bob Young come out with flying colours as well, to really seal the deal on what proves to be a smartly acted picture. Tho Crossfire was released before the other 1947 anti-Semitic picture, Gentleman's Agreement, and raking in over a million and a quarter dollars at the box office, some of its thunder was stolen by the Academy Award winning picture from Fox Studio. Nominated for Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor (Ryan), Best Supporting Actress (Grahame), Best Director and Best Screenplay, it won nothing. But critics of the time hailed it as a brilliant shift in American Cinema, and today it stands tall, proud and dark as a bold and excellent piece of work. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Corrosive Nature Of Hate","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire is one of those films from the Forties that is crying for a remake, if for no other reason than maybe it's time it should be done as originally written. The story on which the film is based is about the killing of a gay man. But anti-Semitism was certainly a hot topic in the days of post World War II with the holocaust fresh in everyone's mind.In the Lee Server biography of Robert Mitchum, Edward Dmytryk the director was interviewed and and bluntly said that the film could never have been made about a hate crime against gays at the time with The Code firmly in place. It could have been though because the character of Robert Ryan is such an equal opportunity hater of everything that deviates from his societal norms.Mitchum was told in no uncertain terms that he was in the film strictly for the ride. Robert Young was cast as the Washington, DC Police homicide captain who catches the case and while Mitchum was second billed, he knew from the beginning the film would belong to Ryan. But he was RKO's new star by dint of his performances in The Story Of GI Joe and Till The End Of Time so he was there for box office insurance. Mitchum's part was as a sergeant and friend of the original suspect in the case, George Cooper.Crossfire is not a whodunit, even though we don't see the crime it becomes clear that Montgomery is the one who kills Sam Levene, the quintessential Jewish salesperson. And it becomes clear to Young and Mitchum that Ryan is the guilty party almost as fast as it does to the audience. It becomes just a question of getting the evidence.Ryan earned one of several Academy Award nominations the film garnered, his Best Supporting Actor category. Though he lost to Edmund Gwenn, the film was Ryan's breakthrough role. Similarly Gloria Grahame was nominated for a brief part as a party girl for Best Supporting Actress, but she lost to Celeste Holm for Gentleman's Agreement. In fact Crossfire ran up against Gentleman's Agreement and lost for Best Picture and Best director for Dmytryk to Elia Kazan. It's fifth nomination for Best Screenplay and Crossfire came up short again with the winner being Miracle on 34th Street.Gloria Grahame also had her own problems on the set which spilled over from her personal life. She was having big trouble with her then husband Stanley Clements who was an abusive husband. He was hanging around the set causing Ed Dmytryk a lot of problems. Fortunately Grahame's part was a small one. In fact the whole film was shot in typical RKO economy style in 20 days.Robert Young has a particularly fine scene with William Phipps a young kid from Tennessee in Mitchum and Ryan's outfit who Ryan constantly belittles. Young is most eloquent in speaking about the corrosive nature of hate and how it affected his family as Irish Catholics who came over in the potato famine years. It was one of Robert Young's best moments on screen in his long career.As fine a film as Crossfire is, it's time to be remade as a story about an anti-gay hate crime. Especially with the real killing of Barry Winchell from the last decade and the debate about gays in the military.That's a film who's time has come and almost gone. "},{"Title":"Really good. Impressed.","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I was also especially pleased to find Robert Young in the lead role, as the cool as a cucumber detective in this. He smokes his pipe, kinda looks down his nose at the perp, and then pulls out the evidence, generally to devastating effect. Having seen him mostly as either Marcus Welby, Sanka-man or Father Knows Best-I thought it was neat watching him play a very serious role in a convincing manner.Robert Mitchum is alright, basically does an investigation and glowers and so forth. He's much better in this than he was in Racket-which was a rush job(and then some) that just didn't work. This one does.Finally high marks to Robert Ryan(who was Also in the Racket). In that one, he over-acted. In this one, he plays against type as a racist violent man, and is positively scary. He was nominated for the Oscar that year and prob. shoulda won it. This was a good good actor.***1/2 outta ****. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Hate is like a loaded gun.","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire remains one of the best Hollywood message movies because, unlike the admirably intentioned Gentleman's Agreement, which it beat to theatres by a few months, it chooses to send its message via the form an excellent noir thriller rather than have an outraged star constantly saying It's because I'm Jewish, isn't it? It's much easier to get the message that hate is like a loaded gun across when the dead bodies are actual rather than metaphorical. Somewhat shamefully, the brief featurette on the Warners' DVD doesn't mention that novelist Richard Brooks disowned the film over the shift from a homophobic murder to an anti-Semitic one, but it's interesting to note that while the victim is killed primarily because he is Jewish, there's little doubt in Sam Levene's performance that the character is in fact also gay &#150; not a mincing caricature, but there's definitely a two lost souls aspect to his scenes with George Cooper's confused soldier. There's not much of a mystery to who the murderer is even though the killing is carried out in classic noir shadows, the body language of the killer is instantly recognisable, but then the film has its characters drift to the same conclusion before the halfway point the tension comes from proving it and saving the fall guy.There's an element of Ealing Films to the gang of soldiers teaming together to get their buddy out of a fix (you could almost see that aspect as a blueprint for Hue and Cry), but the atmosphere is pure RKO noir. Set over one long sweltering night, the film has a great look filled with deep dark blacks and shadows born as much out of economy as style (it cut back on lighting time and allowed director Edward Dmytryk more time to work with the actors) and the excellent cast make the most of the fine script a laid-back but quietly charismatic Robert Mitchum, Robert Young's Maigret-like detective, Gloria Grahame's tramp and the perpetually creepy Paul Kelly as her compulsive liar admirer, a guy who tries on stories the way other people try on ties. But the lasting impression is of Robert Ryan's excellent performance as a guy who could do with a good leaving alone as he does his best to help the wrongly accused man all the way to death row. A big surprise hit in 1946, as a reward, Dmytryk and producer Adrian Scott found themselves investigated by the HUAC, which itself had a notable tendency to target Jews. So much for crusading&#133; "},{"Title":"Hate and prejudice","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk's Crossfire is a rare film coming from the Hollywood of the 1940s. This was groundbreaking territory for Mr. Dmytryk and the studio because of what the director and his adapter, John Paxton, decided to do with the novel, in which the film is based.If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading now.Richard Brooks novel was about the killing of a gay soldier. In the movie, the subject matter was turned around to prejudice against Jews, a theme that was taboo during that time in the American cinema. It's to Mr. Dmytryk's credit to have had the courage to get involved with this film project, at all.The movie is an outstanding piece of film making because the way the director presents it. Obviously influenced by the film noir style, we are taken to the Washington of the post war. The opening scene about the brutal murder of Samuels shows such unusual cruelty being inflicted to a decent man, who we don't know yet, or why has been killed, but who didn't deserve to die in such horrible fashion.The basis of the murder is prejudice, pure and simple. We realize how in the mind of an ignorant man, the mere fact of being successful and different, plays in the mind of the assassin. Samuels stands as the sacrificial lamb, the same way the gay soldier is the victim in the novel. The parallels are well drawn.This film makes compelling viewing because of the brilliant star turn of Robert Ryan, as Montgomery. Mr. Ryan was an actor that always played interesting roles, but never so well as in Crossfire. Also, there is a great appearance by Gloria Grahame, as Ginny, the prostitute with her heart in the right place.The rest of the cast play as an ensemble. Robert Young, as the police detective in charge of the investigation plays is a decent man who has known prejudice first hand in his own family and speaks loudly against it. Robert Mitchum plays a cool Sgt. Keeley who is deeply touched by the crime when one of his men is accused of committing it. Sam Levene is excellent in his small role of Samuels.This is a film to watch because of it probably the first to speak out loud against ignorance. "}{"Title":"Discomforting","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Crossfire's discomforting feel and subject matter are most convincingly brought forth by the Rashomon-like dedication to subjectivity that we see in the film's first half.  By the time that we are sure of the murderer's identity, the film has evolved into straight narrative, which is perhaps required for the film's message of desire for brother/sisterhood to be successfully transmitted.Most intriguingly moody was the character Mitchell, whose victimization - marked by post-War disorientation, loneliness, and uncertain marital relations - stood out from that of his fellow soldiers.  No wonder that the film's initial victim, a veteran whose murder the story was built around, was able to break through Mitchell's fog and help him verbalize his sense of bewilderment.I found Robert Young's detective to be keen, aware of his own weaknesses and strengths in his job, as dedicated to his work (and keeping his pipe lit) as the servicemen were to theirs (although in the film's Washington DC, cops and MPs were the heavies, always keeping an eye on the soldiers who were just marking time, no longer having anything positive to contribute to society.)Crossfire moved along at a steady pace, never rushed.  The editing was pleasingly crisp, notably superior to most films of it genre, with superb matched action shots.  Long takes and invisible camera movement were successfully employed during lengthy monologues.Whatever the relationship might have been between Paul Kelly's character, Mr. Tremaine, and Gloria Graehme's Ginny, his inventions made for comic relief.SPOILER  Mitchell is hiding out in a movie theater, sitting in the last row of the balcony.  His face is blank, lifeless, uninterested in the cinema, with its sweet orchestral soundtrack.  Unbeknownst to Mitchell, his wife climbs the balcony steps, seeking him out.  The music builds to a crescendo as Mrs. Mitchell approaches her husband.  He turns to screen left, his face revealing surprise and a never before seen smile as he sees her.  The two embrace wordlessly as the music reaches its peak intensity.  One soundtrack joins two levels of film.  Masterful.  "},{"Title":"Cracking noir thriller with socio-political moral","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Brilliant thriller, deserving far more fame, Mitchum and Ryan are awesome in their starring roles, as is the entire supporting cast. A truly gripping film noir featuring some wonderfully images and some great dialogue, at the heart of it all is a strong message of tolerance and understanding. Based on a novel concerning homophobia, this movie attacks post-war anti-emitism, and all intolerance and hatred, with considerable power. Though parts may seem a little preachy to modern audiences, it still has the power to shock, and works very well as a thriller in its own right. A credit to all involved. "},{"Title":"One of the finest film noirs ever made","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I can't begin to put into words the effect that this film has. It is superbly done and has a dynamite cast featuring the three Roberts, Robert Young, Robert Mitchum and Robert Ryan and the incomparable Gloria Grahame, possibly the most beautiful woman on the planet in 1947. Many think that the movie Gentlemen's Agreement was the first to address the problem of anti-semitism, but few realize that Crossfire came first. It is a classic example of the dark, sullen, shadowy and gloomy atmosphere that film noir is noted for. It is riveting from beginning to end and worth watching again and again. Grahame appears only briefly, but her performance as Ginny Tremaine leaves the viewer clamoring for more of this lethally beautiful woman. It is a must see for all fans of film noir. "},{"Title":"Ignorance, Intolerance & Irony","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire is ostensibly a murder mystery but what distinguishes it from other similar movies of the period is the killer's motive, which is anti-Semitism. The story highlights examples of the kind of ignorance which fuels bigotry and contains references to a hillbilly and an Irish immigrant who also suffered maltreatment because of their ethnicity.The movie's plot is based on Richard Brooks' novel called The Brick Foxhole which is about a hate crime where the victim was gay. It's ironic that this story about a form of intolerance should be met with intolerance by the censors who stipulated that, for the screen version, the type of bigotry involved should be changed to anti-Semitism. Another irony is the behaviour of a soldier who seems fiercely proud of having served in a war against the Nazis and yet embraces their hatred of Jews. The director and producer of this movie also suffered another type of intolerance when they were blacklisted after being called to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee. All these points just seem to underline the deeply entrenched and intractable nature of the whole problem of bigotry as depicted in this movie.When Police Captain Finlay (Robert Young) investigates the murder of Joseph Samuels (Sam Levene), he discovers that on the night when he was killed, Samuels had been socialising with a group of soldiers and one of these, Corporal Arthur Mitch Mitchell (George Cooper) is quickly identified as the prime suspect. Further information is also gathered from Montgomery (Robert Ryan) who is another of the soldiers who was present that night and Sergeant Keeley (Robert Mitchum) who's a friend of Mitchell. Keeley, with the help of some other soldiers, then searches for Mitchell and when he finds him, hears his account of what he did on the night of the murder including his meeting with a dance hall hostess called Ginny Tremaine (Gloria Grahame).Keeley helps Michell to avoid being arrested and tries to identify the murderer. Ginny Tremaine is questioned but her information is insufficient to prove Mitchell's innocence but Finlay's investigations lead him to recognise the motive for the crime and subsequently, he sets up an elaborate trap which leads the real culprit into exposing his own guilt.Crossfire is a movie with a message and the identity of the murderer is revealed at a very early stage in the story. The message is conveyed in a way which was, no doubt, appropriate for the period in which it was made but by today's standards seems rather heavy handed. The cinematography by J Roy Hunt is just wonderful with low key lighting and creative use of numerous strategically placed table lamps combining to evoke a look which is perfectly compatible with the drama being played out on screen.Despite it being a low budget production, Crossfire was a great box office success and benefited from having an absorbing and very relevant story with a marvellous cast, two of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for Best Supporting Actor (Robert Ryan) and Best Supporting Actress (Gloria Grahame). The additional nominations for Edward Dmytryk (Best Director), producer Adrian Scott (Best Picture) and John Paxton (Best Writing, Adapted Screenplay) are just further evidence of the positive recognition which this movie justifiably received. "},{"Title":"Truly Strange, Brilliantly Acted and Fascinating","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" **** SPOILERS THROUGHOUT **** This is a very strange film - particularly for its time - in every respect. For six years, American movies had shown American soldiers as everybody's son, brother, father.In movies like The Best Years of Our Lives and Til the End of Time, our hearts are tugged by the difficulty that the sweet returning soldiers have in adjusting to peace and their families. Yet in this same year, this film shows soldiers as a mix of people rather worse than the viewer - one message of this film is - lock up your daughters. Even the good soldiers - with plenty of time on their hands - are gambling all the time, getting stupefyingly drunk, and are wholly indifferent to whether they even have wives any more. And their reaction to the police investigating a murder is -- to conspire against them.Mitchum, the most sympathetic soldier says things like I don't know if my wife wants to make a go of it now after the War. Haven't seen her in two years. Do I care? Not really. Maybe we'll make a go of it, maybe not. Another soldier is shown as unusually sensitive because after years away, he would like to see his wife again.Later, when this soldier states at the police station that he spent the evening at a whore's home - without knowing his wife is sitting just behind him, there seems to be no question whatever that his wife will be fine. Indeed, she is - I guess it's Hey, soldiers will be soldiers.The police detective played by Robert Young who is trying to crack a murder case, states convincingly and with infinite weariness about someone's account of their actions on the night in question, Do I care? No. I don't really care about anything any more. I've done this too long, I guess. A man shows up at the whore's apartment. He says I'm just a man like you, interested in the whore. Then he says, No that's a lie, I'm her husband. I'd like to be in the military, I was turned down before. Then he says, No, that's a lie, why would I want to be a soldier? He goes through another series of lies when the police ask him who he is. To the end of the movie, we haven't a clue who he is or why he is there!He's one of the strangest characters in the history of movies! A man stands with his girlfriend at a bar talking to four soldiers, when a clumsy soldier knocks a drink onto his girlfriend. She leaves to change her dress - and is right back wearing another, no problem. Yet the man doesn't leave with his girlfriend - who simply disappears - but instead follows one of the soldiers when he leaves to go to another area of the bar! The man then extrapolates from the minimal information he's learned about the soldier -- to philosophize grandly about the problems of returning soldiers -- and immediately invites the soldier home because he is drunk and feels sick. This is strange stuff.Similarly, a dance hall girl is irritated by the sentimental soldier who would like to take her out for a real dance - and dinner maybe. Yet she does dance with him - and immediately gives him the key to her home! Were people in the late 1940s always urging soldiers to come to their homes after they just met them? Robert Ryan kills his host, a stranger, when he's enraged that the Jewish host tries to get the steadily drunker Ryan out of his home. The reason for the murder? No Jew tells me how to drink. How to drink? Huh? What does that mean? This movie is always off-kilter, quite deliberately so - the soldiers act consistently with total complete defiance of the law, and all the characters are as cold and tough as any movie I've ever seen.And yet the movie is utterly gripping! You simply have no idea how these people are going to act - or what new bizarre character is going to pop up - without anyone thinking the person's actions are strange in the least - e.g., the wife's behavior.The acting is about the finest I'e ever seen - from Robert Young, Robert Ryan, Gloria Grahame (who earned an Oscar nomination), Paul Kelly and other actors I'd never heard of.I'd never heard of this movie - and it's a complete delight that I've discovered one that I shall want to see again and again and again. it's really strange but impossible to look away from because you've no idea what these creatures will do next. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Film Noire Films!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire is remembered not so much for the fact that its three stars all had the first name Robert but as being one of the first Hollywood films to deal with anti-semitism.The story opens with the murder in silhouette of a man whom we later learn is a Jewish man named Joseph Samuels (Sam Levene). Pipe smoking police Captain Finlay (Robert Young) is assigned to the case. An ex-soldier, Montgomery (Robert Ryan) comes upon the murder scene and we learn through flashback that he had met Samuels in a bar along with other soldiers who were in the process of being mustered out of the service following WWII.According to Montgomery, he and pal Floyd Bowers (Steve Brodie) had followed Samuels and Cpl. Arthur Mitchell (George Cooper) to Samuels' apartment for drinks. Montgomery tells Finlay that Mitchell left the apartment first and that he and Floyd followed soon after with Samuels still alive and well.Unable to locate Mitchell, Finlay suspects him of the murder. He enlists Sgt. Peter Keeley (Robert Mitchum) to help him locate Mitchell. Mitchell meanwhile has been wondering the streets in a dazed state. He meets prostitute Ginny (Gloria Grahame) in a bar and strikes up a friendship. She gives him a key to her apartment and he goes there to rest. Unexpectedly a man (Paul Kelly) turns up looking for Ginny. Mitchell, still in a daze, leaves and goes back to meet Keeley and his pals. Keeley manages to keep him from the police and hides him in an all night movie house.From Mitchell's perspective we learn that Montgomery hates jews and is probably the killer. Finlay begins to focus his investigation on Montgomery trying to prove his guilt. He arrangers to have one of the soldiers, a kid named Leroy (William Phipps) set a trap for Mongomery.Crossfire is considered to be one of the best of the film noire genre. In fact it garnered several Academy Award nominations including Ryan and Grahame for best supporting actors. It was made on a modest budget in about three weeks.It has all of the elements of classic film noire, the shadows, low key lighting and the story playing out mostly at night. The requisite femme fatale of the piece is Grahame's Ginny who plays a minor role but is nonetheless your classic femme fatale. The unnamed character played by Paul Kelly (in an excellent bit) has been chewed up and spit out by Ginny and was she about to do the same to Mitchell?Robert Ryan steals the picture as the brutal Montgomery although it would type cast him in similar roles for years to come. Robert Young makes a good low key detective but Robert Mitchum has little to do other than befriend the Mitchell character. Others in the cast are Jacqueline White as Mitchell's wife, Lex Barker (who would go on the following year to play Tarzan) as one of Mitchum's soldier pals and Richard Powers (who was previously known as Tom Keene) as Finlay's assistant.Director Edward Dmytryk would shortly run afoul of The House Un-American Committee as having communist affiliations and spend a couple of years in jail. "},{"Title":"Flawed","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A civilian is brutally murdered and the police think a soldier did it. But which one of the returning servicemen is it.Is this a message movie or a noir. The two co-exist none too well due to an over-long, heavy-handed scene between detective Finlay (Young) and the hapless Le Roy (Phipps). The tone is low-key, but preachy nonetheless. Unfortunately, even the most worthy message can be undercut by a protracted delivery, as it is here. Too bad, screenwriter Paxton couldn't work his message more organically into the action, instead of interrupting it with what amounts to a static pulpit scene that almost has Young facing the camera.The movie's reputation rests mainly on its three noir icons. Unfortunately, Mitchum isn't given much to do, while Ryan does well enough with a role that still fails to rise above racist stereotype. Grahame, however, is given a real chance to show why she's a noir favorite. The scene where she defends her dignity before the eyes of the law (Finlay) is a little gem of wounded pride. And just as affecting is an unheralded George Cooper as the befuddled Mitch. In fact, his ships in the night scene with Grahame turns a potential clich into a touching experience. I wonder what became of him. All in all, it's apparent that director Dmytryk's operative instruction is to low-key it, which an emotionless Robert Young, for one, really takes to heart.The movie itself generates some suspense and has all the visual trappings of noir, but the characters remain little more than instruments of the message. An interesting exception is Paul Kelly's husband. What a strange character who kind of drifts in and out as if he's trying to find the right set. Too bad writer Paxton didn't extend that wild card imagination more generally. Anyway, it looks to me like too many well-meaning folks have confused the worthiness of the message with that of the movie, which 60 years later still looks like a flawed thriller to me. "},{"Title":"Riveting Film Noir","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Robert Young plays a police detective trying to solve a man's murder. All the clues seem to point to a young soldier (George Cooper) who has been having issues lately and was drinking heavily the night of the murder. But the soldier's friend (Robert Mitchum) doesn't believe he's guilty so he investigates as well. Through a series of flashbacks we see what happened and discover the real murderer is an anti-Semitic soldier played by Robert Ryan.Gritty and powerful film noir with a wonderful cast. The Roberts (Young, Mitchum, Ryan) are all extraordinary, although Mitchum much less so. That isn't a slam on him. It's just the part isn't as interesting as the other two. Nice support from Gloria Grahame, Steve Brodie, Sam Levene, and Paul Kelly. George Cooper is a little too fidgety for my tastes, though. This was his only major film role. I've seen other types of performances like this in older films and it's a personal peeve of mine that can make it hard for me to enjoy the film sometimes. What I mean is a guy (usually dark-haired for some reason) who seems sweaty, nervous, and does little things like gulping a lot or making weird faces to show you how conflicted he is. Five or ten years later he would probably be heralded as a method actor. Personally I hate it. This is possibly why I gave the film a slightly lower rating the first time I saw it years ago. But upon rewatching, it didn't bother me as much and I enjoyed the film even more. It's a beautifully shot film noir with a terrific script and excellent acting. Definitely a classic everybody should see. "},{"Title":"Story Of Hate.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk directed this landmark film noir about the brutal murder of a Jewish man that points to the guilt of one of a group of soldiers. Robert Young plays Homicide detective Finlay, who believes the murder to be anti-Semitic in motive, though can't understand why. Robert Mitchum plays an army sergeant who conducts his own investigation, that leads to a disturbed and hate-filled soldier played by Robert Ryan, though another soldier is also suspected, and the detective and sergeant try to prove his innocence, and trick Ryan into a confession. Intriguing and bold thriller has fine direction and writing, with equally good acting by the lead actors(all named Robert!) "},{"Title":"Caught in the Crossfire","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A March 1947 New York Times article described Crossfire as one of the first Hollywood films of the 1940s to face questions of racial and religious prejudice with more forthright courage than audiences have been accustomed to expect. While RKO was producing Crossfire, Twentieth Century-Fox was making Gentleman's Agreement, another story about antisemitism. RKO raced to beat the much ballyhooed Fox picture to the theaters, releasing Crossfire several months before Gentleman's Agreement. In July 1947, RKO screened Crossfire for representatives of various Los Angeles religious groups. In addition, several surveys, which were designed to gauge the audience's prejudices, were conducted before and after screenings of the film. Crossfire received both praise and criticism for its depiction of antisemitism in America and was the subject of many editorials. Crossfire received an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture, but lost to Gentleman's Agreement. It was also nominated for Best Supporting Actor (Robert Ryan), Best Supporting Actress (Gloria Grahame), Best Director and Best Screenplay (Adaptation). In September 1947, Crossfire was named Best Social Film at Cannes. In December 1947, Ebony magazine, an African-American publication, gave the film its annual award for improving interracial understanding. Loved this movie. If you get the chance to watch it, see it. "}{"Title":"Important film, important message","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire is a justifiably famous 1947 noir that's a murder mystery with a strong message. It stars Robert Young, Robert Mitchum, Robert Ryan, Sam Levene, and Gloria Grahame, and is strongly directed by Edward Dmytryk. We witness the murder in shadow at the beginning, and for the rest of the film, Young, as the detective, Finlay, in charge of the case, seeks to figure out which of three soldiers is responsible for the death, and just as important, why. The victim, Joseph Samuels (Sam Levene) is someone the soldiers meet in a bar; they go up to his apartment to continue their visit, and Samuels winds up dead.I don't know about 1947, but seeing Crossfire today, one knows who did it and why the minute we see the suspects. I don't suppose it was so apparent back then, as these actors were just getting started. Nevertheless, the film packs a big punch with its powerful acting, good direction, violence, and unsparing anti-Semite language.The characterizations are vivid, including that of Gloria Grahame in a smallish role - she's a woman who meets Mitchell (George Cooper), one of the suspect soldiers, in a bar and can provide him with an alibi. The big performance in the film belongs to Robert Ryan, but everyone is excellent. Robert Young especially is effective as a tough but intelligent police detective. Mitchum is very likable as a soldier trying to help his confused friend Mitchell, a lonely man unsure if he still has feelings for his wife.Truly excellent, and a must see. "},{"Title":"Bobs Are Us","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" After a man turns up dead, a soldier becomes the prime suspect. Undoubtedly the best film to feature three Roberts and all of them are in fine form. Young is the cool-headed, pipe-smoking cop investigating the murder, Mitchum is the murder suspect's concerned friend, and Ryan is a hot-headed soldier with something to hide. Grahame has a brief but effective role as a femme fatale. Future Tarzan Barker has a bit part as a soldier. This film touches on anti-semitism, a subject also covered in Best Picture Oscar winner Gentleman's Agreement, which was released the same year. It is solidly directed by Dmytryk, who creates an effective film noir atmosphere. "},{"Title":"the 3 Roberts are tops!!!!","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" My top 2 actors happen to be in this film - Robert Ryan and Robert Mitchum. Ryan could play anything from Shakespeare to Arthur Miller and play it magnificently. In this film when he starts his speech ...people with names like Samuels and others with names that are hard to say - it is chilling to watch him.Robert Young plays the policeman who is called to investigate the murder of Samuels (Sam Levine), a civilian, who is chatting with several soldiers in a bar. Mitchell is the soldier wanted in connection with it - his wallet has been found in the apartment. But Mitchell is a gentle soldier, who is only missing his wife.The story is told from different perspectives. Mitchell and Samuels strike up a friendship and go back to Samuels apartment. Samuels seems to know the loneliness that Mitchell is feeling. For years you have been concentrating on one peanut and now it is gone you don't know what to feel he says about the war.Ryan is superb as Monty, the psychotic racist.Robert Young (along with Dick Powell) was an actor whose career was re-juvenated by film-noir. Crossfire, They Won't Believe Me and The Other Woman are great examples.Robert Mitchum is his usual laid back self as the philosopical Keeley.Gloria Graham and Paul Kelly as the odd couple are outstanding as well in their brief but telling roles.This is probably the best film about racism ever made. "},{"Title":"a very keen mix of message and craftsmanship; excellent performances","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A film like Crossfire puts another film that spreads around its social consciousness- i.e. the recent film Crash- almost to shame. Not necessarily because either one puts forth its message of intolerance-is-rotten more significantly (although I'd wager Crash throws the hammer down much more thickly in comparison with this), but because of how the storytelling and contrivances never get much in the way like with Crash. Maybe it's not really necessary to compare the two, as Crossfire is in its core all deep into the film-noir vein like its going out of style. It was interesting actually to see what the director Edward Dmytryk said on the DVD interview, where he mentioned that the budget for the photography was significantly lower (on purpose) so that more could be spent on the actors, and the schedule went through at a very brisk, quick pace. But then what comes off then as being incredible about the picture is that you would think looking at many of the lighting set-ups that it took a lot to do. Just for a small scene, like when Robert Mitchum's Keeely first goes in for questioning under the Captain Robert Young- the contrasts of shadows seamlessly in the room is exquisite. That there are many other lighting set-ups that go even further with so little marks this as something essential in the realm of just the look of the noir period. Just take a look at a shot of characters on a stairwell, the bars silhouetted against them, and see what I mean.But back to the substance part of the film- it's really a story that consists of a murder mystery, but one that we as the audience don't take long to figure on the answer. It's then more about something else then in the mind and soul of a killer that wouldn't be found in a common crime picture then, as there are really no 'criminals' for the most part in the film. There's a very calculated risk with this then that characters could be too thin just to prop up the (worthwhile) message against anti-semitism. But Dmytryk's direction of his top-shelf cast, along with a really terrific script by John Paxton fleshes out the characters, least of which for what they should have to not seem too thin alongside the message. And what would a noir be then without some attitude to go along with it? Mitchum helps that along, even in scenes like between him and Young where its very much based in the situation of the story's moment (i.e. a detail in the plot), by injecting a little sly wit into some of the dialog. It may already be there in the lines, but he helps make the character with a good edge for his scenes.Then there's also Robert Ryan, who excels at Montgomery as a man who you know you don't like much at first, just through his b.s. demeanor, but you're not totally sure about either. Then once it starts to come clearer- ironically through a subjective view-point of the suspect Mitchell (George Cooper) at the apartment of the soon-to-be-deceased Samuels- his performance becomes a great balancing act of being full of crap and also rather frightening in his blind-way. It's a good performance when also countered with Cooper, who has actual personal issues that he faces and comes forward with regret and humility. It's really after the film ends that one thinks about a lot of this, however, and while you're watching the film it's more about getting into the dialog and the flow of the scenes, and in the sometimes stark, overpowering camera moves on the actors, so the message is in a way secondary. Not that it isn't an important one, especially for the time period (coming right off of WW2), but years later its seeing the actors, even the ones that don't get the big marquee status like Gloria Grahame as Ginny (the femme fatale of the picture, if it could've had time for one which it doesn't) and William Phipps as Leroy (the hick), working off one another that sticks much strongly in the compacted screenplay.Dmytryk is also very wise in choosing to limit the musical score is powerful too, as for very long stretches we hear nothing, and mostly when it does come up it's incidental to the character's surroundings. He could've just as easily gone with added musical notes on some dramatic scenes for emphasis, most specifically the opening audience-grabber into the film. By sticking clear of that, and getting the right attitudes and nuance in camera and cast, it uplifts standards in genre material to a very fine, memorable level. My favorite scene would probably go to Finley's story about an Irish immigrant he tells to Leroy, where all such elements come into place well. It might not come in very high at the top of my favorite noirs- and I'd still throw-down Murder My Sweet as the director's masterpiece in this kind of picture- but it's assuredly higher in quality than something of the B-level too. "},{"Title":"Exciting with no surprise","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Sometimes we wait until the end to know who is guilty, this time most of us may not be so blind when the killer is to be discovered, but this film is interesting in its way. Three Roberts, Young, Mitchum and Ryan did a very good job, although I expected more from Mitchum, who this time was peaceful and calm. Ryan was an actor able to do many things in any film, no matter if it was as villain, a troublesome person or a generous one. Young was the right detective in this film noir, always phlegmatic and smart. The film was going back and forth, and probably this retrocombination created necessary excitement. The cast did its job superb. Young Lex Barker (Tarzan) acted shortly and shyly in some scenes, and the same William Phipps and Richard Benedict did. Crossfire shows that in order to make good films there is a need to have a good plot with an efficient direction, rather than an exaggerated budget. Good arguments and cast are a guarantee. "},{"Title":"Unique film in many ways","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for many reasons. I always enjoy films that capture a place, time, or world in which many of us are not familiar. I found it interesting to see life through the eyes of these soldiers', which was so different from other films. Robert Young was very good as the homicide detective, as his character too was different than the usual tough film-noir cop. Very refreshing. Throw in great performances from Ryan and Mitchum, and mix well!   "},{"Title":"Stationed in limbo","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This starts like it always happens, bunch of people in a bar. There is a woman involved. Later in the apartment, the husband turns up dead and the suspect is one of a group of soldiers.I will recommend this to you as an unfairly neglected gem, especially to seasoned noir fans who appreciate how film noir is all about a narrator succumbing to hallucination. Its reputation - tense but obvious - is a little tarnished because the main thrust against racial prejudice is overstated, so it's easy to contend yourself that you know so have the upper hand and nothing beyond the hardboiled mystery is worth paying serious attention to. Not so, not so by a mile my friends.The Jewish angle was introduced to make this pose as a serious postwar lesson, you will know it is plain tacky from how quickly the police captain can suss it out as the root of evil. And nothing more patronizing than the captain lecturing about it a young hick from Tennessee, playing up the same stereotype it warns against. You may appreciate this a little more, anyway, when you learn that it was changed from homosexuality in the originating text. Traces are cleverly preserved in the film so be on the lookout.So the bulk of the film is male hierarchy between soldiers, so people in transit, inbetween lives, inbetween shifting of identities. One of them used to be a cop in that other life, another an artist so a sensitive man. Now they're all in the same uniform stationed in the same limbo and all sorts of wounds from the war have not healed.So here's a film that, already by '47, can elucidate what noir is all about and why it feels the way it does; it's about men returned from the certainty of killing, chaos that was nevertheless safety because ordered from above, to open life where you, it had to be you now, had to be someone again and responsible for your own story. So it was a stressful thing, because it could turn out that you are no one at all and have no story, hence the dissolution of self so common in noir, hence the hallucinations, the world conspiring against you, the feeling of dazed powerlessness disguised as fate from above. One option you have is to read everything with repressed male sexuality in mind, that is fine, Beau Travail. But let me point you at something else, what I call layered dreaming. Our artist was out at night dreaming but has no recollection what about, except it started with stress and thinking about his wife that he misses. Mitchum smoothly talks him into all gradually coming back to him, and sure enough; he was with this other woman, and sure enough a woman that reminds him of his wife, and wants him home to wait for her.But something weird happens there. He has fallen asleep and wakes up to find a second man, a really puzzling figure.This guy is the key to the whole mystery. He holds together several layers, by shifting stories that shift identities that shift the gears of knowing and dreaming what this is all about.He says he's just a man waiting for her. He is the husband back home, to a wife he enlisted and couldn't wait to get back to, but once he did she didn't want him.He's not the husband, and just met her at the same joint. He wants to marry her but she won't have him. That's a lie too.If you have no imagination, and why would you dream about him if you don't, he's just the pimp a little wobbly from the war himself. Boring. You will know him as our guy, remember he is telling the story and the story is about waking up, so our guy hallucinating different selves and each self has a life out there and comes back home, maybe an empty home, maybe waiting for a woman who is not there, maybe she could be the wife, maybe it isn't even a home, at any rate it is him in that place he comes back to at nights and mutters to himself echoes from that maybe-life out there.If I had to pick a single favorite moment in film noir, this would be it. Not even Welles touches it. As a metaphor about the mind, it's worthy of being in Blowup. "},{"Title":" There are many types of hate. but the most  lethal are the ones  we allow to flourish  ","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Before, during and after every war, we confront the men who have done most of the fighting for us. What they fight for and what we believe they fought for are often two different things. In this movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and written by Richard Brooks is entitled  Crossfire  we see one of the finest actors playing a character he so often detested himself. Robert Ryan plays a hate filled soldier named Montgomery, who with sundry other WWII soldiers just discharged from the service, gather in a hotel to have some fun and enjoy a few drinks. What they didn't count on is, that somewhere in the night hours, playtime becomes a bit rough and a civilian named Samuels (Sam Levene) is killed. Now it's up to Capt. Finlay (Robert Young) and the police to discover who and why the man was murdered. Among the prime suspects is Sargant Keeley (Robert Mitchum) a platoon Sgt. who wants very much to help apprehend the guilty soldier. The Black and White film is filled with black shadows, dark motives and should have garnered several awards for it's effort to expose Bigotry, racism and anti-Semitism. But we can readily understand the reasons when we become aware of the Red Scare during the 1940-50's. Ryan is at his very best in the film as is Mitchum. Excellent tour De force. **** "},{"Title":"Heavy-handed in its message but still does enough to be worth a look","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" When a man is murdered in his flat the police investigate and find that the evidence all points to a group of soldiers home from the war but not yet discharged. Several of the group are unaccounted for and become the police's main suspects while the others are questioned and held. However, with no clear motive and unclear testimonies, Captain Finlay has to go on his instincts and gut feeling to get results.Back in 1947, a film tackling bigotry was always going to be controversial and, although it replaced the homosexuality with Judaism, the film can still be viewed with this impact in mind. Of course, with time its impact has been minimised and the heavy message now looks really forced and heavy-handed. This is a bit of problem because few modern audiences will appreciate it being forced down their throats and few (hopefully) will need it hammered home with as much clarity as it is. The message is worthy and for the majority of the film it doesn't get in the way &#150; only really at the end does it overdo it. For the most of the time this is tough and enjoyable even if it is a bit talky and basic. Those looking at the names in the cast and expecting a tough gritty noir will be disappointed but it still does enough to be worth seeing.The low budget means that the sets are basic and small but the film uses them very well. The lighting is good and produces a shadowy world that suits the investigation well. The cast are impressive on paper and, even without the material to work with, some of them still have strong presences. Mitchum is solid enough but Ryan, who has the prize role to act it up and make the biggest impression, dwarfs him. Young is also good but, as with Levene, Brodie and others, didn't do anything out of the ordinary. With less basic characters they could have done a lot more but then this is not only a b-movie but a message film as well so perhaps it is unfair to expect too much.Overall this is a good b-movie that deserves to be seen for tackling a subject that bigger studios didn't touch (even if it could have been braver). The cast are better on paper than reality (but still good) and the material could have been tougher and not pushed the message so obviously but, despite that, it does enough to be worth a look. "},{"Title":"Noir with a conscience","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This fine film noir added social conscience to the usual panoply of a whodunit murder, flashbacks and atmospheric direction, to become one of the first, if not the first mainstream Hollywood movie to call out against anti-semitism in society, although I was interested to learn that in the source-novel, the motivation for the murder was actually homophobia.When it stays on-stereo, the film is great. Robert Ryan, a noted liberal in Hollywood, unflinchingly plays the part of the bullying ex-army commander Montgomery who in a cowardly act cold-bloodedly beats to death a Jewish man he and his small coterie of demobbed soldiers meet in a bar. He unsurprisingly then tries to cover up his vile deed by intimidating his companions as well as trying to mislead the local detective, the pipe- smoking Robert Young. Thankfully evil doesn't prosper in the end. but not before Ryan electrifies the screen with a display of boorish malevolence only accentuated by his formidable presence. I found the back-up story of the sensitive young soldier's disappearance and later hook-up with Gloria Grahame, in a memorable cameo as a dime-a-dance waitress in a local dive, to be unnecessary padding. Neither was I taken with slow-walking, slow-talking Young as the law's man-hunter and it's ridiculous to waste a star of the magnitude of Robert Mitchum in a relatively anonymous supporting role as another soldier. I was left wondering how well Mitchum might have played Ryan's part, certainly this film ain't big enough for the both of them.The film is brave enough to allow the word Jew to be used to avoid all doubt and also to show the villain of the piece as a returning army officer with director Tiomkin crafts many an effective scene, the best perhaps being when he puts the camera below Ryan's grim face as he towers over the young acolyte he's coercing into backing his story.For all its minor faults, this film gets it right on the big issue at stake here and deserved all the kudos it got at the time as ground-breaking film, although ironically its director and screenwriter themselves were subject to discrimination in the notorious anti-Communist Hollywood witch-hunt which followed soon after this particular film's release. "}{"Title":"Solid film noir with moral complexity","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" CROSSFIRE is an interesting little mystery-cum-film noir production that reminded me a little of a proto RASHOMON. A man is murdered by his peers and a detective and his allies must figure out who's the killer and what exactly happened during the events leading up to the killing. They undercover a hotbed of racial hatred as the motives become clear...Edward Dmytryk's movie is well shot, well lit, and tells an interesting, unusual storyline that's a far cry from the typical film noir production involving gumshoes, femme fatales, and criminal bosses. At the same time, he employs the talent of a number of actors familiar from those films Robert Mitchum, Robert Ryan, and Gloria Grahame can all be relied upon to give effective performances and they help to make this film an intriguing and timely viewing experience. "},{"Title":"He's been dead for a long time and didn't even know it.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Ripped from the headlines. This film could easily been made after this week's mass shooting in South Carolina, but it comes from 1947, just after the war.Nothing much has changed in the intervening 68 years. We still have haters walking the streets, and people are still murdered with a motive that comes from within the killer.Robert Young (Marcus Welby and Father Knows Best) is a bit out of character as he police detective trying to solve a murder involving three soldiers. He does a great job of getting to the crux of the matter - hate.Robert Mitchum is a Sergeant trying to help solve the crime, and Robert Ryan got a Supporting Actor nomination for his role as the murderer.An excellent message wrapped up in a noir drama. As important today as it was in 1947. "},{"Title":"Who Killed Sammy?","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Because this movie has dark shadows and the action takes place at night many reviewers have classified this film as 'noir' but I'm not so sure.Here we have no protagonist caught up in an inexorable series of circumstances leading him towards his doom. Here we have no real femme fatale influencing the outcome. Instead we have a murder story, with a Columbo-type narrative where the detective has to provoke or trick the murderer into giving himself/herself away.Robert Ryan is the main man here, giving a very good performance as a two-faced bigot. Gloria Grahame is watchable as the bar girl. Other supporting characters have more to do than Robert Mitchum here but his role has its weight in the drama as a whole.Most memorable for me is the quirky character who appears at Grahame's flat and talks to the young soldier. The scriptwriters must have had fun working on his lines! He says stuff that you don't get much in mainstream films from this period but would be perfectly at home in those indie films of the seventies. In fact I could imagine Harry Dean Stanton playing that role.All in all an enjoyable crime story which I watched when I was very tired, which is my excuse why I didn't suss out where the detective's trick (with a very slow build-up) was leading until he finally played his trump card. It was a good example of 'softly softly catchee monkey'. "},{"Title":"Mitchum was sublime .....","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" EDWARD DMYTRYCK was probably one of the best makers of noir in Hollywood. MURDER MY SWEET was awesome. CROSSFIRE is another great noir with some great gimmicks and cinematography while being slightly preachy on anti-semetism. But the film does suffer from a major drawback - you know who the killer is at the beginning itself, and after that it is only a matter of nailing him.ROBERT MITCHUM is sublime in this. with just a few expressions and tilts of the head, MITCHUM adds so much to the character. He is almost effortless. ROBERT RYAN was menacing and there was a raw physicality to his performance. GEORGE COOPER turns in a fine performance as a soldier who pines for his wife. GLORIA GRAHAME had too much make up on. I remember liking her a lot in IN A LONELY PLACE. She came across as phony in this film.(7/10) "},{"Title":"Social commentary masked in a crime drama.","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The movie dramatizes an important subject anti-Semitism. The problem is that it does not generate the outrage and indignation that the subject warrants. This happens partly because the subject is treated in the context of a conventional Hollywood crime drama which further dilutes and distracts attention away from the theme. Furthermore, the principal character, an Army veteran just discharged from the service, is not a completely unsympathetic character; he has legitimate issues too which could be distorting his thoughts. In short, the movie is to be commended for taking on the topic of bigotry but does not go far enough in driving home the subject. Robert Ryan is excellent as the army veteran who is an anti-Semite and the rest of cast is excellent too. Yet the movie does not leave one with a feeling of social injustice. Rather, it leaves one feeling glad that a murderer has been caught but with no resolution of the larger political and social questions which although addressed remain unanswered. "},{"Title":"The twilight world of de-mobilisation","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Edward Dmytryk was one of the most reliable of workman-like directors working in Hollywood from the 1940s to the 1960s. He was responsible for classics like FAREWELL MY LOVELY, THE DEVIL COMMANDS and THE CAINE MUTINY. CROSSFIRE isn't the best film on the Dmytryk CV, but even a so-so Dmytryk movie is better than most other directors' on their good days.The plot revolves around a group of men recently released from war-service in the US Army, so recently that some of them still wear their uniforms. After an afternoon's hard drinking, a man the soldiers meet in a bar is murdered. It looks like one of the soldiers, Mitch Mitchell (George Cooper), did it, but the police flounder when it comes to finding a motive. The soldier's sergeant, Keeley (Robert Mitchum) is convinced the suspect didn't do the crime and sets out to uncover the true killer himself.The always-terrific Gloria Grahame plays an embittered bar hostess who might be able to give Mitch the nearest thing to an alibi he's going to get. Not sure I like Gloria as a bleached blonde, but the look suits her character exactly.Mitchum's performance is even more laid-back than usual and you get the feeling he thinks he's slumming it in this low-budget picture. But his presence still contributes some gravitas and focus to the story.The fact is that it's not much of a mystery. You'll probably figure out who the killer is first time you lay eyes on him, but even so, I enjoyed watching the plot unfold and seeing how men who fought together show such loyalty to one another despite having little else in common. I'd quite happily sit through this again ... "},{"Title":"Pure evil","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Montgomery (Robert Ryan), Floyd (Steve Brodie) and Mitchell (George Cooper) are 3 soldiers who go drinking together and end up in a bar where they meet Samuels (Sam Levene). They continue drinking at Samuels's apartment, who is then murdered by one of them because he is Jewish. It's up to Finlay (Robert Young) as the detective to discover who is the murderer.This film is quite stagey in that there are not enough scene changes and slightly too much talking. However, the cast is very good and the story about bigotry is also different to most story lines. Robert Ryan steals the acting honours as most of the memorable scenes include him. Gloria Grahame and Robert Mitchum are also in the cast as Ginny and Keeley respectively but they have relatively small roles. At the end of the film, you feel that you have watched something good even though it seems longer than it's 86 minute running time. "},{"Title":"I tried very much to like him but he just wasn't my type!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" **SPOILERS**Actually based on the novel The Brick Foxhole about a gay man who was murdered by a GI on leave because of his sexual orientation. The movie Crossfire is about a violently anti-Semitic GI who because of his own failures and frustrations in life takes it out on those of the Jewish persuasion. Whom he obviously feels threatened by.Getting himself tanked up at a local ginmill in D.C barley sober US serviceman Montgomrey, Robert Ryan, spots Joseph Samuel, Sam Leven, and starts to get a bit overly, yet sarcastically, friendly with him. It seems that Montgomery is a bit ticked off at Samuels because he's talking to his best friend and GI buddy Arthur Mitchell, George Cooper. Samuel is also getting through, which the Neanderthal Montgomery can't, to the sensitive young GI who's into the arts, he's an artist and painter on the outside, about war, WWII the war that just ended. As well as the shaky peace, if that's what it is with the dawn of atomic bomb, that's now following it in this very dangerous and unstable world. What really outrages Montgomery more then anything else about Samuels is that he's obviously Jewish. That more then anything else is enough reason for the racist Montgomery to want to do Samuels in. Samules Inviting Mitchell to join him and his lady friend Miss. Lewis, Marlow Dwyer, at his apartment to have a couple of drinks and continue the very deep and stimulating conversation that they started at the bar. This has a, what seems like, very jealous and feeling hurt and rejected Montgomery together with his also inebriated but somewhat clueless, in what Montgomery's plans for Samuels are, friend and fellow GI Floyd Bowers ,Steve Brodie, later that night go uninvited to Samuels' place. With the party already ended, with Mitchell and Miss Lewis gone, the two very drunk GI's unceremoniously crash the place. The fact that Samuels, in Montgomery's sick and anti-semitic mind, stole Mitchell away from him had him whip himself up into a white hot frenzy. Montgomery and Bowers break into Samuel's home raiding his well stacked liquor cabinet with Montgomery taking a couple of swigs, against Samuels' strong objections, of Samuels' very expansive and refined wines and spirits which is very unlike the watered down and cheap booze that the uncouth Montgomery is used to guzzling. This all soon lead to a violent and brutal assault on Samuels by the angry psychotic and drunk Montgomery, with Bowers out cold on the sofa from all the liquor he consumed, who beats the poor and innocent man to death.The movie Crossfire then goes into a long and tedious, since it's obvious from the start who Samuels' killer is, investigation into why Samuels a wounded and decorated WWII veteran, who got the purple heart in the battle of Okinawa, was murdered with Montgomery acting like he's really interested, yeah sure, in finding Samuels' killer, which in reality is himself. This so-called voluntarily action on Montgomery's part in order to throw off suspicion on himself that he may be the man who killed him. Montgomery is so ridicules and even, for someone who smugly considers himself to be very smart, stupid in him constantly opening up his big yap and spewing out anti-semitic and racist epitaphs and slurs about the murdered Samuels! That only throws suspicion on himself and no one else. I guess that guy just couldn't help it.It's not enough that Montgomery murdered Samuels who in his sick mind was one of them he even murders his friend the scared to death, in being implicated in Samuels' murder, Bowers! Who in Montgomery racist way of thinking is one of us! Just because he was afraid Bowers would talk to the police in order to save his own sorry neck and thus have the spotlight put on Montgomey in Samuels' death. It doesn't take that long for the detective on the case Capt. Finlay, Robert Young, to see through Montgomerys obvious lies and deceptions and then has him set up by having another GI friend of his Leroy (William Phipps), who was the butt of all his dumb and racist hillbilly jokes, set the arrogant creep up. This has Montgomery coming back to the scene of his crime, where he murdered Bowers, where a trap has been set up for him. That was all Capt. Finlay needed to get Montgomery to panic, when Montgomery saw that the jig was up, and make a run for it straight into the crossfire of a police ambush.Dated a bit now but very hard-hitting back in 1947 when it was released. Crossfire addressed the horrors of anti-Semitism when it at the time was kept under the covers, and out of sight, in almost every post-WWII Hollywood movie about the evils of racism in the US, and in Europe. Even after the Second World War and with what happened to the Jews in it. When it should have been given the very full and honest exposer, to the movie going public, that it so rightfully deserved. "},{"Title":"Firery cross","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Film noir at its best. Set in the immediate aftermath of WWII ( 1946), Crossfire depicts the good, bad and ugly of that time. Monty Montgomery kills Sam because Sam's a Jew and therefore, automatically perceived through Monty's narrow lens, to have been a slacker who got out of fighting the war. Monty doesn't like people like that. The truth is that Sam was a soldier too, but the truth is something which disappears when you're feeling right about the ideologies of hate you've been immersed in and the world is full of dirty this and thats, badly in need of your brand of cleansing.Monty is a sadist in winning soldier's clothing. The losers of WWII had more than their share as well hate filled, prejudiced leaders and soldiers as well. Some of them were hung for war crimes, like starting a war of aggression.This movie got its makers in trouble when that other sadistic cleanser of America, Joe McCarthy got his hearings going in the early 1950s.See Crossfire, just to see how good an actor Robert Ryan was. The real Robert Ryan was no Monty. He WAS a great, if underestimated, under used actor.See Crossfire and get a taste of the dark side of post-WWII America. See it to get a taste of the good side of late 40s America as well. Robert Mitchim and Robert Young also play leading roles. Mitchim could have played Ryan's role, in fact, he did when he played the psychopath in Cape Fear. "},{"Title":"Film Noir with a message","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A man is found beaten to death in his apartment after having met some soldiers in a bar earlier that evening. The man-of-action NCO and a savvy, cerebral police detective work both with and against each other as they try to find out what really happened. Along the way, we get an unsettling glimpse at intolerance and irrational hatred.From the opening shot, we are well aware that this is going to be a very stylized example of film-noir. A high level of artifice is quickly established by the implausible lighting and shadows which change radically between shots of the same scene. Although a bit choppy at times, the effect is used well as it creates a theatrical feel which adds intimacy and intensity to the drama. Although the story should have been a bit more complex, we can overlook this as it is supported by a well written script and very capable cast. Meanwhile, the anti-bigotry message of the story is being excellently presented in a subtle and intelligent manner.About halfway through, however, things begin to bog down. Once we know everything that happened, the movie is just passing time until it gets the opportunity to really hit home with the moral. Unfortunately, the best it can come up with is to contrive an opportunity for Robert Young to deliver a fatherly sermon. It may have had an impact on audiences unfamiliar with seeing bigotry depicted in the movies, but it will do little for modern viewers. But there is still one twist left in the story and it's handled excellently. With the film wrapping up quickly thereafter, we manage to regain much of the excitement that we had felt during the first half of the film.  "}{"Title":"Crossed wires in the battle against bigotry and prejudice.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  I first saw this film as a teenager and I was impressed by the acting, violence and police machinations to trap the killer. What my youth missed was the anti-semitism vis a vis UnAmerican Activities metaphor, which I now believe reduces the impact of the film.  A Jewish man is needlessly killed by a bigot who transfers the blame to his soldier buddy. What ensues is an enthralling little thriller acted out by a first-class cast - except perhaps for Robert Young whose acting is mannered and stilted.  Where the film falls down is its depiction of the Jewish victim as a saintly type existing in a world of devilish goyim. It even comes to pass that the man is a war hero, just in case his Jewishness and empathetic personality are not enough to win the sympathy of mainly gentile audiences. Let bigotry and prejudice stand alone, don't diminish their enormity by dressing up a plot to elicit the kind of reaction you are looking for. Perhaps the film-makers are really saying you are a bigoted lot out there and we need to hit you over the head with a baseball bat to make you realise it. But, of course, it was made in 1947. Also, it seems a tad indulgent for Hollywood to single itself out for allegorical treatment when perhaps a more direct approach would have been more potent. Having said that, the film is a classic and worth seeing more than once 8/10. "},{"Title":"Artists at work","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I preferred this to Gentlemen's Agreement, if we must limit the comparison to similarly-themed films. I have read too much about what this film could have been, should have been, would have been, but for . . .Criticizing a film because it was not the film you would have made is beside the point. Please go and make your own film. For example, I've seen complaints that the film was an insufficient exploration of anti-Semitism. If the film were made last year, I'd probably agree. But consider the time-frame. 1947. The theme of the source material featured gay-bashing rather than anti-Semitism. That theme would certainly have been interesting, addressed in a film from that year.But woulda coulda shoulda . . . That's not a valid criticism for a film made under the constraints that existed then. Making a 1947 film which sympathized with Jews just further cleared the way for the director's place on the blacklist.Let me offer only a simple example of the artistry in this film, which transcends any kind of message there is a scene near the end, when soldiers are shaving in a group washroom. The composition of that scene (involving mirrors) and the shots in it--simply breathtaking. I don't know if that scene was the product of the director or the cinematographer, or both. But OMG, what a wonder this is! "},{"Title":"On target","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Many of the characters in Crossfire speak in a cadence that creates an almost surreal mood. Sam Levine, Paul Kelly and George Cooper all speak as though they are under the control of the same hypnotist. It could just be that the scriptwriter was unable to develop distinctly different characters, but it works well in this film, giving it a quality that has helped secure its place as a classic of film noir.The movie was based on The Brick Foxhole, a novel by Richard Brooks. In the book the victim was black, but for various reasons, the murdered man in the film became a Jew, with anti-Semitism as the theme.Although Richard Brooks didn't write the screenplay, he later became a film director. Like John Huston with whom he worked on the script of The Killers, he was a complete storyteller; he wrote as well as produced and directed. He made some sharp films Blackboard Jungle, Elmer Gantry, In Cold Blood and one I like that many don't, Lord Jim. He was also a tough dude; I once read that he sat Burt Lancaster on his backside after an argument turned physical.The story of Crossfire, which takes place in New York just after World War Two, begins with the murder of a man, Joseph Samuels played by Sam Levene. A pipe-smoking policeman, Captain Finlay, played by Robert Young, investigates the crime. Young's performance is a precursor to the sage characters he later brought to full flower in television's Father Knows Best and Marcus Welby MD.A number of soldiers were in the murdered man's apartment just prior to his slaying. Robert Ryan gave an acclaimed performance in this film as Montgomery, one of the soldiers in question. Big, sneering and manipulative, he invests the part with a nastiness that is palpable.At first, suspicion falls on another soldier, Mitchell. As part of the investigation, Captain Finlay calls in Sergeant Keeley, Robert Mitchum's character. Keeley tries to protect Mitchell, even arranging for Mitchell's wife to come to town.During a flashback, the film follows Mitchell on the night of the murder where he encounters some unusual characters including Ginny (Gloria Graham), a depressed dancehall hostess. Eventually, he ends up at Ginny's apartment. Here he encounters a man, listed in the end credits as The man, played by Paul Kelly; an unusual performance, his character emerges as forlorn, slightly twisted and possibly dangerous &#x96; adding another intriguing layer to this unusual story. The film ends abruptly, and conforms to conventions of the period, which allowed no crime to go unpunished. Montgomery is revealed as the murderer and although unarmed, is shot in the back by Captain Finlay in an almost matter-of-fact manner &#x96; showing that codes of conduct can change over 60 years. The budget limitations work in the film's favour with much of the story set at night to disguise the studio sets. The end result was a shadowy, claustrophobic world that was perfect for the telling of its taut tale. "},{"Title":"Really Superb Post-WW2 Film Noir","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" (Movie quote) - Hate is like a loaded gun. Released in 1947 - Crossfire stars the 3 Roberts - That's Mitchum, Ryan & Young.Crossfire was probably the first Hollywood picture to actually explore racial bigotry - This time in the form of anti-Semitism.Crossfire also addresses post-WW2 issues of soldiers being released from military duty with no other training besides that of being servicemen.Set in Washington, DC - A kindly, soft-spoken man named Joseph Samuels is savagely beaten to death (in his own apartment) by a drunken, recently demobilized American soldier simply because he was Jewish.Due to some incriminating evidence, an innocent soldier is mistakenly blamed for the murder. When this soldier disappears, Detective Finlay, who's investigating the case, must carefully piece together all of the clues to establish the motive behind all of the apparent senselessness.In a series of well-timed flashbacks the whole truth behind the story finally unfolds, escalating to a most brilliant climax.Crossfire is an intelligent, well-crafted film with an excellent script and wonderful performances from a real top-notch cast, especially that of Robert Mitchum as Sargeant Keeley. "},{"Title":"Ugly and penetrating...not entertaining, yet engrossing","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" As an Army sergeant just released from duty, Robert Ryan creates a scary, thoroughly thought-out characterization, that of a man who has seen battle and killing but is now set free on the streets of America--with no agenda and nowhere to channel his pent-up rage. This important picture, adapted from Richard Brooks' novel, deals with the police investigation into the beating death of a Jewish civilian, with soldiers as their suspects, yet Ryan's three-dimensional portrait of a man on the edge elevates the material beyond the crime genre. While sorting out the different scenarios which led to the innocent man's death, police captain Robert Young keeps a subdued, beleaguered head, which allows Ryan the room to go into his nervy Jekyll-and-Hyde arias. There isn't much suspense or surprise in the story, and one can't tell for sure if any was intended; Edward Dmytryk has directed the film in a brutal and straightforward fashion. The original theme of Brooks' story was homophobia but, that being deemed too controversial for 1947, it was changed to anti-Semitism; the irony, of course, was that Dmytryk caught the attention of the House Un-American Activities Committee on the basis of this plot-point and was subsequently investigated (later serving jail-time for refusing to cooperate). **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"B movie raised to A- status by fine performances and photography","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Essentially this one of those whodunits where we're pretty sure who the criminal is early on, so the suspense arises from will the detective catch him, and how. And the suspense is indeed well maintained by a top-notch cast.The motive is also clear from the very start. Trivia in the original novel, the motive was gay-bashing, but the producers felt -- likely correctly -- that America was not ready for that much controversy, and changed the issue to post-war anti-semitism.It takes special expertise to maintain tension in this type of thriller, where killer and motive are essentially known from the beginning. Credit goes not just to the fine cast, and of of course the direction, but also to the exploration and believability of some of the minor characters such as Miss Lewis (Marlo Dwyer).I'd like to pick this opportunity to ride one of my hobbyhorses, the importance and uniqueness of Black-&-White filming. I won't say the film could not have been made in color, but it would have been a very different movie. As for colorizing, I shudder to think how much of the director's and cameraman's vision would have been lost. The B&W ambiance perfectly complements the seedy neighborhoods and the darkness of the plot. Now we're not talking a movie famous for its B&W symbolic effects (such as The Spiral Staircase or early Hitchcock). This really is just a B movie (though a good one) and the cinematographer makes his effects (what the Italians call by that wonderful word chiaroscuro) almost as a throw-away or matter of course. Watch the last minutes of the movie, the effects made by the shadows on the staircase, and ask yourself how that could possibly have been filmed in color? Watch this movie, not for its dated aspects, but the fine craftmanship and acting that truly make it work and raise it above the average. "},{"Title":"CROSSFIRE (Edward Dmytryk, 1947) ****","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The real Best Picture of 1947 also deals with Anti-Semitism and is superior to Elia Kazan's GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT (the eventual winner at that year's Academy Awards) in practically every department. Edmard Dmytryk's near-perfect direction, John Paxton's terse script and J. Roy Hunt's expert Expressionist lighting are wonderfully abetted by a superb ensemble cast. Although Robert Young (playing an easy-going, methodical and very likable cop) and Robert Mitchum (who actually does have the occasional throwaway witty remark) are the nominal stars of the film, it's Oscar nominees Robert Ryan and Gloria Grahame - as well as Paul Kelly, in the small but pivotal role of Grahame's pathetic husband - who give the film's most memorable characterizations; Ryan proved so convincing as a homicidal racist that he was eventually typecast for a while, excelling in equally villainous roles in such films as ACT OF VIOLENCE (1948), CAUGHT (1948), THE RACKET (1951), CLASH BY NIGHT (1952), THE NAKED SPUR (1953) and BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK (1955). The film is also notable for its atypical structure in that Ryan's flashback sequence, a complete fabrication, is shot in a straightforward manner while the actual truth emerges from the hazy, distorted recollections of the real protagonist of the film who, furthermore, isn't even played by any of the film's stars! Also, CROSSFIRE was originally to have treated homosexuality (as per Richard Brooks' original source novel, The Brick Foxhole) but this taboo subject was unacceptable to the Hays Office at the time - a far cry from the situation we have today when (at least) 3 gay-themed films are in the running for this years' major Oscars!The print utilized for Warners' DVD transfer shows some regrettable signs of wear-and-tear at times but the Audio Commentary by noir experts, James Ursini and Alain Silver, is a good one, even though I don't happen to share their opinion that Dmytryk's career declined steadily after his HUAC troubles, as such excellent pictures as THE SNIPER (1952), THE CAINE MUTINY (1954), BROKEN LANCE (1954), THE YOUNG LIONS (1958), WARLOCK (1959) and MIRAGE (1965) amply prove; having said that his collaborations at RKO with producer Adrian Scott and screenwriter John Paxton - MURDER, MY SWEET (1944), CORNERED (1945; hopefully this will be part of the next Film Noir Box Set from Warners) and CROSSFIRE - do constitute his best work. In any case, in my opinion, the latter is not only one of the key films of the 1940s but also one of the finest noirs ever made, period. "},{"Title":"Robert Ryan is superb","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Crossfire is a compact and entertaining film noir, though I do think that it's a stretch when some critics and commentators categorize it as a noir. It is really a 1940s message picture with some stylish and bizarre camera angles. This is not to say that it doesn't have some noir elements though. It has a great opening scene; the lighting and shadow play are top-notch. The novel originally condemned homophobia, but since this is Hollywood under the Hays Office, anti-Semitism was replaced.Robert Ryan is superb in almost everything he does, and this role led him to be typecast as a bigot for a long time (think Bad Day at Black Rock and Odds Against Tomorrow). The irony of course is that this characterization was the furthest from his actual personality. He's part of that group of actors that project a steel, cool reserve, almost to the point of being wooden (Sterling Hayden is a good example and Rock Hudson in the Sirk films). Before Crossfire, Dymtryck made Cornered(1945), another wartime thriller that is worth checking out. He was later blacklisted member of the Hollywood Ten. "},{"Title":"You Can Read Between The Lines","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I referenced CROSSFIRE at the IMDb before watching it on television a couple of days ago and what I found very interesting is that the original source novel featured the murder victim being a homosexual and not a Jew . This is very interesting not to mention helpful because it makes the story much easier to understand if you look upon murder victim Joseph Samuels as being homosexual rather than Jewish . For example if anti- semitism is prevalent would Joseph Samuels with his obviously Jewish sounding name invite strangers back to his flat ? But I guess RKO or any other Hollywood studio would be closed down and its studio heads thrown in prison if they'd have even thought of making a movie dealing with a homophobic murder and the movie has developed the anti-semitism angle with lines of dialogue like  Some of them are named Samuels and some of them have funnier sounding names  . Unfortunately am I seeing some anti British rhetoric here because of the mandate in Palestine by having the villain called Montgomery ? Am I reading between the lines too much ? Regardless of this we can all agree that this is a very well acted piece of film noir with fine performances from Robert Young as Captain Finlay , George Cooper as Cpl Arthur Mitchell and a disconcertingly young Robert Mitchum as the idealistic Peter Keeley , but they're all over shadowed by Robert Ryan as Montgomery a role for which Ryan was Oscar nominated and it's this performance you'll remember the movie for long after the credits have rolled . "},{"Title":"City Of Dreadful Night","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** ***SPOILERS*** There must have been something in the air in the immediate postwar years that made night cities attractive settings for movies. A gaggle of nocturnal, urban films were made at that time, and not just in America. One of the most notable was Carol Reed's Odd Man Out, an English picture about a wounded gunman staggering through the streets of Belfast. In America it was the high noon, or more properly, high midnight, of film noir.Crossfire isn't really film noir, but has the trappings of noir, though it uses them for its own aims, which have to do with bigotry. Directed by Edward Dmytryk, written by John Paxton, it was adapted from a novel by Richard Brooks. The book concerned the murder of a homosexual; in the movie the victim is changed to a Jew. Though filmed like a mystery there is little suspense in the film, as it is fairly obvious who the murderer is early on. What makes the film so watchable and beautiful is its evocation of a city, Washington, D.C., just after World War II, by some of the most gifted craftsmen working in films at that time. Unlike many night movies Crossfire is set mostly indoors in police stations, rooming houses and all-night movie theaters. Soldiers are everywhere in the film, and most are itching to get back to their civilian lives. Yet one senses, from most of the men we meet, that their personalities have been so shaped by their military experience it's going to be tough for them to return to their old neighborhoods; for some maybe even impossible. They seem more bound to one another than to anything or anyone else.Yet some men never truly bonded with anyone in the military. The murderer, Monty, is one such individual. One senses that he was never connected in his civilian life, either. He is a lone wolf who also needs people. Desperately alone, he has a sadistic streak a mile wide, and always needs someone nearby to be the butt of his jokes. The man he kills did him no harm, and was in fact a stranger to him. But once Monty figured out the man's religion, that was enough. He didn't really mean to kill the guy, as it was his intent to 'merely' humiliate him and just beat him up. But as he was quite drunk at the time, Monty's fists got the better of him. It is this act that sets the story the story in motion.Once the movie builds up a head of steam the other characters come rapidly into focus. Monty's opposite number is Keely, another soldier, who, though introspective like Monty, and somewhat detached, harbors no resentment toward anyone and seems a reasonable, even amiable guy. Finley, the pipe-smoking homicide detective, is dandyish and a tad effete compared to the men in uniform, but proves more than a match for the various and mostly recalcitrant soldiers he deals with. The actors who plays these roles, Roberts Ryan, Mitchum and Young, give excellent performances, each in a different key. Ryan, as Monty, is tense and paranoid, always looking around for someone to pick on; and one can feel his anxiety over becoming a victim himself. As Keely, Mitchum is low-key, almost nonchalant; he never raises his voice; and he seems to have more to say, more to offer, than is permitted by the script. Young's performance has often been criticized as being too soft, but I find it deceptively strong and nicely offbeat. He cuts against the stereotype of the hardboiled cop, and makes the character of Finley a bit of a prince of crime detection.There are few surprises in Crossfire, though the script is at times surprisingly well-written, even brilliant. Character actor Paul Kelly gives one of the best short performances in the movies as the 'boyfriend' of a woman a soldier picks up in a bar. Kelly may or may not be her husband; and he may or may not live with her, though he seems relaxed enough in her apartment. The beauty of these scenes are that nothing is made clear, and this man himself seems more than a little confused over what his role is, was or ought to be. In a way these few scenes form the thematic core of the film, which is anomie. With the exception of the detective all the men in the film are drifting, aimless and basically lost, some more seriously than others. In this respect Crossfire is, for all the preaching near the end, a film about the vagueness of identity, and how easily it can be lost or warped. Men drift from one bar to another in this film, as they engage in a sort of woozy camaraderie, their personalities merging into a kind of general American male template. Then something happens, something is nailed down. A word is mentioned, whether 'Jew' or 'hillbilly', and things suddenly turn tense, and the very notion of individuality, of an identity outside the group, of anyone not like them, becomes deeply offensive, even loathsome. Then, after tempers flare and whatever stirred them up has been resolved or forgotten, the men revert to their loose, non-personal group normality, and order is restored. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece of Hollywood studio filmmaking.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Wonderful performances from an expert ensemble cast including  Robert Ryan, Robert Mitchum and Gloria Grahame highlight this  disturbing beautifully photographed and directed exploration of violence and prejudice. The key to the film's enduring power is  the inventive metonymic links that are suggested to connect anti-semitism to homophobia and red baiting. This gives a  powerful systemic analysis to the films painful story of a band of soldiers who may or may not have conspired to murder a man because of his identity. This represents a director, writer and crew at the height of their powers creating a film that  carefully subverts the conventions of hollywood narrative film  by using them in a masterful way. One of the most underrated political films of the 1940's. See this film. "},{"Title":"Hate and Bigotry Knows No Ethnicity","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" You can Insert any Class of People into the Open Ended Sentence...I hate ____. Because that is Really what the Movie is about Hate or Bigotry. The Film's Source Material was Homosexuality, the Film Inserted Jews into that Blank Above.When Robert Young's Detective gives His now Famous Speech, He says it All, even Ending with, ...once You Continue Hating, where will it Go, ...to people with striped neckties. This is a Daring and Dark Excursion, via Film-Noir into the Twisted Mind of a Hater, a Bigot that Loses Control and Murders in a Drunken Rage.There is a an Off-Kilter Ambiance to the Whole Film with Distortions and Dream-Like (drunken) Sequences Shot with Odd Lenses and Sharp Shadows and Soft, Out of Focus Scenes, and High-Contrast and Low Lighting. It Really is Film-Noir, not Only in the Look but with the Returning and Confused Soldiers Hastily Re-inserted into Public-Life, some Faring Better than Others.Paul Kelly makes an Odd Appearance as a Completely Whacked Ex-Lover of B-Girl Ginny and it is Another Example of just How out of Sync Things were at War's End. It Becomes Slightly Surreal and He and Ginny are a Civilian-Military Counterpoint to Film-Noir's Take on an Out of Orbit Society that had yet to Settle into a Superficial, but Embraced, Post-War America.It is a Powerful Film and One of the Few Noirs to get Recognition from the Academy. It didn't Win any but had Several Nominations Including, Picture, Director, Script, Robert Ryan, and Gloria Grahame. "},{"Title":"Out of the Past","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Once thematically edgy, now thoroughly banal, director Edward Dmytryk's Crossfire relies heavily on its message against anti-Semitism to distinguish it from similar B movie noirs of the 1940s.Taking place in post-WW2 America, the film revolves around an incident in which a group of angry soldiers go out for a night on the town and somehow manage to kill a Jewish man. Confronted by the law, one bigoted soldier shifts the blame to another who, because he has no recollection of the night in question, is unable to shake off the accusations.Trying to make sense of this ordeal are actors Robert Mitchum (who starred in the 1947 noir masterpiece Out of the Past, released the same year as Crossfire) and Robert Young, both of whom are investigators. Like many noirs, the film relies heavily on flashbacks, which are used to flesh out the motivations of the film's cast. Themes of racial and social intolerance are brought up, but the film is overly elaborative, our hands held at every turn. By the film's end we feel like we've watched a condescending Stanley Kramer message movie, rather than a genuinely atmospheric noir.6/10 &#x96; Condescending and preachy, despite its worthy message. Watch the excellent Out of the Past instead. "},{"Title":"I have always appreciated Sam Levene's (the victim)  performances.","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" What a fine film! Unfortunately, being 1947, the movie script couldn't have followed the book from which it was adapted, but the murder of a homosexual would have been too hot to handle in that era.I thought all of the performances were outstanding, as well as the script, direction, brilliant black and white cinematography, music and film noir atmosphere.I do understand that in 1947 the film couldn't portray racism against blacks or prejudice against homosexuals. (Robert Young's account of prejudice against his grandfather who was Irish and who endured this racism 100 years ago was pretty lame, but the times dictated that the film avoid a further examination of racism.) I do have one observation and one question to ask the viewer 1. Did you notice that Robert Young didn't aim his gun when he shot and killed Robert Ryan who was running fast in the dark and Young shot from an upper story window into the dark without aiming? 2. If Robert Young's grandfather was killed 100 years ago in 1847 (the film was made in 1947) and Young was 40 years old, the time line would not be logical. If the grandfather had been killed 50 years ago then the time frame would be realistic. "},{"Title":"The Bigot","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In shadowy Washington, DC, an unidentifiable man beats another man to death, then leaves with his drunken companion. A girlfriend calls pipe-smoking police investigator Robert Young (as Finlay). He begins to question the suspects - a group of discharged military men enjoying relative peace after the end of World War II. First arriving on the scene is Robert Ryan (as Monty Montgomery); he expects to find a friend who was with the victim earlier. Next questioned is soldier Robert Mitchum (as Peter Keeley); he tries to steer Mr. Young away from the number one suspect - distraught George Cooper (as Arthur Mitch Mitchell)...Crossfire has outstanding direction (by Edward Dmytryk), black-and-white photography (by J. Roy Hunt) and performances. RKO and producer Adrian Scott were rewarded with five Oscar nominations; probably, Mr. Ryan's startlingly bigoted characterization stood the best chance of winning; he was nominated in the Supporting Actor category, but finished as #5 in the New York Film Critics contest for leading actor. Best Picture consideration was also noted by Film Daily (#7 for the year), the National Board of Review (#4) and New York Film Critics (#3) - remarkable for what was considered a B (minor) film...Top-billed Young has one of his best roles and Mr. Cooper's sensitive artist is an amazing film debut. Almost posing as a red herring, Mr. Mitchum is subdued. In smaller roles, browbeaten Steve Brodie (as Floyd Bowers) and hillbilly William Phipps (as Leroy) play extraordinarily well against Ryan. Another award nominee, working girl Gloria Grahame (as Virginia Ginny Tremaine) is great with both Cooper and her dishonorably discharged husband Paul Kelly. Also benefiting from Mr. Dmytryk and the groundbreaking hate crime story are victim Sam Levene (Joseph Sammy Samuels) and heartbroken Jacqueline White (as Mary).********* Crossfire (7/22/47) Edward Dmytryk ~ Robert Young, Robert Ryan, Robert Mitchum, George Cooper "},{"Title":"One of the Best of Its Kind","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A brutal, fantastic noir about anti-Semitism in post-World War II America that feels way ahead of its time.Robert Ryan plays an off-kilter ex-serviceman who kills a man because he's a Jew and then stages things to incriminate his buddy. Robert Young plays the detective who goes about the murder investigation with the weary resignation of a man who can no longer be surprised by the baseness of men. There's not a wasted frame in Edward Dmytryk's film, one of the best of its kind.The novel the film was based on used homophobia as its hot-button issue rather than anti-Semitism, and though the film changed the plot most likely to make it more relevant to the American public of the time and to avoid a much more controversial topic, it's still interesting to see how much the film works in homoerotic undertones.The cast also includes Robert Mitchum as a friend of the dead man, and Gloria Grahame, hotsy-totsy in a few brief scenes as a tough-as-nails entertainer. Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Compared to GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" As most people know, CROSSFIRE was made the same year by Hollywood as Darryl Zanuck's Oscar-winning GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT. Both films depict the ugliness of anti-semitism (though CROSSFIRE's original story was about the killing of a gay man in the military). While the subject matter is similar, the tone (and overall effectiveness) of each story differs significantly. For one thing, I think GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT seems better to some because of its polished production values-- compared to CROSSFIRE which has much grittier staging.However, the main problem I have with GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT is that it lacks action. A film can still have a lot of thought-provoking dialogue, but exciting things need to happen. By comparison, CROSSFIRE is much more kinetic, explosive, powerful-- because we see things going on that illustrate the reality of anti-semitism. It is much less an experiment than GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT-- more the actuality, seeing anti-semitism play out before our eyes on screen.In the final analysis, Zanuck's Oscar winner seems like a long-winded sermon-- while Dore Schary's CROSSFIRE is a plot-driven indictment of one of society's great evils. "},{"Title":"Crossfire-Cross Over to Gentleman's Agreement **","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire will always be remembered by movie trivia experts as the 1947 film that was also nominated for best picture and like Gentleman's Agreement, the winner, dealt with anti-semitism.Robert Ryan won a supporting nomination as an ex-soldier filled with hate. He represents the epitome of bigotry when he kills Sam Levene, whose only crime was to be a Jew.As a wayward woman, Gloria Grahame received a supporting actress nomination. Grahame showed potential here but would give many fine performances, especially with Humphrey Bogart and others.Robert Young and Robert Mitchum are soon on the tail of Ryan. It doesn't take long to figure out that Ryan is the killer. He had a history of anti-semitism in the service. Why did the army ever bother to keep a nut like him in?The ending where Young tricks Ryan is about the only worthwhile thing here.To complete my first sentence, stick with Gentleman's Agreement. The latter depicts bigotry at its best at all levels. "},{"Title":"exceptional","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This was a very gritty movie about anti-semitism. However, unlike GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT (that also deals with anti-semitism), the movie has aged well and doesn't seem heavy-handed. In other words, it deals with the topic without seeming preachy or trite by today's standards.Robert Ryan plays one of the most vile characters, as he beats a guy to death just because he's Jewish. Robert Mitchum plays the investigator trying to get to the bottom of this crime.I give the movie kudos for its gritty and unflinching look at hate. It is in many ways an example of Film Noir--even though the topic isn't about the usual gangsters or robbery. "},{"Title":"Excellent Drama + Unwanted Liberal Spin","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" RKO Radio Pictures made a real classic in 1947 and even managed to get it nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award. The acting, script, continuity, et cetera, are all just about perfect; and the story is well worth the viewer's 82 minutes. Although the picture soft-petals the true life story by making the murder victim a Jew rather than a homosexual, most viewers will see the victim as a Jewish homosexual -- such disguises never work, perhaps weren't intended to.I could nit-pick about a few details, but just for fun. There was no all-night movie house in Washington, DC in 1947 --- and if there was I wish Robert Mitchum and his pal wouldn't talk through the show. There weren't any bars where a GI could pick up a pretty blonde. NONE! If Robert Ryan wanted to read the latest murder scoop he ought to have bought the Daily News; not the Times-Hearald, Evening Star and certainly not the know-nothing Washington Post. But these little things take nothing away from this classic.The film benefits a lot from the absolute lack of a musical score, except during the credits. I've only seen this done in a few films.On the negative side, since 1995 it comes with a TMC introduction where some liberal blabs about what the public was ready for in 1947... blah, blah, blah! As if this fool has any business judging his betters. I'd say the ex-GI's in 1947 -- the Greatest Generation -- were much smarter --and had better values -- than some commentator, film historian, or other wise-mouth in 1995. Put a sock in it! "}{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crossfire (1947) *** (out of 4) It seems most people here enjoyed this one more than I did but I still found it to be quite entertaining, although the film lost me in the final fifteen minutes or so. I personally thought the speech to the redneck was a bit too forced, although I suppose for 1947 it was needed. I also thought Robert Young was very good in his role and I enjoyed seeing the touch guy not talking so tough and acting so tough but instead just being tough in getting the crime solved. This wasn't one of the better performances I've seen from Mitchum but he's always fun to watch. "},{"Title":"When I Want A Sermon I Go, As I Did Today, To Church","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I believe the novel on which this was based involved prejudice against homosexuals. There are hints of ht throughout this but only hints. The real problem being addressed, in a most ham-fisted manner, is anti-Semitism.Please understand I think anti-Semitism, even almost 60 years later, is an all too common and insidious prejudice. But as the crux of this story, it doesn't make sense.First off, for a movie released in 1947, involving WWII soldiers, it is preaching to the choir. The primary enemy in that war was the Nazis, perpetrators of the most unspeakable crimes against humanity in history. Though not exclusively, primarily their targets were Jews.It just doesn't make sense, historically or psychologically, that Robert Ryan's character would have a literally murderous hatred of Jews, though it does make sense that he would feel that about gay men.Ryan is very good, as are most of the superb cast surrounding him. Robert Young, hardly a personal favorite, is good, though the sermonizing he is made to do is awful. Gloria Graham is not at her best here, either; but that's maybe because her best is so very, very fine.The look is great. The acting is great.Much of it makes sense. But it is too preachy and at its heart, it is mendacious. "}]