[{"Title":"So what if there's no action?","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"81 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Paradine Case has gotten an undeserved bad reputation as one of Alfred Hitchcock's least interesting films simply because it does not use any of the gimmicks and brilliant visual touches Hitchcock is famous for a man being chased by a crop duster, inventively shot murder scenes in locations such as the ones in Psycho, people dangling from Mt. Rushmore, unusual settings such as a cramped lifeboat. As if these touches were all that made Hitchcock great! If these touches are all we watch Hitchcock for, it's as shallow a reason for watching films as going to see summer movies merely to see special effects. A great director like Hitchcock deserves more credit than that.The Paradine Case is, on the contrary, one of Hitchcock's most entertaining films, if you are willing to concentrate on dialogue and characterization rather than flashy visuals. Gregory Peck is the barrister assigned to defend Mrs. Paradine, a woman on trial for the cold-blooded murder of her blind husband, and it is immediately obvious that Peck is so besotted by this beautiful, mysterious woman that he is in no position to be objective about his client. Peck does quite a good job, but one can only wonder how Laurence Olivier, who was busy filming Hamlet at the time, and who was Hitchcock's first choice for the role, might have played it. Hitchcock wanted Greta Garbo for the role of Mrs. Paradine, but was unable to get her, and settled for Alida Valli, who is excellent, if not as beautiful and mysterious as Garbo. Louis Jourdan plays a suspicious-looking witness in the case, but Hitchcock wanted Robert Newton (famous for playing Long John Silver and other disreputable characters) for the role, and Newton would have provided a far more different and repulsive characterization (apparently Hitchcock's intention).Charles Laughton unforgettably plays the judge at the trial as a sadist and a supremely dirty old man, who hates Peck because Ann Todd (as Peck's wife) refused his advances once, and Ethel Barrymore, brilliant in her limited screen time, is Laughton's intimidated and submissive wife.The majority of the film does take place in the courtroom, but so does Witness for the Prosecution, and no one has a bad word to say about that film. (Would they have done so if Hitchcock had made that one? The Agatha Christie thriller doesn't contain any flashy visual touches either.)Those who love Hitchcock for only his trademarks perhaps need to look a little harder and think a little deeper, and then they will appreciate this excellent film. "},{"Title":"worth a second look...","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"54 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Often unjustly dismissed as one of director Alfred Hitchcock's `lesser works,' THE PARADINE CASE stands up as well as any 1940's courtroom drama when taken on its own terms.  And the central theme that of a lawyer passionately (and wrongly) convinced of a beautiful and intelligent client's innocence because he wants to trust his emotions and not the evidence, certainly seems to strike a chord with audiences.  It has been used countless times from the silent era to the present day (e.g., MADAME X, GUILTY AS SIN, BODY OF EVIDENCE, etc..).  Unlike reviewer stills-6, I found the central triangle-between lawyer Peck, his wife Ann Todd, and lovely client Alida Valli (whose motives are always kept nebulous until the end) believable and surprisingly complex.  Each has his/her own agenda; with Peck wavering between the lovely, warm Todd and the beautiful, coldly mysterious and sensual Valli, who seemingly represents an attitude toward love and life he has presumably never known but finds appealing nevertheless.  Valli has the most difficult role here, having to both woo Peck to her cause while keeping him emotionally at a distance, but Todd also acquits herself admirably by bringing depth and sensitivity to what could have been just a run-of-the-mill suffering wife role.  She refuses to suffer in silence, and uses words to argue her cause passionately, saying wryly at the end `That's what comes from being married to a lawyer.'  Of course, a cynic could point out that when Todd insists Peck defend and acquit Valli she is being unjustly noble-but I think Todd's stoic suffering and her explanations to Peck quickly undercut this idea.  (And in fact, if Peck did follow up on his offer to Todd to quit the case halfway through, this wouldn't be much of a movie!)Indeed, the wordiness of this film seems to be one of its detractors' biggest complaints.  But in this I think Hitchcock has (perhaps unintentionally) made a sly point the characters talk circles around each other (particularly Peck and the always deliciously malevolent Laughton), but manage most of the time to completely miss the realities of the situation.  Only the women--the silent Valli, the barely repressed Todd, and the caustic Joan Tetzel--recognize the truth.  The men, doomed to arguing and finagling, miss the point-and the truth-completely, in their attempts to sacrifice each other to their own individual causes.Even considered strictly within the Hitchcock pantheon, it's clear THE PARADINE CASE has many Hitchcockian trademarks dazzling cameras moves, wonderful imagery, sweeping romantic themes, blurred triangles of love, desire and hate between all the principle characters, brutal men, devious women, an impending sense of doom, and even a character noted for her `masculine' interest in the legal technicalities of the case.  (Clearly, Hitchcock found these women pursuing `masculine' interests fascinating, as they seem to pop up in many of his films (e.g., Patricia Hitchcock in STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, Barbara Bel Geddes in VERTIGO).   But I also find in the women here a darker prelude of Hitchcockian things to come.  No one in THE PARADINE CASE is entirely happy (or even, one might argue, happy at all), but each sticks firmly to her own emotional path, able to see the potential tragic outcome but unwilling to waver enough to change it. (Kim Novak's character follows a similarly torturous internal journey in VERTIGO, as does Tippi Hedren in MARNIE).So if you have the time to be absorbed by this imperfect but still compelling drama, take another look at THE PARADINE CASE.  You might be surprised.  "},{"Title":"Fine Cast in Slow-Moving But Interesting Drama","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Because this movie has so few of the features normally associated with a Hitchcock picture, it has a rather poor reputation.  But it has a fine cast, most of whom perform quite well, and if the story is taken on its own merits it is interesting, although slow-moving and heavily dependent on the characters' conversations with one another.  If it had been made by someone else, it might seem like more of an accomplishment.In The Paradine Case, Mrs. Paradine (Alida Valli) is arrested and tried for the murder of her husband.  She is defended by the great lawyer Anthony Keane (Gregory Peck), who quickly becomes intoxicated by his client and loses all objectivity.  Even as evidence mounts that she may have done the crime after all, he risks his marriage and reputation on the slightest of chances to find new evidence.  It moves quite slowly, but is helped by the presence of many good supporting characters and a fine cast that portrays them convincingly.  Things come together in a lengthy courtroom sequence that is sometimes uncomfortable to watch, but tense and realistic.Many viewers feel let down by the film because it lacks the energy and excitement found in most of Hitchcock's films, and because the courtroom setting creates expectations that are not quite filled.  Indeed, it does have its faults, and it's hard to believe that someone of Hitchcock's creative genius could not have thought of some ways to give more life to the body of the picture, because there are times when it really crawls along.  But taken on its own merits, it is a pretty good movie, carefully filmed as always, and one that gives the viewer plenty to think about.  There are some good scenes, with the best one being the subtly crafted opening sequence of Mrs. Paradine being arrested in her elegant home and taken to prison.Many Hitchcock fans will not particularly enjoy this one, although if you like his more somber masterpieces such as Vertigo, you might at least want to give this one a try - not that it is nearly as good as Vertigo (how many films are), but it is somewhat similar in tone.  It works much better as straight drama, rather than as suspense or mystery, and as such it is worth watching. "},{"Title":"More than a courtroom soap opera--a major Hitchcock work","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved the film not because it of its courtroom drama but because of Hitchcock's ability to deal with the drama outside the courtroom.First, take in the shots that lead up to Alida Valli's character being arrested and locked up in the cell. Hitchcock is at his best building up the positive and elegant side of the character by enhancing the details--the expensive jewelry, the lady ensuring her hair is in place before receiving visitors, the humanist care taken to inform the valet that she would not be having her dinner, etc., etc. The build-up of the character within a few minutes of reel time for the viewer is considerably intelligent right up to the loud slamming of the cell door and the effect it has on the inmate (Hitchcock's own phobia?).The second sequence that is unforgettable for me is the camera zooming in on Ann Todd's naked shoulder followed by the lecherous Charles Laughton caressing Todd's hand hidden away from her husband's vision, leading up ultimately to Todd's rejection of Laughton's advances. What is of consequence is not the performance of Todd or Laughton, but Hitchcock's sequence of visuals deftly edited to enhance the effect.A third unusual image of the film is the introductory shot of Louis Jordan. This is the only film in my memory where a character is introduced without the least shred of light falling upon his/her face--his legs and hands are quite visible, but not his face.Finally, the meetings in the jail between Valli and Peck smolders without a kiss or a physical touch. In my view, the performance of Valli is outstanding. Her remarkable turns in films by Visconti (Senso) and Bertolucci (1900) proved her capability.The film belongs to Hitchcock, Valli and the camera-work of Lee Garmes (shots within the courtroom--probably the angles were suggested by the director). It is an unusual Hitchcock film with an elegant turn by Alida Valli. It is a film that cries out loud for a reassessment among Hitch's body of work. It is a major film of the director--though it is not an obvious one. Hitchcock seems to ask the viewer at the end of the film a difficult question--who is the true heroine of the film? And he has a macguffin... "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's Courtroom Fizzle","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are some films that are forever lost that one wishes still existed the complete GREED and THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS (Welles final cut)for examples. In the cinema of Alfred Hitchcock, THE PARADINE CASE as he originally shot would have been of great interest. Whether it would have been better is another matter. THE PARADINE CASE is generally conceded as among Hitchcock's lesser films. It's most interesting parts of the performances of the leads (except for Alida Valli, who is quite dull), and the famous sequence of the portrait of Valli whose eyes seem to follow the camera (standing in for Gregory Peck/Anthony Keane) as it passes from one room to the next.Hitchcock told Francois Truffaut that he felt the casting was wrong. He wanted Greta Garbo for Mrs. Paradine (but Selznick had Alida Valli signed up). He wanted Ronald Colman or Laurence Olivier as Keane (but Selznick had Gregory Peck signed up). He did not want Louis Jourdan as LaTour, but wanted Robert Newton. Again Selznick said no. As a result of our general respect for Hitchcock the suspense film artist we sympathize with his comments, and dismiss Selznick as a bullying producer who destroyed a masterpiece. I seriously question this view.First of all, David Selznick (for most of his career as a producer) was way ahead of the majority of such Hollywood figures because of his taste and ability. Anyone who could create GONE WITH THE WIND, David COPPERFIELD, SINCE YOU WENT AWAY, and other high caliber movies is not one to dismiss so cavalierly. Most of the films he did with Hitchcock (whom he brought to Hollywood in 1939) were very good films REBECCA, SUSPICION, SHADOW OF A DOUBT, LIFEBOAT, FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT - they were not crappy. Secondly, he was aware of difficulties in getting performers Olivier was working in England in 1948. Colman was working mostly at MGM, but was a bit too old for the role. And Peck was not an unknown talent He had worked with Hitchcock already. As for Garbo, she had been in retirement for six years, and there was no sign she was interested in a film come-back. The Jourdan - Newton problem is another matter. LaTour, in the film, is Colonel Paradine's loyal batman, now a valet and groom on the estate. Mrs. Paradine has made a play for his affections, and he has rejected them out of loyalty to his master. Hitchcock felt that Robert Newton, with his physical appearance, would have looked more like a man who worked in the mire of a stable than Louis Jourdan did, although as Jourdan remained the Colonel's personal servant that seemed a minor casting point in favor of Newton. Hitchcock also skirted the issue (soon to be handled in ROPE, STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, and NORTH BY NORTHWEST) of a homosexual relationship between his characters. LaTour was supposed to be more openly close to the Colonel in Hitchcock's opinion. But it was a 1948 film - how close was the relationship supposed to be? Furthermore, Selznick as producer would be aware of one defect regarding Newton not found in Hitchcock's account to Truffaut Newton's alcoholism. Given the size of Newton's benders he was a poor risk in most film acting roles (no matter how available he was). Not so with Louis Jourdan. The film was brought in under 93 days, and that record would not have been possible if Newton had been in the cast and kept getting drunk. As for the homosexual relationship, it never is fleshed at all in the film. But would a 1948 audience have been willing to accept that? I don't think so.The supporting players, particularly Ann Todd, Charles Laughton as the sadistic Mr. Justice Lord Hawfield, and Ethel Barrymore as Lady Hawfield, gave good accounts of themselves in the film, especially Laughton as the Judge who takes out his frustrations with Mrs. Keane (ANN TODD) to wreck her husband's case. His best scene, where he compares a walnut to a human brain sums up the character's beastliness. I think that what Hitchcock fans fail to notice here is that it is Hitch's only real courtroom film. While his characters face hearings and sentencing in court (like in the start of NOTORIOUS), they rarely are shown being tried. I CONFESS is an exception - and the bulk of the film is not a trial. Here the bulk of the film is the trial of the anti-heroine Mrs. Paradine. It is not typical Hitchcock, and fails to fascinate the audience. The highpoint is the verbal clashes between Laughton and Peck (sometimes assisted by Leo G. Carroll as the prosecutor), Jourdan's collapse in the witness box when Keane attacks him for secretly betraying his master with the defendant, and Valli's final condemnation of Keane in court. But the circumstances and the dialog do not fascinate the viewers. Compare the way the trial in THE PARADINE CASE compares with those in Billy Wilder's WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION, and in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD. Laughton's Sir Wilfred Robarts enlivens the film, and his tactics in attacking Torin Thatcher's case for the prosecution of Tyrone Power are solid and interesting in the former. Gregory Peck's Atticus Finch, in defending Brock Peters on a rape charge in a segregated, bigoted South, are cutting and sensible. The key is the script - both of those films have better scripts, based on better writings (Agatha Christie and Harper Lee) than the Robert Hitchens novel. One can bemoan the loss of the three hour version or the 119 minute version that we lack now, but if it was anything as dull as the slow moving courtroom sequences of the currently extant film, I doubt that any improvement would have appeared. "},{"Title":"Lives up to its reputation","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why does this movie seem so dull? The acting isn't bad once you get past Gregory Peck's British accent. None of the performances are outstanding, they're just not bad. The roles restrict the performers' range. I think Alida Valli smiles once. Louis Jourdan seems to have only one expression, a bitter, barely controlled anger. If he tried to smile he might crack. The actor given the best lines is Charles Laughton, who hams it up and brings a bit of life to the screen. Remarkable how the convolutions of a walnut resemble those of the human brain. And that flabby, sweaty palm as he takes the hand of Peck's wife, squeezes it lasciviously, and places it on his thigh.Well, I can think of three reasons why it's dull. (1) It's overwritten. The script needed somebody like Daryl F. Zanuck to hack out some of the underbrush. Peck is questioning Valli in court. It goes something like this Peck What did you say to Latour. Valli I told him to leave the room. Peck But why did you tell him to leave? Valli Because I no longer wanted him present. Peck And why did you no longer want him present? Valli His presence was disturbing. And so on. How did the jury stay awake? Some of the scenes are pointless. Not the sort of interesting meanders you might find in other Hitchcock movies. Just pointless. Peck visits a country house to talk to Latour, who promises to show him the garden and then beats it pronto. An hour or two later Latour shows up banging on the window of Peck's room at the inn, having changed his mind for no apparent reason. The five-minute conversation that follows could have been condensed into half that time and benefited from some supplementary bits of business. Instead the two adversaries sit there like mahogany idols hiding information from one another. That's a poor script for you.(2) Hitchcock's imagination seems to have been asleep during the shooting. Perhaps the director himself was asleep. (It happened from time to time.) It isn't necessary for every Hitchcock film to have a bravura shot in it. The camera needn't always swing down from an upper story and wind up with a closeup of the key in someone's hand. But there is, maybe, one shot in this flick that bespeaks Hitchcock. When Andre Latour is first called into the courtroom as a witness, Hitchcock keeps the camera focused on Valli's face in the defendant's chair and circles it slowly around her so that we see Jourdan walking slowly into the room past her, behind her, and can almost feel her incandescent desire to turn around and look directly at him. (3) Hitchcock had a great sense of humor and it's entirely absent from this movie. It must in fact rank among the least humorous films he's ever made. And it's surprising, because he was usually able to insert some piece of business into even his most serious works. (Not including Vertigo.) Often the humor centers around meals. A dowager stubs out a cigarette in a jar of cold cream, or the yolk of a fried egg. A police inspector is forced to eat fancy dishes that a Kurdish camel driver would turn up his nose at. Or the humor lies in montage, as in The Man Who Knew Too Much, when Jimmy Stewart escapes from a clumsy set-to with the staff at a taxidermist's and the scene ends with a shot of a stuffed lion's head gaping at the slammed door. SOMEthing, anyway, to lighten things up. But not here. Put it all together and you have a pretty dull movie, one of the several serial flops that Hitchcock ground out in the post-war period. It isn't exactly painful to sit through. It's just that it's not very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"The Selznick/Hitchcock Touch","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish some other star rather than Gregory Peck had played the lead role. Someone like a Ronald Coleman (whom Hitchcock wanted) or Laurence Olivier (whom Selznick wanted). I personally would have loved Robert Donat, but any of the above would have served better. I like Peck normally, but in this film, he's too young and never convincingly English, despite his accent. Even without the accent, he doesn't suggest someone who is passionately and irrationally swept away, as the role calls for.That said, I still love the film. Some Hitchcock films I love more--as I guess we all do--but I prefer this one over others. View THE PARADINE CASE and then compare it with the master's three movies that followed, those he directed without Selznick (ROPE, UNDER CAPRICORN, STAGE FRIGHT), and you'll see the touch that pervades those he made with Selznick. All the Selznick/Hitchcock flicks are wonderful; they are the director's most glamorous and romantic movies. "},{"Title":"A technically sound, but ultimately unsatisfying courtroommelodrama","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a disappointing effort from the team of Hitchcock and Selznick. Probably its greatest shortcoming was its inability to ingeniously circumvent the Production Code (as accomplished in Notorious) to present its adult themes.  As a result, even though it is obvious that the case itself is not the subject of the film so much as a backdrop for an awkward arrangement of love triangles and its effect on one involved attorney, the courtroom scenes are the most compellingly watchable of the film.  In contrast, the final scene of the film does not carry the weight that it should and feels like a cheat rather than the resolution it pretends to be.Some fault may be given to the just-OK performances from usually dependable actors such as Peck and Ann Todd.  The stand-out performances here are from supporting characters such as Charles Coburn, Louis Jordan, Joan Tetzel, Charles Laughton and Ethel Barrymore, but they are either given very little to do or, in Barrymore's case, feel like they were interesting characters in sub-plots that were incompletely edited out of the film (usually a sign of a poor adaptation).In the final analysis, this is a film that will probably only appeal to devotees of Hitchcock and/or Laughton.  "},{"Title":"Pleasurable environment, fine actors - flat story","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A master chef, lavish preparation, fine ingredients in the choice of actors, great sets, costumes - but no imagination in the story. It's still enjoyable because upper middle class London in the 1950s, the relationships among the people, their entertainments, the beauty of the homes, the clothes, the accents, is a pretty enjoyable place to be for this movie's duration.However, the story - an uneasy mix of an uninvolving outdated sappy soap opera story of the torn man and his nobly suffering wife, with a murder trial that has drama but no surprises at all - is pretty bad.We're in the world of The Reluctant Debutante, Witness for the Prosecution, Dial M for Murder, Midnight Lace - upper middle class 1950s London (it's the sort of movie where, as they change from black tie and gown, they might say Did you enjoy the Philharmonic tonight, darling? Well, the oboes were a trifle off. Don't forget we have Lord and Lady X coming for dinner tomorrow. He pulls a face; she smiles, embraces him and praises him.). You both love this atmosphere - it doesn't seem stifling at all - yet understand how the Angry Young Men and then the Beatles could have wanted to blow it up.A major criticism this movie has the kind of mindset that launched feminism. Women exist either to ensnare men to their doom with their beauty or to nobly suffer, praise and forgive their heroic, if unfaithful-in-the-heart, men. Time and again, we hear of the unfeminine curiosity of one woman (whose interest is entirely prurient), and we see the absolute SHOCK on Peck's face when his client says that an adulterous affair in her past was at her initiation. A minor criticism there is no explanation why an American (Peck) is a barrister. Rex Harrison would have been a better choice.Another minor criticism the dialogue is so repetitive. E.g., how often is  Peck told he's tired? Sometimes four times in a singleAnother minor criticism the music is too heavy, the story just isn't enough to really grab us - so the music must tell us what we are supposed to feel.Yet the movie is still enjoyable - the characters of Gregory Peck, Charles Laughton, Charles Coburn and Louis Jourdan are well-drawn and enjoyably relate to each other. Laughton is particularly good - loathsome yet real-seeming. Alida Valli IS beautiful and exotic. Ethel Barrymore has obviously had FAR far better roles - Ann Todd is actually quite a good actress in other things, but has absolutely nothing to work with here, so the viewer will find her tiresome (not the movie's intention).If Hitchcock and these stars were not involved in this movie, no one would ever watch it, and it would probably still sit gathering dust somewhere, unreleased for home viewing. So, see it - it IS enjoyable to see these stars in this atmosphere, but expect some irritation and don't expect to remember it in a year. "},{"Title":"Crushing Out In Old Bailey","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was Gregory Peck's second and last film with Alfred Hitchcock. He plays an English barrister who starts crushing out on his beautiful client who in this case is Alida Valli. Kind of hard to understand because at home he's got a porcelain goddess in the person of Ann Todd who definitely rates as one of Hitchcock's cool blonds. I guess Valli had a touch of the exotic for him as she did for Joseph Cotten in The Third Man.For an English based film most of the cast is American. The English in this film are Charles Laughton, Ann Todd, Leo G. Carroll, and Joan Tetzel. Had Hitchcock had his way he would have gotten Sir Laurence Olivier over here to play Peck's part. Peck does his best, but I think Olivier would have been really something in the part. His performance as George Hurstwood in Carrie which is a similar role proves that.Peck is suggested as counsel by Charles Coburn, solicitor for Alida Valli. She's been arrested for allegedly poisoning her rich and blind husband who was a war hero. The only other one around when the crime occurred was valet Louis Jourdan.The thing I've always found curious about The Paradine Case is that while Peck's courtroom skills are brilliant as he tries alternative theories of the crime, he still allows himself to be ruled by the client because of his male member. A lawyer not so emotionally involved would have just sat Valli down and told her the legal facts of life. Valli refuses to let that happen.Among the supporting cast look for a deliciously malevolent performance as Judge Horfield by Charles Laughton. Both at home where during a dinner party he makes a clumsy attempt to seduce Ann Todd and later on in court where during the trial he slams Peck at every opportunity. Laughton is a picture of corpulent corruption.In the films of Alfred Hitchcock, the most expensive part of the film is the set of Old Bailey courtroom which is completely rebuilt to scale. The set is quite impressive. Although Hitchcock had experimented with a one set film with Rope and later on Dial M for Murder was done almost entirely in a small apartment, the set really is most like the set in Rear Window. Nearly the entire cast is present in Old Bailey, each in his assigned location like the people in the courtyard apartments in Rear Window. Visually I find it quite impressive. Although Peck is not well cast, he's a good enough player to overcome the obstacles. The Paradine Case did not do as much for him as his earlier film for Hitchcock, Spellbound. Still it hurt no one's careers by association with it. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock in the courtroom","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mrs. Maddalena Anna Paradine is accused of her blind husband's murder.Barrister Anthony Tony Keane takes the case.He is in a loving marriage with Gay Keane, yet he starts falling for his client.The Paradine Case (1947) is an Alfred Hitchcock film.It's one of his lesser known films.It's based on Robert S. Hichens' novel from 1933.Hitch' wife Alma Reville is behind the adaptation.This movie has competent actors, which saves a lot.Gregory Peck is the leading man.Ann Todd plays his wife.Alida Valli is Mrs. Paradine.Charles Laughton portrays Judge Lord Thomas Horfield, while Ethel Barrymore plays his wife Lady Sophie.Charles Coburn plays Sir Simon Flaquer.Joan Tetzel is his daughter Judy.French actor Louis Jourdan, who turned 90 on June, gives his American debut as Andre Latour.Leo G. Carroll, who did six Hitchcock movies, is Sir Joseph.Isobel Elsom is Innkeeper.Silent era's 'Snub' Pollard is seen as Cabby.Hitchcock himself is seen as Man Carrying Cello Case.Besides the acting, the movie also works in the courtroom scenes.They're quite absorbing to watch.And the ending makes you feel quite bad for the main character.Hitch certainly made something better than this.This isn't one of his masterpieces.But this is the work of a master.And the master at his worst could come up with pretty good. "},{"Title":"Actually, Pretty Good","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this one, even though most people don't. It's a fascinating tale, and it seems very much Hitchcockian. Sure, it seems to drag at times, but the plot, directing, and the acting is good. Louis Jourdan is probably the best actor in this whole production. And to think this is his first English-speaking film. Gregory Peck is pretty good, also. I liked at the beginning when the cops arrested Alida Valli, and the audience isn't really sure why that is. Andre Latour's (Jourdan) little breakdown (I use breakdown for want of a better word) in the courtroom is terrific. I really love this movie, and I don't care how boring other people say it is. I would recommend this movie to anyone who thinks they can appreciate it. "},{"Title":"great cast, pretty good movie","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, so it wasn't the most suspenseful movie Hitchcock ever made, but what a cast!  Whenever you can get Charles Laughton, Ethel Barrymore, Gregory Peck, Leo G. Carroll, AND an exceedingly pretty Louis Jordan on the same screen at the same time, you know you're in for a treat.  Laughton, as the judge, alone is worth the time spent watching this film.True, they don't make talky pictures like this anymore, but that's half the fun.  I think Maltin's 2 1/2 stars is just about right. "},{"Title":"Peck good.--but Shoulda hired Brit James Mason for lead. Why blow $ on fancy Brit courtroom n then hire American lead???","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is still fairly good...and still worth watching. But consider it (at best) a double instead of a home run.And yes I like Gregory Peck---he is THE Atticus Finch etc. etc.But British actor JAMES MASON - a MASTER at playing the Tormented Man - could have reacted much better to Alido Valli's Mrs. Paradine!!! She radiates such mystery. Is she innocent? Guilty? Or??? And Mason would have more Gravitas -as he was a Brit (clearly of upper class British origin) playing a British lawyer. He had one of the best speaking voices...Imagine the tense scenes between Mason and the wife---and Mason and the accused!!! And even Mason and the valet!!!Jourdan and Mason - would have been a better set of adversaries! No offense to Gregory Peck---but maybe the ACCOUNTANTS won this casting choice - as Peck was a big box office draw then.I think that the two Hollywood 1947 newbies Valli - and Jourdan - are the two best actors in this film! Outshining even the great supporting cast!!! "},{"Title":"Deserves to be better remembered (spoilers)","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock is a director too well known by his trademarks.  His career, spanning five decades, has been summarised and typified and broken down and examined so often by so many that we have drawn a caricature of his style.  We know precisely what we want from a Hitchcock film.  We want an innocent accused and on the run, we want a playful camera, a streak of black humour, a gimmicky set-up, a McGuffin, an ice-cold tease.  Any combination of these trademarks adds up to Hitchcock.  Any combination used by another director adds up to Hitchcockian.With such a fixed and narrow idea of what makes a Hitchcock film, it's no surprise to see many complain The Paradine Case is a disappointment.  We don't want him to explore new territory.  We want what we want.  That the film lacks many of his trademarks should not be a criticism.  It should instead come as a pleasant surprise that one of cinema's greatest directors was far more versatile than our caricature admits.In The Paradine Case, Gregory Peck is Anthony Keane, a brilliant lawyer making a name for himself in England's green and pleasant courtrooms.  He's married to a woman who worships him, envied by lawyers everywhere, on his way to the top.  Life is good.  It gets more complicated when he is hired by Mrs Paradine, a cold but beautiful woman accused of murdering her husband.  Keane finds himself falling for her, obsessed with her, his judgment impaired by his infatuation.  That's the plot explained pretty much in its entirety, a wafer-thin story that sometimes has trouble filling its running time.  But while this is some way below classic Hitchcock (with or without the trademarks) it's a worthwhile film, one that deserves a better reputation.Its first half is a little weak.  Not much happens beyond Peck looking vaguely troubled, but what we have here is real emotion and its consequences - rare indeed for Hitchcock.  If we can approach this as a drama and not a thriller, the threat of romantic fantasy on a practical marriage is quite engaging.  The second half of the film picks up the pace as it turns into a courtroom drama.  Here we see how blinded Peck has been, that his concentration has been focused on what Paradine feels for him and every other man in her life, that he has betrayed her by ignoring the needs of his client.There are some fine performances that elevate the film further.  Peck is typically restrained and moral as Keane, his English accent convincing but troubled by vowels.  Charles Laughton impresses as a sleazy, biased judge.  Alida Valli is suitably frosty as Paradine, but in its female characters the film is very much of its time.  The four main women represent four stereotypes loved by Hollywood.  In Mrs Paradine we have a cold-hearted temptress, able to ruin a man with a single pout.  In Peck's wife we have an adoring child loyal to the point of stupidity, forgiving her husband's roving eye.  In her friend, the daughter of Peck's colleague, we have the inappropriately intelligent and feisty young woman.  Naturally, she's unmarried.  In Laughton's wife we have the submissive, downtrodden creature controlled by weak emotions.  They are uncomfortable clichés, but avoiding them would mean avoiding anything made before the 1970s so we'll just have to let them go.There is more to enjoy if you're a fan of invented subtext and the psychobabble that has Hitchcock lusting after his leading ladies.  The Paradine Case comes from a novel by Robert Hichens and was adapted by Hitchcock's wife, Alma Reville.  Here we can see Hitchcock as Keane, Paradine as any number of leading ladies, and Reville as Keane's forgiving but wounded wife.  If you want to imagine more subtext you could have fun with the fact Keane's wife is called Gay.  But we'll leave that for the film students determined to read anything into everything.The Paradine Case is a solid effort but it's easy to see why it's not better remembered.  There's no crop duster, no challenge, no kicker of an idea, no black humour and only one stand-out shot.  Perhaps your opinion of it depends on what expectations you bring to it.  If you're only after Hitchcock's trademarks you'll be disappointed.  If, instead, you're prepared to see him as a more versatile director (who naturally returned to familiar themes through his fifty year career) maybe you'll appreciate this more.  It's below-average Hitchcock but an above-average film, and had there been another name attached its reputation would be quite different. "},{"Title":"Surely one of Hollywood's under-rated pictures!","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film at the cinema in the 1960's. This was the time I first began to take an interest in vintage Hollywood and has served as a standard by which I have judged other films since. First, one must mention the brilliant and haunting score by Franz Waxman. In many scenes in the film it heightens the drama marvellously. I have watched the film periodically over the years - this afternoon on British TV being the latest - and it loses none of its appeal. In fact I think I enjoy it more than ever each time.Many criticise Gregory Peck's performance but after so many years I could not imagine anybody else playing it. A supremely beautiful performance by Ann Todd and an almost perfect one by Alida Valli - why did Hollywood not use these actresses more? Reliable performances from the supporting players as well - the scene at the end between Charles Laughton and Ethel Barrymore is absolutely chilling - CINEMA PERFECTION.The atmosphere of immediate post-war London is captured perfectly despite being a studio bound production. The depictions of British life at the time - the rigid class system, the prison scenes, the still bomb damaged Old Bailey and life in the country - are wholly believable.Yes, one of my personal favourites. A great and under-rated film! "},{"Title":"A different movie form Hitchcock","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen quite a lot of Hitchcock movies. I have even seen The trouble with Harry which has a strong sense of humor. I should say that this one is also a kind of different from rest of his work the subject is more about romance than the case itself.Although the movie was a little bit too long but it still kept me entertained till the end of it. The start was very promising though I didn't quite like the ending but I like the adult talks between Gregory Peck and Ann Todd. I recommend this movie to couples.My rating for this movie is 7 out of 10.BTW my favorite Hitchcock movie is still North by Northwest. "},{"Title":"Great Drama Glossed Over","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" With all the proficiency in production for which both Hollywood veterans were recognized, David O. Selznick and Alfred Hitchcock seemed to go halves in creative effort on a polished piece of stagnant entertainment in their ceremonial Paradine Case. Dub it a mystery melodrama, even if that doesn't completely sum it up any more than it did Rebecca, a preceding, much superior production by the two. Classify it as a romantic courtroom would-be tragedy alongside a marriage soap opera. It's all of these things rolled together in one intermittently interesting movie, effortlessly told via Hitchcock's sophisticated camera.If you recall the lingering distress which Rebecca, the apparition femme fatale of that film, set off all the other characters, albeit she herself was dead, that's the kind of shadowy trouble that the poised Mrs. Paradine affects all the characters in this narrative, except she's quite alive. Nevertheless, her husband, a blind man, is dead and she's on trial for his murder. The story itself has much prospective tension, especially putting Mrs. Paradine at the hub of the drama. It's never cut and dried what she's up to and though the seductive effect of a woman under suspicion on a man with influence is and was nothing new, the plot progresses on its own distinctive path, as she is a distinctive character. The issue is that, unlike Hitchcock's British films, this American Hitchcock film set in Britain dulls the blade of the dramatic elements and turns. Hitchcock's camera has a way of acting like an adept trial lawyer, whirring calmly along with customary material and swiftly punctuating with fluent theatrics, and also unsurprisingly, the movie's furnishings have a lush David O. Selznick guise. However, despite Hitchcock's simplistic mastery of when and how to move the camera, each scene is a dialogue piece that I, to my own surprise, found would be much more impactful in other, perhaps grittier and more contemporary hands.Slowly, overemotionally, but gracefully enough, this picture files the potentially much more intriguing story of the eponymous widow's swaying lure over many who are impinged on by her trial, in addition to a predetermined eye-opener to the nature of the character herself. It makes a pale wink at the covetousness she provokes in the officiating judge, a typically sharp-tongued Charles Laughton whose urbane hostility has altogether sent his wife over the edge, another powerful narrative element that seems to have been glossed over. There's also disquieting suggestion of Mrs. Paradine's clutch on her husband's valet, a man upon whom keen suspicion is aimed before and during the trial, though mainly it follows the zeal she rouses in the stiff-postured man appointed as her defending counsel and of the torment this causes his wife.Gregory Peck is fervent as the prominent young London barrister who lets his heart, callously ensnared by his client, control his head, while Ann Todd would be much more persuasively grief-stricken as his wife were it not for Franz Waxman's gushy score being poured on her every word like syrup. Italian import Alida Valli makes the confined Mrs. Paradine a composite of inscrutability, ambiguity and sensuality, and Louis Jourdan is pretty intense as the harassed valet.It isn't a momentous Hitchcock effort by a long shot, save to the degree that it infers the cave dweller beneath everyone's practiced etiquette and concrete integrity and barristers' wigs. And it isn't a momentous script either, for the intent of cinema that is, developed by Selznick himself from Robert Hichens' novel. After a hazy buildup of evidence and of passion in the lawyer's heart, the story finally goes into a static but enthralling courtroom and thankfully remains there for most of the second hour. "},{"Title":"Even  Hitch couldn't stand seeing it!","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Turkey of a mystery movie that both it's director the Master himself Alfred Hitchcock and star Gregory Peck wished that they and the movie going public would soon forget. The hope of salvaging this cinematic deserter was forever dashed back in 1980, the year that Hitchcock died, when the hours upon hours of out-takes of the film were destroyed in a flood that engulfed the warehouse that it was stored at in Great Britain. Making it impossible to restore the movie to its original cut the way the Master, Alfred Hitchcock, would have wanted it to be.Taking on the case of the murder of the blind WWI war hero Richard Paradine hot shot defense attorney or British Barrister Tony Keane, Gregory Peck, is certain that the Colonel's wife Anna, Alida Vallie, who's standing trail for his murder had nothing at all to do with it. It's in no time at all that Tony starts to fall in love with the very attractive Anna Paradine that not only hurts his chances of defending her but his marriage with his wife Gay, Ann Todd, as well. That's if Gay gets wind of her husband's feeling for his sexy client!As Tony check all the evidence in the Colonel's murder he notices that his faithful man servant Andre Latour, Louis Jourdan, was at the scene when his master the Colonel was found murdered at his London Mansion on the morning of May 6, 1946. Taking Latour to task at the Colonel's old country home at Hindlsey Hall Tony finds out that he has a psychotic hatred of Anna bordering on the insane. It's later when Tony interviews Anna in prison about Latour that he realizes that she hates him as much if not more then he hates her! It becomes evident to Tony that there was something strange going on between the three,The Colonel Anna & Latour, that resulted in the Colonel's murder! But what!***SPOILERS*** It's not until Anna's trail that the truth comes out about this strange Manajatwa that went on between her husband herself and Latour that in in the end lead to her husband's murder. It was in fact Latour's total dedication to the the Colonel that set off the events that lead to his death! This bizarre revelation comes out at the trial in an almost tabloid like sleaze which lead to Latour flying the coop before the verdict was even in! With Anna spilling her guts out on the witness stand the news of Latour's departure was just too much for her, as well as us watching the movie, to take! By then things got so far out of hand that the films director Alfred Hitchcock and star Gregory Peck wished that they never had anything to do with it! "},{"Title":"Subpar Hitchcock","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A seemingly happily married London attorney falls in love with his client, a rich woman accused of murdering her husband. This is one of Hitchcock's weaker efforts, although not as bad as its reputation would suggest. The script is less than compelling, but the fine cast features the likes of Laughton, Coburn, and Barrymore. Although Hitchcock's films are known for their icy blonds, the blonde here (Todd) is loving and warm-hearted while the brunette (Valli) is the icy femme fatale. One can't blame Peck for falling for Valli. Although Valli and Jourdan had made over 40 films between them outside of Hollywood, the opening credits indicate that they are being introduced. "}{"Title":"A Disappointing Effort from David O. Selznick and a Great Cast","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Too long. David O. Selznick was a great producer, but an indifferent writer. Romantic scenes between Gregory Peck (call me, Mister Boring) and Ann Todd are unrelentingly straight out of dullsville. Admittedly, Miss Todd (who appears through the courtesy of J. Arthur Rank) is more attractively photographed and costumed than in her British films, but she is still unengaging when her material consists of such obviously contrived and supremely dull padding as here. In the original British print, Ethel Barrymore was wasted in a tiny, unrewarding role. Even Charles Coburn is not that much better served by the script, which remains the film's chief drawback, not only being over-weighted with dialogue and weaving a storyline that is not only thoroughly predictable (a particular disadvantage for a mystery thriller) but that is also stretched rather thin over an incredibly long running time.Another negative, as noted above, is the central character enacted by Gregory Peck. He is an unbelievable stock figure. Louis Jourdan and particularly Valli manage rather better and Laughton has a grand time, even if his material, particularly in his domestic scenes, is rather lame.The film is beautifully photographed and most attractively set, with director Hitch taking full advantage of the fine art direction. With considerable trimming, something might be made of the movie, but as it is... "},{"Title":"Not great, but worthwhile.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this is not one of Hitchcock's best, it is still a good film. I guess this is one thing that separates the great ones from the merely good ones The fact that even their minor works are worth seeing. It has some good scenes, specially in Old Bailey, and Gregory Peck, Charles Coburn and Charles Laughton (as usual) all give good performances. The only problems are the scenes with Gregory Peck and Ann Todd. They make the film seem a little bit dated. Unfortunately, The Paradine Case has many of such scenes. If Hitchcock focused more on the criminal case, it would have been much better...Anyway, it's a good movie. I wouldn't say that you must see it, but you certainly should see it.  "},{"Title":"A Romance without Chemistry","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In London, the upper-class Mrs. Maddalena Anna Paradine (Alida Valli) is arrested accused of poisoning her blind wealthy husband Colonel Paradine. Her friend Sir Simon Flaquer (Charles Coburn) recommends the experienced lawyer Anthny Keane (Gregory Peck) to defend her in the court. Along the hearings in prison, Keane falls in love for the beautiful Mrs. Paradine, affecting his marriage and his strategy of defense against the will of his client. The Paradine Case is an irregular work of Alfred Hitchcock. The plot is intriguing and dramatic, supported by magnificent cinematography and dialogs. Allida Valli is extremely beautiful and elegant in her debut in Hollywood. Unfortunately, the romance between Keane and Mrs. Paradine never works, since there is a total lack of chemistry between Gregory Peck and Allida Valli. It is impossible to note that he has a crush on her, only when he declares his love for her that the viewer will understand the situation. Charles Laughton has a magnificent performance in the role of the unpleasant and arrogant Judge Lord Thomas Horfield. Most of the characters are unlikable and their relationship and behavior are at least unpleasant. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Agonia de Amor (Agony of Love) "},{"Title":"Underrated Hitchcock film still has more than its share of flaws.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hitchcock's last collaboration with Selznick had its good and its bad points for him; he came away with a sumptuous production but also with a not-terribly-interesting story. The film is smoothly directed, with some exceptional camerawork; Hitchcock was undoubtedly a master of his craft by this point. However, the depiction of the trial procedures makes the picture look extremely dated. Quite frankly, Madonna's Body of Evidence had more credible courtroom scenes. And Ethel Barrymore's Oscar nomination, for a role with screen time that amounts to no more than two minutes, is one of Hollywood's biggest mysteries, if not blunders.     (***) "},{"Title":"Paradine Lost","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, the prosecution contends the film before you is an indisputable dud, the weakest film ever made by the Master of Suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. It would be a career low in many lesser careers, so it's more startling the career in question is that of filmdom's greatest director.A blind war veteran, a pillar of society named Paradine, is found poisoned in his bed. The suspected murderer, his beautiful wife Maddalena (Alida Valli), faces the Crown defended by a smitten barrister named Anthony Keane, played by Gregory Peck, who feels his best chance of winning the case is to let the jury see his client's true character and expose the victim's valet as the real killer.That whirring sound you hear is Johnnie Cochran spinning in his grave. Your head may be doing much the same before you see this turkey come home to roost. Hitchcock did make some less-then-successful films; Jamaica Inn, was named one of the 50 worst films of all time by Michael and Harry Medved. But Jamaica Inn at least has some fun performances and colorful settings to make up for an undernourished plot. The turgid, static proceedings of The Paradine Case require patience and a willingness to overlook plot holes wider than Charles Laughton.The acting is wooden almost across the board, with only Laughton as an ill-tempered judge scoring occasionally. That's only because he limits himself to raising an eyebrow or suppressing a grin while Peck, Valli, and the rest of the cast alternate between performing their one-dimensional roles in leaden fashion, or else overemoting whenever producer David O. Selznick's script takes one of its hairpin turns.The script is the worst thing here, with lines that undercut the supposed intelligence of the characters. Peck is given some choice howlers, like when someone raises the likelihood the Crown might try to prove Maddalena killed her husband, having put her in jail for it and all that.She's not a murderess, Keane explodes. She's too fine a woman...I only hope the Crown does try to foul her name once, just once.There's also nonsensical exchanges like this, between Keane and another attorney played by Charles Coburn, who rivals Peck, Valli, and a young Louis Jourdan for giving the worst performance. Have you ever thought about what you can learn from photographs? Ah, yes, the social footsteps of time. Huh?The film often seems focused on selling the beauty of Valli, an actress better known for her central role in The Third Man but hardly a stunner on the order of Garbo despite her thick accent. When Keane first meets her, the learned counsel is moved to utter Mr. Paradine could never have understood the sacrifice you were making (by marrying him.) He had never seen you. Yeah, apart from the money, she was Mother Teresa.The first half of the film is slow going, helped only by the English upper-class interiors Hitchcock always photographed well. There's some decent early scenes in the trial, but then the proceedings erupt into anarchy and more hammy acting. Revelations fly one after another, while tears and sweat pour down grimacing faces. None of it makes much sense. You really don't care how it ends, just so that it ends.They say courtroom scenes are surefire drama highpoints in any film, but The Paradine Case is a clear exception. You would never think the lead actor in this film would go on to glory in the cinematic courtroom of To Kill A Mockingbird, or that the director was in the midst of a remarkable 30-plus-year run of making some of the greatest films ever known.Hitchcock obviously made this under contractual obligation to Selznick, and it shows. You, however, are under no such obligation to view it. The prosecution rests. "},{"Title":"incredibly dull--what a waste","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" You would think that the combination of Alfred Hitchcock and Gregory Peck would produce some real sparks. Well, in this case it sure didn't. This courtroom drama is just amazingly dull and uninvolving. In fact, given the choice, I think I'd prefer an episode of Perry Mason or even Matlock. The story is so static! One reviewer liked it and said that the film had less energy than traditional Hitchcock suspense films. I disagree. I think it had absolutely no energy. I have tried watching this film several times but keep finding my attention wandering. That's saying a lot, as I am a rabid Gregory Peck fan--he's made so many wonderful and interesting films--just not this one. "},{"Title":"Great sexual tension","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE PARADINE CASE is an interesting but slightly contrived Hitchcock film fraught with sexual tension. I enjoyed most of this film but it could have used better editing and lesser number of characters. The film has some truly strange characters for eg. the wife who longs for her lawyer husband to save her sexual rival in court so that they can fight fairly over the man. ANN TODD and ALIDA VALLI are smoking hot, the two of them even look alike. Hitchcock knew how to select beautiful women for his movies.CHARLES LAUGHTON provides some comic relief during the intense court proceedings. "},{"Title":"That's paraDEEN","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I thought that the title was wordplay, designed to sound like paradigm case - but no, it isn't.  Sorry if this disappoints anyone.  In fact, the title was Selznick's idea, and it was chosen at the last minute after months of chronic indecisiveness in which almost every other possible title was considered and rejected.  This kind of thing drove Hitchcock up the wall.  He never worked with Selznick again.So Hitchcock's relationship with Selznick was not a happy one at the time. I wonder if people judge the film harshly as a result of this.  They shouldn't.  Their relationship was never really happy, and Hitchcock was unwilling when he allowed Selznick to get his fingerprints all over Rebecca and Spellbound as well.  But Rebecca and Spellbound are both very good Hitchcock bridles, but he actually makes two movies that are fuelled by ordinary old love - and this is a third.  Its only real sin is that it isn't as memorable as other Hitchcock movies.  It lacks a grand set piece, and it isn't based on a beguiling idea (as his best films always are think of The Lady Vanishes, Vertigo, The Birds, Rear Window - well, *I* think these are the best).  But apart from that it's a good courtroom drama with a perfectly watchable love triangle behind the scenes.  Gregory Peck carries us through those stretches that might otherwise be dull.  HE wasn't affected by the souring relationship between director and producer, at any rate. "},{"Title":"Excellent and wrongly underrated Hitchcock film","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I disagree with many respondents who find major flaws in this mini-masterpiece of cinema. The Paradine Case concentrates on witty, well-written dialog to create complex characters and to move the action along. Since postmodern audiences, especially those under thirty, have been spawned on action flicks or blockbuster special effects, a classic, intricate, word-oriented drama, forces them to work harder than they're willing. Those who don't appreciate words, will rarely honor great film writing, instead they will base success or failure of a movie on whether it's bloated with computer animated flash.In The Paradine Case the subtle gestures the characters employ like the grasping of Ann Todd's hand by Charles Laughtin as she slyly, calmly, cleverly uses parlor room banter to rebuff his advances, are brilliant. Some of the lines in the film are equally understated, yet profoundly amazing. Gregory Peck and Todd so gracefully inhabit their characters that they make the acting seem effortless, so effortless that some may overlook the excellence of their performances in this fine film.One test of a great movie is whether the conflict strongly continues the momentum in every scene and in The Paradine Case conflict is present in each deftly crafted moment.Ethel Barrymore is superb. Her facial gestures, her hand wringing, her breathless fear and trepidation, her pathetic love for the cruel but brilliant attorney, Laughtin, is academy award winning. Every actor/character in this wonderful film shines. In this movie, the artful use of shadows and light, the cinematography, the costuming, the script, the directing ALL contribute to the overall creativity of this rare cinematic treat.The Paradine Case can teach modern, would-be film makers a great deal. The 3 million dollar price tag on this movie (an astronomical amount for 1947) was money well spent. Anyone who appreciates classic film-making should see this picture. "},{"Title":"Marriage on trial","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Paradine Case is the result of the third collaboration between legendary Hollywood producer David O. Selznick and director Alfred Hitchcock (their previous efforts being Rebecca and Spellbound). The story for The Paradine Case had been purchased by MGM during Selznick's tenure there. It was obviously a story he felt passionately about, enough to buy the property from MGM for his own banner. The leads are played by Gregory Peck and Alida Valli (in her first Hollywood film). The entire cast-- which includes Louis Jourdan, Charles Coburn, Charles Laughton and Ethel Barrymore-- is well-guided by Mr. Hitchcock. Presentation is flawless in its painstaking detail of the legal process and is carefully researched. The relationship between the characters played by Laughton and Barrymore may be regarded as commentary on the ambiguities of married life-- perhaps a self-reflexive exercise by screenwriter Alma Reville, Hitchock's wife, on aspects of their own marriage. "}{"Title":"Mrs. Hitchcock's Story","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a suspense film, this picture pretty much fails entirely. But as Alma Hitchcock's depiction of her own conflicted feelings towards her husband and his well documented obsessions with various leading ladies, it's quite fascinating.  The most deeply felt scenes involve Todd's character, whose loyalty ultimately saves Peck's character from self destruction.  "},{"Title":"Not Up To The Master's Standards","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film really does not have the look of a Hitchcock film....in other words, it does nothing to hold your interest for more than short periods of time.  Plus, what is with the casting of Gregory Peck as a London barrister?....it doesn't play.  Ann Todd, who is a good but very reserved actress does a nice job as the wife who suffers for her husband's infatuation....Ms. Todd is an excellent sufferer.  Charles Laughton is at his best as the judge with an attitude problem and Ethel Barrymore is wasted as his wife...she does not get enough screen time.  She also suffers. Alida Valli is compellingly beautiful, with those liquid eyes, as the femme fatale on trial for her life.  She is not an actress that is well known to American audiences except for this film and her role in The Third Man. Her forte seems to be exotic creatures with doubtful pasts and she does it well.  The story is somewhat static but the courtroom scenes make up for the slow pace of the rest of the film.  Don't expect this to be a typical Hitchcock but it is still worth seeing.  Besides, what other film do you know where everybody suffers!!!  "},{"Title":"Colorless Hitchcock","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's final collaboration with producer David O. Selznick, neither of whom can get the juices flowing with this dull, somewhat pointless courtroom drama. Alida Valli is the placid widow of a wealthy, blind British Colonel who was poisoned; she's charged with his murder and is defended by barrister Gregory Peck, a married man with an impeccable courtroom track record who immediately becomes obsessed with her even though she seems to regard him with disdain. So...did she or didn't she? Hitchcock, working from a screenplay adapted from Robert Hichens' novel by wife Alma Reville (though others put in their two cents, to Hitch's displeasure), cannot seem to elicit any interesting facets from Valli as an actress--or perhaps he meant to keep her stone-cold? Either way, she's a well-coiffed void on the screen, with nothing simmering under the surface. Gregory Peck, who gets to wear the proverbial white wig in the final reels, is commanding while grilling the witnesses, but we never learn what makes this man tick, or why he should lose interest in wife Ann Todd (who has some spunk in her early scenes, but loses it fairly quickly for the sake of melodramatic pathos). Charles Laughton (as the judge) and Ethel Barrymore have some fine moments, but Charles Coburn as Sir Simon Flaquer is once again a sour old coot (he can't even toss broken glass into the fireplace without seeming disgusted). The production looks good (particularly when Valli is led down into her cell, or when Peck inspects her glamorous bedroom), but the courtroom showdown is rather rote, as is the finale. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The  two best things in this movie are not the leads","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, I do agree with all, or at least most, of the other comments. Gregory Peck is my least favorite 'major' actor - sort of a tall Howdy-Doody and he is even more terrible than usual in this role. The role requires some gravitas while Peck contributes wooden-ness. It is a stretch to believe he is capable of passion in any way. No wonder they have no children. On the other hand Charles Laughton is his great, evil, lecherous self. The real high note in this movie is Alida Valli who is incomprehensibly beautiful - even if she has only one expression - and the movie is worth watching just to see her closeups. She has several more cheekbones than the average person - with beautiful shadows under them all. "},{"Title":"Boring and flat story, fine acting and courtroom scenes","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" As much as I have always admired Hitchcock's work, I just couldn't bare the monotony and flatness that surround The Paradine Case. Unfortunately, this film is probably one of the most boring and least interesting of all of the great director's works. The storyline is very slow and simple, and there aren't any spectacular suspenseful moments that he accustomed us to so frequently. Sadly, in times of so many fast-paced and impressive courtroom thrillers and dramas (i.e. Witness for the Prosecution, Anatomy of a Murder, Judgment at Nuremberg) this movie really deserved the bad reputation that it gained in the first few years after its original release.If it weren't for the well-known director and notable movie stars, the movie would probably end up as some long-forgotten B-grade flick that no one would really want to watch.It's a story of forbidden romance, which began between a woman, accused of killing her blind husband, and her prominent defender. This chief motive intertwines with all the events that occur inside the courtroom.The movie started a mindset connected with the notions of feminism. It presents how a woman is able to wrap a man around her finger and make him do everything that she says. She is the strong figure that gives orders, and manipulates all those men, who fall in love with her at first sight.Still, I must say that there are some positive aspects that may be taken from the movie. Definitely, the viewer is able to admire the very decent scenery, set, and costumes shown in the picture.The movie presents a fine insight into the London middle class life. It also depicts, in an inquisitive manner, how the English court operated on a daily basis in those times, and proved once again that all the proceedings, consisting of various twists and revelations, might be thrilling, and can sometimes end up in a very surprising fashion. The acting is on a very high level. Gregory Peck is great as the barrister Anthony Keane, who falls blindly in love with a woman he is supposed to defend with cold blood and full consciousness of the mind, not through heart and emotions. Charles Laughton gives a convincing performance, as the strict, rigorous, emphatic and ironic judge. He is in total contradiction with Peck's character, one might notice. Alida Valli is mesmerizing As Lady Paradine, with all her grace and beauty, which makes it easy to see why every man lusts her and falls under her spell. Ann Todd as the brave and lovable Gay Keane, a wife, who even under the difficult circumstances doesn't give up and lets go of the jealousy.All in all, The Paradine Case looks more like a soap opera designed for TV, not a substantial film directed by one of the greatest director's in history. However, as you watch it, don't concentrate too much on the story, and simply enjoy the precise and entertaining courtroom scenes and the pleasurable subtleness of London's atmosphere. "},{"Title":"A good mix of drama and suspense","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The biggest virtue of Alfred Hitchcock's film The Paradine Case is that it says a lot about human relationships especially the manner in which perverse men and alluring women behave in society.This wayward albeit frail aspect of human nature is shown in a lugubrious legal setting where both men as well as their women find it increasingly difficult to resist temptation.Audiences get a chance of see how ordinary mortals transform their individual destinies by bringing themselves in close contact with unavoidable traits of obnoxious behavior.A thing that all Hitchcock admirers will remark is that The Paradine Case is not at a bad film as it had been considered by many people upon its initial release.It can be surmised that as there are less puzzling elements,loyal Hitchcock fans must have resorted to proffer their distaste for this film.It is true that Alfred Hitchcock has primarily directed a drama film but elements of suspense have also been firmly integrated in order to heighten this film's suspense quotient.This film has plenty of scenes highlighting regular Hitchcockian features such as brilliant camera work but it is the perfect casting which is considered as an icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"A different kind of Hitchcock","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Paradine Case, released in 1947, is a courtroom drama directed by the master, Alfred Hitchcock, and it's obvious it isn't his thing, or else he didn't care about it. Gregory Peck plays a British attorney and Ann Harding his wife; Alida Valli is Mrs. Paradine, a woman accused of murdering her blind husband, Louis Jourdan is her husband's valet, Charles Laughton is the judge, and Leo G. Carroll is the prosecutor. All that talent, and it's pretty slow going.Peck is Anthony Keane, a successful attorney with a very happy marriage to Gay. They are extremely affectionate and loving with one another, which is why it seems strange that five minutes after Keane meets Mrs. Paradine, he falls in love with her. Granted, Alida Valli is exquisite and mysterious, but the woman is accused of killing her husband. She becomes an instant threat to Gay, who tries to remain courageous. Peck's hair is grayed in this, and I was surprised to read in another comment that he had a British accent. I only heard an accent in one scene where he kept saying cahn't - and it sounded really odd.Louis Jourdan is Andre La Tour, whom Keane suspects may have committed the murder. Jourdan is so handsome, even Laughton's character comments on it! The story drags on, and the trial is really a McGuffin, because the actual plot involves the Keane's marriage. Harding does her usual excellent job, and Peck, accent or not, is very good.It's the kind of film that leaves one flat. There's not too much to say about it except that given Hitchcock and the cast, one would expect a lot more. "},{"Title":"Passable Hitchcock with some Pretty Precarious Penmanship","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently picked up Hitchcock/Truffaut (my other copy was in the basement of me mum's home in Maryland) again, just having seen this film. I have seen many Hitchcock films, most of them the more popular, cited ones. I agree with Mr. Moreno's review (the first review?) in that you don't need a lot of whiz-bang or heavy-duty suspense in a film; pure dramatic suspense is enough for any cineaste. However, I think Mr. Moreno goes too far in extolling this film. It has several handicaps. The most outstanding one for me is Mrs. Paradine's seduction of Keane. Deep into the trial during an adjournment, Keane finally says something to the effect of, 'And to think I was an idiot to fall in love with you'. I just didn't 'get' her seduction of this man! I just didn't see enough evidence of any possible love/lust relationship. I mean, they didn't even KISS once during their meetings. If he were really being seduced, I think we need more evidence to believe in their 'relationship'. And this is caused by an insufficient screenplay. Also, as Hitch himself pointed out, it's hard to follow the trial because we don't see the house/rooms well enough to orient ourselves when the attorneys cross-examine the witnesses. It might've been interesting if the audience were privy to what actually happened that night, or at least an INKLING of what happened. I think the best thing this film has going for it is the question of conscience and dramatic situation of Keane. I'm glad I finally saw it, but I'd rather watch 'Vertigo' again... "},{"Title":"A Supporting Cast Worth Watching","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The weakest elements of this uncharacteristically romantic Hitchcock courtroom drama are the leads- especially the very handsome young Gregory Peck- and the oddly romantic ending. It gets a seven, however, because Laughton, Ethel Barrymore, the coldly handsome young Louis Jourdan, and the rest of the supporting cast do what great supporting casts are supposed to do... they offer nuance, strong characterization, and tension. Laughton is particularly effective, not only in the courtroom but in the uttterly unexpected subplot of his relationship with his wife, played superbly by Barrymore. There are other, better Hitchcock films, but this one is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock on automatic pilot...","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Once again the genius Alfred Hitchcock converted such a simple story into a very good movie. The Paradine Case is not one of Hitchcock's most remarkable works (for me is not one of his 10 best movies), but even those movies from the English director that are not masterpieces are way better than 99% of present-day cinema. It's so entertaining and the sequences of the trial are just superb.What to say about Gregory Peck and Charles Laughton? Well, they're two good reasons to take a look at The Paradine Case. The mysterious and beautiful Alida Valli do the rest.Cinema of trials and investigations in the good old style.*My rate 7/10 "}{"Title":"Great Classic","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed this Alfred Hitchcock film starring Gregory Peck,( Anthony Keane) who plays the role of a very successful lawyer and is also married to a very pretty wife, Gay Keane, (Ann Todd) and they are both very much in love with each other. Anthony is hired to defend a very pretty woman, Mrs. Maddalena Paradine, (Alida Valli) who is suppose to have killed her husband by poison in a glass of wine. Mrs. Paradine's husband was blind and was also taken care of by his trusted valet for many years. As the story progresses, Anthony visits Maddalena and actually starts to fall in love with her and this starts all kinds of problems with his own wife Gay. This film has many great veteran supporting actors like Ethel Barrymore, Charles Laughton, who plays a Judge and Leo J. Carroll who is the prosecuting lawyer in this case. If you like Alfred Hitchcock films, you will not want to miss this film. "},{"Title":"Poison the barrister's wife!","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tense courtroom drama almost defeated by the tedious ramblings of a jealous wife, played by Ann Todd.   Peck & Valli -- playing lawyer and client in a high society murder case -- are as beautiful a (should-be) couple as Cary Grant & Ingrid Bergman were in Hitchcock's much more impressive Notorious.  Jourdan also impresses greatly in his debut as the black widow's late husband's handsome valet.  Todd is given only one good line, after an extra-creepy encounter with the always creepy Laughton.  Tetzel (reminiscent of Kathleen Quinlan), as Coburn's sharp-witted daughter, would have made a much better wife for Peck's character, younger and certainly more fun than the insufferably fufu Todd. "},{"Title":"Pretty poor effort...but it wasn't Hitchcock's fault","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are quite a few things wrong with this minor Hitchcock work. First off, casting Gregory Peck was a huge misfire. Seeing him try to pull off being an English barrister is kinda painful. It just doesn't work. This was a role before Peck became a superstar so maybe he was just getting his bearings as an actor.It doesn't help that the major issue with this film is o'Selznicks script. He is most certainly not a screenwriter. Some of the dialog and scene changes are so bad it's sad.Towards the end there's a scene where the old judge is sitting with his wife and she tries to talk him out of sentencing the defendant to death and she says something like..don't find her guilty or sentence her to death, she's had a hard enough life. Are you kidding me? How stupid is that. Girl kills her husband, who did nothing to her, and we should just let it pass? Gimme a break. This is that o'Selznick script writing again. The whole premise of the film is centered around how a high end barrister takes the case of a supposed husband killer and how everyone around him sees him falling in love with her. Within 20 minutes of the film there's already talk about it but there's one problem, there are no lead-ins letting you know its happened. I mean he meets with her twice in prison to talk about the case and there's no chemistry at all.Figuring out why this film was made is pretty simple. Read around online and you'll see the history behind this and right off you know that o'Selznick totally took over this film and therein lies the problem. He totally takes control of the film and just ruins it with bad casting and even worse screen writing. It's like taking a lawn mower mechanic and telling him to go work on a Ferrari. He had no business writing for this work. You can bet Hitchcock was glad to finish out his contract with this minimal work. Seemed like he just phoned this one in to be done with it. Being that this was his last film with this studio and knowing the Hitchcock time-line, you'll notice how after this film is when his best films were made. Hmmmm, I wonder why?Skip this one and save your brain power for a better film...cause this ain't a very good one. "},{"Title":"Not so very bad","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	Not so very bad as its reputation would indicate, and really quite a Hitchcock film in many ways.  There's the attention to the humiliating rituals of the courteous booking procedures of the police, very similar to THE WRONG MAN.  The Laughton-Barrymore couple are very Hitchcockian characters, and excellently drawn portraits.  And the plot, though admittedly sometimes turgid, all makes excellent sense in the end.  And that extraordinary cast, every one doing a great job.  A better film, I'd say, than WITNESS TO THE PROSECUTION, which it superficially resembles.  There are certainly worse Hitchcock pictures; the obvious ones are UNDER CAPRICORN and STAGE FRIGHT, but for my money this one is also better than SUSPICION and SABOTEUR.  "},{"Title":"A succession of melodramatic surprises","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story of this film is nonsensical. It completely lacks interest or suspense. Instead of plot points or developments that subtly and rewardingly build into each other, periods of waffle are suspended between quite bizarre and highly over-emotionalised changes in circumstance. This is the method of character development as well. For no particular reason, as in set up by events or character changes, the main character suddenly develops the most highly-charged emotions.Considering that the story is a murder case, the audience is denied any plot points to be intrigued by. There is little or no story to follow. We simply await the next overly-dramatic happenstance. The worst cases of this happen in the courtroom. Armed with no information at all, the attorneys ask random questions until the witnesses crack and reveal a crucial plot point at a random juncture.The story and characters are so unconvincingly melodramatic that a bit of context would have at least held the movie together. As it is, there is nothing that maintains any kind of dramatic momentum, whether that be plot or characters. The viewer cannot become caught up in the melodrama because he has no coat tails to hang on to. "},{"Title":"boooooring","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Doesn't rate even the 2 1/2 stars given by Maltin, except that he is correct when he says talk, talk, talk. I had never really known until this picture the true meaning of talky as applied to a movie - the dialogue goes on continually, unceasingly, confusingly, and often superfluously. After a while you wish everyone would just shut up. Dramatic tension is nonexistent, as is true suspense. Gregory Peck, with his feeble attempt at a British accent, is horribly miscast. The strained marital relationship between Charles Laughton and Ethel Barrymore is perplexing as portrayed. Evidently Hitchcock neglected this production as he was preoccupied with breaking away from Selznick and establishing an independent production company. Things were not helped by Selznick's daily revisions of the script. This movie must be regarded as one of Hitch's outright failures. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but not entirely satisfying","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lesser-known Hitchcock courtroom drama. Intriguing, but not entirely satisfying. A woman, Anna Paradine, is on trial for the murder of her husband. Anthony Keane (played by Gregory Peck) agrees to represent her. After a while their relationship becomes more than client and lawyer...Plot turns out to be average, and the human/romantic drama is a damp squib. What gets it through is Hitchcock's style, and what style it is. He manages to create and maintain suspense out of nothing. The camera distances and angles are a treat, as is the editing.Solid performance by Gregory Peck, in an early role. Good support from Ann Todd, Charles Laughton, Alida Valli and Ethel Barrymore. "},{"Title":"Great performances, great visuals, but still a minor work from Hitch","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A minor work from Hitchcock would be a major work for just about any other director of the era. Perhaps it's unfair to Hitch to rate a film like 'The Paradine Case' a 6 or lower, but the bar he set during the 1940's with films like 'Rebecca', 'Shadow of a Doubt', 'Spellbound', and 'Notorious' is so high that one cannot help but be disappointed by this film. Hitchcock reportedly had seriously clashes with producer David O. Selznick during the making of 'Paradine', which may account for its surprisingly banal story and characterizations. Yet there are moments and scenes to admire in 'Paradine'- The introduction of Valli's character sums up her tastes, mood, and intelligence all with the visuals and a few, quick lines by her.- The first meeting between Peck and Louis Jordan. It provides the first real sense of danger and creepiness to the film. Sadly, the film doesn't continue on this path as it delves into courtroom drama shortly afterwards.- Valli's performance is nothing short of marvelous. She doesn't ham it up nor look stilted, she perfectly convenes the sinister and obsessive qualities of her character. She is, without a doubt, the best part of the film.- The shot when Jordan first enters the courtroom as the camera slides around Valli's head as it follows Jordan to the witness stand.- The high-angle shot of Peck after realizing the case is lost. One of the most jarring cuts in a Hitchcock film that firmly conveys Peck's sense of defeat.So, while 'Paradine' has moments, scenes, and acting to admire and reflect upon, the story itself is rather dull and dragging, negative characteristics that were quite rare in Hitchcock's films of the 1940's. "},{"Title":"Worth a look, but one of the master of suspense's lesser films","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I don't consider any of Alfred Hitchcock's films truly terrible- then again there may be some bias as he is my favourite director- I do think there are some disappointments in his resume. And unfortunately The Paradine Case, while not a disaster in any shape or form, is one of them. As always with Hitchcock's films The Paradine Case is well made, everything is very slick and evocatively shot. Some of the shots are really inspired, the beginning with Alida Valli being arrested was the standout while the shot introducing Louis Jourdan is quite innovative Hitchcock's direction is good and thoughtful enough, if not quite as involved as it usually is, I think how the story is dealt with is part of why and studio interference being another factor. The music is memorable and ominous, but never obvious. And a vast majority of the cast are very good. Coming off best is Charles Laughton, who literally chews the scenery and it was a shrewd, somewhat malevolent and gleefully hammy performance of a truly beastly character indeed.Alida Valli is beautiful and mysterious, very magnetic to watch, if perhaps rather cold for some viewers. Ethel Barrymore has very little to do and was deserving of a better developed subplot and character, but this is an example of a support performance in this position that makes the most of what they have, Barrymore did very well in that respect. The scene between her and Laughton at the end is indeed chilling. Charles Coburn is nicely understated in one of the more fleshed-out roles of the film, Louis Jourdan makes a promising debut while Leo G. Caroll and Joan Tretzel are equally fine. Ann Todd gives a loyal and deeply felt performance, but like Barrymore is given little to do in a role that is somewhat of a cliché.I personally however found Gregory Peck miscast in the lead role. I do like Peck especially in To Kill a Mockingbird, but here in stiff and remote form I don't think I've seen him this uncomfortable before. His British accent doesn't convince at all either. There are other problems with The Paradine Case though too. The story and script are the main culprits. The story feels much too thin and stretched out, which made the film feel overlong, and the turgid pacing makes it even duller. The script is a mix of overly-melodramatic soap opera and too-wordy courtroom scenes. Everything just felt stilted and overwrought, the courtroom scenes especially could have been so intriguing but the unbelievable dialogue just let things significantly. The characters are not particularly well drawn, the most interesting are Valli's and especially Laughton's, while if Todd and Barrymore hadn't done as well as they had their characters would have made no impression whatsoever.Overall, a disappointing Hitchcock, considering the cast and how good so many of Hitchcock's other films are, but hardly a film so bad that you prefer to forget it ever existed. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Gregory Peck Seriously Miscast","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched a DVD of this which is part of a Hitchcock boxed set released in 2008 (or even 2009) called THE PREMIERE COLLECTION. This DVD contains a radio dramatization from the time of the movie's release. This radio broadcast has Joseph Cotton in the Gregory Peck role and he plays it with wit and subtlety. This drove home to me my idea that Peck was a poor choice for this role. While neither he nor Joseph Cotton is an Englishman, as one would expect an English barrister to be, Cotton's radio acting here has more depth. I can believe he would become enamored of the exotic lady on trial. Peck has virtually one expression throughout, and I didn't buy, for a minute, that he couldn't help falling for his client. He did a masterful job as a lawyer in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD fifteen years later, when he played a wooden figure who's heart is in his integrity. In THE PARADINE CASE, we're supposed to believe this solemn-looking figure has a weakness. It doesn't work. Hitchcock has his moments here, of course, as he does even in lesser pictures such as this. The moment where Louis Jourdan, greeting Gregory Peck, goes into a darkened doorway, is classic Hitchcock. A figure emerges from the doorway immediately after Jourdan disappears into it. You think at first he's come back out, but the footsteps we hear and the figure we eventually see are that of a maid. It's not merely one person being mistaken for another, it's a gender switch designed to make the audience uncomfortable. That Jourdan physically resembles Peck makes the audience see them as logical candidates for the defendant's affections. (Of course, Hitch wouldn't have been able to make Joseph Cotton look like the suave Jourdan. I have no idea if he'd considered Cotton for the movie, but the fact that he was in the radio play makes me think it was a possibility.) Hitchcock does well with the icy relationship between the characters played by Charles Laughton and Ethel Barrymore. Hitchcock always has some comic relief, but these two actors provide dark comedy. Apparently, Ethel Barrymore had a speech which was cut. I don't know if Hitchcock wanted to cut it or not. He was at the mercy of Selznick, who seems to have intruded a lot in this project. Look for lots of shots with people sitting next to lamps. Think of the various lamps and that light bulb in PSYCHO and you can see Hitchcock was, as usual, developing motifs which had been in his mind a long time. "}{"Title":"Gregory Peck plays a barrister who falls for his mysterious and exotic client, who is accused of murdering her husband.","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Paradine Case is, at best, disappointing. Gregory Peck, giving his usual wooden performance, plays a lawyer who falls for his client, a beautiful woman accused of murdering her husband.We are just supposed to assume Peck's attraction to his client, as neither his acting nor the chemistry between the two would give you any hints that one or both of them is supposed to be in love. The movie is split between the courtroom drama and the drama between Peck and his sweet wife. Rather than balancing the movie, the divided attention makes it feel as though the movie did not know what genre it wanted to be in.The back cover advertised suspense and shocking twists, but it was rather plodding to me, and I'm still trying to figure out what exactly was supposed to be shocking about its conclusion.I was surprised to discover this movie was made after Witness for the Prosecution, as it seemed to me it was trying awfully hard to be like Witness for the Prosecution. I would recommend skipping the Paradine Case and re-watching Witness for the Prosecution instead. "},{"Title":"Paradine , An Outline","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Disclaimer' Any relation to 'Body of Evidence' is purely coincidental&#x85; Highly successful London barrister Anthony Keane (Gregory Peck)takes on the case of Italian Maddalena Paradine (Alida Valli) who is accused of poisoning her blind military hero husband. Keane Starts by defending her but becomes increasingly bewitched by her, threatening both his marriage and his career. As as details in the case come to light ,Madame Paradines Veil begins to slip for all but her Champion , Her Lawyer We have at least two love triangles in this film, and they not as obvious as you may think.This is the Final Collaboration between Hitchcock and meddlesome Producer David O Selznick Who Brought him to America and Helped Create his first major American Film Rebecca , After The contract Expired with Paradine Hitchcock gained Creative Freedom of shorts and went on to experiment with new styles of editing such as in 'Rope and under CapricornHitchcock also pioneers the use of multiple cameras with live action almost a forerunner to what Television would do in Studios some Years laterParadine was Considered in the lesser Category of the Cannon of Hitchcock However it does showcase his technique and the Entered of Louis Jordan is till one of the most startling is Cinema History. Gregory peck Plays Another Lawer, who's sexual frustration begins upon meeting the Beautiful Mrs Paradine Joan Tetzel Plays an Interesting role of the sudo lesbian Daughter of A Solicitor who dosn't wont the Market woman to hang as she hates breaking pretty things Louis Jordan Plays the Anti social Woman Hating Vallet of the Murdered Mr Paradine Ann Todd aka Mrs David Lean as the Long Suffering 'Good Wife' Perhaps the Suspended Belief that Gregory Peck would Sacrifice everything for a Woman he had not even kissed seems a little slim, However as a Vehicle Created for the Mystique of Greta Garbo (who was offered the role first ) it may be been slightly more believable She Turned it Down after another film role Famously saying No Mommies No Murderesses ,Alida Valli Stills holds the attention of the Audience as the Mysterious Manipulative Passive Aggressive Madame Paradine , if you ever wondered what 'Rececca' may have been like in the flesh and why she seems to capture the hearts of Woman and Men give Mrs Paradine a look.As well as a resemble to Mrs Paradine Gorgeous Music of Franz Waxman which dominated the film of Rebecca Suffocated the Paradine case in wonder and MysteryIts is to be appreciated for the things which Hitchcock alone brings to the film even in the little scenes that make this a very engaging film to watch "},{"Title":"Hold Vertigo in the back of your mind and watch this again!","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Please watch this again. I'd first like to cover what I view are this film's major weaknesses.1. Gregory Peck. He struggles with revealing emotion and instead looks merely constipated. I believe he should be portraying a character completely immersed in his own fantasy of beauty as he gazes upon Mrs (Madaleina) Paradine. The role of Tony Keane should express his self-inflicted torture, in this Peck fails. It is said that when asked Peck said if he could burn any of his movies this would be the one.2. Clunky courtroom scenes. One gets the feeling that a lot of context has been lost in the courtroom scenes due to editing by Selznick. It is known that he attempted to cut as much as he could with Hitch's works and that Hitch deliberately made this difficult for him with his shooting style giving little collateral in the way of alternative takes and also in his development of the long take. I think Selznick probably had a lot of control over the courtroom sequences post-production and I sense a lack of direction in these scenes which plod along with too much dialogue.Now having said all this I still feel that we are left with a good film that stands up in the Hitchcock oeuvre...this is a film about relationships and fantasy. By the time of production Hitch and his wife Alma (credited as script adviser on the movie along with James Bridie) had reached almost 50 years of age and been together more than half their lives. Although we know that they were an outwardly close couple there are many who knew them who were aware of strains in their marriage. I feel this movie more than any other seeks to explore these strains of marital fidelity and is a precursor to Vertigo in its awareness of male fantasy and the male gaze. Many shots show the constraints of both profession and marriage...the courtroom set is very claustrophobic and we get shots of Ann Todd contrasted with Valli showing the former appearing more imprisoned than the latter.The male parts in this film of Keane and La Tour are shown as weak men. Indeed we see Peck and Charles Coburn's character's unwilling to believe a woman of such beauty capable of murder. Keane vacillates and attributes words and intentions to Mrs Paradine from the off. One gets the impression that if the blokes had shut up for a minute at their first meeting with Mrs P. she may well have just told them the truth. IT IS THIS ELEMENT OF THE MALE ENDOWING THE FEMALE WITH HIS IDEAL OF BEAUTY AND TRUTH THAT IS THE CENTRAL POWER OF THE FILM. The contrast and counterpoint to the male fantasy is the woman back home, BARRYMORE/TODD. There are fascinating exchanges between the Barrymore and Charles Laughton characters which give an indication of the regrets and sadism that relationships can be filled with if the underlying problems are not faced. I find all the acting apart from Peck's to be competent. Indeed I find Valli expresses the character - a blank canvas upon which others make their marks - as similar to Kim Novak's Madeleine Elster each giving there best performances of their careers. They're not great actresses but they accomplished what was required in this film very well. So there you have it...think Vertigo, think also Hitch and Alma. Watch the movie, see this professional man obsessed with the beauty (male-attributed) of a woman. See him almost ruined but then return to his wife. Along with Vertigo, the most autobiographical of movies, believe it or not. "},{"Title":"Solid film not Hitchcock's best","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three years after the amnesia smash Spellbound, Hitchcock and Gregory Peck joined forces again in the court room murder mystery/love story, The Paradine Case.Peck plays a fancied barrister who falls for his fascinating client, a woman charged with the murder of her rich husband. While dramatically sound, the plot is really nothing of a mystery at all, and relies entirely on the ensemble cast (Charles Laughton and Cedric Hardwicke in support) and Peck's untimely obsession to pull it off. They do well, however the ending, or rather lack of it, does not help the overall cause.A solid drama, but not one of Hitchcock's best.Thursday, August 5, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Well, nice people don't go murdering other nice people.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" David O. Selznick and Alfred Hitckcok did not get along, and this is the last film they did together (previously Spellbound and Rebecca).Maybe Hitchcock was glad to be rid of Selznik, but it just didn't seem her had his heart in this one. He used Gregory Peck (again) in the lead as a lawyer who falls in love with his client. Peck is always great, but something seemed to be missing here.Charles Laughton was the judge who had already made up his mind. Ann Todd gave a standout performance as the stand by your man wife who knew her husband was in love with his client, Alida Valli.Louis Jourdan's role in his only Hitchcock film, was superb! The most memorable scene comes in court when Peck learns something about the client he's been defending. His whole world comes crashing down, but Hillary, I mean Ann Todd was there to pick him up. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I won't go into the story, which has been better explained by other contributers. The direction of this film, by Hitchcock, is first rate, as is the film-noirish camera work. The score by Waxman and Dessau is also excellent. The actors struggle bravely with trite dialogue and a fairly obvious script, which is this movie's Achilles heel. It is watchable but not one of Hitchcock's best films, more so because of the story's quality than for any technical reason. Generally speaking, there are quite a few story loopholes and the character of the hapless manservant speaks English far too well to be a struggling foreigner.Gregory Peck does a fine job in this film but I wonder why a British actor wasn't picked to play the part. After all, Peck was playing the part of an English barrister and his accent didn't exactly match the image. Hitchcock's trademark camera angles and tricks are all here to see and that's what makes this film interesting from a film connoisseur's point of view. With a tighter script and and more-believable dialogue this film could have been one of Hitchcock's better efforts. "},{"Title":"Garbo's Back! (and Hitchcock's Scratching It)","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In London, attractive widow Alida Valli (as Maddalena Anna Paradine) is arrested for the poisoning murder of her blind, wealthy husband. Most sympathies lie with the well-respected Ms. Valli; and, family friend Charles Coburn (as Simon Flaquer) arranges for dashing defense attorney Gregory Peck (as Anthony Tony Keane) to prove her not guilty. Mr. Peck's wife, Ann Todd (as Gay Keane), thinks Valli is innocent; though, she senses Peck is falling in love with the accused woman. Peck's investigation leads him to handsome Paradine valet Louis Jourdan (as André Latour).Exceptionally well-produced (David O. Selznick) and directed (Alfred Hitchcock); but, the story is far too slow and oblique to engage as it should. No doubt, Greta Garbo would have added great depth and beauty to the role of Mrs. Paradine; Ms. Garbo turned down the role because she no longer wanted to play this type of character. Foolishly, the filmmakers neglected to offer her the part played by Ann Todd. Todd certainly gets the award for Best Garbo Performance in this film; and her looks approximate Garbo's, in 1947. Interestingly, Hitchcock stylistically directs Valli as Mata Hari, and Todd as Ninotchka.Nevertheless, the two new Selznick stars, Jourdan and Valli, are very impressive in their roles. Jourdan is particularly effective; his character is likely bisexual, as subtly noted in the script (and, on screen, flirting with the coachman). The judge assigned to the case is Charles Laughton (as Thomas Horfield); however, his character's lecherous nature is only rather fleetingly played with. Ethel Barrymore (as Sophie Horfield) is a welcome supporting player. And, Lee Garmes' photography is outstanding. ******* The Paradine Case (12/31/47) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Gregory Peck, Alida Valli, Louis Jourdan, Ann Todd "},{"Title":"An odd one","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lawyer Gregory Peck is hired to defend a woman (Alida Valli) who may have murdered her husband. Charles Laughton is the presiding judge, a lecherous, bitter man who would rather see the woman hang partly due to a touchy situation involving Peck's wife (Ann Todd, looking like but not in the same league as Teresa Wright). Charles Coburn, Leo G. Carroll and Ethel Barrymore are along for the ride in this Selznick production, shot in Hollywood but made to look like it's taking place in England. As much as I love Hitchcock, this film is dull and at times unintentionally funny. For 1947, it sure looks dated, as if it had been shot in 1929. You may safely skip this one. Watch Witness for the Prosecution instead. "},{"Title":"A total letdown","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only spoiler of any import here is that there is not much to be spoiled for this overly talkative disappointment. A lot of the Hitchcock trademarks are in place ominous music, suggestions of hidden agendas, interesting camera work, personal intrigue. And there are some big name stars and character actors who turn in decent performances, Charles Laughton in particular is in fine form.You think the thing is building to a typical Hitchcockian finish so much so that even when the final revelation is made, you can't believe that that's actually it. I kept watching the old woman who oversaw the jail cell - she appeared as a suspicious presence in several scenes, but in the final analysis she played no part. As Checkov said, One can't put a loaded gun on the stage if no one plans to fire it. Is this movie Hitchcock's joke on us? "},{"Title":"nice courtroom drama","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really isn't as bad as everyone says it is.  Ok, the romantic subplot really drags on, but the courtroom scenes remain very enjoyable and well acted. Hitchcock himself didn't care much for this movie( it's one of the very few whodunits he made) and it is said he slept his way through shooting. Indeed there's little suspense and even less technical invention. Selznick (who wrote the screenplay) used to give the actors their lines just moments before filming, and he really seems to be more interested in the marital problems of Peck and Todd then in the crime aspect. The actors are good, especially Peck and Laughton, though there's a real problem with the women in this film. Ann Todd's character is just downright dull and Alida Valli is so cold we can hardly feel any sympathy for her.I'd give it a 7/10, only for the courtroom drama "}{"Title":"A good morality tale that loses its way in the second half","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The young, beautiful but icy Mrs Paradine is accused of poisoning her blind, elderly husband. Anthony Keane takes the case for her defence and starts building his facts but, as he does so, he finds himself falling for this noble (as he sees her) and beautiful woman. However she does not seem to return his affection and instead seems determined to defend the only other person who could have killed Paradine &#150; his valet Andre Latour. Meanwhile Keane's wife senses that he is mentally and emotionally leaving her for Paradine, even if his body is physically still there. With this emotional storm to the fore, the day in court rapidly approaches.With the quality involved in this film, I had hoped for something interesting and, as I watched the first hour I wondered where the other reviewers had come up with the idea that this film is boring. Far from it I thought as I watched emotions come to the surface as Hitchcock allowed the actual court case issue to go to the background in favour of examining the damaging force of lust. Although dated a bit now, this was very interesting and it dealt with it pretty well. However in the second half, somebody realised that they still had this courtroom drama to play out and, although it still allows the relationship side of things to be on screen, it tried to salvage something from the mystery and move it much more to the fore. It was a mistake to do it to this degree because by this time I was not so interested in who did what but rather the feelings of the characters and their fate. Sadly this suffered with the move and I suddenly went from watching a film I was interesting in, to watching a film that I suddenly felt quite detached from. It is hard to describe but suffice to say that I do felt it lost its way or should have done more in the first half to make the bridge more efficiently.The cast are pretty good and deal well with the emotions and struggles they are given. Peck plays it well but he doesn't convincingly have inner turmoil to my eye; his scenes with Valli didn't convince me of any spark or feeling really. This is more Valli's fault than his though, because she plays it far too cold for the majority and doesn't convince as the semi-femme fatale that she is supposed to be. Todd is a bit too loyal but then I suppose I am viewing her from a modern standpoint and actually her character was spot on for the period. Support is good from Coburn, Carroll and Laughton, but then this should surprise no one.Overall this is a nice try that works in part as a cautionary morality tale but when it moves into a courtroom drama it didn't take my interest with it and I was left more interested in the emotional car crash that was coming rather than who did what to whom. Worthy try that doesn't really come off. "},{"Title":"Dullish movie w/ good cast.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree w/ the general assessments here-movie is just too talky, and too long. I would have liked to have seen some flashbacks, showing Valli, Jourdan and the Col. there interacting in their mansion. You just don't have a good idea of what the Col. was like save for the fact he was blind, and a war-hero.As for the cast-Peck is stolid, given somewhat stilted dialogue, Anne Todd is the pretty blonde 'Good girl' supportive wife, Laughton hams it up as the crotchety, cynical judge, Valli is beautiful and troubled, Jourdan comes off as maybe having been a pair w/ the now dead Col. and you have some pretty obvious love triangles showing here, not all of which could readily be portrayed in post-war 40's Hollywood.Ethel Barrymore is sorely under-used as the judge's emotionally abused wife, I enjoyed Coburn and his daughter though. The odd Greek Chorus w/ her and Anne Todd in the gallery was un-necessary but a typical Hollywood device I know.Don't think Hitchcock knew what to do w/ this--mixing Rebecca w/ Witness for the Prosecution winds up watering down both sources. It's watchable-but you won't be that interested in it as you watch it and it's not memorable.** outta **** "},{"Title":"Horribly miscast, worst hitch of the 40's","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost all of Hitchcock's films in the 1940's were masterpieces ---  except for this turgid potboiler.  Peck and Jourdan are totally wrong for their roles.  And Laughton and Hitch were two all-time greats who simply could not work with each other.  Coburn and Barrymore are the sole reasons for watching this overwrought conundrum. "},{"Title":"Miscast Peck...wasted Barrymore...talky script...imperfect Hitchcock...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  And yet, for all its imperfections, THE PARADINE CASE is saved by a sly performance from CHARLES LAUGHTON, impressive work by newcomers LOUIS JOURDAN and VALLI, and some excellent camerawork that bears the stamp of Hitchcock's planning. It's a suspense tale in which the suspense is diluted by a script that is too talky and scenes that go on at great length even when they are pointless--such as Jourdan's first meeting with Peck in which they play a cat and mouse game with no visible results after a talky exchange.ANN TODD is so veddy, veddy British that she makes GREGORY PECK look even more miscast than he is as her barrister husband. Hitchcock should have insisted on RAY MILLAND for this one. ETHEL BARRYMORE is completely wasted (and inexplicably won an Oscar nomination as Best Supporting Actress) in a role as Laughton's intimidated wife.SPOILERS AHEAD...The storyline is a slim one about a lawyer with a client he thinks is innocent until certain facts of information come to light in the courtroom after he asks one too many pointed questions of his client while she's on the stand. Unfortunately, the courtroom scenes are never quite vivid enough--but CHARLES LAUGHTON does some neatly underplayed moments on the bench (yes, underplayed!!) and LOUIS JOURDAN is incredibly handsome and mysterious as the man we suspect has had a love affair with Peck's alluring client. Interesting--with some dull stretches along the way--but certainly not Hitchcock at his best. A lackluster script and a miscast Peck are part of the problem.The film's greatest attribute is the camerawork. Watch the scene where Jourdan makes his entrance into the courtroom while the camera shows Valli in the foreground avoiding eye contact with him.The camera follows him while swirling around Valli to catch her subtle reaction to his presence.  "},{"Title":"The illiterate effects of a Hitchcock-thriller","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The above expression is a literal quote from the standard-work of film theory Theorie Des Films by Siegfried Kracauer (Frankfurt Am Main 1973, p. 12). In order to reveal its application to The Paradine Case (1947), I have to disclose some key points of the story. Roughly speaking, it goes like that Mrs. Paradine is arrested for the suspect of having poisoned her husband. Soon, it becomes clear that only two persons could have done the crime she and the valet of the killed man. Hitchcock should never have accepted this lethal restriction given by the novel on which the movie is based, because from now on the movie spins around in trivialities. For example When the police comes to arrest her, Mrs. Paradine calls her family-attorney. When he arrives, he tells her not to loose words but to come to the core of the defense immediately, since it is clear to him that she did not kill her husband. For the audience, this means The valet did it. When the old attorney gives the case to a young specialist, this one follows of course the line of the other, but simply because he earns his money by being a defense attorney and not a state prosecutor. For him as well as for the audience it is clear again Since he must defend Mrs. Paradine, he must try to prove that the valet is the murderer. However, the audience asks itself Would this not be clear to Mrs. Paradine as well? She, most of all, knows that at the time of the killing only her and the valet have been in the house and are thus suspects for the crime. So, the audience does not understand that Mrs. Paradine, after having attended the first trial day, is shocked that her attorney tried to put the whole guilt on the valet. She makes him a gigantic scene, telling him, that his business is to defend herself, but not at the cost of accusing the valet. What a nonsense! Did Hitchcock really not see that there is not even a chance for a Deus Ex Machina in the form of a third, hitherto unknown person in the story? The deplorable rest of the story goes as follows When Mrs. Paradine sees that the valet gets more and more under suspect of being the killer, she starts slowly to make confessions, first in the form of suggestive remarks. Meanwhile, the court is informed that the valet, desperate under the burden of accusations, has committed suicide. When Mrs. Paradine hears that, she turns from hints to a full confession of having killed her husband because she was in love with the valet and wanted to start a new life with him. Unfortunately, the incredible nonsense of the plot line is not at the end, at that point. From a discussion in the private house between the judge and his wife we hear that he plans to hang Mrs. Paradine as soon as possible. But from a plea by the wife of her attorney we hear that he should do everything in order to safe her life. Well understood the life of the same Mrs. Paradine who has by herself ruined her case, delivered false information to her attorney and, most of all, told him in the court house that he is responsible for the suicide of the valet. I cannot even imagine that there is any movie on this world whose story is more inconsistent, paradoxical and unprofessional. Why Hitchcock filmed it unchanged, this must be considered a true mystery of film history. Besides that, The Paradine Case is a masterpiece in order to show what Kracauer called the illiterate effects of a Hitchcock-thriller. "},{"Title":"Halfway to Paradine","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lesser known Hitchcock, his last for David O Selznick, their producer / director relationship having more or less broken down during its making to the point where the producer turned director himself for some scenes. The film though is still identifiably Hitchcock's but while it has its moments it unfortunately has more longueurs too.I can't recall too many Hitchcock courtroom dramas, maybe I Confess and The Wrong Man have similar scenes but not to the extent here where the last half hour or more is devoted to the lengthy trial of Alida Valli's Marguerita Paradine black widow character's trial for the murder of her blind husband. Despite recreating the Old Bailey in detail and Charles Laughton's excellent turn as the sleazy but still knowledgeable judge, somehow the climax fails to really grip, plus the last gasp twist is hardly revelatory.As others have said there's no explanation for Gregory Peck's American accent for his supposedly Englidh character, but you could say the same about Charles Coburn too. I too found it hard to understand just why an experienced lawyer like him should so easily fall for his good-looking but hardly magnetic female client. Perhaps if it was Garbo or Bergman, both rumoured participants originally, but I just don't get the allure of Miss Valli as portrayed here.The pacing of the film is slow with not a lot happening from scene to scene, a malaise which affected his other films of this period, like Under Capricorn and Stage Fright. The acting is relatively weak too, Peck is surprisingly anaemic for a man apparently besotted with Mrs Paradine while Ann Todd as his wife is just too much the little woman at home who seems to demur to Peck's wishes after only the slightest protest.Yes there are some Hitchcockian moments with a few of the Master's trademark tracking shots, none better than the surprise, tension-breaking, on-high shot looking down as the defeated Peck leaves the courtroom, but in between it's really rather lumpy and dull. I felt the premise may have worked better if Valli did act more the femme fatale in leading Peck's character on, as in the end he's made to look rather foolish and shallow with his infatuation.So this wasn't the best Hitchcock I've ever seen, as this time when it was good, it was just good but when it was poor, it was pretty poor. "},{"Title":"absorbing in parts, but not the whole","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hitchcock and Selznick's Paradine Case is a pretty basic nut to crack in terms of the premise - a woman accused of murder (in Hitchcock, no way!) and in this case it becomes a law & order scenario with the defense attorney doing the detective work.There are some excellently written and directed courtroom scenes, when it actually gets to the courtroom mostly. Ironic, of course, that the story is really about the characters more than the plot; somehow the details of the story, how the characters talk about them (or don't, leaving things out or floating in the air) brought me in more than anything of the love portions.But the main core of the melodrama is that Anthony Keane (supposedly) falls in love with Mrs Paradine, and I just don't buy it. We're told by the character that he's fallen in love with her. Why? After so short a time? It may be because there's so little chemistry between the two actors - Alida Valdi is playing a cold femme fatale, and within her own dimensions does a decent job, especially in her early scenes, while Peck varies between not so much stiff but bland and trying to reach up to a certain dramatic height that he only gets to occasionally in the courtroom. The spark just isn't there with the actors; if there was just the hint of danger between the two, of temptation, it might work. But there isn't.Ann Todd - who, unlike, Peck and Valdi, was Hitchcock's first choice - actually has more chemistry with Peck as husband and wife together, though only gets one meaty monologue (which is cleverly pointed out by the character as to be a 'speech'), though it only goes so far and still makes her a 'type'. Still, there's enough to make it engaging for the points of a mystery whodunit, and a little Charles Laughton goes a long way (he has two memorable scenes, and one where he kinda sorta has a friendly chat with Todd is maybe the most darkly funny and weird scene of the movie, the most 'Hitch' in his way).All the same, it shouldn't seem mysterious as to who really 'dun' it, and that's not here or there. At the same time, it's not hard to see where Selznick likely meddled in the director's attempts to make this more compelling and curious - he stifles several scenes potential for the easy way out, including the music score (why oh why couldn't they get Herrmann) and that ending scene. To be sure, there are some shots that work and break out of the stodgy story beats, and some that don't (and most baffling is seeing filmmakers like this break the 180 rule with the camera at one point, and for no reason other than incompetence).What's missing from the Paradine Case seems to be some sense of general levity to offset how (melo)dramatic the rest of the story is, a key trait to the gift of Hitchcock's ENTERTAINMENT. Whether that was also lost by Selznick it's hard to say. The most crippling thing to an otherwise good movie is a somewhat by the numbers feel, though I still recommend it (slightly) for the watchable second half, and oddly dark Louis Jordan performance. "},{"Title":"What A Dour Mess!","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always been a Hitchcock fan but have put off watching this for several years as I had read the plot summary and some reviews and was wary of being disappointed. Finally giving into my worries, I confirm here and now that I was not wrong in my belief that I would be left sorry for the experience. It's a dour mess. The story makes no sense whatsoever. NONE of the characters are in the least sympathetic. The conflicts of interest between judge and jury and legal council are unbelievable. It's sad that a film starring Peck and Laughton and Coburn and Barrymore could result in something SO unsatisfying. I had to watch THE BIRDS immediately afterward to regain my sense of Hitchcock equilibrium. "},{"Title":"a very pretentious film with terrible awkward dialog and","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" most of all, a very unnatural and again, very pretentious movie. the whole film just looked so badly scripted. watching it was like watching those characters on a staged theater. the poor dialog had forced every one in this film to act awkwardly and again, very pretentiously. peck's performance was one of the worst in his career. the young wife of the attorney already slept in a separate room. why all the couples in most of the films came out of that era were without any kids? why this specific director always wanted to show himself in all the films he directed as a passersby, a non-described person? and he walked out of the Cumberland train station this time. this film storyline was so flat and boring with a terrible scenario and plot, and the courtroom part was extremely boring too. there's nothing to be praised, no wonder it's been overlooked so far. "},{"Title":"Selznick suffocates Hitch","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Paradine Case is a dull, stiff melodrama by Alfred Hitchcock. Based on a novel by Robert Hichens, the film was produced by David O. Selznick, a man who delighted in churning out overproduced prestige pictures. Fresh off the failure of Duel in the Sun, Selznick exerted an unusual amount of control on The Paradine Case, his fingers strangling all life out of the picture. He even credited himself with writing the film's script. Hitchcock hated the film.Part murder mystery, part legal thriller, the film stars a wooden Gregory Pack as Anthony Keane, a defence attorney tasked with defending Anna Paradine, a woman accused of poisoning her blind husband. Hitchcock wanted Laurence Olivier for Peck's role, but Selznick disagreed. Selznick wanted Greta Garbo for Paradine's role &#x96; she was to come out of retirement &#x96; but those plans collapsed.The film's mostly a stagey melodrama, but several scenes allow Hitchcock to flex his muscles. A last act courtroom is imaginatively prowled by The Master's camera, and a sequence in a bedroom recalls Lila Crane's exploration of Norman Bates' bedroom in Psycho. There are some loose connections to Hitch's other films &#x96; Peck's infatuated with and idealises women, as Hitchcock's male leads oft do, and a suicide is brushed aside like a certain Miss Lonelyheart in Rear Window &#x96; but this is otherwise a routine picture.Most of Hitchcock's films have weird, psycho-sexual stuff going on in between frames. Not so much The Paradine Case, though it does have a defence attorney whose entire defence functions as a kind of projection of his own feelings toward his client. Peck essentially wills Anna into innocence in order to justify his own feelings toward her, jealously removes prospective lovers from her reach so that he may woo her himself. Even when Anna eventually admits to murder, we're never sure if she's telling the truth or is merely confessing so as to scar her attorney; we can't take her admission at face value. And like the characters in Hitchcock's Notorious, selfish behaviour is constantly being rationalised as being selfless, characters helping others only in so far it benefits them, resulting in all kinds of weird power relationships.In typical Selznick fashion, the film looks garish, overly ornate and tackily expensive. This is a vulgar looking picture, in contrast to the sleek, pop-modernism/pop-Expressionism of Hitchcock's best films.6/10 - For Hitchcock completists only. "}{"Title":"When I Made Gone With The Wind","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an Alfred Hitchcock directed film, but he & Producer David O. Selznick were fighting through out the picture being made. That alone is why this movie drags. It was the last picture Hitchcock had to direct to fulfill a 7 year contract Hitch had with Selznick. Sharing control of casting & creative with Selznick was not a marriage made in heaven.Gregory Peck & Ethel Barrymore dominate the screen as the central characters of the film. Charles Laughton is not real lively in his role as the court judge. Louis Jordan's first film performance is really pretty good. The thing is, Hithcock & Selznick fought over casting.It is said that Hitchcock treated his casting choices a little better than the folks Selznick forced in. One of Hitch's favorite character actors, Leo G Carroll plays the prosecutor & does his usual fine support. I always like Leo in support & think he is also great in North By Northwest.There are times in this film where you can see Selznicks demands. If you watch it, some of the settings & camera angles show off Sir Alfreds talents too. Even a slow paced drama benefits from Hitches touch.As far as Selznick, & Hitchcock, Alfred once told everyone the better ending he had for Gone With The Wind - partly to be funny, & partly to prove he didn't need or want Selznick to have anything more to do with his movies.Frankly My Dear, I Don't Give a Damn! You don't cuss like that to no Southern Belle, Rhett! Then she takes a gun & shoots him. "},{"Title":"Looks nice... goes nowhere","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw the opening credits for this, my reaction was Yeah right... sure... Selznick wrote the script. But after watching it, I'd concede someone out of their depth indeed must have written it.The film is fundamentally inept. From the word Go it takes a viewer's interest for granted. It doesn't build at all. In this hopelessly uncomplicated story, a malevolent-appearing character is later revealed to be (gasp!) malevolent. A woman who seems to be villainous (shreik!) turns out to be villainous. Peck's character who appears to be an unprofessional dope ends up being (Noooo!) an unprofessional dope. Two barristers argue about a hairsplitting detail that turns out to be (horrors!) hairsplitting with no effect on the outcome. It has too many characters involved in a slight, barely-interesting, barely-complicated story. The movie is stodgy, underdeveloped and somehow ...overdeveloped. Laughton is way over the top as a bitchy, snide judge (and truly nasty husband) who, in the real world, would be defrocked or strangled in short order. Valli, in her debut, behaves like Vampira. Louis Jordan , also in a debut, is unsubtle and obvious. The ending with two defeated wives throwing themselves under the bus to stand by their (abusive/wandering) men is monstrously irritating.If you put a gun to my head, I couldn't tell you what idea captivated Hitchcock here, or what he was exploring. I can't recommend this at all, but the photography is unusually strong (even for Hitchcock) with a beautiful (b&w) mid-range. "},{"Title":"Classic Hitchcock","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" TRP Dean says A major criticism this movie has the kind of mindset that launched feminism. Women exist either to ensnare men to their doom with their beauty or to nobly suffer, praise and forgive their heroic, if unfaithful-in-the-heart, men. Time and again, we hear of the unfeminine curiosity of one woman (whose interest is entirely prurient), and we see the absolute SHOCK on Peck's face when his client says that an adulterous affair in her past was at her initiation. If that's how you feel, you may as well read imbeciles like Simone de Beauvoir or Kate Millet rather than watch a Hitchcock film.A minor criticism there is no explanation why an American (Peck) is a barrister. Rex Harrison would have been a better choice. Apparently, you are unable to distinguish between the actor and the role. Peck's character is an Englishman, so since the barrister is not an American. "},{"Title":"Slow and plodding.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would say that at least the full first half of this film is almost intolerably boring, but the second and third acts more than make up for the slow outset. One of Hitchcock's few legal thrillers, The Paradine Case mixes the suspected wrong man theme so typical of his work to rear it's head, along with the film noir feel that is immediately conveyed through the stunningly beautiful Mrs. Prradine, accused of murdering her blind husband and clearly the forbidden object of her attorney's affections, the talented, handsome, and married Anthony Keane, played with outstanding intensity by Gregory Peck.As far as being a Hitchcock film, there is almost nothing technically brilliant about it, other than the fact that nearly every individual shot in the film, whether inherently interesting or not, is beautifully framed and photographed, but as is not very often the case, the story far overshadows the direction or photography.They heavy hand of David O. Selznick is felt throughout the film, not the least reason for which is the prominent bookends that the Selznick studio includes in the film, but where the movie is especially strong is the complexity of the story. We know that there is some chemistry between Keane and Mrs. Paradine, but Keane's wife hopes that Mrs. Paradine is found guilty and goes free - for Mrs. Keane's own emotional well being. Keane's feelings of romantic involvement and jealousy color his views and performance in defending the case throughout the film, and often his efforts to defend her are directly at odds with her own behavior and statements.This is not a simple film at all, regardless of how little technical trickery Hitchcock employed in the shooting, and it does start off a little too slow for my taste, but the construction of the story provides for another, slightly difference creative outlet for Hitchcock's creative genius. "},{"Title":"Lumbering","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first half of this film is one of the worst pieces of cinema I've seen. Hardly anything happens, what does happen happens very slowly, and the lines are wooden. Things perk up once we get into court, but this part is spoiled by two onlookers giving a running commentary on how things are going, and by the silly conversations between the lawyers and the judge. What we're left with is a couple of minutes of true drama right near the end which is done quite well. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all the Hitchcock movies that I have seen, this is the one movie that to me was completely forgettable.  The movie moves really slow and the ending was completely disappointing, not what you would expect from Hitchcock. Leo G. Carroll, who seemed to be in every Hitchcock movie, gives a good performance as does Louis Jourdan, who looks the same in this movie as he does in Octopussy.  Gregory Peck was not as good in this one as he was in Spellbound.  The rest of the cast was forgettable, especially the woman who played Mrs. Paradine.  A huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"A lousy unmysterious murder mystery","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of Hitchcock's worst films.  The film lacked all the wonderful ingredients we usually have in Alfred Hitchcock films such as suspense, mystery, climax, and story.  The story is horrible; it doesn't make sense and is truly unbelievable.  While many Hitchcock films are not perfect, most are very enjoyable and keep you on the edge of your seat with a good story, good actors and suspense mixed with twists in the story line (ie REBECCA, SPELLBOUND, PSYCHO, THE BIRDS, NORTH BY NORTHWEST, NOTORIOUS, STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, etc.)  THE PARADINE CASE had none of these qualities. Don't bother unless you use sleeping pills and are out of them. "},{"Title":"How could Hitchcock not tell this was a bad project from the script?","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably Hitchcock's worst movie. I can't believe he was even involved. The thin plot involves a brilliant lawyer falling in love with a client he believes is innocent, jeopardizing his marriage. Courtroom drama is the second lowest genre, with the lowest being the sports movie. Hitch made another that is as lowly regarded, I Confess, but I thought that one was quite compelling myself. The Paradine Case literally put me to sleep. And look at the cast! Gregory Peck, Ann Todd, Charles Coburn, Charles Laughton, Ethel Barrymore, Alida Valli - it's hard to believe it came out as bad as it did. All of them do good jobs, too. I also liked Joan Tetzel, who has one of those common Hitchcockian meddling daughter roles, like the one played by Patricia Hitchcock in Strangers on a Train, for instance. Tetzel also had a fine role in the previous year's Duel in the Sun, which was likewise produced by David O. Selznick. The only really worthwhile element of the film is Franz Waxman's sometimes gorgeous musical score. Unless you're a Hitchcock completist like myself, just skip The Paradine Case. You'll be better off, unless, that is, you desperately need some sleep. 5/10. "},{"Title":"The Worst Hitchock movie","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this film I didn't notice that have some Alfred's notes on it. It is untypical his film with no dramatic circles and without suspense like other films. Just in few segments I can see that film directed by Alfred, for example when camera zoom Mrs. Paradine and his lawyer and in the courtroom. Gregory Pack is not so good like a James Stewart. Too bad this film is black hole in Alfred's career, but it's not so strange if we take that is David Selznic producer of the film. Also this is some kind of thriller based on novel's written by Agatha Christie, and that is also bad sign for script, because we have one suspect and one investigator and whole film is about them and love triangle. "},{"Title":"Stilted and shallow","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only good things I can say about this movie are the camera tricks and Charles Laughton, whose story is mysteriously irrelevant. The love story is laughable and underwritten to say the least. Alfred Hitchcock is not my favorite director, but I usually appreciate his technical achievements. Unfortunately they are few and far between. Better acting might have saved this movie. Peck seems to be an actor who has to believe in what his character does, and he doesn't quite believe that he's supposed to be swept away by this woman - neither do we.As for his wife - one of the wimpiest characters of the 40s she's a sad commentary on how women were expected to behave in those days - an attitude that would pervade the industry up through BUtterfield-8.For a better movie about the British legal system and a good old-fashioned legal drama done right, watch Witness for the Prosecution instead. "}{"Title":"If she did it...why did she do it?","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock presents a suspenseful courtroom tale about a lawyer(Gregory Peck)defending an alluring woman(Alida Valli)accused of poisoning her blind husband. Predictably the attorney falls in love with his client. A little less talk and a little more action would be nice. This is below par compared to Hitchcock's own standards. The star-studded cast includesEthel Barrymore, Charles Coburn, Ann Todd, Louis Jordan and Leo G. Carroll.  "},{"Title":"Apologies to Hitchcock fans.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 110 min.No being a Hitchcock fan I had no great expectations from this movie. Just as well as several of the sub themes have dated poorly, most notably that of an otherwise normal man falling for a seductress. Still many films from the 40s and 50s place women in pigeon hole roles. The court room drama plays like a sub plot and there are more than a few weak moments most of the movie concerns itself with Pecks supposed infatuation with Todd.Peck and Laughton are worth watching and there are a couple of interesting views of post war London.5/10 passable entertainment. "},{"Title":"Paradine, Maybe, Paradigm, Forget It","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" You'll go a long way - though you could make a detour toward Beat The Devil - to find a more disparate and mis-matched cast than this, some of whom - what the hell is someone with the stature of Ethel Barrymore, for example, doing in a supporting role that has absolutely no bearing on the main thrust of the story, other than to add gravitas to the marquee. You could argue that for Hitchcock the late forties/early fifties was his Sinatra period - after early stardom Sinatra hit the skids in the late forties reaching a low point with Double Dynamite and Hitch fared little better with turkeys like this and Under Capricorn in the same period. If you strip it to the bone it's a fairly simple story of a happily married man meeting and falling for a femme fatale and coming out of it badly but for God knows what reason we get a totally superfluous journey to Cumberland and the home life of the judge trying the case - the married man is a trial lawyer, the femme fatale the accused - merely to pad things out. Louis Jourdan, the epitome of the charming Frenchman, is reduced to sullen, wooden brooding and ... oh, why go on, suffice it to say steer well clear of this. "}]