[{"Title":"Shadows Don't Wash Off","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Folks can go on and on about a visual style. The fact is, RAW DEAL exemplifies more than just an  atmosphere. There's a catalyst for horrific violence driven by the desperation of the  characters, their psychosis and their inability to escape from the choking shadows not only around them, but inside their heads. This movie, a cheap b-production with only one actor with stand-out talent, Claire Trevor, and a young powerful Raymond Burr, manages to seem authentic all the way through because it doesn't hold back on the violence or the threat of violence. There's a desperate prison escape, by hero O'Keefe, who's trying to get to Burr the crime boss, for whom he took a fall. Burr wants O'Keefe dead so he doesn't have to worry about O'Keefe ratting on him. O'Keefe uses two women he knows, his floozy Trevor and the good-girl counselor he really loves (she's cast in light and draws him like a moth) as cover. The movie then follows O'Keefe as he does a mini-FUGITIVE, like the television show, making love to his women and encountering a raging lunatic in the woods who doesn't have anything to do with him, but might get O'Keefe caught anyway by swarming police on the hunt for the maniac.In this rough noir, you get a suicide by cop, a guy fighting not to get his face impaled on a set of wall antlers, a flaming friccasee thrown in a drunk woman's face, a nasty deception and the good girl getting tortured, and a bloody final encounter between psycho Burr and O'Keefe, with  plenty of face-ripping and falling from burning buildings. That's not standard stuff, and if you can get into babe Trevor with light shimmering on her lips as she tries to figure out how to save her thug O'Keefe from the police, Burr, and the younger angel ready to steal him away, then you will enjoy hell out of this film.  "},{"Title":"Underrated, but sublime Film Noir!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  What a perfect film for insomniacs. This is wonderful to watch with the lights out. With that said, let's look at this underrated work by director Anthony Mann. First the obvious...John Alton is a genius.  The lighting, or lack thereof, is visually striking.  What this man could do with a $10 budget was simply amazing.  Secondly, let's note the unusual commentary/narration by Academy Award winner(she won the award that same year for her role in Key Largo), Claire Trevor.  I can count only a couple of film noir in which the voice-over is done by a doomed (in love)woman.  Her sense of entrapment perfectly encapsulate's the mood of this film. Now, let's also note the odd use of a theremin for the bulk of the music used in this film.  Check it out...very creepy.  But one of the most overlooked components in this film has to be the hulking visage of Raymond Burr.  This guy had to be in just about every film made between 1944 and 1960.  In this particular film he is a sado-masochistic pyromaniac.  In just about every scene he is torching somebody, whether it be by using his lighter, or throwing a flaming flambeaus at some poor unsuspecting party-going girl or by just burning down his own apartment. He's a nutcase...but a joy to watch on the screen.Okay, so the story itself isn't the most original.  But with everything else this film has going for it, I HIGHLY recommend anyone even slightly interested, to go buy it NOW!  It's one of my absolute favorite film noir's. Oh...I almost forgot.  Check out Marsha Hunt in this film.  She's stunning.  "},{"Title":"What is film noir?  An object lesson from Anthony Mann and John Alton","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Gunplay is for Westerns (of which Raw Deal's director, Anthony Mann, went on to direct several).  Film noir prefers more baroque outbursts of malice, ideally illuminating, however briefly, the dark crevasses of human psychopathology.  Crime kingpin Raymond Burr, shot from below to make his bulk loom even more frighteningly, nurses a fascination with fire.  His chambers glow with candlelight, and he playfully singes the earlobes of his henchmen with a cigarette lighter.  When, displeased with some news he's just heard, a party girl splashes him with some of her drink, he reacts with lightning-quick instinct, hurling a chafing dish of flaming Cherries Jubilee into her face - and, not so incidentally, ours.  (This, by the way, five full years before Fritz Lang arranged for Gloria Grahame to get a kisserful of scalding coffee in The Big Heat.) Of course, in accord with Chekhov's dictum that a rifle produced in Act One must be discharged by Act Three, waiting in the wings there's a conflagration with Burr's name on it.Raw Deal was the second of the collaborations between Mann and cinematographer John Alton, following T-Men.  There's scarcely a frame in the film that Alton has not composed, lighted and shot with offhand brilliance, yet the film flows along without the fussy, embalmed look that comes from self-conscious artistry or uncertainty about what to do with it.A subdued voice-over opens the movie - not the stentorian narration with which so many noirs are saddled (including T-Men) but an almost interior monologue spoken by a woman, Claire Trevor. (Never has she been better - not in Murder, My Sweet, nor Born To Kill, nor Key Largo, which snagged her an Oscar.)  A savvy moll of a certain age, she knows time is running out on her, hence her obsession with clocks wristwatches, clock faces in towers, wall clocks (at one crucial point Alton encloses her anxious face within a dial).  She's been carrying a torch for Dennis O'Keefe, in stir after a double-cross by Burr.  But a breakout has been arranged, with the codependent Trevor driving the getaway car, her purse holding two tickets to Panama on a freighter leaving in three days time.But there's many a slip 'twixt cup and lip.  First, a jam forces them to include in their getaway plans a young social worker (Marsha Hunt) who has taken a professional interest in O'Keefe (much to Trevor's chagrin). Next, Burr has sent one of his deranged torpedoes (John Ireland) in pursuit. Third, O'Keefe is determined to have one last reckoning with Burr. Fourth, Ireland manages to abduct Hunt....Half the movie takes place in San Francisco, mainly in fog-shrouded Corkscrew Alley.  The great outdoors of the Northwest accounts for the rest - with a haunting nocturne in a pine forest, which city-gal Trevor remarks makes her feel `I dunno, both big and small at the same time.'  But indoors or out, darkness reigns (and, thanks to Alton, the film's many and intricate shadows all but achieve co-starring stature).  It's hard-core noir, to be sure, sinister and brutal, but shot through with a redemptive touch of poetry.  "},{"Title":"Beefy Beefsteak Movie Par Excellence","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Enjoyable noir outing enlivened by a first rate cast, solid script and typically solid Alton camerawork.  O'Keefe is right at home as Joe, the hotheaded lug with his own code and unlucky streak.  Trevor is at her fatalistic best as the true blue moll who is meant for him but gets stepped over.  Hunt is appealing and credible as the fresh-faced moralist who tries to change Joe but winds up changed, instead.  Burr is an effective heavy, albeit a bit too wimpy at the end.  Toomey, Bissell, and Ireland are all competent as well.  Alton uses multiple familiar Malibu locations to good advantage.  The cinematography is excellent.  The script is particularly effective, building as Joe slowly discovers how he has been set up and deceived by basically everyone to some degree.  Claire Trevor's struggle to come clean at the end is a moving and suspenseful section and the violent climax is curiously redeeming and satisfying.  Noir fans should definitely give this one a look- not as famous as your typical Bogey or Mitchum entry, but just as iconic in its own way. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of Raw Deal","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Director Anthony Mann and photography whiz John Alton combined for several film noirs in the late 1940s and this was one. Most of them had the same feel which meant great photography and an okay-but-nothing-spectacular story.This one was different in that in had a female doing the narration. I wouldn't mind that but in this kind of hard-boiled film, a feminine voice such as Claire Trevor's didn't sound right. Now, if she an edge to her a la Marie Windsor or Ann Savage, fine, but Trevor's voice didn't fit. Trevor was a good noir actress, but using her for narration was questionable.It did have an apt villain, however, in Raymond Burr. The burly Burr was brutal, which means he was effective. He looked mean and sounded mean, all the way up to his 1954 Rear Window performance before going good-guy with television's Perry Mason. Dennis O'Keefe, Marsha Hunt and John Ireland also star and do a fine job. There is a lot of tough dialog in here.There are tons of nighttime shots, very dark scenes so make sure you view this on DVD because prior VHS prints of this made it difficult to view. "},{"Title":"Such gorgeous sets, lights, and camera...night noir moodiness","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal (1948)What a moody, dark, steamy, dangerous drama. The story is a little clunky at times, but with this much atmosphere, who cares? Between classic early Anthony Mann (the director) and classic early John Alton (the cinematographer), there is no doubt about wanting to get sucked in, dragged down, swept away, and wowed. It really is a beautiful, brooding movie.The key theme is escape, as a convict is on the run and he takes two women with him, one his girlfriend who is sort of bad and one an admirer who is basically good. The two don't get along of course, and in the process of fleeing from one situation to another (pretty much always at night) we see the man switch from one kind of woman to another. This man is Dennis O'Keefe, who is strong and almost better here because he isn't well known and there is no baggage from other movies and other roles. The women are played by Claire Trevor, who is terrific, and Marsha Hunt, who is not--though she holds her own. Other smaller parts are gritty and impressive, including Raymond Burr as a very bad man, always photographed from below so he seems sinister. If the escape and the running were the whole movie, it would have been compact and effective, a tight little piece following these three on the road, hiding, and eventually fighting for their survival. There is one odd and highly improbable scene were they happen upon another criminal running from the police. It's good drama, but too coincidental, out in the mountains of the Pacific Northwest. Otherwise the parts are strong, the story well paced.And the visuals just stunning. That's the biggest reason to watch. And get pulled away. "},{"Title":"One of the best films noir ever made","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  From Claire Trevor's spacey, almost whispered voiceover, to the eerie moog soundtrack, to the foggy, shadowy scenography, Raw Deal is one of the most brilliantly conceived and masterfully crafted hardboiled movies ever made. Its early scenes are set in Washington state--i.e., Twin Peaks and X-Files country--and this setting establishes the spookiness that continues all through the rest of the film. Claire Trevor is especially good playing one of her washed-up floozy roles, and Raymond Burr is at his most diabolical as a pyromaniac crime boss. Fire and rain, shadow and fog, yearning and betrayal, deep loyalty and triple-crossing--as a mood piece this movie is unsurpassed. Once you've seen it, think about exactly who got the raw deal of the title--just one or two of the characters, or maybe all of them?  "},{"Title":"The kid with a medal.","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal is directed by Anthony Mann and adapted by Leopold Atlas & John C. Higgins from a suggested story by Arnold B. Armstrong & Audrey Ashley. It stars Dennis O'Keefe, Claire Trevor, Marsha Hunt, John Ireland & Raymond Burr. Paul Sawtell scores the music and John Alton is the cinematographer.Convict Joe Sullivan (O'Keefe), incarcerated after taking a fall, breaks out of jail with the help of his girl, Pat Cameron (Trevor). But something is amiss, brutish mobster Rick Coyle (Burr) is influencing proceedings behind the scenes, he needs to because he owes Joe big time. Kidnapping Joe's social worker, Ann Martin (Hunt), Joe & Pat hit the road, it's a road that will lead to desperate consequences for many.A raw fatalistic film noir that sees the ace pairing of director Mann and photographer Alton. They, along with O'Keefe, had made T-Men the year previously, itself a tough piece of film making. Raw Deal is the lesser known movie of the two, but that's not in any way indicative of the quality of Raw Deal, for it's most assuredly the real deal for sure. What unfolds over the 80 minutes running time is a plot full of characters destined for disappointments or even worse; rarely has the title for a film been as apt as it is here! Mann & Alton move the tight screenplay thru a shadowy world of half-lit images and high contrast brutality. Jittery cameras are supplemented by unbalanced angles, which in turn are boosted by Sawtell's music compositions. One of the best decisions made by Mann and Sawtell is that of the narration by Trevor, in itself unusual for a woman of noir to narrate, it's sorrowful and mournful in tone anyway, but with Sawtell scoring it with the theremin it plays out as part of a nightmarish dream-state.O'Keefe was not the leading man type, but that's perfect for this film, he offers a credibility to a man whose life has taken a down turn, where his only comfort is being a thorn between two roses, but with that comes more problems as he seeks to only breathe the fresh air of freedom. Trevor (loyal and knowing moll) and Hunt (dainty with whiffs of goodness seeping from every pore) play off each other very well, offering up a sort of devil and angel on Joe's shoulders motif. Burr is shot from the waist up, giving his character even more emphasise as a hulking, sadistic brute, and rounding out the good performances is Ireland as a sly hit-man type who revels in getting a rise out of his paymaster. But no doubt about it, the real star of the show is Alton's photography, itself the critical character. Mann's film would have been great and got through on his direction and script anyway, but with Alton's camera it ends up being essential for the film noir faithful.From the opening, where the credits show up on the background of prison bar shadows, to the no cop out-classic noir-ending, Raw Deal hits the mark. A film that's bleak and at times brutal, yet rich in emotional depth. A must see for like minded cinephiles. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Example of Film-Noire","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Raw Deal was independent film made in 1948 by producer Edward Small. It is an excellent example of the film-noire genre that was popular in the forties and early 50s. It is filmed in black and white amidst the dark shadows and special lighting that characterized these films and in this case, most of the story takes place at night. It is skillfully directed by the soon to be famous Anthony Mann who went on to make a series of realistic and violent westerns with James Stewart in the fifties. Although the film runs a scant 78 minutes, it manages to tell its story and hold the viewer's interest throughout.Dennis O'Keefe stars as a convict who's escape is engineered by the crime boss (Raymond Burr) who had set him up for the fall in the first place, with the hope that O'Keefe wiil be killed in the escape attempt. Of course, he does escape and sets out to seek his revenge. O'Keefe's anti-hero really has no redeeming qualities. At one point he is poised to shoot down a forest ranger in cold blood.Claire Trevor is excellent as O'Keefe's long suffering moll who hopes to get him out of the country and eventually marry him. It is a role similar to the one for which she would win the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for Key Largo the same year. Marsha Scott is the third side to the triangle as the good girl who wants O'Keefe to give himself up.Burr is particularly sadistic as the crime boss who fears for his life. At one point he throws a flaming pan onto a girl who has displeased him. John Ireland is along as Burr's hitman who gets into an exciting fight with O'Keefe in a darkened storeroom.Raw Deal is a good movie that didn't get the praise it deserved. "},{"Title":"This Noir Has Something No Other Movie Has Ever Had","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Claire Trevor providing voice-over narration to the accompaniment of a Theramin! What an indelible effect this makes! In a way, it is not the usual sort of narration we find in film noir Trevor is usually shown as her voice, with that spooky electronic instrument providing harmony, come through on the soundtrack. The standard for this was to have the protagonist (almost always a male) do this but without appearing as he spoke.Trevor not only appears but indeed appears in a hat with a veil covering her face. This will stick in your memory for years after you've seen it! Trevor helps boyfriend Dennis O'Keefe break out of prison. But a good girl, Marsha Hunt, has also visited and shown interest in them. Which one will he chose bad but loyal Trevor or goody-goody Hunt? These are both excellent actresses. Marsha Hunt underplays a little bit here. But she is superb.The movie has a very solid, if somewhat standard plot. But all kinds of things are tossed into the mix -- all to the movie's benefit.For example, when O'Keefe has settled into his first hide-out, a wife-murderer appears and demands to be given shelter. He's there for a few minutes of screen time but after that his story is dropped.John Alton's cinematography is superb. Anthony Mann directed this Eagle Lion feature with expert hands. Some of the characters may be losers but the movie is a true winner. "}{"Title":"More great noir from Anthony Mann...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Anthony Mann stylishly directs this jailbreak, film noir thriller. Dennis O'Keefe is the escapee who is taking the rap for his crime boss, Raymond Burr. Burr is responsible for springing him, but only with the hope that he gets killed in the attempt and is thus silenced. O'Keefe's dame is assuredly played by Claire Trevor, who helps him through the road blocks and dragnets, but is severely jealous once another woman enters the picture. John Alton's cinematography perfectly captures the noir-like atmosphere of San Francisco as does Trevor's voice-over narration accompanied by the haunting sound of a theremin playing.  "},{"Title":"Good Film Noir","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Joseph Emmett Joe Sullivan (Dennis O'Keefe) is in the State Prison for taken the blame for the gangster Rick Coyle (Raymond Burr) that owes him US$ 50,000.00. Joe is visited by the young Ann Martin (Marsha Hunt) that works at the law firm that is defending him and she tells that after three years, Joe will certainly be on probation. However his lover Pat Cameron (Claire Trevor) also visits him and tells that Rick has plotted an escape for him during the night. What they do not know is that the sadistic Rick wants to get rid off Joe and expects that Joe will be murdered or caught during the prison break. Joe is well-succeeded in the escape and Pat drives the runaway car. However the car is shot in the tank by the police officers and they run out fuel. Joe brings Pat to Ann's house expecting to have a hideout for a couple of days, but Ann calls the police believing that she would help Joe. They escape in Ann's car and head to Crescent City, where Joe expects to meet Rick to receive his money and travel to South America with Pat. But Rick sends a hit-man to kill Joe while Pat feels that she is losing Joe to Ann that has fallen in love with him. Will Pat and Joe have the chance to travel together to South America? Raw Deal is a film-noir with a triangle of love between an ambiguous criminal that wants to be a good man, his experienced lover and a naive young woman that also falls in love for him. Raymond Burr performs a scary gangster. The plot is full of action and has an unusual narration in off by Pat Cameron. The cinematography in black and white is very beautiful and the conclusion is dark. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Entre Dois Fogos (Between Two Fires) "},{"Title":"Bullets! Women! Can't hold a man like this!","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Raw Deal is Anthony Mann's 1948 crime noir follow-up to the slightly better T-Men. Again it stars James Cagney-wannabe Dennis O'Keefe this time as bad apple Joe Sullivan. Escaped convict Sullivan, after a criss cross, is being chased by both the police and the mob. He becomes a lambster with two dames one bad -co-star Clair Trevor (so deliciously evil the year before in Born To Kill) and one good. Like all noirs, the bad girl is always the most interesting. Trevor plays her part perfectly as the love-starved and none-to-bright Pat. The plot is your basic noir - criminal on the loose. What sets this and other Mann movies apart are the interesting camera angles and black and white photography from cinematographer John Alton. Never satisfied with conventional camera setup, Alton always made Mann's films look great. Also worth mentioning is an incredibly brutal scene featuring baddie Raymond (The Blue Gardenia) Burr splashing a flaming drink into a woman's face. It's shocking to say the least.I told you he had a cash register mind. Rings every time he opens his mouth.  "},{"Title":"Mandatory for noir fans","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal (1948) is simply a great noir. The plot is nothing extraordinary, but interesting nonetheless. Jailbreak, love triangle, not-so happy ending. (As usual, my reviews are full of spoilers, be warned&#x85;) Raw Deal does not bother with details that would make it unnecessarily long. It does not specify what kind of crime got Joe (O'Keefe) in jail, and how exactly he makes his escape. It is just implied that his escape was somehow assisted by fellow gangster Rick Coyle (Burr) who owes him 50 grand for taking sole responsibility for whatever the felony was they committed together. We are briefly introduced to Rick and his henchman Fantail (Ireland) and Spider (Conway). Rick struts around in his lair in a robe that seems to have gay, gay, gay written all over it, and he has a disturbing interest in fire. His favorite toy is a cigarette lighter, and there's many candles burning in his headquarters on Corkscrew Alley, which is also the street where both Joe and his moll Pat (Trevor, also the narrator) grew up. Rick is convinced that Joe will be killed during his escape, so he can keep the 50.000 bucks for himself. But Joe and Pat do make it. However, the prison snipers punctured the getaway car's gas tank, so first hijack a taxi and later pay a nightly visit to Ann (Hunt), the young woman who had been visiting Joe in prison, and who seems to believe that underneath the hardened criminal there's a good soul in hiding. Joe kisses her awake, and hours later the three of them squeeze into Ann's car and continue their escape. Pat notices that Joe is attracted to Ann, and she gets very jealous of her. On Corkscrew Alley, it is Rick's birthday, and his mood is neither improved by his bad luck at card games, nor by the news that Joe made it through the police dragnet and seems to be in the clear. When a girl who fancies him (Chili polka dot girl Williams) accidentally spills her drink on his threads, he throws a fiery desert into her face. Rick sends out Fantail (I love that name, by the way) to a scheduled meeting with Joe in a taxidermist's shop near the ocean&#x85;to finish him off. Joe goes with Ann, leaving Pat, who sprained her ankle (probably deliberately, so Joe will carry her in his arms) back. And he walks straight into the trap. The crooked taxidermist, aptly named Grimshaw, disarms Joe, but Joe does not give up easily. He struggles with both Grimshaw and Fantail, and they use the the taxidermist's props knives, metal rods, even a deer's antlers, in their fight. When it looks like Joe is going to be killed, Ann picks up Joe's gun and shoots Fantail. Then she runs down the beach, sobbing. Joe tries to console her, first by telling her that Fantail survived, and when it that doesn't really work, he tells her she did it to save him. Ann passionately declares her love for Joe. Joe, however, looks glum. Joe does not believe in a common future with Ann, and he sends her home&#x85;but near a gas station she is captured by Fantail, who actually did survive. Meanwhile, Joe and Pat are at a hotel, packing their suitcases, they plan to flee to South America. The phone rings, Pat picks it up, and Spider tells her that Rick has Ann, and that he will do some very bad things to her if Joe doesn't show up. Pat lies to Joe, telling him it was the desk clerk. Joe and Pat are aboard a steamer, and Joe tells a steward he wants to get married at sea. Pat is initially happy, but she soon realizes that Joe does not love her, he loves Ann, and she will only be a proxy for her. And then she blurts out the truth about the phone call. Joe does not hesitate a minute. IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW HOW IT ENDS, STOP READING NOW!!!Joe turns up on Corkscrew Alley, he does away with Spider and Fantail and confronts Rick at the dinner table. Joe really seems to have mellowed out, he hesitates when Rick, tells him You know I never carry a gun. Except he does&#x85;he shoots Joe without retrieving the gun from his pocket, through the folds of the clothes. Joe, shoots back, the two engage in a nasty fight that causes the curtains to catch on fire. Joe pushes Rick into the flames and out of the window. Rick gives two nice screams before hitting the ground. Joe manages to get out of the burning building with Ann, but he is mortally wounded. He dies in Ann's arms, while Pat watches, handcuffed. There's no happy ending for anybody in this movie, which only adds to its appeal. It has both soft (but never sappy) and violent moments, and great acting by everybody. I liked especially Burr and Ireland, who play really vicious thugs, but O'Keefe and the two ladies are also great. Great camera work, too. "},{"Title":"More of a bad deal","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Dennis O'Keefe stars in this crackerjack noir film directed by Anthony Mann. O'Keefe plays a man who took a rap for gangster kingpin Raymond Burr and now he's thinking he's gotten the bad end of a Raw Deal. He wants out of prison and Burr arranges an escape hoping he'll be killed in the attempted breakout.If you recognize the plot think back to Angels With Dirty Faces where James Cagney takes the rap for Humphrey Bogart and George Bancroft and now wants back in on the rackets they've built up and the other two don't want to cut him in. As dark as that classic was, Raw Deal is a good deal darker as O'Keefe's world is getting smaller and smaller due to the bad choices he made in life.With cops and Burr looking for him, Dennis also has himself involved with two women, steady streetwise Claire Trevor and the secretary of his lawyer Marsha Hunt. Both are carrying a big torch for O'Keefe, but Trevor is the jealous sort. Watching Raw Deal reminded me of a Eugene O'Neill play Strange Interlude where the characters voice over narration tells you their real feelings. That device is used for O'Keefe, Trevor, and Hunt as they express their emotions in the narration. And like any classic O'Neill play there is an inevitability about these people especially O'Keefe.Before Anthony Mann moved on to westerns and bigger budgets he did some good noir work in the Forties and Raw Deal is a fine example. "},{"Title":"Probably One Of The Blackest Movies Ever Made","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal is primarily a low budget crime drama but thanks to the inclusion of some interesting characters, excellent performances and sensational cinematography has also become recognised as a very memorable high quality film noir thriller. The whole movie is heavily steeped in an atmosphere which is bleak and fatalistic and the action takes place in an environment which looks perpetually dark and threatening.The look of the movie is attributable to the fine work of cinematographer John Alton whose single source lighting and heavily shadowed interiors create a claustrophobic ambiance which is symbolic of the extremely limited amount of freedom which can be enjoyed by the story's central character and his two travelling companions as they try to evade a massive police dragnet. The use of interesting camera angles, deep focus photography and swirling areas of fog also contribute strongly to the generally unsettling and rather ominous mood of the piece.Whilst serving a prison sentence for a crime he didn't commit, Joe Sullivan (Dennis O'Keefe) is visited by two women. Ann Martin (Marsha Hunt) is a legal assistant who tells him that with good behaviour he could possibly get released in 2 or 3 years time and his girlfriend Pat Regan (Claire Trevor) informs him that arrangements have been made for him to escape. The escape plan had been devised by gang boss Rick Coyle (Raymond Burr) who owes Joe $50,000 from a crime that they'd previously carried out together. Rick has calculated that Joe's chances of surviving an attempted breakout are minute and so confidently expects to be able to avoid having to part with Joe's money.Joe escapes and Pat drives the getaway car but they soon have to abandon the vehicle because of a large number of bullet holes in the fuel tank. They then go on to Ann's apartment where they kidnap her and use her car to continue their journey to meet Rick and collect Joe's money before heading for freedom in South America. This unusual threesome successfully evades the police and an attack by one of Rick's henchmen before Joe and Rick finally meet and a violent confrontation follows.Joe's resourcefulness enabled him to successfully negotiate the perils of being on the run but he was also preoccupied by the complications which developed in relation to his feelings for Pat and Ann. Pat was loyal and totally supportive but was also very much a part of the difficult lifestyle that he'd always known. When Ann and he became attracted to each other, she seemed to embody the possibility of a different and better life in the future. This situation led to some tensions as Pat became jealous and eventually resigned to Joe ending up in Ann's arms.Dennis O'Keefe and Marsha Hunt are both very good in their roles and Claire Trevor poignantly portrays the profound emotional pain suffered by Pat as she realises that Joe has never told her that he loves her and then also sees him steadily becoming more and more attracted to Ann. Raymond Burr is outstanding as Rick who is a vile and sadistic psychopath with a penchant for pyromania.The score by Paul Sawtell features the spooky sound of a theremin and this together with the tone of Claire Trevor's narration brilliantly reinforces the grim atmosphere of this film which doesn't end well for any of the main characters. Appropriately, from the visual standpoint, this movie is probably one of the blackest ever made. "},{"Title":"Solid Film Noir","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This film has two elements that set it apart from lesser noir.  One, the photography, which features excellent composition and lighting, without being too 'clever'.  Second is the acting, which is very natural and transparent to the viewer involved in the story.  The story itself, while not having many layers, hits upon many of the key issues of film noir, especially the struggle to be good in an amoral world.  3.5 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Mann and Alton Shine.","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" RAW DEAL &#x96; 1948Director Anthony Mann and cinematographer John are both firing on all cylinders in this hard hitting film-noir. The top flight cast includes Dennis O'Keefe, Claire Trevor, John Ireland, Marsha Hunt, Regis Toomey and Raymond Burr. Raymond Burr, in one of his best villain bits, is a crime boss who arranges for former employee, Dennis O'Keefe to break out of prison. O'Keefe took the rap for a big time robbery and kept his mouth shut about Burr's involvement. O'Keefe wants to collect his end of the heist, 50,000 in long green. Burr has sent Miss Trevor to fill in O'Keefe on the escape. Trevor has the hots for O'Keefe and wants him for her man. The real reason for the prison break is that Burr figures it has a 1000 to 1 shot of success. Burr sees O'Keefe as a loose end that needs to be eliminated. Besides, why share the robbery take.O'Keefe however beats the odds and makes good his getaway. O'Keefe and Trevor are soon on the road looking for a place to lay low. O'Keefe picks the apartment of a social worker he knows, Marsha Hunt. O'Keefe happens to like Miss Hunt, which annoys Trevor no end. O'Keefe really does not see that Trevor is hot for him. The Police though are soon on the trail and O'Keefe grabs Hunt to bring along with him and Trevor. Meanwhile, Burr is not the least amused that O'Keefe made good his escape. When O'Keefe calls to arrange a place to collect up his 50 large, Burr sends hit-man Ireland to deal with him. The attempt fails and O'Keefe realizes that Burr has no intention of paying up. O'Keefe now decides to get even and heads to Burr's for some pay back. This one is a real keeper with excellent work from the entire cast and crew. I would swear that cinematographer John Alton could light a film with the reflection of a lit cigar off a quarter. The man is a genius. Director Mann keeps everything hopping during the entire 79 minute runtime. Raymond Burr, who made a film career out of playing villains, is particularly chilling here. The bit where he throws a flaming drink into a woman's face is quite something. Of note, as well, is the use of Claire Trevor to do the voice over narration. I'm not really a fan of the narration gimmick, but it works very well here. Well worth seeing if you are a fan of film-noir. "},{"Title":"Film Noir Classic","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Gripping film noir with Dennis O'Keefe as Joe Sullivan, a man who escapes from prison with help from Pat, the woman (Claire Trevor) who's loved him and stuck by him for years. But Joe's fallen in love with a sympathetic caseworker (Marsha Hunt) and forces her to accompany him and Pat as they flee. Meanwhile, Raymond Burr plays the man responsible for Joe being in prison. He owes Joe money and sends a hit-man to make sure Joe doesn't try to collect.A great movie from Anthony Mann. Wonderful script and cast. O'Keefe has arguably the best role of his career here. Trevor's perfect as always. A truly gifted actress who doesn't get as much respect as some of her contemporaries. Marsha Hunt does well with the weakest part in the film. She looks beautiful, which doesn't hurt. Raymond Burr's a sadistic and nasty villain. He has one scene that's pretty shocking for the time and makes the famous coffee-throwing scene from The Big Heat look like a kiss on the cheek. A classic film noir that all fans of the genre should see. "},{"Title":"Kinky criminal threesome","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" It's interesting how none of the three lead characters in this picture are redeemable. This is about as noir as a person can get! And I think it's interesting how the sexual dynamics between Dennis O'Keefe and both women (played by Claire Trevor and Marsha Hunt) are continued throughout the story. His character is definitely not a one-woman man, and both gals seem to know it. Usually, if there is cheating in a movie of this era, regardless of the genre, one of the participants does not know, and does not find out about the unfaithfulness of their partner until two-thirds of the way into the story. But with RAW DEAL, all the cards are on the table right up front, and yet both women want to have an on-going relationship with him, and he clearly enjoys being able to be satisfied by each one at the same time, in different ways. It's a shocking revelation, and one wonders if a major studio would have attempted such material with an A-picture. Perhaps it's just as well, and all the more reason to appreciate a more independent film releasing corporation like Eagle-Lion and director Anthony Mann, who is willing to push the boundaries. "}{"Title":"Deal or raw deal","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" An early Anthony Mann-directed movie before he hooked up with James Stewart for some fine Westerns in the early 50's, this is a fine noir thriller with a twist or three along the way. Other posters here have commented on the usual device of a voice-over by a female rather than male character and yes, that Twilight Zone-type soundtrack does take a bit of getting used to, I kept expecting some flying saucer or other to fall out of the sky any minute.Mind you the sky certainly falls in on main character escaped con Joe Cameron, played by Dennis O'Keefe, not only double-crossed into jail by his onetime partner played by Raymond Burr, but then deliberately sprung by the latter in the hope he'll get gunned down in the attempt. Of course that doesn't happen and so he finds himself on the run with two vying women in tow, the first, his long-standing, long-suffering girl-friend played by Claire Trevor, the second, his lawyer's clean-living secretary, Ann, played by Marsha Hunt whom he inveigles into his getaway against her will, but who falls for him anyway as things play out.It all ends on a dark, misty night (naturally) with O'Keefe confronting Burr and a fiery, violent and naturally pessimistic ending, with nobody winning, in true noir style. Gloomy and cynical as you'd expect, it's firstly a treat for the eyes, almost every scene shot in dull light, with unusual camera perspectives employed for the interiors and the device of shooting Burr from below to accentuate his bulk and menace. There's sharp dialogue too and some nice in-plotting, particularly Burr's relationship with his lippy almost insubordinate henchman Fantail, played by John Ireland. There are individual memorable scenes too, most notably Burr throwing a flambé straight at the camera to ruthlessly maim an innocent girl who accidentally bumps into him after he's received some bad news and his later demise, suitably in flames, backwards out of a window, but there are other gems strewn about too, for instance Trevor's face superimposed on an anxiously watched clock and her full-profile, veil-covered face when she answers a telephone in the foreground delivering, wouldn't you know it, some bad news.The only mistake really is when another movie about a runaway wife-killer gate-crashes the narrative, but after that it settles down again onto its relentless course to its fiery finish. The acting is fine by all, O'Keefe's lack of star status helping his ordinary Joe persona, Trevor is very good as the self-deluding girlfriend and Burr too as the heavyweight gangster still twitchy about O'Keefe catching up with him.This is a fine noir-thriller which can be enjoyed as sheer entertainment or as a fine study of the genre in microcosm. "},{"Title":"He Shoulda Stayed in the Can","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Good, tough stuff from director Anthony Mann and a real film noir to use that battered term. Dennis O'Keefe is Joe Sullivan, small-time crook who has taken the fall for bigger-time crook Raymond Burr as Rick Coyle. Coyle sets up a breakout for Sullivan, figuring the chances are very good Sullivan will be killed in the escape, eliminating a nagging concern Coyle has that he may be a target for revenge when Sullivan gets out. Enter Claire Trevor (need I say more) as Sullivan's girl and voice/over narrator. Marsha Hunt is on hand to make sure we don't think all women are bad, and the unlikely trio hit the road stealing taxis,evading roadblocks,and hi-jacking gas station vehicles. It's moody, well-shot and moves along like a '48 Buick. This is the kind of movie that you're waiting for Whit Bissell to show up. He does. O'Keefe is always effective in this type of grim and grit and John Ireland is a hard-to-kill thug, a type that he excelled at. Burr is on target as a weaselly crime creep with an interest in flame. This one is worth anyone's time, particularly if you love the genre. The script isn't much, but these are pros who can bring it off. But the title should have been Corkscrew Alley. "},{"Title":"Noir Doesn't Come Much More Cynical Than Raw Deal","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal is one of the best film noirs I've seen, with seedy production values that enhance the seediness of the story.Dennis O'Keefe plays a man who escapes from prison with the help of his girlfriend, Claire Trevor in a fabulous performance. He and Trevor end up taking his social worker, played by Marsha Hunt, hostage to keep her from alerting the authorities. He then sets off on a plan to get vengeance against the crime boss (Raymond Burr) that landed him in prison in the first place.This is as cynical, brutal and jaded as noirs get, reminding me in its nearly total absence of moral considerations and its lack of redemption for just about any of its characters of another supremely cynical noir, Detour. One of the most interesting things to me about Raw Deal is how much it's actually about the women around our main character, almost more than it's about the main character himself. It's as if the women can't help but be dragged down by the criminal world they've attached themselves to -- the social worker ironically becomes a killer, while the gangster moll is the one who faces the film's primary moral dilemma.Terrific off-kilter compositions and camera work by John Alton (a surreal scene late in the movie filmed through fog is a stand out) heighten the sense of decay and sleaze. Movies like Raw Deal are what got me hooked on film noir in the first place.Grade A "},{"Title":"A final breath","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Pat (Claire Trevor) narrates the story of her involvement with boyfriend Joe (Dennis O'Keefe) from the night that he escapes from prison until she is arrested. The story follows them on the run with Ann (Marsha Hunt). Who does Joe really love? It is obvious to all concerned...This film has a dramatic tension created by two women fighting over one man while they all try and make an escape together. The cast are fine with a particular mention to Claire Trevor and Marsha Hunt who inject the emotion into the story as O'Keefe seems completely devoid of any. Raymond Burr who plays Rick and John Ireland who plays Fantail make a couple of good bad guys and there is one disturbing scene where Burr's character throws a dish which is on fire onto his girlfriend's face - we didn't really need that. It certainly is a raw deal for everyone in this film.There are some nicely filmed scenes, eg, when Pat and Joe are on the boat minutes from departing to a new country and we focus on Pat's profile until she finally breaks the tension by calling out Ann's name. Overall, it's an entertaining film even if the outcome is obvious. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller with punchy pace and tough edge","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Joe Sullivan is in jail having taken the rap for criminal Rick, who owes him $50,000 for it. Knowing he is looking to escape, Rick greases some wheels to help Joe's girlfriend Pat to organize an escape &#x96; all with the knowledge that once he is out he will be certainly caught in the resulting police dragnet and either killed or sent back to prison for even longer; either way he'll be out of Rick's hair.I have watched a few noirs recently and the last couple in particular were a lot slower than I would have liked, so part of the appeal of Raw Deal was the short running time, which suggested that it wouldn't be taking too long over anything. This didn't mean it would be good of course, but it was a sign I wouldn't have the problems I'd had with the last few. As it turned out, although not as engaging as I had hoped, this is a solidly enjoyable crime thriller with a tough edge and a good pace to it that means the toughness has an urgency to it. The plot does have love interest within it but rather than be the distraction it can be, it provides a duality to the character of Joe since the two women he is traveling with sort of represent either side of his character and the battle between them.O'Keefe does a good job in the lead, tough but not inhuman and is likable. Burr is not quite as good as the villain but I think this is more to do with me than him since I always struggle to see him outside of the Perry Mason roles. Both Hunt and Trevor play their roles well and there is a nice tension between them throughout the film. Direction is good &#x96; it is fluid and makes the most of each scene, never once being stagey or stiff as some of the recent films from the period I have seen have been.Overall Raw Deal is not a brilliant film but it is a very effective one. It is short, punchy and has an enjoyably tough edge to all of it. The duality of the lead character is well played out and the violence is nicely stated. "},{"Title":"Film noir with strong female characters","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal has something of a typical noir situation as Joe, a basically likable but unlucky criminal, having taken the wrap for his evil boss, busts out of prison because he can't stand being cooped up in a small cell. Accompanied by his devoted girlfriend Pat, he kidnaps his lawyer's law abiding assistant Ann, who has mixed feelings about him. He then flees from the cops and goes to reconnect with his boss, who is secretly scheming against him. What sets Raw Deal apart is the focus on the two women, each of whom Joe sees as a representation of one aspect of his personality. Pat, who frequently divulges her feelings in voice-over narration, is completely loyal to Joe. Yet somehow Joe is reluctant to return her feelings completely, most likely because he feels that he has compromised himself with his criminal actions and her blind acceptance of them makes her something of a symbol for those aspects of himself that he feels bad about. At the same time, Ann is interested in Joe because of the good things he did before turning to a life of crime and she encourages him to go straight. So as the film goes on, each woman has an ethical dilemma to face. Ann must reconcile her burgeoning feelings for Joe with his criminal behavior while Pat must decide whether to sacrifice Ann to keep Joe. The upshot of all this is that Joe, having found his moral compass thanks to Ann, decides that it would be unfair of him to leave Pat after all she has done for him. While the narrative focuses on romance, stylistically Raw Deal is quintessential noir. The claustrophobic visuals emphasize the constant threat of danger, which might be found in any of the ever-present shadows. There are a couple of particularly nice visual touches in the hellish fire images that surround the villain. Mann remembers to work in some determinism as it seems that Joe is destined to find trouble at every turn. Overall, Raw Deal is a well-made noir film from Anthony Mann, one of the best directors ever to have worked in Hollywood. It helps that Mann is working with DP John Alton, whose noir photography is rightfully acclaimed. It also offers some unusually well developed female characters. "},{"Title":"1948's Spider Man","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Another five-dollar lighting bill for classic noir. But then the cameraman is John Alton and the director Anthony Mann, so you know grotesque shadows will dominate. And scope out that nightmare forest where Smoky Bear wouldn't tread without a shotgun. It's a twilight world that Joe (O'Keefe) moves in. But that's as it should be since he's drawn in two directions&#x97;toward the conventional Ann (Hunt) and light, and toward obsessive revenge and the dark. And somewhere in between is poor Pat (Trevor) who's dead stuck on Joe whatever he does. Seems these women have old Joe twisted around in more directions than the Corkscrew Alley he's trying to get to.But I don't blame him. Seems the sleekly decadent Rick (Burr) has double-crossed Joe into prison, so now Joe's broken out and heck bent on getting to the Alley and the double- dealing Rick. Meantime, he and his lady-loves have to get past those two colorful torpedoes, Fantail and Spider, that Rick has deployed. Now if Joe could just straighten out his love life, things would be simpler but then so would the movie. The plot develops reasonably except for that weird intrusion into the lodge hideout. Why one escapee (Bissell) should blunder by chance into another's (Joe's) hole-up gets no points for believability. Then too, exactly how this advances the plot is as unclear as the foggy streets. Anyhow, it's compelling noir from the classic period even if it does lack the iconic spider woman. In fact, in an odd turnabout, it's Joe, the man, who plays the spider, luring the women to their maybe doom. So who says gender equality is a 60's invention. "},{"Title":"Raw Deal - one of the best  Noirs","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is Film Noir at its best, right up there with Out Of The Past. It has a great story and moves at a good clip. With Anthony Mann directing and John Alton behind the camera it doesn't get any better than this. It stars Dennis O'Keefe, one of the best almost-A stars Hollywood ever produced, and with able backing by Clare Trevor, Marsha Hunt and Raymond Burr.This was an Eagle-Lion studio production, and by Poverty Row standards must have cost a fortune. I enjoy Mann's way of creating fleshed-out characters instead of the usual 2-dimension noir types. Here he has a couple of neat plot twists that turn this movie into a real treat.Why did Dennis O'Keefe get short shrift from Hollywood? I can't say I've seen him in anything in which he didn't rise above the subject matter - Woman On The Run is another excellent flick which comes to mind. And no one can play a trampy girlfriend like Clare Trevor, as in Key Largo or Stagecoach. Ditto Raymond Burr and his long list of 'heavy' portrayals.If you're a Noir fan, get this one - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Escape with a score to settle.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Director Anthony Mann teams again with Dennis O'Keefe for another Film-Noir crime drama. A hard-boiled criminal Joe Sullivan(O'Keefe) escapes from prison to take out revenge on the killer who framed him and owes him $50 Grand, Rick Coyle(Raymond Burr). Stuck in the middle is two women both with their mind set on Joe...the more experienced played by Claire Trevor and the naive Marsha Hunt. Finally Sullivan comes face to face, albeit in the dark, with Rick and guns blaze. More than dreams and revenge escape in the fog. Trevor also narrates and eerie music good enough for a horror flick keeps the story fluid. In support are John Ireland, Curt Conway and Chili Williams. Mann and O'Keefe previously worked together in T-MEN(1947). "},{"Title":"No raw deal for viewers","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Many view B films as inferior to A films, just as on a traditional report card A is automatically better than B. Yet B stands for budget. Less money does not of necessity mean less value. Raw Deal will stand up against any flashy A movie on a similar theme. Director Anthony Mann was one of the best in the business. His talents have since been recognized by all the leading cinema critics.There was once a popular song about the eternal triangle. That theme is one of the basic elements of Raw Deal. Joe Sullivan played by Dennis O'Keefe who gives his best screen performance as the man who has received raw deals all his life going as far back to at least his twelfth year. His latest raw deal is serving prison time for a crime that was done by Rick Coyle (Raymond Burr at his slimiest). Rick plains a jailbreak for Joe with the woman who worships him, Pat Cameron (Claire Trevor). In reality it is all a setup by Rick to get Joe killed. But both Joe and Pat are determined to make it work and kill Rick for the 50,000 dollars owed. Joe, however, makes the mistake of falling in love with a social worker who has been visiting him in prison, Ann Martin (Marsha Hunt). He ends up on the run with both women at his side.Neither Pat nor Ann are truly femme fatales. Neither is playing him for a sucker. One loves him, he loves the other, who wants to be free from him and tells him so. For a change, the narrator is one of the women. Claire Trevor relates the story to the audience with eerie Twilight Zone style music accompanying her narration. She does so in a hush, subdued tone so the viewer has to listen carefully to each word.Raymond Burr presents Rick Coyle (note the last name) as one of the most despicable, cruelest bullies ever, who just happens to be a pyromaniac to boot. This dastardly, malevolent force of evil personified is as heartless toward his friends as toward his enemies, often doing mean things to them just for fun, such as flicking a lighter to the back of their heads. The most telling scene, not to be matched in Hollywood films until The Big Heat when Lee Marvin throws a pot of boiling hot coffee into the face of Gloria Grahame, is when Coyle throws a a flaming fricassee into a woman's face for accidentally bumping into him just as he receives a bad report on his prey, Joe.John Alton's cinematography is amazing. He uses shade, shadow, and night vision as perfect supplements to the story being told. His bars and streaks due to lighting nuances illustrate the shadowy world of losers and hangers-on who try to pull each other farther down into the gutter. Few come out alive. Those who live to tell about it, such as the narrator, Pat Cameron, are not sure if they have won or lost. Neither is the watcher in the wood. "}{"Title":"A great dark violent noir..................","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" What a well staged assortment of noir violence - fights, fire, gunshot, kidnapping, torture- you name it, it's here. The film is one long running escape from prison, from thugs, and from police. The running is done on foot, by multiple automobiles, even briefly aboard ship. In addition to the symphony of violence and the assorted doomed characters, there is also an offsetting message about the roots of crime (poverty, childhood etc.) Also offsetting it is the ultimate bleeding-heart do-gooder character as portrayed by Marsha Hunt in a beautiful, sincere performance. She manages to come across as real and her actions ring true in the OPPOSITE direction from the raw dark side of humanity. The resulting juxtaposition of character types is interesting.Dennis O'Keefe is the essence of the doomed noir protagonist, struggling mightily though life, but of course to no avail. Claire Trevor proves her superior acting talents once again as a Corkscrew Alley woman with 100% noir values and outlook on life.You also get brutish sick noir from Raymond Burr, and classic John Ireland tough-guy thug action.This movie is a definite recommend for anyone interested in the genre or for anyone interested in sincerely motivated performances by stars at the peak of their talent. "},{"Title":"Perfection in noir","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is the perfect noir film. The direction by Anthony Mann, cinematography by John Alton, and script by Atlas and Higgins, are just about as good as they come. The camera angles are bold and stunning, our attention is held in every shot, the lighting is a work of genius. The lead tough guy with a deeply hidden heart of gold which takes a lot of thawing out is played by Dennis O'Keefe, a taller and rougher-edged version of Alan Ladd, who unlike Alan Ladd looks as if he really could survive a fight and knock a few guys down in the process. The tough guy's moll is Claire Trevor, a wistful tough gal getting a bit past it, who narrates the film very effectively in a tragic, dreamy voice and loves her guy with all the ferocity of a street urchin who has grown up the hard way. Into their midst comes miss sweetness and light, young Marsha Hunt, and we have a bizarre escapees-a-trois throughout the film, with tough gal and good gal not speaking as they compete for whose heart can throb the most for O'Keefe on the run, who treats them both pretty rough and is more interested in who might be shooting at him than which woman's eyes are on fire with stuff that can keep for later. Marsha Hunt and Claire Trevor are both brilliant in their roles, as are O'Keefe and the cowardly, double-crossing and oily gangster, Raymond Burr. John Ireland is John Ireland, but then he always was. The powerful and moody atmosphere of this film reminds one of German expressionism. The dialogue crackles like a Tesla coil 'Will you take that hole in your head and close it?' and 'Joe, I love you./ We'll talk about that later.' 'I got my breath of fresh air ... you ... (dies).' The unexpected intrusion of the runaway murderer is a contrived element of the plot which was unworthy of the rest of this brilliant film's standards, but we forgive that one lapse, as this magnificently constructed film is such a triumph of its genre. "},{"Title":"a classic tale of love gone awry, tough men in tight jams, and a lot of shadows, split light and fog","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In one of Anthony Mann's great films, Raw Deal has the added jolt for what could be a basic B-movie thriller by having an underlying current being romantic jealousy, envy, and the tug of war between right and wrong, as well as possession. The point of view here isn't from the hard-boiled Joe (Dennis O'Keefe, one man you don't want to mess with, unless you can 'get under his skin') who's just escaped from prison to settle old scores, but from his old lady Pat (Claire Trevor), a dame with years behind her waiting and waiting, and after being patient for so long (as she tells us in a constantly eerie, mournful voice-over, almost something one might expect from The Magnificent Ambersons) she busts him out. But while in there he met a 'friend' Ann, wholesomely played by Marsha Hunt, an admirer of his past good deeds- as a child- and is taken along on the escape trip thanks to her getaway car. At first Pat just brushes aside Ann's pleading and prodding to Joe as merely naive. But her good side pushes Pat away from Joe, and a little closer to Ann despite the danger of a guy with a lot to lose holding a gun and with a score to settle via gangster Rick (Raymond Burr, playing well as a dirty fat heel).The music set behind her, which doesn't change all that much, sounds as if it's out of a chilling dream, where the fatalism has rocketed through the roof and there's not much she can do about it. Yet Mann and director of photography capture so many beautiful and stark moments, pivotal ones as part of the artistic peak of film-noir, especially in the scene on the boat as Joe rattles on about the good things to come. And we see Pat with a little like streaked across her guilt-ridden face at knowing Ann is in dire straits, with the clock also in light, and everything else in black, and soon after an accentuation of her eyes as narration details her hatred of just the idea of Ann now forever burrowing herself into Joe's consciousness. Things like this add to how taut Mann operates Raw Deal, like the ironic scene at Joe's friend's farm where a frantic killer comes knocking for help, all the lights off inside, but the tension very strange (almost contrived, though not quite). Even small details like the back-lighting in some scenes, as when we see Joe talking to Pat and Ann through the divider in prison with the bars streaked slightly behind him. And what would a wallop of a noir be without some low-angle shots of Burr in his office or chucking flames at a girl who scuffed his jacket? The mood is near perfect, the character actors are all up to snuff (Hunt actually delves a little into how she's changed forever by the trip, by the firing of a gun that carries more implications than a less ambitious film would allow), and in a fairly short running time there's a substantial amount of craft to go alongside a crackerjack story where conventions are given added weight by attitude and a predilection to imagery that might not make it in some noirs (the climax with Joe and Rick, the flames of hell right around them in the office). One of the best films of 1948. "},{"Title":"Great Anothony Mann Production","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The director of this picture was Anthony Mann, who always managed to make a low budget film into a masterpiece and provided great films in black and white. In this picture, Dennis O'Keefe,(Joe Sullivan),Las Vegas Shakedown, plays a convict in prison, who takes the rap for Raymond Burr,(Rick Coyle),Ironside TV Series,'69, who is a big time hood who promises Joe Sullivan he will give him $50,000. when he gets out of prison. Marsha Hunt,(Ann Martin),Carnegie Hall,'47, visits Joe Sullivan in prison who has a sort of romantic interest in Joe and is trying to work with lawyers to get him out in three years. Claire Trevor,(Pat Cameron),Key Largo,'48, is really Joe's girlfriend who manages to help Joe break out of prison with a car waiting for him outside the walls. When this film was made in 1948, it was considered to be very violent and had lots of bad sexual themes throughout the picture, what a change in the 21st Century! "},{"Title":"Anthony Mann's  barrage of noir elements makes it near-perfect","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Tremendous film from director Anthony Mann is a tour de force in the noir department, bringing in a whole barrage of nifty visual cinematic treats and noir elements like prison escape, jealousy, kidnapping, bitter darkness, criminals on the lam, fistfights, gunfights, revenge, a cold femme fatale and a fire-happy, sadistic crime boss.Mann's direction is the star, but Dennis O'Keefe, Marsha Hunt, Claire Trevor and Raymond Burr give excellent, realistic performances as the prison escapee, a kidnapped female lawyer, faithful femme-fatale and crime boss, respectively.Favorite scenes * Trevor surprised by a speeding train as she waits for her boyfriend to escape from prison and get into the getaway car * The hellacious fight between Joe and Rick's thugs (at the supposed meeting place with Rick)* Bad-ass, agitated boss Rick throwing his blazing dessert on some chick who spills a drink on him!If you like film noir, this is a must-see, one-of-the-best, don't-missers. "},{"Title":"Did Not Hold My Interest","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Joe Sullivan is itching to get out of prison. He has taken the rap for Rick, who owes him $50 Grand. Rick sets up an escape for Joe, knowing that Joe will be caught escaping and be shot or locked away forever. But with the help of his love-struck girl Pat and his sympathetic legal caseworker Ann, Joe gets further than he's supposed to, and we are posed with two very important questions Is Joe really the cold and heartless criminal he appears to be, or is there a heart of gold under that gritty exterior? Typically I like gangster movies or film noir, but this one just did not hold my interest. At all. Strange, considering it came from Anthony Mann, who is no slouch. I cannot explain it. "},{"Title":"Film Noir about a man who cannot escape the system.","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a film about a man who cannot seem to escape the system that he is stuck in. He is a criminal who is misunderstood and only commits crime out of necessity. It is an excellent film, very well made, and easy to get involved in. This film has a low, ambient sound track, with a sort of dissonance that really adds to the mise-en-scene that it is a gritty Film Noir. There are many establishing shots of trees and the cloudy sky that gives the film a very creepy, unsettling vibe. Reinforcing that it is not a happy film. The film has a lot of long cuts, shot in an extremely dark environment. It is true to its genre of Film Noir. There are some quick cuts of over the shoulder shots, but for the most part the film is shot with long stationary shots. The light is extremely low to show how the world is a dark place. The only thing that is consistently lit up is the faces of the actors. I believe that this is to show the strong emotions in the face of the two women, and lack of emotion in Joe. The general feeling that this film gives you is that there is no hope, and the death in the end is inevitable. "},{"Title":"Curious about what makes a Film Noir?  This is the Raw Deal","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" It's got Genre Icons...Director Anthony Mann...Cinematographer John Alton...Actors Dennis O'Keefe, Claire Trevor, Raymond Burr, and John Ireland. This is Quintessential Noir and is Held Up as an Example of the Genre. The Most Impressive Things are the Dark Mood Emphasized by the Low-Lighting, and Webbing with Fishnets Overlaying the Image Everywhere Exuding a Caught or Claustrophobic Environment.The Familiar Narration of Noir is Turned on it Head with the Dooming Female Voice of Pat (Trevor) that is Nightmarish, Surreal, and Fatalistic. The Violence is Visceral, Sharp, and Brutal at Times. The Villain Rick (Burr) is Sadistic, Selfish, Flashy, and a Pyromaniac.The Story is a Downbeat Display of Duality where Joe (O'keefe), Pat, and Ann (Marsha Hunt), All have a Conflicting Conscience and a Constant Struggle to Redeem the Opposing Oppression of Psychological Maladies.Once Pat's Narration Begins at the Start of the Film with its Ethereal and Creepy Music and She Visits Joe in a Prison, a Scene Filled with Odd Angles, Barred and Sprawled with Geometrical Intrusions, the Film Presents Itself as Something Unordinary and Compelling.It Also Includes Typical, Cynical, and Off-Beat Dialog&#x85;Keep your eye on her, she might go soprano.&#x85;I'll be through with this in three-quarters-of a-half-an hour..A Must See for Fans of Film-Noir, B-Movies, Anthony Mann, John Alton, Crime Movies, and Expressionistic Surreal Cinema. "},{"Title":"good noir, almost a stereotype","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Raw Deal from 1958 is directed by Anthony Mann and stars Dennis O'Keefe, Claire Trevor, Marsha Hunt, Raymond Burr, and John Ireland.The film is narrated by Pat (Trevor), who is the girlfriend of escaped convict Joe (O'Keefe). Joe took the rap for a mob boss, Rick Coyle (Burr) who is supposed to pay him $50,000. Pat helps him escape, but their car breaks down, and the two head for the apartment of a social worker (Hunt) who has visited him in prison. Ann is horrified to see Joe and nearly calls the police. He and Pat take her hostage, with Joe not admitting that he is very attracted to Ann. Pat picks up on it, and is jealous.Meanwhile, Rick sends his henchman (John Ireland) and others out to make sure Joe is murdered so he won't have to see him.This is a very good noir and a stereotypical one. The narration and dialogue as spoken by Claire Trevor has the sound of something you'd see on In Living Color and the old Carol Burnett Show. Now, in a noir, they fit the style beautifully - later, of course, this type of dialogue was used for comedy. Tough dialogue like It's the daily fight that everyone has. To get food and an education, to land a job and keep it. And some self-respect. 'Safe'? I never asked for anything safe. All I want is... just a little decency, that's all! Perfect.Anthony Mann's excellent direction moves this film right along and builds suspense. It's a violent film, yet most of the violence is in our imagination. Mann kept moving up the director ladder, but in his early days directed some terrific noirs.The cast is excellent, with Trevor's aging floosie, desperately in love with Joe, a standout. Hunt is lovely in a sincere performance as a naive woman. I saw her a couple of years ago at Paramount's 100th anniversary and at 95, she looks wonderful and was delightful. Raymond Burr is mean as dirt, and Ireland is an effective associate. O'Keefe wasn't an exciting actor, though he holds his own in this. Though he's the lead, it's not the showiest role. He was attractive and at his best in light comedy, though he evidently loved this type of film and did a few that were successful.Very good noir with interesting photography and a real edge to it. "},{"Title":"Very good Noir, but with one little flaw","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I love Film Noir and this might just be my favorite genre. And I was very impressed by this film because I find I usually prefer Noir films with lesser-known actors because this often gives the films greater realism than those made by the big-named stars. This one featured Dennis O'Keefe and John Ireland--two exceptional Noir actors who never could have been stars in other films due to their ugly mugs! This, and the nifty dialog really made this an enjoyable film. Plus, in a supporting role, Raymond Burr is a horrible sadist and one of the better antagonists in Noir history--I was shocked and amazed to watch him throw a lit chaffing dish full of alcohol on a lady just because she laughed!! And, when O'Keefe slapped Claire Trevor across the face, I knew this was a Noir film with little sentiment (a hallmark of better Noir).Unfortunately, while the film had so many elements I liked, there was one clichéd role that seriously detracted from the gritty realism and that was the character played by Marsha Hunt. Although she believed in O'Keefe's innocence, she was an unwilling accessory to his escape from prison. Throughout much of the film, she is held at gunpoint or other threats of violence to get her to stay with O'Keefe and Trevor. Because of this, she naturally hates and resents them. So, when out of the blue, she falls for him and is willing to kill for him later in the film, it just makes no sense at all! Aside from this slip-up (and it's a big one), it's still a dandy film and is well worth your time. "}{"Title":"Raw Deal in An Amoral World ***","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Dennis O'Keefe, Claire Trevor and Marsha Hunt all shine in this 1948 film.Though as a child O'Keefe saved other kids from a fire,he became a criminal and supposedly took the rap for a sadistic person, played by the reliable Raymond Burr.O'Keefe plays the part perfectly as a deprived person seeking to live a better life in a world that has condemned him.In the same year that she won her supporting Oscar for Key Largo, Claire Trevor again plays a moll. Here, she shows a kindness that unfortunately leads to the tragic end. Marsha Hunt plays another woman that O'Keefe knows. It is not clear whether she is in law enforcement or has shot someone to death herself. John Ireland plays Burr's stooge.Nicely done melodrama. "},{"Title":"Almost great, but too sloppy overall","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This independent little noir item (distributed by minor player Eagle-Lion) tries to be tough and uncompromising but is hemmed-in by the standards of the time. Still, there's plenty of rough violence and ruthlessness, but never played out in a way that surprises you know pretty much what's going to happen before it does throughout. O'Keefe is supposedly quite bitter and remorseless, but we never see him ever takes things that far. And Trevor is obsessed with O'Keefe but in the end is far too understanding and noble considering the aggravating intrusion of Marsha Hunt's character into her relationship with O'Keefe. And we know early on that O'Keefe and Burr are going to meet up in the end. Still, there is plenty of atmosphere and an early and rare use of the theremin in the music score.But the film is sloppy in the details. Cops stop a man driving the car O'Keefe is reportedly in (O'Keefe had actually just stolen the man's station wagon)--- yet the cops act like it's a routine traffic stop. They should have guns out and in a state of high tension. Then there is Trevor slapping Marsha Hunt who merely stares back benignly and declares I deserved that. Nobody reacts so casually to a slap on the face, especially from someone who despises you. Then there's Hunt shooting John Ireland, who slumps to the ground. Okay, she didn't kill him, and he gets up quickly enough to take a sock to the face from O'Keefe, but Ireland pops up a scene later and seems unaffected and never mentions it. If Hunt just grazed him why did he slump to the ground in the first place? Then there is the absurd, out- of-left-field arrival of Whit Bissell as the wife-murderer on the run. He just happens to arrive at the same house that O'Keefe is hiding out in? C'mon! Yet there is a nihilistic underpinning to this little b-film that keeps you wondering if maybe, just maybe, this story is going to tip over into a dark realm that films of that era normally never enter. "},{"Title":"Visually striking, but otherwise average film noir.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Raw Deal is a movie where the hero is only less evil than the villains. Anthony Mann's film is downbeat, dark, and low-budget. The bare-bones plot is strictly a means to visually represent a loser who's trying to crawl out from under a pile of rocks society has buried him. Chiaroscuro is fully employed here, with lots of shadowy bars falling across our hero to tell us that even though he escaped jail he is still doomed and imprisoned. Nothing happens that you wouldn't already have figured out, so just relax and soak in the dreary atmosphere - especially sodden in the later parts of the film. "},{"Title":"Routine script, Superior direction","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I'm often amazed at some of the high ratings of films from users of this database. A 7.6 rating for this film is excessive. Sort of reminds me of the voting that put New York Mets Pitcher Tom Seaver in the Baseball Hall of Fame with the highest vote total in the history of the Hall...a higher vote total than Hank Aaron, Ted Williams, Willie Mays, Stan Musial, Bob Gibson or Nolan Ryan! I imagine the same folks (present company excluded) must have voted to rate this movie. I found the script for this film rather mundane and predictable and not on the level of other well-known 'noir' works. Granted, the direction is exemplary and the actors are all excellent for the most part...there simply isn't much beef in the storyline. View this film for its directorial aspects, but if you are looking for an engaging story, there are many other better Noirs to view. "},{"Title":"post-war melodrama shows its age","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The pulp fictions of the late 1940s and early 1950s always had a limited shelf life the best survived as B-movie classics while the others, like this stale crime potboiler, simply grew old and disappeared. The highlight here is a scene showing pyromaniac villain Raymond Burr losing his cool and thrusting a flaming shish-kebob into the face of a careless associate, providing an all-too brief moment of startling color in an otherwise routine and predictable melodrama. The script should have devoted more attention to Burr's menacing character, instead of to the foreground story of an escaped convict and his moll, who kidnap an innocent, wholesome social worker and take it on the lam. Whatever novelty the film once might have had is pretty much dated by now. "},{"Title":"Rather ordinary B crime drama.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I know it was directed by Anthony Mann, who was to go on to do some really interesting things over the next decade, but this is for the most part a routine flick.Basically, Dennis O'Keefe breaks out of the slams with the help of his moll, Claire Trevor. He took the fall for somebody else, Raymond Burr, and wants to get settle the deal between them. Along the way he kidnaps the well-meaning attorney Marsha Hunt. I understand Hunt got into some kind of trouble with the House Unamerican Activities for engaging in some kind of Unamerican activities. Probably some nefarious subversion like promoting the cause of more public restrooms. It's obvious right away that she was a real Commie. You can tell by the glint in her eyes.Where was I? Sometimes I get carried away by my passions. Oh, yes. Anyway, the low budget shows and the acting is pretty much mediocre. The best performance is by Claire Trevor. than whom nobody ever played a used woman with a yen for the wrong guy better. But the photography and lighting are up to noir snuff. The latter is especially carefully done. Note the scene in which Trevor is parked outside the prison, waiting for O'Keefe to make his escape. There is darkness all around except for the big windows overlooking the prison walls. It's like the eerie castle with the light in one window at the beginning of Citizen Kane. Note too that she's parked on a highway and when a car zooms past in the opposite direction her panicked face blazes with light until the screen is almost bleached out. There are plenty of shadows. Fishnets. Antlers on walls. Lots of visual texture.Everything else is unremarkable. Not bad, just not innovative. And the story itself isn't especially engaging. The power that O'Keefe's character has over women is puzzling. His face looks as if it had been made of dough, ready to be baked. And he's bitter for reasons never explained. He has no sense of humor. He's not overly masculine. He's rough and clipped in his speech, like Lawrence Tierney was at the time. Maybe it's his pheromones? Marsha Hunt is pretty cute, with a ski-slope nose that might have been designed by somebody using one of those plastic cut-out French curves used in high school plane geometry classes.Anyway, it IS Anthony Mann and a historical curiosity that doesn't often turn up on TV. Worth catching for that reason, but not for much else. "},{"Title":"Routine film noir redeemed by Claire Trevor.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  This is a movie in which there are not many surprises for the viewer.Cardboard charactersthe hero,who ,when he was a child ,saved his mates from a fire,and then became naughty when he turned 16;the sadistic treacherous gangster;the two female partsthe good virtuous girl who struggled hard to live decently;the bad gal who hides a big heart though.This villainess is played very well by Claire Trevor who's given a special treatment by the directorevery five minutes,we know about her frames of mind ,thanks to her voice-over,with an ominous musical background.It does not amount to much, anyway,because the actress is gifted enough to convey what she is feeling without that. The ending echoes to the hero's childhood. "},{"Title":"No-dice noir from Anthony Mann.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Hobbled from the jump by the first uninspiring sight of Dennis O'Keefe's flabby medicine ball of a face, Raw Deal is a film that will only please those who giggle automatically at noir tropes and who think of the 1940's as some kitschy wonderland of slang and fedoras instead of real people backed, as they are in every era and every country, into existential corners.Let's take the scene where Raymond Burr shoves a hotpot of cherries jubilee in a groupie's face. This scene comes between Cagney's '32 grapefruit smash in Public Enemy and Lee Marvin's 1950 coffee fling in Gloria Grahame's face in The Big Heat. Why does it make me roll my eyes instead of gasp at the sadistic audacity of it all? Well, a grapefruit is benign and yet to shove it in a woman's face is humorously degrading, while a cup of coffee is something that is often at hand and which could easily be seized upon as a weapon in a moment of pique. But with the cherries jubilee, all you can think of is the effort the screenwriter had to make to get them on the table in the first place, explain via dialogue why they're on fire, and then come up with a plausible excuse for an underwritten character to brandish them. And having a faceless extra spill some water on his back is not that excuse, no matter how psychotic Raymond Burr's character is supposed to be. He might as well brain his dog with a curling iron, or wrap his henchman in wallpaper and then headbutt him with a Viking helmet. I get more chills from Groucho Marx's attacks on Margaret Dumont.I also have a hard time believing anyone can be impressed by a dialogue exchange like this Pat -- Pat? Patsy, that's what I am! A lost little lamb who waited for you ten years and'll wait another fifteen if need be... Twenty! Sounds like something Brittany Murphy might deliver in Sin City II. Nothing is really convincing here, from Claire Trevor's hard-luck moll to Mann's attempts at jacking up some Kafkaesque absurdity with the sudden intrusion of a wife-killer. There is no personal approach and it all remains a master's thesis on noir rather than noir itself. It's appropriate that TCM showed this along with Lindsay Anderson's This Sporting Life -- my respects to Bob Osbourne, but both films are made by directors who try to be dark for the sake of their careers rather than out of any coherent philosophy, and as usual, film buffs and critics lap this mechanistic nonsense up. "},{"Title":"Overwrought psychological melodrama","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Saw this film on Comcast Films On Demand and found that it is a cheap and low C- grade, noir crime flick about violent revenge among criminals but it has way too many story mistakes and cheap F/X to be watchable these days. Also, there were way too many introspection/angst scenes of the convict's moll thrown in to the story to give it psychological suspense. What it did was make it look phony. Violent criminals or their molls don't question their every move as she did in this film, they just impulsively do it, that's why they are criminals and convicts who wind up dead or in prison just like in this film! That rang fake and just muddled up a very simple crime story(and one that has been told many times so much better). We are now way too sophisticated in our film viewing to consider this to be anything more than cheap studio pap churned out like TV in the days just before TV. It doesn't hold up at all today.Way too many story inconsistencies and mistakes to mention but here's a big one....in the beginning how did the police know that Ann's convertible was stolen by the escaped prisoner when she nor nobody else reported it stolen by him, as she was in the car with the convict? Mental telepathy? And, the police even had part of the license number that they got from somewhere or someone never divulged. Just too many dumb things like that thrown into the story that demanded big leaps of faith and suspension of disbelief. Those kind of dumb things littered the film throughout and ruined it. Look for the camera-made, fake fog (that was just like what Ed Wood would have used in his cheap 50's sci-fi films) that showed such cheesy F/X crudeness in the big shootout scene at the end, along with the totally out-of-place, weird sci-fi electronic worbly background sounds used in those Ed Wood and other sci-fi films of the time. In a crime movie? Please. I wonder if Mann the director was really Ed Wood incognito? Hmmmm. It was that bad.Journeyman actor Dennis O'Keefe was fair enough as the escaped convict, but the really good parts were John Ireland and Raymond Burr as tough hoods. Claire Trevor's moll character was mentally unstable and overwrought.... constantly in serious doubt about everything they did or did not do and was a huge irritant to me for most of the film.This cheap and stupid film was not worth the time it took to watch it. See good ones such as The Asphalt Jungle, The Killers, or Out of The Past instead. "}]