[{"Title":"Scarily Funny!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"48 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are two schools of thought regarding 'Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein'. The first holds that the movie represents the nadir of the Universal Monsters cycle, with three once-great monsters reduced to playing second-fiddle to a couple of Laurel and Hardy wannabes. The alternative view, which I hold, is that this movie is a classic comedy-horror, perhaps the best example of that hybrid sub-genre until John Landis' 'An American Werewolf In London' emerged in 1981.'A&CMF' warrants classic status because it is probably the best Universal horror film since 'The Wolf Man' (1941); certainly it has a much stronger narrative thread, not to mention a better reason for the three monsters coming together, than either 'House Of Frankenstein'(1944) or 'House Of Dracula'(1945). The problem with those two movies is that Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster and The Wolf Man's coming together seemed purely coincidental, with Dracula not even encountering the other two in 'House Of Frankenstein' (which feels like two short films cobbled together, with only Boris Karloff's Dr. Neimann & J. Carroll Naish's hunchback providing a link between them) and 'House Of Dracula' only featuring a few scenes with more than one monster. 'Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein', by having The Wolf Man pursuing Dracula and the Monster, and also having Dracula plan to put Lou Costello's brain into the Frankenstein Monster (with the help of the duplicitous Dr. Mornay) provides an extremely satisfactory reason for the various characters coming together.As for the acting, it has often been pointed out that this film works because the monster actors (Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr & Glenn Strange) play it straight, and this is very true, with Chaney's tortured soul act contrasting well with Lou Costello's one-liners (especially the famous 'you and twenty million other guys' joke). Lugosi, playing Dracula for only the second time, is wonderfully grandiose and even Glenn Strange, who is basically only required to lumber about, does what he does well, and he has a lot more to do than in the 'House of' movies. Abbott and Costello are very funny, using fewer verbal routines than normal, but doing some highly entertaining slapstick gags, and the supporting cast do very well, notably Frank Ferguson as the blustering McDougal, barely controlling his exasperation at Lou Costello's incompetence. Lenore Aubert as Dr. Sandra Mornay does well, and it's interesting to see a female mad scientist, particularly taking into account when this film was made. Charles Bradstreet and Jane Randolph have less to do in their parts, but neither of them drags the film downAll in all, 'A&CMF' is a movie that deserves a much greater reputation than it has acquired in some circles, and is probably the high point of the Abbott and Costello filmography "},{"Title":"Bud & Lou's Best!","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A full moon is on the rise in foggy London when Lawrence Talbot places a panicked phone call to the States. He is the only one who knows that a great evil is on its way to America. Count Dracula and the Frankenstein Monster have been shipped to a wax museum, and when the sun sets, Dracula will rise and summon his superhuman servant. Talbot knows he must warn someone...anyone...but unfortunately, it's Lou Costello who answers the phone. The movie is then off and running. Dracula needs a new brain for his monster, a brain so simple and dumb that the monster will obey Dracula's every command. Dracula's lethal henchwoman, Doctor Sandra Mornay, soon finds the perfect subject. Guess who? Now it's up to Bud Abbott and Lon Chaney Jr. to save Lou and stop Dracula before Lou literally loses his mind!This is my absolute favorite Abbott & Costello film, sweet and witty but also dark and spooky, with plenty of nice, Gothic sets filled with full moons, flapping bats, cobwebs and lab equipment. Lon Chaney Jr. as the lycanthropic Lawrence Talbot, Bela Lugosi in his final appearance as Dracula and Glenn Strange as the Monster all play their roles perfectly straight as Bud and Lou stumble around them. The dark and seductive Lenore Aubert makes her second appearance as a Bud and Lou Bad Girl, slinking her way through the entire movie like a black panther, trying to lead poor Lou astray. Best moments include a wax museum in a lightening storm, a costume ball on a moonlit night and an uncredited Vincent Price who shows up - sort of - at films end. Bud and Lou turn in flawless performances yet again; Bud the Straight Guy always ready with a stinging one- liner and Lou the Bumbling Fool, falling all over himself, yet both of them always uniting at the films climax to stop the Bad Guys. Fans of Bud and Lou and fans of the Universal Creature Features should not miss this film. It is both a spoof and an homage to the legendary Monsters of film. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"essential monster comedy","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Top ten. Desert Island Disc. Universal's best-ever monster rally. Bud and Lou are at the top of their game, even Mrs Costello Snr said so. You get Bela Lugosi as Dracula for only the second and final time in his career. Lugosi is a joy; he plays Dracula as more suave, more sinister, and more disarmingly fatherly, than his continental goof-ball 1931 interpretation. Lon Chaney Jr on the other hand plays Larry Talbot as a TOTAL goof-ball, finally gone around the bend from the stress of his monstrous double-life; muttering dire warnings about imminent moon-rises that he then totally fails to heed; making anonymous life-or-death demands of clueless Lou via transatlantic phone call; fronting up to his nemesis Dracula at last, after pursuing him across continents, only to wilt shamefacedly before the Count's minor-league mind-games. Glen Strange looks great in the new streamlined makeup (alas for Jack Pierce, however) and has a thousand per cent more to do as the Frankenstein Monster, than in both his earlier 'cameo' appearances in the 'HOUSE OF' movies put together. The score is marvelous and director Barton keeps things moving at a cracking good pace. And what a straight man is Bud Abbott! He even gets to play a few lines with genuine drama here, once he realises Lou really isn't delusional. Highly recommended for Universal Monster fans, A&C fans, and movie fans in general. "},{"Title":"Great finale","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is probably the best horror comedy ever made.While it doesn't make fun of the monsters it does have some fun with them.Just love the Frankenstein monster's initial reaction to Lou Costello.Lugosi truly shows how wrong Universal was to treat him so badly over the years.He gives a wonderful perfomance with nice comedic touches.Chaney is excellent in his baby the Wolf Man.Strange is given a bit more to do as the monster rather than just lie around until the last five minutes.Great fun for everybody! "},{"Title":"The first meets and the best!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Made during A & C's golden era, this was not only the first and best of the meets series but arguably their best film.Everything worked, the routines, the premise, the sets, the chills and the direction. Bud and Lou are a couple of bumbling railroad porters who end up delivering crates containing Dracula, Frankenstein and the Wolf Man to a certain gothic edifice. In better physical condition than by the time ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET DR JEKYLL AND MR HYDE rolled around in '53, it shows in their timing and delivery - Lou especially is spot on throughout.Some great lines too. Dracula to Lou, addressing him lovingly, What we need is young blood.....AND brains!Many believe this is the quintessential Bud and Lou film to survive! I'd be inclined to agree. "},{"Title":"A Joyous memory and wonderful film!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the film that really sparked my interest in horror films.  IT is a comedy laced with horriffic elements.  It is a wonderful blend of the absurd(Abbott and Costello) with the scary(Frankenstein's monster, Dracula, and the Wolfman).  There is so much good about this film that it is hard to begin.  Let's start with the two main characters, A & C.  This is probably their best film outing both in their comic timing and their ability to play off each other so convincingly.  Lou plays the chubby scared Wilbur and Bud plays the cynical, straight-man Chick.  They move about almost effortlessly in their roles and Lou has some of the truly funniest scenes in filmdon.  Two come to mind immediately  the scene where Lou reads about the monsters in the wax museum and the coffin lid opens and moves the candle several times is priceless as is the scene where Lou in confronted with the monsters in a hidden panel in a dungeon.  Bud is just as good playing the straight role, a necessary but often thankless part.  The other members of the cast are just as good, and Bela gives a tour-de force performance as Dracula once again.  The film is moody and atmospheric, credit certainly going to Charles Barton the director.  Lon Chaney, often overlooked, gives a good performance as the tragic lycanthrope Lawrence Talbot.  Partiality aside, this certainly ranks up there as one of the best horror-comedy films ever made.  High praise for a sub-genre with so few gems. "},{"Title":"Agree With The Critics On This One","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stupid? Yes. Corny? Yes. Hokey? Yes. Entertaining? Definitely. Lots of good laughs? You said it!To be honest, I am not a big fan of Bud Abbott and Lou Costello but this is a funny movie, considered their best by most critics and, for once, I agree with them. I mean, where else can you see The Wolf Man, Frankenstein and Dracula all together in the same film? Not only that, we get two of the original actors who actually played those roles Lon Chaney (wolf man) and Bela Lugosi (Dracula).The special-effects are terrible but, hey, the film is close to 60 years old. If you are going to see only one A-C film, this is the one you want to get. "},{"Title":"Monsterfest Bud and Lou style","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Perennially snakebit, Larry Talbot (Lon Chaney) can't even make a dire phone-call to clueless Wilbur Gray (Lou Costello) without that pesky full moon getting in the way. Of course, this opening scene is all just a nice excuse for the new Universal makeup wizard, Bud Westmore, to show off his new, streamlined Wolf Man transformations. It looks good enough, though it seems whatever Lon Chaney may have gained in comfort from Bud's less time-consuming makeup, he had to trade-off any facial mobility as his face looks fixed in the same expression throughout the film.Bud and Lou's misadventures unloading McDougal's crates is a great mix of laughs & chills where we get to see a variation of the moving candle bit, Dracula reviving the monster, and for the first time in any Universal picture the camera doesn't move or cut away as the vampire exits from his coffin. And Glenn Strange, looking rather gruesome in Westmore's best makeup work, seems creakier than ever before as the monster.I have to mention one of my personal favorite Bud/Lou moments when they make their first trip to the island with Joan Raymond Lou tells Bud in reference to Joan she's mine too then proceeds to dab his mouth with Bud's necktie.While the mere presence of Abbott and Costello in this picture may turn the stomachs of many horror purists, it's obvious that great care was taken by the filmmakers not to ridicule the monsters. Without the two comics, you would still have a standard Universal horror film. With them, it remains a movie that shows more skill & thought was put into it than the last serious monster film House of Dracula and I am personally glad that Universal didn't let the monsters die with that misfire. "},{"Title":"Still the finest scare comedy","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When Abbott and Costello were good, there was no one to touch them. Here they were at maybe their best, working with a great script and their best-by-a-mile concept. I prefer Time Of Their Lives as a film, but this is their finest hour or so as comedians.As someone who grew up watching A&C Sundays at 1130 AM in the NY area back when Cheech and Chong were the comedy team of the moment, it's great to revisit this one and see how well it all stands up. It's also nice to think, with all the personal sadness and cinematic dreck he was forced to go through, that Bela Lugosi managed to bat 1.000 in playing his greatest role, as he only played the Count in two film classics, this and Dracula.Playing the monsters straight probably was the best idea the filmmakers had, but there's other good stuff here. These guys were not resting on their laurels. The scenes with Chaney, the final chase, the dames (two for Lou, none for Bud), the music, all of it well-thought-out and very effective. Would the film have been better with Karloff than Strange as the Monster? Probably not, as the Monster is the least interesting character of the monster trio by necessity of plot (he's weak and needs to be continuously charged up by Drac, necessitating the immediate operation on Lou.) Karloff would have detracted from Lugosi's role more than adding anything of his own. Besides, Strange is very good.Too bad Vincent Price couldn't make it when Bud and Lou went up against the Invisible Man for real two years later. "},{"Title":"A comedy  gem.  The team finally hit the laughter heights.","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to agree with Nathan L.Erdel of Muncie,IN, on his user comments, this is indeed a comedy classic. The comedy duo of Abbott and Costello were at the height of their popularity during the late thirties and the forties and their particular style of verbal and slapstick comedy do not wear well with the passage of time and the sophistication of the modern day audiences.  However, this film is the exception, from beginning to end it is almost flawless and provides a constant stream of laughs and thrills that even the viewers of today would be sure to enjoy.  The writers and director and all the cast deserve congratulation for a brilliant effort produced on a low Universal budget. The film harnesses the  particular comedy talents of Bud and Lou perfectly for the first and only time.  Although the success of the film led the duo to try to replicate the style by having them meet more outlandish characters, never again were they able to repeat the heights and they gradually went into decline.  But at least this film is left for us to enjoy and savour.  From first to last the action, the thrills and the laughs combine flawlessly.  Bud is the perfect foil to Lou's slapstick,as always. Lon Chaney,Bela Lugosi and Glen Strange all reprise their roles as The Wolfman,Dracula and Frankenstein to wonderful effect to provide the thrills as they chase the duo endlessly trying to get Lou's brain transferred into Frankenstein. Abbott and Costello provided some fine verbal comedy scenes in  other early films and these also stand the test of time, but Meet Frankenstein was the only instance when their particular brand of comedy was successfully spread over an entire film.  "}{"Title":"A Superb Meeting of Comedy & Horror","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is a sentimental favorite for many reasons. It represents the apex of Abbott and Costello's fifteen years in film (and really, I think, the duo's last truly inspired moment, despite some worthwhile later contributions, such as A&C Meet the Invisible Man). It's the last outing of the Universal monsters before science fiction films moved in and edged out horror cinema. It's one of Bela Lugosi's and Lon Chaney, Jr.'s last watchable films (though Lon, I admit, performed amazingly in High Noon). And the film works so incredibly well because of the brilliant screenplay by Rinaldo and Lees, who later suffered under the terrible blacklist (and Lees was recently murdered in a particularly heinous fashion). So, really, this film represents the last, great outing for many of the key figures involved.Glenn Strange is a bit wooden as the monster (too bad they couldn't get Karloff to reprise the role), but Lon and Bela are in top form here. The scene where Lou sits on the monster's lap and can't talk when he sees the monster's hand moving is truly inspired comic brilliance. All in all, it's difficult to say enough great things about this movie. I watched it again recently on DVD and it withstood the test of time. It's truly a cinematic gem. "},{"Title":"Freaking Hilarioious!","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This move is the funniest move I have ever seen and the second best Universal Monster Movie(second only to Frankenstein.)The movie stars the comedic pair as baggage carriers and come across the body of Frankenstein(Glenn Strange) and the remains of Dracula( Bela Lugosi in his final part for a major studio.) They delver it to McDougal's House of Horrors where the two come to life and Dracula teams up with Costello's girlfriend Sandra(Lenore Aubert) to replace the monster's brain with Costello's! Larry Talbot(Lon Chaney Jr.) tries to convince Abbottt and Costello that Dr. Lejos(Dracula) is not who he seems to be. The movie's best parts are in the beginning and end sequence when the final clash of monsters goes down and believe me, it is one of the most satsisfying endings to any film I have ever seen. The movie is so funny because the thought of dealing with the monsters is just terrifying. If you are a fan of the monsters, Abbott and Costello or just looking for a good comedy, then look no further. "},{"Title":"Saw this when I was a kid..","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time when I was eight years old. I lived in Topeka, Kansas;a local station played this movie at 900 am for a full week. It was during the summer, and me and my friends would gather in my living room and watch it while my mom made us breakfast. A great memory of my childhood. Abbot and Costello were among our favorites and we watched all of their Meet movies. This was by far the best. Looking back now I can't believe that we were scared of these monsters. I wish this would play more often. My grandsons would love to watch this, and it wouldn't be so scary for them. I recommend this movie for anyone that wants to enjoy a classic B movie. "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948) ****","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Often hailed as Abbott and Costello's best movie of all, MEET FRANKENSTEIN is a side-splitting romp that just may be the best horror spoof of all time. It's got a very festive spooky atmosphere that makes it a mandatory favored choice of mine for annual Halloween movie viewings. Universal Studio's three most popular classic monsters (Frankenstein's Monster, the Wolf Man, and Count Dracula) are brought together one final time in a fitting swan song tribute where they're treated with more respect and are better woven together into the plot than they had been in either one of their last two serious vehicles, House of Frankenstein (1944) and House of Dracula (1945).Bud and Lou are two comical baggage clerks working in Florida who deliver two crates to a local Chamber of Horrors attraction. Unbeknownst to either of them, one crate houses the coffin containing the original Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi), and the other secures the near-comatose Frankenstein Monster (Glenn Strange). The pudgy and childlike Costello is the unlucky lone witness who spots Dracula rising out of his coffin and freeing the Monster from his wooden crate and lumbering off together. Unable to convince his cynical partner Abbott of the strange goings-on, Costello gains an ally when Lawrence Talbot the Wolf Man (Lon Chaney) arrives on the scene to inform the comic duo he's hot on the trail of the monsters and that Dracula intends to restore Frankenstein's creation to full power. Talbot requests the aid of Bud and Lou in tracking them down, in between fending off moonlit nights which frequently change him into the savage Wolf Man! Also figuring into Dracula's plan is his desire to place Costello's weak and controllable brain into the monster.What's really so special about this movie to horror movie fans is that although they're involved in an obvious comical send-up, the three monsters are played straight throughout. If you were to edit out all the silliness, inside all the laughs is a traditional classic horror plot that works. It's a special treat to see the great Bela Lugosi return (at age 65) to play Count Dracula on screen one last time, and he is in many ways the best asset of the mix. It was a break for the actor from his dismal productions at minor studios, and this would also be the last time he found employment from a prominent studio. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Enough comic and classic elements to make it fun and funny.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948)You might think this would be a silly and commercially exploitive movie. And so (therefore) it might end up badly done, a waste.But not so. It's really funny and dramatic, drawing on the best of the old Monster actors (Lon Chaney Jr. in particular, but Bela Lugosi, too), and on the truly comic genius of Bud Abbott (the short one). The story is what you would expect in some ways, but the endless misreading of the situation by both Abbott (who's on to things and no one believes him) and Costello (who is the ultimate doubter) is a perfect set up for laughs and trickery. Everything is cheap, and there is not real horror, for sure, but it's just great to see these people back in action. There's even an uncredited Vincent Price in the last scene, but he's hard to see. Ha ha. Check it out! "},{"Title":"one of the best Abbott and Costello films.","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is another awesome bud Abbott and Lou Costello film and because of all the same reasons it has awesome comedy in it it has an awesome story line to it the acting is good in it the actors in it are good and also all the classic villains are back in it Bela Lugosi once again does a great Dracula, Glenn strange once again does a great Frankenstein's monster, and Lon Chaney Jr. once again does a great wolf man. everything in this is good. so i'm sure that you will not be disappointed with Abbott and Costello meet Frankenstein because it is an awesome bud Abbott and Lou Costello film. so make sure that you rent or buy Abbott and Costello meet Frankenstein. and i'm sure that you will have a good time watching it and you will watch it over and over again.overall score ********** out of ********** ***** out of *****also funny thing i just found out the studio was going to get some other guy to play Dracula because they thought that Bela Lugosi was dead but then his manager called them and then he got the part as Dracula one more time. "},{"Title":"Knowing How It Worked","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Knowing how it worked back in the day, I'm sure Universal had no inkling that they were creating a comedy classic and the best known Abbott and Costello feature besides Buck Privates. Universal's reputation was built on these Gothic horror classics like Frankenstein, Dracula, and the Wolfman and their many incarnations. So I'm sure the decision was to give their horror sets some work and combine the genres.They made a very funny film, but in the process killed the horror genre. Please note that there were very few straight horror sequels done after Abbott and Costello finished with these monsters. By becoming the butt of Bud and Lou's burlesque humor, they somehow lost the power to truly frighten. It took the British Hammer Film Studio to revive the genre in the Fifties with some more up to date special effects.Bud and Lou are a couple of delivery men, working for what I guess was UPS at the time and they lose a couple of crates consigned to Frank Ferguson's Amusement house of horrors. But they didn't exactly lose them. The crates contained the bodies of the real Dracula and real Frankenstein monster played by Bela Lugosi and Glenn Strange. And they walked off on poor Costello and no one will believe him.Except of course Lon Chaney, Jr. playing Lawrence Talbot, concerned citizen by day and werewolf at night when the moon is full. After that it's a merry chase after these monsters as Dracula decides that Costello has a brain perfect for the Frankenstein monster's body.Of course it would be another 30 years or so before Mel Brooks realized the full implication of that. I think Costello might have consented to the operation had he realized.It's reported by Lou Costello's daughter Chris that her dad wasn't totally convinced this film was going to work out for the team. Everyone around him told him he was never funnier, but Costello didn't believe it until Universal started counting the box office receipts.So a cheaply made comedy, utilizing existing sets makes a mint. Come to think of it, that was what Buck Privates also did. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This has to be my all time favorite movie. I'll never forget the night my father brought it home for me when I was a little kid. It was my first Abbott and Costello movie. It was also my first Lon Chaney Jr. and Bela Lugosi movie. That must be why I've liked the four of them all these years. I've been collecting Universal Monster movies and Abbott and Costello movies ever since. They're my favorite actors. They were a great combination. Glenn Strange was good too as the monster. He had a lot more screen time than he did in House of Frankenstein. I watch this movie now and I laugh my head off. I think this is the funniest movie I've ever seen because it gets funny every time I see it. I've been watching it for 15 years too. This movie I think deserved some kind of recognition because this isn't just some B movie. It's a classic. There is nothing I can say that's negative about this movie. People complain about the title. They say that Bud and Lou didn't meet Dr. Frankenstein. Yes, the title may say that, but no one ever said they did in the movie. The Monster has never been known as Frankenstein in any Universal movie. In fact, the name for him, The Monster or Frankenstein's Monster, was even copyrighted by Universal. They just put Frankenstein in the title because it sounds better. They do that with every movie; like Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man or I Was A Teenage Frankenstein because it just sounds better. This movie has sentimental value to me. I'll cherish it forever. See this movie and you definitely will not be disappointed. You might love it just as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello at their best","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's always debate over which Abbott and Costello film is their best as they did do some great ones. Meet Frankenstein is certainly one of their best- and quite possibly their last truly great one- and for me, and quite a few others, it's my personal favourite. The story is nonsense in a way but is still enormous fun with an interesting premise that isn't wasted at all and a few legitimate scares along the way(mostly in the scenes between Dracula and Sandra but the Wolf Man transformations did make hairs stand up on my neck on my first viewing as a child). There's not a dull moment in sight and even if it was on the nonsensical side I was enjoying myself too much to care.Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is well-made, with a terrific castle setting, skillful photography and surprisingly quite good special effects in the transformation scenes. There's a treat of an opening sequence as well. The music is a great mix of jaunty and eerie and the film is just hilarious throughout(providing that Abbott and Costello's style of humour is to your taste), one of the duo's funniest for sure. The dialogue and one-liners are simply delicious and among the funniest and most quotable of any Abbott and Costello offering, and the visual gags and physical comedy is just as inspired and looks like everybody is having great fun. The duo are on top form, Costello is the funnier of the two and he is a riot but Abbott plays it straight and does so very effectively. Then we have Dracula, Wolf Man and Frankenstein Monster in one film and they are very well treated here and a joy to watch(the characters also featured in House of Dracula but it's nowhere near as good a film and Meet Frankenstein uses them far better).Bela Lugosi is suave, imposing and aristocratically evil as Dracula(like Dracula should have and traits that Lugosi nailed in a way few other actors portraying Dracula did) but also has a ball with the comedy. Lon Chaney Jnr brings class and poignant emotion to the Wolf Man, you do have to feel sorry for him when he explains his situation to people and they don't believe him(in hindsight that exchange between him and Costello is one of the highlights of the film). Glenn Strange is a menacing Frankenstein Monster, and is much better used than he was in House of Dracula where he was little more than lost-looking window dressing. And you can't do wrong with having Vincent Price as the voice of the Invisible Man. All in all, one of- in my view- one of the best and funniest comedies of all time and Abbott and Costello at their best. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello's Best Movie","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mix Abbott and Costello with the Universal horror monsters and you get what is, in my opinion, the greatest horror comedy ever made. The duo plays a couple of baggage clerks who cross paths with Dracula (Bela Lugosi), who has the Frankenstein Monster (Glenn Strange) under his control. Luckily for them, the Wolf Man Larry Talbot (Lon Chaney, Jr.) shows up to help stop Dracula.This one has just about everything you could want if you are a fan of Abbott and Costello or the classic Universal horror films. About the only thing missing is Boris Karloff. The comedy is great and fresh for the time with no reliance on old vaudeville routines. The story is fun and continues with the monster mash formula Universal used in the House of... films, which were the last time we saw these characters. It's just a tremendously entertaining movie that you have to be a big fuddy-duddy not to enjoy. Hilarious comedy and a last hurrah for the timeless Universal monsters. Fun from start to finish. A classic that everybody should see at least once. "}{"Title":"Historic monsters galore","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Other reviews discuss the plot of this comedy sci-fi film. By its obvious comedy skein throughout, it's a little difficult to call it a horror flick. Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein was the second biggest box office draw for Universal in 1948. This type of comedy began to wane in the early 1950s. But we have some treasures like this to remember a time when slapstick, goofiness and witty lines combined in comedy pairs for entertainment. Bud Abbott and Lou Costello may not get the laughs among today's audiences that they did back then, but this is a good example of the type of wholesome comedy that ruled in the past. Abbott and Costello were family men who loved to entertain kids, and their string of monster comedies in the mid-20th century sure did that. This film has some historical significance otherwise. It's the only movie made that I know of that had all three of the usual movie monsters in it &#x96; two of whom are the original actors to play those parts. Bela Lugosi as Dracula and Lon Chaney Jr. as Wolf Man made a number of straight sci-fi horror films before this time. Glenn Strange, as Frankenstein, was the second actor to play that role. Boris Karloff first made that character widely known through cinema. While watching this movie today doesn't strike me with the same delight and wonder it did decades ago, I can see some of the glee yet in my grandkids as they watch this old time classic. "},{"Title":"A classic HILARIOUS stuff! WARNING!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A classic HILARIOUS stuff. this was my first time watching Abbot And Costello and i must say i was VERY impressed it's laugh out loud funny and Abbot and Costello have AWESOME chemistry together and are a riot to watch. i downloaded this and i must say it was worth it i had a great time watching this but it's also kinda funny because they are not alike at all and argue throughout the film but there so likable and funny they never get annoying Everyone was perfect for there parts although Glenn Strange makes a VERY bland Frankenstein had me yearning for De Niro or Karloff. The Acting is great!!!!. Budd Abbot is awesome here and played it straight GREAT job he is also a VERY funny man Lou Costello is side splitting hilarious and is just awesome. Lon Chaney Jr. adds a lot of class to this flick and is AMAZING as always. Bela Lugosi is VERY good here as Count Dracula although not quite as impressive as he was Dracula. Lénore Aubert is decent here and does what she has to do. Overall this was HILARIOUS that i highly recommend you check it out as soon as possible **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"A Fine Horror Comedy","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (Bela Lugosi) and Frankenstein's monster are accidentally shipped from London to America. The people who unload the monsters are Abbott and Costello. Larry Wolfman Talbot (Lon Chaney, Jr.) comes to America to stop the monsters, who have their own plans for America.As others have noted, the title of this film is a bit off. First, they do not meet Frankenstein, strictly speaking, but his creation. And second, the man playing the creature is not Boris Karloff. So, the better title would have been Abbott and Costello Meet Dracula, since they do meet him, he has the most screen time, and it is the original Dracula, Bela Lugosi, playing him. But that is just my thought.The standard humor is here, wrapped up in a Universal horror story. The creepy castle is present, as are scientists and vampires and a werewolf. As far as nostalgia goes, watching this beats out Meet the Killer, which has Karloff, but not much else (still a good film, though). If you can find a good copy, watch it. I first watched it on an old VHS tape copied from TV, which was still enjoyable, but now you can catch it on Netflix.I have nothing really bad to say about this film. I think the humor may not appeal to everyone -- it is a bit dated, with jokes like I'll bite being the clincher. And there is some mild sexism (Costello shows very little loyalty to his girlfriend or whatever she is). But these are minor issues, and I would still say that the movie stands the test of time more than it is dated. "},{"Title":"Not too bad but not my sort of film.","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein start as baggage handlers Chick Young (Bud Abbott) & Wilbur Grey (Lou Costello) are asked to deliver two crates to McDougal's House of Horror wax museum which contain two new exhibits, Dracula (Bela Lugosi) & the Frankenstein (Glenn Strange) monster. However it turns out that Dracula is alive & brings the Frankenstein monster back to life as well, he teams up with scientist Dr. Sandra Mornay (Lenore Aubert) who plans to transplant Wilbur's docile & child like brain into the Frankenstein monster as it can be controlled much more easily to do Dracula's evil bidding...Directed by Charles Barton this was the first team up between Universal studios classic monsters & the prolific comedy duo of Bud Abbott & Lou Costello who had appeared in dozens of films together, Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein came at a time when both franchises had been pretty much exhausted & it's a fair light hearted horror comedy with much more emphasis on the comedy while the monsters are there mainly for show. The script by Robert Lees & Frederic Rinaldo was originally called The Brain of Frankenstein & actually has Dracula as the main bad guy of the film, in fact despite the title Abbott & Costello never meet Frankenstein only his monster which doesn't get a lot of use for the majority of the film. Bizarrely the script also throws in the Wolfman for no apparent reason other than to have another classic monster in it. A lot of the comedy in this film is of the physical variety with people falling over things & the like as well as a constant stream of verbal jokes which you may or may not find funny depending on your sense of humour. One has to remember that Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein was made sixty years ago & tastes, attitudes & humour has moved on since then. I'm sure a lot of people won't find this squeaky clean humour that funny & I have to say I didn't but I did like the film on a basic level & at only 80 odd minutes in length I think it's worth a watch & it moves along at a decent pace.Director Barton does alright, the sets are actually quite good & fairly atmospheric & it's a shame in my opinion that the film didn't have a bit more straight forward horror in it. The special effects are alright to although the flapping rubber toy bat on strings looks awful. I wouldn't say there's anything scary here & this is a film that could be enjoyed by all the family.Technically the film is quite impressive considering, it's well made with reasonable effects (rubber bat apart), decent black and white photography & good sets. The acting is OK although I have never seen another Abbott & Costello film so I can't compare this to anything else they have appeared in. This was the final time Bela Lugosi donned the cape as Dracula while the same goes for Lon Chaney Jr. reprising his Wolfman role from The Wolf Man (1941).Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein is quite a fun little comedy horror that certainly passes 80 odd minutes but I didn't think the old school humour stands up today & I definitely wouldn't want to watch it again. Proved successful enough to be followed by several more similar themed film including Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man (1951), Abbott and Costello Meet Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1953) & Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy (1955). "},{"Title":"Fun Universal monster mash movie, with some classic horror characters and actors and of course Bud Abbott and Lou Costello.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In my opinion this movie can definitely be seen as a sequel to other Unveriscal classic movies such as; Dracula, Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, Dracula's Daughter, Son of Frankenstein, The Wolf Man, The Ghost of Frankenstein, Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man, Son of Dracula, House of Frankenstein and House of Dracula. It does not only feature the same character and actors, it also follows and continues some of these plot lines even though obviously this movie is more spoofing and comical, the reason why it's debatable whether or not this movie is canon.Of course there is not really much to the story here and why should there be? All the ingredients to make this is a good and fun movie are already pleasant; the two comical actors Bud Abbott and Lou Costello and the classic horror movie stars Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr. and Glenn Strange. In the end Vincent Price even makes an 'appereance' as The Invisible Man.Lugosi for the second and last time plays the movie famous blood sucking vampire; Count Dracula. He does this with just as much passion as the first time and even manages to handle the comical dialog in a good way, with his crazy accent. Lon Chaney Jr. reprises his role as Lawrence Talbot/The Wolf Man. Glenn Strange once more plays the Frankenstein creature. I've always found Strange's Frankenstein's creature performances to be an underrated one. He plays the monster in the same way as Karloff did. Too bad that his character gets way underused in this movie. Weird, especially considering that this movie is named Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet FRANKENSTEIN. Chaney Jr. and Lugosi play a far bigger role in this than Strange does.The movie has some good comical moments in it mixes this all perfectly with the classic monster movie ingredients, without being disrespectful about it. The humor mostly works in my opinion thanks to Lou Costello, who really steals the show in this movie with his comical performance. His character is the most entertaining, has the best lines and he has the silliest actions.The movie is good looking with its sets, costumes, make-up and cinematography. The movie does a good job at recreating the horror atmosphere from the '30's movies.Nevertheless I feel that this movie is always being slightly overrated. Other Unverisal monster mash movies work just as good or even better as entertainment. Movies such as; Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man and House of Frankenstein. It's a different kind of 'fun' but they in my opinion work better in terms of entertainment. Nevertheless, this movie is of course also still perfectly fun to watch.Fun and well worth to watch, especially if you're familiar with either Dracula, Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, Dracula's Daughter, Son of Frankenstein, The Wolf Man, The Ghost of Frankenstein, Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man, Son of Dracula, House of Frankenstein and/or House of Dracula. 7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great Horror Comedy","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is probably the best horror/comedy film ever made next to Young Frankenstein. Some people have trashed this film, saying it's a low point for Universal Studios' horror movies. It is what it is; a comedy film. This is the best I have seen Abbott and Costello-witty, funny and scared! The horror element is just as good. If you get rid of the comedy elements, you have a decent horror film. Bela Lugosi plays Dracula and plays him well. His make-up isn't very convincing-his face is very white. Lon Chaney again plays a tormented Wolf Man but saves the day by grabbing Dracula as he turns into a bat. They fall to their death into the rapids. Glenn Strange plays a menacing Frankenstein's monster. Frank Ferguson is good as McDougal, who purchases Dracula and Frankenstein's monster for his House of Horrors. He doesn't suspect that they are alive until the monster comes at them while he and his assistant are on a pier. I enjoyed the scene where the Wolf Man plays a cat and mouse game with Lou Costello in Lon Chaney's apartment! Vincent Price lends his voice at the end of the film as the Invisible Man. This is a fun movie that blends two popular genres. See it by all means!! "},{"Title":"Great Send-Up of Universal Classic Horror Films A Treat Not a Trick","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This in many ways is the best vehicle every developed for Bud & Lou. They got a great cast to work with with all the major monster actors from the Frankenstein/Wolfman/Dracula films. They got a zany plot that fits them just right (imagine Costello's brain really being in Frankenstein & you can develop your own picture). They also got a couple of actresses that while not well known, actually fit the plot pretty well. Stories are told that Glenn Strange (Frankenstein) got hurt during filming this & the great Boris Karloff (uncredited) actually did some of the scenes as the monster. The things that are so good are the set ups as they give plenty of room for some great lines between the monsters & Lou. You see, says Chaney, Every night I turn into a wolf. Yes, you & a Million other guys! retorts Lou. Yes, we need more young blood & brains. says Dr. Lehos (Bela). A lot of inside jokes were deliberately left in the film as flaws by the Universal crew as part of the inside jokes being pulled by the filmmakers on the entire crew. Dracula's reflection being shown in the mirror is one of many. To me the classic sequence is when Lou is bound on the operating table & Chaney comes in to save him. This starts one of the great comedy sequences in all of the Abbott & Costello films. This is a fun filled frolic always best viewed around Halloween, though it can be fun anytime. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Greats","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948) **** (out of 4) One of the all-time greats has Lawrence Talbot (Lon Chaney, Jr.) asking Wilbur (Lou Costello) to help him destroy Dracula (Bela Lugosi) and Frankenstein's monster (Glenn Strange) but Chick (Bud Abbott) tries to convince him that there's not such a thing as monsters.If you read the production history of this film and how it came to be, you have to think it was a miracle that it turned out so well. The greatest of Abbott and Costello clash with the greatest of Universal's monsters and the end result is without question one of the greatest movies ever made. It works brilliantly as a comedy. It works brilliantly as a horror movie. You mix the two together and you've just got something totally special and unlike anything else out there. Mixing two genres is always extremely hard to do successfully but this film pulls it off remarkably well.I think the reason the movie works so well is that both sides play to their strong points. Abbott and Costello are at the top of their game together and they have their typical wonderful chemistry but it's bumped up to another level due to the terrific screenplay that gives them some of the best lines of their careers. The constant back and forth between the duo is just priceless and some of the times are just so hilarious that you'll have tears rolling down your face. As for the monsters, they're played extremely straight here and it's really easy to see why so many parents were upset that they were taking their kids to an Abbott and Costello movie only to have their kids terrified of the monsters. They're really played in a scary manor here and especially some of the violence, which is a lot stronger than in the typical monster movies.It certainly doesn't hurt that you've got everyone delivering some of the best work of their career. I've already mentioned how terrific Abbott and Costello are but they're also excellent with the rest of the cast. This is especially true for Costello who gets to mix it up with Chaney, Lugosi and Strange. Lugosi is extremely good here and, dare I say it, much more entertaining than even his role from the 1931 film. Chaney has no problem playing the sympathy card with Talbot and Strange makes for a very striking monster. Lenore Aubert, Jane Randolph and Frank Ferguson are also very good in their supporting parts.ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN takes two classics, the comedians and the monsters, blends them together and somehow it works. Not only does it work but it really does turn into one of the greatest and most downright entertaining films ever made. "},{"Title":"Beloved Comedy!","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A lot of old movie books talk extensively about horror movie cycles. By 1948, the great 1930s-1940s cycle of Universal horror movies was pretty well played out. In a few years, we would all see aliens and atomic monsters until Hammer Studios kick started the whole thing again in the late 1950s in living color. In the meantime, Universal decided to give the genre a big send off, and the result was Abbott & Costello heading up probably the best horror movie comedy ever made. I was transfixed by this movie as a child in the 1970s. They always ran it around Halloween, and I got to watch it every year.Lon Chaney Jr. plays it straight in what was probably one of the last good roles in his career (other than High Noon and some TV stuff). You can't say enough about Bela Lugosi. He was a great actor, after all, and I'm sure he only did this movie because he had to. Fortunately, they treated him with a great amount of respect in this film. He gets a good amount of screen time, and at no point do you get the impression that he's slumming in a did-it-for-the-money comedy.This movie came out just a few years after A & C's frantic wartime run where they were putting out two to three quality titles a year. They didn't lose a step in this one. I really wish that a new generation could catch on to this movie and the rest of the Abbott and Costello greats. I notice they run less and less every year. Pretty soon, only the old timers will remember them. "},{"Title":"Abbott & Costello + Universal Monsters = Success","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love how this movie was done. It could have been a Universal Monster movie with Abbott and Costello forced in to be the comic relief but instead its a well made film that ironically turned out to be better than all the other monster mash ups Universal put out in the 40s like House Of Frankenstein and House Of Dracula. Abbott and Costello are on there A game here, constant joke after joke after joke, all high quality material sure to make you laugh until you cry. The monsters are all played by the best. Lon Chaney Jr. is back as Lawrence Talbot and although played very seriously, Talbot seems to have gone slightly insane from the years of torture the curse of the Wolfman has brought on him, so it does become a little comical at how he warns everyone in every scene that 'a full moon is rising' and how he's going to 'change into a wolf'. Bela Lugosi is back as Dracula and I don't think I need to comment on the performance of the man who basically created the quintessential Dracula. Glenn Strange is the Monster and next to Karloff he's the next best thing, his voice is also as buttery smooth as Karloffs when he speaks (if he speaks that is, I think he gets a line or two in). Overall, its not the greatest Universal film but at a time when the famous monster were nothing but cheap, B movie entertainment, it was Abbot and Costello that gave them there last taste of the big time, and it is wonderful. "}{"Title":"Good show","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Lon Chaney Jr does NOT play the Wolfman as a goof. Bela is over the top as Dracula. The monster is certainly not Karloff, but pretty good. A and B are very predictable in their interaction and the comedy routines.Still, this is physical comedy and comprised of lots of pratfalls and gasping dialogue. What a great era and innocent movie. Enjoyed it a lot.If you watch A and B you know the routines before they are finished, but what fun to imagine what the audience felt at the time. AND, by the way, this movie scared me away when I was little.Well worth showing the younger generation the comedy of the past. "},{"Title":"Abbott & Costello meet Frankenstein still fun to watch!","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My favorite A&C film,I first saw it in the 50's when it was released to television. Even as I grew up realizing it was corny,dumb,etc.it still has always stayed with me.Perhaps because I was also a Universal Horror film fan of the 30's & 40's and this picture was more or less the closing chapter for the Universal Monster pictures.I was still so fascinated with it I bought the condensed 16mm Castle film version and then when the advent of Beta & VHS came on the scene in the late 70's early 80's I remember paying around 50 bucks for a VHS video which I still possess today. Of course when DVD's came along I had to buy those also. The DVD was especially cool because it had all the extras that never came on VHS tapes. Lobby Cards,cut scenes,narration by people that worked on the film, etc.Now with the Digital technology that has come about you can probably see a better quality image than theater audiences saw back in 1948.I even like the colorized version. It's kind of sad when you go into the IMDb site and look up the film actors from the film and discover that they are all Dead now....One thing about film is it keeps these actors with us as if they were still alive on this earth, entertaining us and not growing old as we all eventually do and staying the way we visualized them when we were kids....s.m. "},{"Title":"Bud & Lou mix genres perfectly with Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr., and Glenn Strange in Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With yesterday being Halloween, I spent the whole day watching various comedy teams' movies that happened to have scary stuff. I started it by watching one classic team-Laurel & Hardy-in The Live Ghost and ended it with another-Abbott & Costello-in which they meet Frankenstein (the monster) along with Dracula and the Wolf Man. Seven years after penning their haunted house comedy Hold That Ghost, Robert Lees & Frederic I. Rinaldo then wrote this-the first time the duo would meet some Universal monsters which would put Bud & Lou back in the motion picture Top Ten list after an absence of four years. Seeing Glenn Strange (the monster), Bela Lugosi (Dracula), and Lon Chaney Jr. (Larwrence Talbot, the Wolf Man) together was an additional treat especially when they were all characterized seriously enough to convincingly be depicted as threats when expertly mixed with the low comedy of Abbott & Costello. Costello's by now familiar hesitations when being frightened never gets old every time he uses them and Abbott's skepticism during most of the picture also adds to the humor immensely. Then there's the two women-Lenore Aubert and Jane Randolph-who convince Costello of their attraction to him while Abbott is constantly puzzled that also adds even more of the funny and this was possibly the most perfect of their classic movies. I also liked Frank Skinner's atmospheric score and Frank Ferguson's supporting role of the blustery Mr. McDougal. What really puts this picture at the top is the direction of Charles T. Barton as he mixes the genres to excellent effect. Oh, and as always, John Grant puts whatever variations of the Bud & Lou routines deemed suitable to fine effect. Really, all I'll say now is Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein is most wholeheartedly recommended. P.S. If Ms. Randolph looks familiar, you've probably seen her in the original Cat People and its sequel Curse of the Cat People. She was one of the last surviving cast members when she died in 2009. And in a tragic irony, writer Robert Lees was decapitated when he was killed in 2004. "},{"Title":"QUESTION Can The Over-Active Abbott & Costello Find Happiness With A Troupe of Over-Used Monsters?  ANSWER But Of Course!!","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is said that Lou Costello had reservations about making this movie. After the deed was done, Lou's mother reportedly told him that it was their best Picture, period.In this premise, we heartily concur.Of the exact origin of this A & C Monsterfest, it can only be surmised. We had seen the Universal Horror Star Vehicles.It was the team-up or crossover of the characters from the previous Box Office Horror Film Successes. The Formula started with 1943's FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLFMAN. The series continued when the Kindly Transylvanian Count was added into the mix. The results were HOUSE of FANKENSTEIN (1944), which starred Boris Karloff as an Evil, Mad Scientist, rather than the Monster.This was followed by HOUSE of Dracula (1945), which had all the Monster Gang back. To the mix was added Onslow Stevens as a sort of poor man's Jekyll & Hyde. At the conclusion of HOUISE OF Dracula, it was clear that this multi-monster repertory company approach was rapidly getting stale.In a monologue on his 1940's Radio Show, Bob Hope quipped It was a slow day in Hollywood. Abbott and Costello only made one Movie!* And so it was. Universal had two problem series to deal with. On the one hand, the Horror All-Stars was running out of gas. And the great appetite for proper and new feature length vehicles by Bud & Lou, continued to be a chronic problem. The answer lie in bringing them together in the unheard of hybrid film type , the Comedy-Horror genre.** MEET FRANKENSTEIN was the answer to the prayers of the Universal Pictures big wigs. They brought in the Proper mixture of staff from both Horror and Comedy to insure a proper treatment.The result is a Feature Film of pure fun. There is barely a wasted moment in the entire hour and a half. The crew knew enough to play the Horror portion straight, and let 'The Boys' do the rest.Once again, we see an example of just doing a good film. The crew had no pretensions of High Art, and in the end, we were all blessed with a Near Masterpiece.* From 1940 to 1954, Bud and Lou made 33 Feature Films. In addition to multi picture deals with both Universal and MGM, they appeared in independently produced movies released under the banners of Warner Brothers, United Artists and Eagle-Lion Films. All of this work in addition to personal appearances, their 1940's Radio Show, their frequent TV appearances on THE COLGATE COMEDY HOUR (1953-55) and their own Television Show (1952-'53).** Arguably, there have been other Films with both Horror and Comic tones alike. THE GORILLA (1939) with the Ritz Brothers and Bela Lugosi comes to mind, as well as Frank Capra;s ARSENIC and OLD LACE (1944)and so many Old Dark House type of spoofs. Both of these had been stage plays before being brought to the silver screen.But, A & C MEET FRANKENSTEIN was the first to take the Monsters and play them straight against the comic reactions of The Boys. The film was so successful that the movie going public was treated to, ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET THE KILLER, BORIS KARLOFF ('49), ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET THE INVISIBLE MAN (1951), ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET DR. JEKYLL & MR. HYDE (1953) and ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET THE MUMMY (1955). There was nothing that compared to these, until TV Series THE ADDAMS FAMILY and THE MUNSTERS (both 1964), and then the Gene Wilder/Mel Brooks' Masterpiece, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN (1974). "},{"Title":"Scary Funny","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Great Movie with a near perfect cast Bud Abbott, Lou Costello, Lon Cheney Jr., Bela Lugosi, and even an appearence by my favorite creepy movie actor Vincent Price. Boris Karloff is strangely absent, but I'm sure some movie buff out there knows exactly why he wasn't in the movie. Heck! if I read some of the other comments their is a good chance I'd find out. Abbott and Costello did do a movie around a year later with Karloff so it works out. The title of the movie is a little misleading as well. Abbott and Costello meet the Wolf Man or Abbott and Costello meet Dracula would be more accurate. Out of the three monsters in the movie Frankenstein has the least air-time, and maybe I'm splitting hairs but the monster never really meets Abbott or Costello he just chases Costello around the castle a couple of times. "},{"Title":"Alternately hilarious and scary horror spoof with Abbott and Costello in rare, peak form - plus three classic monsters for the price of one!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Abbott & Costello were America's popular slapstick comedy duo of WWII-era radio, stage and screen, second only to Laurel & Hardy.  The twosome consisted of Bud Abbott, the tall, reedy, disparaging straight man, and Lou Costello, his short, muttering, roly-poly, pratfalling patsy, both of whom brought varied, extensive vaudeville experience to the team.  Abbott was once a lion tamer, Costello a once-slim film stuntman!  Their early efforts on radio and Broadway eventually paved the way for a series of broad, high-strung Universal feature film vehicles, of which this represents their very best -- Buck Privates included.In 1948, Universal cleverly decided on an amalgamation of Abbott & Costello  antics and classic horror (their two biggest commodities at the time) for their next feature, and the unique blend proved to be an ideal, irresistible  mix with everybody in the sterling cast doing their individual jobs faultlessly.  A&C keep the laughs coming at a rat-a-tat speed (with variations of some of their classic routines), while Lon Chaney as the Wolfman, Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula, and Glenn Strange as the Frankenstein Monster (subbing for Boris Karloff, who had vacated the damaging typecast) provide the necessary shudders and goose bumps, wisely playing it serious as the stalking creatures.  The beauteous presence of both Lenore Aubert and Jane Randolph adds a welcome dash of class and feminine diversion to the creepy, gothic surroundings &#150; the former a placid, sultry beauty who spells trouble for the boys, the latter a perky screamer in the Evelyn Ankers tradition.  The best part is that you get three classic monsters for one admission price!  In short, Bud and Lou play unsuspecting delivery men (Chick and Wilbur) who deposit two heavy, oblong boxes (wink-wink) to an eerie castle, where Dracula decides that Lou would be the perfect specimen for a brain transplant &#150; with the Frankenstein monster as the recipient!  Chaney, playing tormented mortal Larry Talbot, is actually around trying to protect the boys here &#150; and he does, that is, anytime there is not a full moon.  And that's when things really get hairy!  The classic scene that still stays with me is Lou's relaxing in a chair, inadvertently sitting on the monster's lap), and, as always, Lou's patented gasps and gulps as he tries to get the cranky, disbelieving Bud to see they have company.  The finale where the monsters meet their inevitable ends is especially gratifying for the older tykes and horror buffs.This flick proved to be such a hit, and was such a boost to their post-war flagging careers, A&C attempted the formula over and over again in their subsequent vehicles &#150; A&C Meet the Killer, the Invisible Man, Captain Kidd, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and the Mummy, but they all paled compared to this baby, which still withstands the test of time.Fortunately, the boys had TV to still look forward to. "},{"Title":"A&C's Best Film Comedy","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fifty two years after it was made this is still a fun film and the best the team ever made.   One reviewer hit the nail on the head in attributing much of its greatness to the horror actors playing straight.   Lou is the object of ghastly affection as Dracula hopes to transfer his malleable brain to the Frankenstein monster (why, we never really find out - what was he going to do - rule the world?) and Larry Talbot (The Wolf Man in his most ferocious make-up job) is out to stop him.  Has anyone ever noticed that in make-up the Wolf Man is a lot slimmer and more agile than Lon Chaney who supposedly played him?  Go figure!    Lots of laughs and creeps.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable comedy horror","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is only time Bela Lugosi played Dracula apart from the 1931 original. And Lon Chaney plays the Wolf Man. It makes the movie much more fun that they have these original actors and I think they do the monsters justice. A big part of comedy is juxtaposition and this is a perfect situation for Bud Abbot and Lou Costello to be thrown into. I loved the way Costello kept seeing the monsters and going crazy and then the monsters were conveniently hidden when the other characters looked. His imitations of Frankenstein and Dracula are hilarious. His mania can be over-the-top in other movies but here he has very good reason to be afraid, barely able to stutter any useful information.There's an effect where Dracula transforms into and out of a bat which I found pretty awesome and impressive for the time this movie was made. It was also cool seeing glimpses of the monsters battling each-other in the background as other things happened.Some of my favourite comedic moments are Costello unknowingly sitting on Frankenstein, the rotating hidden door, the coffin that keeps creaking open and the fact that Costello gets both women (Abbott makes up a story about a beautiful third girl to entice Costello to swap but Costello generously insists that Abbott can have her).I think the film-makers understand how tension works and use it well. There is real suspense with the monsters and how far they'll get with their scheme. Dracula has his haunting eyes, Frankenstein's monster is imposing and inarticulate, The Wolf Man is conflicted by day and uncontrollably violent during a full moon.Costello bases his comedy on emotions. His character is childish and simple. He's the first one to see everything but nobody listens to him. There are jokes but that's just one aspect. His style of comedy is timeless and silly. The main thing he needs are serious situations and characters to play off and this movie is a one-of-a- kind where his comedy especially shines. The fates of the monsters and the climax of the movie are also satisfying. "},{"Title":"Now who'd be silly enough to believe that?","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sometimes all you need is a good laugh, complexity be damned. Sometimes all you want is a warm bath of familiarly, dually titillated by belly laughs of the most finely honed, classic slapstick, while shivering in reverence (maybe even in fright, if you're of the right disposition) at some of Universal's finest monster mayhem. Which is why, sometimes, you can't do any better than romp around with Bud Abbott and Lou Costello, and their meeting with Frankenstein (and friends) is arguably the most purely joyful escapist fun any of their monster mashes have to offer. In terms of poduction-values, it's hard to knock three monsters for the price of one (Dracula, Frankenstein's Creature and the Wolf Man would never again reassemble until - shudder - 2004's Van Helsing), and the story actually does a decent job of weaving all three in without seeming too gratuitous, though an opening sequence in a wax museum house of horrors does poke fun at the constructed artificiality of monster scares. Additionally, Universal's classy treatment of their tentpole horror monsters, even in parody form, is always nice, as the mayhem is built around them, but never resorting to crass, embarrassing gags at their expense (few contemporary filmmakers do parody and pastiche so respectfully). Of course, the plot is ludicrously thin - it's never even explained why Dracula seeks to reinvigorate Frankenstein's Creature (naturally, with Costello's brain), the central point of conflict - and the dramatic irony of Costello being terrified, only for the spectre in question to vanish before a bemused Abbott can lay eyes on it is exploited to the point of pushing limits of patience. Meanwhile, monster nitpickers will grumble that the title is a misnomer, as Bud and Lou only meet Frankenstein's creation, not the mad scientist himself (though we do get a glimpse at his helpfully specific lab notes, apparently published in book form...). Ultimately, it's all in good fun, and such quibbles feel increasingly besides the point in the face of such a wall of laughs. What is the point is howling at Bud and Lou's priceless chemistry, hysterical physical slapstick, facial expressions, and immaculate wordplay (I saw what I saw when I saw it being the takeaway quote of choice here), and lapping up the joy of their tried-and-true personas - Abbott the curmudgeonly straight man, Costello the adorably dimwitted crybaby-cum-lothlorio - typecasting be damned. The Universal vets are more than willing to dive into the fun, and their commitment to character helps the silliness fly. Bela Lugosi (amazingly, in his only time reprising Count Dracula!) is as good as they come, slinking around with eerie-eyed menace undercut by a hefty undercurrent of silky charm, Glenn Strange makes for a fantastically gruesome, shambling Frankenstein's monster, while Lon Chaney Jr.'s wooden melancholic delivery as the world-weary Lawrence Talbot wins almost as many laughs as the headliners, just as his snarling, contorting Wolf Man is as fearsome as ever. Lenore Aubert and Jane Randolph also get in on the fun, both maintaining class and credibility and stealing some of the best laughs despite being largely treated like set dressing by the customary playful misogyny of the time. Dracula's castle also makes for a sumptuously Gothic set piece, and its labyrinth of secret swivelling wall panels, cobblestones and stockades makes for the perfect playpen for Bud and Lou. You pretty much get what it says on the tin with Abbott and Costello - and Meets Frankenstein, by privileging big recurring gags over zingers, isn't even their sharpest work in their oeuvre - so those aspiring for smarter or more substantial screwball frivolity would do best to bolt for the door (ideally screeching CHIIIIIIIIIIICKKKKKK!!! like Costello). But, for those willing to leave their brains at the door (and Dracula gratefully accepts your kind donation), Meet Frankenstein is their wildest, zaniest, and, arguably, flat-out funniest cinematic work. It's tightly paced, chock-full of all the gags and big reveal monster moments you can shake a vampire bat at, and the whole gang - spooks and funny men - are so cheerfully committed to entertaining, it's near impossible not to have a deliriously good time. Just remember not to go on a double-date with Costello, or you'll end up with nothing but a spookily fun story to tell. -9/10 "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello Make Their Best Movie","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't expect much from this particular title after seeing ...Go To Mars and ...Meet The Invisible Man, but this was a pleasant surprise. Somehow this holds together better - better pacing, better casting, better writing, and the classic comedy pair are hitting on all cylinders as they perform various verbal and visual slapstick gags. I think some of the credit goes to whoever had the brilliant idea to have much of the action take place on the original Universal sets, and to whoever persuaded Chaney and Lugosi to reprise their roles. It's a great pleasure to see these two legends on screen again while they were still at the top of their game (as far as I can tell).Apparently this was actually the first of the A&C movies in this vein, and it looks like they managed to catch lightning in a bottle this one time. Even if you aren't a big fan of Abbott and Costello (I wasn't - not that I hated them or anything, they just weren't what I look for in a comedy team), you'll probably enjoy this. "}{"Title":"Meet The Monsters.","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott & Costello play two freight handlers named Chick Young & Wilbur Grey, who get mixed up with McDougall's House Of Horrors, which has recently gained possession of Dracula(Bela Lugosi) & Frankenstein(played by Glenn Strange) The Wolf Man(Lon Chaney Jr.) is close behind, as he warns the boys of the threat, but is too late, since Dracula revives the monster and plans to give him a new brain with the help of lady scientist Sandra Mornay(played by Lenore Aubert) who has selected Wilbur as the best candidate. Jane Randolph plays insurance investigator Joan Raymond, looking into the now missing monsters.Classic farce is a funny spoof of the monster genre that Universal Studios made popular for 15 years. Fine cast and well-paced direction all make this fondly remembered film stand up so well, though it must be said that the plot(even for a spoof) is pretty nonsensical. Should not be looked at as a sequel to House Of Dracula, though fans still disagree about that to this day! "},{"Title":"The Monsters Are Coming! The Monsters Are Coming!","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Released in 1948 - I'd confidently say that this terror-ifically spooky laugh-fest rates as the very best of the best of the Abbott & Costello comedies from yesteryear. And, as far as Horror/Comedies go, this zany film can easily hold its own, any day, when compared against any other film in that particular genre.As one of Hollywood's most successful comedy duos ever, Abbott & Costello appeared in a total of 36 films together (from between 1940-1955). Of those 36 pictures I have now seen over half of them and nowhere in any of those other films does the comical rapport work as well as it does here in Frankenstein.The script, the characters, the comedy, the horror, and all of the other essential elements that make for memorable filmmaking, all come together so wonderfully well (as a near-perfect whole) here in Frankenstein.Abbott & Costello play characters Chick Young and Wilbur Grey (respectively), a pair of bumbling freight handlers at a Florida railway station.When Chick and Wilbur are given the task of delivering 2 casket-sized crates to McDougal's House of Horrors museum that's when all hell breaks loose as our bewildered boys are not only confronted by Dracula and the Frankestein monster, but, by the Werewolf, as well.And, at this point, boy, do things get wild and crazy for Chick and Wilbur.This movie is really a whole lot of good fun. I highly recommend it to everyone, whether you're a fan of horror, or not.Filmed in b&w, Frankenstein has a fast-paced running time of only 84 minutes.*Movie Goof* - There is one scene where the viewer can clearly see Dracula's image reflected in a mirror. "},{"Title":"The undignified end of the Universal Movie Monsters","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kind of mixed on this one. A&C were one of the great comedy acts of the 1940's and 50's. This film takes the classic Universal Movie Monsters, already reduced to so much camp in the awful mash-up sequels (Frankenstein meets the Wolfman, House of Frankenstein, House of Dracula, House of Pancakes.) I give Lugosi and Chaney credit for playing their characters straight. At least the set lighting and atmospherics are great in this film.The end result. A&C would go on to take out the other Universal Horror classic monsters (The Invisible Man, the Mummy, Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde) while those franchise ended.Ah, if only we could bring them back to take out Freddy Krueger, Jason Vorhees and Michael Myers, not to mention the ubiquitous zombie movies. "},{"Title":"A Comedy-Horror, Not a Horror-Comedy","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Larry (Wolf Man) In half and hour the moon will rise and I will turn into a wolf. Wilbur You and twenty million other guys.In the motion picture's opening sequence, which is animated, Frankenstein's Monster knocks on the lids of two Mutt-and-Jeff coffins, which are opened to reveal two skeletons. They are so frightened when they see Frankenstein's Monster that they run and collide with each other; their bones fly in all directions and form the movie's actual title BUD ABBOTT LOU COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN.Of course Frankenstein means his monstrous creation, not the scientist himself. Today Frankenstein has come to mean the monster, but never mind. In foggy London during a full moon, a frantic Larry Talbot (Lon Chaney Jr.) attempts to call an express office &#x96; located at a Florida coastal town &#x96; that employs Chick (Abbott) and Wilbur (Costello) to tell the freight handlers not to deliver the two crates that they had received. They contain the bodies of Frankenstein's Monster and Dracula (Bela Lugosi, in his second and last role in the part). They are scheduled to be delivered to McDougal's House of Horrors. But because of McDougal's insistence, the boys make the delivery. Not long after, we find Lou in a creepy cellar without lights (because of a lightning storm) as a coffin cover creaks open. Bela Lugosi gets out just before Chick arrives because of Wilbur's frantic screams (CHIIIIIIIICK!!!!). See Wilbur's nervous laughter, and nobody does the I-am-so-frightened-that-I-cannot-speak-routine better than Lou Costello. It seems the monsters come out only when Wilbur is around.The troubled and empathetic Wolf Man tries to stop Dracula from his plan of reviving Frankenstein's Monster by transplanting Costello's moronic brain, which will make it easier for Dracula to control the monster. Meanwhile there are two women with key roles Dr. Sandra Mornay (Lenore Aubert), a mad scientist in league with Dracula, and Joan Raymond (Jane Randolph), an insurance investigator who is trying to find out more about the crates. They are using their charms on Wilbur for their own ends, but Chick cannot figure out why Wilbur is such a ladies' man. Then there is a Gothic castle on an island off the coast of Florida. What will happen when the monsters start running amok during the denouement? Will Dracula and Sandra's evil plan to take Wilbur's brain succeed? Will we meet still another monster? While it is true that the monsters fright gags and sight takes serve to support the boys of comedy, the formula is effective. And the monsters play their roles as monsters, not comedians. They are all effectual. No wonder that this film was Universal's second highest grossing movie of the entire year. It was Abbott and Costello at their peak, before their movie run became tired in the 1950s. If you only see one Abbott and Costello motion picture, this is the one. "},{"Title":"A Natural","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What could be more logical than having Universal's two resident nitwits meet up with the studio's three resident monsters. Of course, the resulting hijinks put an end to Universal's monster franchise. After all, if one look at pudgy little Costello (Wilbur) causes the electrode guy to recoil in horror (a great scene), what future does our 7-footer have scaring even 5- year olds. Nonetheless, watching Old Neckbiter (Lugosi), The Zipperhead (Strange), and Mr. Bushyface (Chaney) chase the two loonies around studio sound stages is still a hoot.Speaking of sound stages, catch that nightmarish jungle next to the lake. It may be the scariest thing in the film. Also, am I mistaken or is Costello a little more restrained than usual. After all, for once he doesn't have to carry all the comedy; instead, he's got a ton of built-in laughs with the basic idea. Anyway, this is the first and easily the best of the A&C Meet&#x85; series, and should appeal even to adults.(In passing&#x97;I gather from IMDb that one day in the studio commissary, Glenn Strange in his Frankenstein get-up was lunching with Ann Blythe in fish get-up, when an out-of-town tour group came through. The reaction can only be imagined.) "},{"Title":"The Monsters=Great  Bud and Lou=eh..","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe there's something wrong with me, but, get this, I don't find Abbott and Costello funny. Except for the Who's on first routine.I haven't seen very much of their work, but I didn't find them funny here, and since many people seem to think this is them at their greatest, I'll have to stick with my opinion. They generate a few laughs here and there, but that's mostly when Costello is ripping of Curly Howard's various sound effects. Maybe there were just too many monsters in this movie for me to pay attention to their routines. The monsters, by the way, are what make this movie passable. It has Frankenstein's Monster, The Wolf Man, Dracula, and even a surprise cameo by The Invisible Man. I have to agree with Leonard Maltin's movie guide, which says the monsters were great in this film because they play it straight. They didn't liven up their acts because they were in a comedy film, or make light of themselves. Lon Chaney jr's Wolf Man is as troubled and dark as ever, Lugosi's Dracula is as menacing and evil as ever, and Glenn Strange, filling in for Boris Karloff, shuffles around and moans like a serious Frankenstien's monster should. All in all, this is just one of those movies you sit around and watch. Don't expect many hilarious moments, but don't turn it off out of boredom. The monsters outnumber the comedians, and it shows. "},{"Title":"Brings back great memories","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I haven't seen an Abbot and Costello movie for over thirty years . When I was a kid they were the staple diet for my TV viewing . I wondered if they were as good as I remembered and if my kids would like it in today's modern age.Abbot and Costello meet Frankeinstien is regarded as one of their better movies and I vaguely remember it from my childhood.Firstly let me say , Lou Costello still makes me laugh . He made my kids laugh too which is a good thing . Sadly the film does not stand the test of time too well. The special affects , while good in the 1940's don't impress now and the storyline drifts all over the place. It was a little too long to keep my kids totally engrossed but still , I'm sure they liked it .If you have not seen an Abbot and Costello movie , you should. it's not a nice thought to think a man as funny as Lou Costello will eventually be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Most fun of the Universal mixed monster movies","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello are freight handlers in this movie, who unpack the remains of Count Dracula and the Frankenstein monster for a house of horrors. Problems arise when Dracula and the woman mad scientist Dr. Mornay want to replace the monster's brain with that of Wilbur Grey (Lou Costello). In the meanwhile, Larry Talbot, the famed Wolfman, also shows up to stop this evil, but still has a lycanthropy problem of his own.Of the three (well four, but I wasn't counting Jules Bass' Mad Monster Party?) mixed Universal monster movies I've seen, this is certainly the most entertaining. While I liked House of Frankenstein and House of Dracula well enough, neither of them was great, nor terribly funny. This one though, was a great tribute to the earlier Universal horrors in a very comedic way. In that sense, I would say it was similar to Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein.It was good to see Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr and Glenn Strange all give impressive and fairly serious performances as Dracula, the Wolfman and the Frankenstein Monster respectively, in contrast to the slapstick comedy of Abbott and Costello. The combination worked really well for me in this one.Some of the special effects were a bit cartoon-ish (like Dracula's transformation into a bat), but in the setting of this movie, that also worked to create more comedy.Overall, I really liked it for the performances, for the one liners and for the tribute that it seems to be as a final chapter in Universal's big monsters series. "},{"Title":"Great legends from opposite genres brought together with precision.","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" On the one hand,you have the legendary comedy of Abbott and Costello.On the other,the legendary monsters of early Hollywood horror.The whole idea on paper is nothing short of genius.The best part is that when these two legends were brought together,neither compromised the other.Both came away with their legends intact.The monsters that had frightened us in years prior to this film,were just as convincing here.A and C's comedy genius played off of them with perfection.What you have here,ultimately is a great marriage of the horror and comedy genres,and while they have been brought together a few times since then,it has never been pulled off with more precision than it was here.Great film. "},{"Title":"I saw what I saw when I saw it!","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the great horror comedies of all time, this monster mash-up proves to be tremendous fun. Legendary comedy team Abbott and Costello play baggage handlers Chick and Wilbur (respectively), who come into possession of crates containing Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) and the Frankenstein Monster (Glenn Strange) that are intended to go to a house of horrors. Naturally, the Count and the Monster get loose, and Drac puts into motion his plan make the Monster very pliable by putting a simple brain into it. And Wilbur's brain is as simple as they get. This viewer now wishes he would have seen this a lot sooner as he can now see why people hold this film in high regard. Bud and Lou are in fine form, not doing much of the verbal word play, but indulging in some great slapstick scenes. Lou is a delight as the more flamboyant and excitable of the pair; when he mimes the monsters it's one funny thing, but when straight man Bud does the same thing later, it's even better. The monsters all play this beautifully, never acting like they're in on the joke. It's a treat to see Bela back in his most famous role, as well as Lon Chaney Jr. in his iconic character of werewolf Larry Talbot, determined to stop the Count even though he's prone to frequent transformations. Try as he might, he just can't convince Bud and Lou of the danger that they're in. The other supporting actors do well without upstaging the stars Lenore Aubert as icy mad doctor Sandra Mornay, Jane Randolph as fetching insurance investigator Joan Raymond, who thinks that Bud and Lou pilfered the bodies, Frank Ferguson as harried businessman Mr. McDougal, and Charles Bradstreet as the handsome young Dr. Stevens. Aubert is particularly delicious, and it's a hoot to see her and Randolph play up to Lou and his subsequent belief that he's an irresistible lug, not knowing of their ulterior motives. Everything builds up to a frantic climax where among other great developments, Bud and Lou barricade a door forgetting that it opens the *other* way. The final joke is just a riot, with one more monster (voiced by a certain horror star) making a special appearance. Best of all, this lively romp can be seen independently of any other Universal horror film of the period, as it's not intended to be a sequel to any entry in any of the studio's franchises. A must-see. Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"A deservingly popular Abbott and Costello comedy","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember watching quite a bit of Abbott and Costello around the late 1990's and early 2000's. I watched episodes of the comedy duo's 50's TV series, The Abbott and Costello Show, which I think gave me a lot of laughs, and also watched several of their movies. From what I remember, I did find some of those movies funny, but some not so much. I eventually found that I didn't find the duo quite as funny as the Three Stooges (when Curly was part of that trio). I guess I did see at least some of this 1948 release around that time, but couldn't remember much of it, even though it's one of their popular films. After not watching any Abbott and Costello for years, I've finally watched Bud Abbott and Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein in its entirety (not sure if I ever did that before or not, but probably not), and it certainly succeeded in making me laugh, like it's obviously supposed to.Bud Abbott and Lou Costello star as Chick Young and Wilbur Grey, two American railroad baggage clerks who receive two crates from Europe which are to be delivered to McDougal's House of Horrors wax museum. Wilbur gets a phone call from Larry Talbot in London, who tells him to delay the delivery of those crates and wait for him to arrive in the United States, but then Talbot turns into a werewolf, and Wilbur doesn't know why he is now hearing growling on the phone! After a demand from McDougal himself, the baggage clerks soon deliver the crates and it turns out that they both contain real monsters! Inside one is Count Dracula, and inside the other is Frankenstein's Monster! Dracula hypnotizes Wilbur and escapes with the Monster to his island castle! With the crates now empty, the two baggage clerks are arrested and spend a night in jail, but are then bailed out. Chick doesn't believe what Wilbur tells him he saw, and when Talbot arrives, Chick thinks he and Wilbur are both crazy, but one thing leads to another, and the clerks find themselves in a lot of danger! With my memories of watching Abbott and Costello years ago, if I was going to find this film funny, I could expect it to be largely because of Lou Costello's antics, and that was definitely the case here. With his clumsiness, freak-outs, state of mind after romantic conversations, and how he acts when he is frightened, he can sure be funny and sometimes hilarious! Bud Abbott can also be funny with his angry reactions to Costello's behaviour and his insults. The laughs in this film are sometimes big and sometimes small, but there definitely are lots of them. The humour is not the only thing Bud Abbott and Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein has going for it, as it is also nicely photographed and the story gets intense. Also, Lon Chaney Jr., Bela Lugosi, and Glenn Strange all do decent jobs reprising their roles from Universal Horror movies. I don't like this Abbott and Costello film as much as many others do, but still think it's an overall solid effort, and fans of the duo should certainly get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"Scary fun","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The comedy duo score in this film and is very enjoyable. Tiresome script but entertaining never the less. Rather a weak script wherein Dracula is seeking a new brain for Frankenstein monster. The comedy duo is involved as delivery men delivering horror museum pieces. Legosi's Dracula discovers Costello for his brain transplant victim. Abbot is along for the straight man ride in laughs. Karloff would not participate as the Monster due to parody issues cheapening the classic horror characters. The show is campy fun. Lots of scary fun with these characters. Be sure to see the ending scenes involving the next film. It's a teaser segment involving Vincent Price's Invisable Man. Very worth seeing for all the history and fun of a bygone classical movie monster era. "},{"Title":"A Classic in every sense of the word","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is one of the best entries for both cannons.**SPOILERS**Baggage men Chick, (Bud Abbott) and Wilbur, (Lou Costello) are ordered to keep a series of crates from delivery to a House of Horrors, but they take them there anyway and unpack them. While delivering the crates, they find that they contain the bodies of Count Dracula, (Bela Lugosi) and Frankenstein's Monster, (Glenn Strange) and they slip off in the night in front of a terrified Wilbur. Wilbur and Chick eventually run into Larry Talbot, (Lon Chaney Jr.) who reveals that Dracula has plans to revive Frankenstein's Monster. Tracking the two to a castle, they find that Larry was telling the truth about the experiments, and have to escape before they are used in them.The Good News This is a surprisingly good horror comedy. It's one of the better examples of the genre as well, keeping one of the main characteristics that few who have followed it fail to accomplish the threat that comes in the film is treated as a serious threat. The monsters are serious and can really injure the protagonists, and aren't played for laughs or gags against them, which many who follow never really utilize well and therefore fail. The gags that come are therefore funny as the situation is serious and the out-of-place gag has some merit. This one does it really well and is the better for it. When it all comes crashing down at the end provides some nice action that was common-place among the era, as there's some spectacle thrown in that is quite exciting. The different battles going on that all intermingle with each other provide some nice action, including the ending on the dock. The monsters themselves are integrated into the usual situation with the two men, and in keeping with the tradition of integration, the monster storyline is carried along nicely as well. The gags are nice and funny, and the wordplay and slapstick they are famous for are in nice abundance here. It's a very rare film that should satisfy all the different types of fans out there.The Bad News I really can't see anything wrong with this one.The Final Verdict It's a funny, humorous romp that delivers what it promises. This is one of the better films in the cannon of both sides, and should be seen. It's highly recommended to both Universal Monster fans and Abbott and Costello fans.Today's Rating-PG Mild Violence "},{"Title":"This Will Always Be a Funny Film!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Films featuring comedy teams often seem dated and products of their time; even the Marx Brothers early films seem a little Vaudevillian. This film controls the comedy of Abbott and Costello in the framework of a horror film and mixes them both well.Lou Costello's persona of a child like bumbler is well contained here, and perfectly contrasts with the dark and shadowy presence of Count Dracula and The Wolfman. We are blessed to have them played by Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney respectively, as well they should be, in this, the last Universal monster fest. Frankenstein's monster, the creature of pained self-awareness as conceived by Mary and Percy Shelley and portrayed by Boris Karloff in 'Frankenstein' (1931) and 'The Bride of Frankenstein' (1935) by this time has been turned into a lumbering walking statue and is the least interesting of the three 'monsters' present here. The title of the film is misleading, since it really is 'Abbott and Costello Meet Dracula.' Fortunately for us, the Frankenstein monster is not the main attraction, but rather it's Bela Lugosi instead who is given a major role as he seeks to revive it by transplanting Lou's brain into the monster's body. We get a great scene where Bela reprises his hypnotic hand gestures and eyes as he seduces his lab assistant, Dr. Morney (Lenore Ubert). Near the end he utilizes his great hand gestures again to pull Lou up to his laboratory. Oh what we missed by his not being in other major productions during the forties!The well edited film tightly mixes Abbott and Costello's verbal and slapstick comedy with the dark spookiness of their horrific environment and encounters. Both Bud and Lou are totally believable throughout, even in their reactions to the (now to us) preposterous costumed 'monsters.' It's all played straight. This is not just their radio or stage show schtick.The only weaknesses are that the interactions between the three monsters and our heroes are not more prominent in the film (occuring just at the end) and do not go on long enough. The first twenty five minutes basically focus on Costello and his reaction comedy. It's as if the monsters are shortchanged to a just rapid chase sequence at the end of the film. When I first re-watched the film a few years ago, I was shocked by how much the actions of Dracula and Frankenstein's monster made it seem like I was watching Grandpa and Herman in 'The Munsters' (1964) -- nothing scary here. Now I've found out that Charles Barton, the director, was not only Abbott and Costello's best director, but was also the director of 'The Munsters', where he clearly appropriated what he did in this film.Of course, all of this doesn't matter. What we get here is a wonderful time capsule of Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney, Jr. as well as Abbott and Costello's comic personae. This film will always be funny even to those who've never heard of any of these people or their characters.I'll give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Seen him, sir, I don't even know him!!","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had the unique opportunity to discover a new comedy duo that, if released in theaters today, would pack in the audiences and show us that comedy doesn't have to come from the bathroom. Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein was my first introduction to the abilities of one Bud Abbott and his companion Lou Costello &#150; needless to say, I cannot wait to discover more. This film was witty, powerful, intelligent, extremely funny, and dedicated to the genres that it paid homage to. The comic timing of everyone involved was outstandingly on beat, making sure that each joke took that brief moment for us to savor and enjoy. Frankenstein is the epitome of a guilty pleasure, a fine wine that is gulped rather than sipped, without slowing down. From the opening lines to the final moments, I was captured on the edge of my couch &#150; wondering why films of this nature have become extinct. The story is simple, Abbott and Costello working for a freight company that receive a package of one Dracula and one Frankenstein for a local horror museum. With the background in place, one can easily see in which direction the humor is going to arrive, but what makes Frankenstein more than just a movie with jokes are the numerous scenes in which there are no monsters. These are the breaks that powerfully demonstrate the sheer brilliance of this duo. For example, throughout the film, Costello continues to shoot Cupid's arrow at the leading ladies, and to Abbott's surprise, they are welcoming (albeit they may have outside motives). These jokes about his image and charm, while secretly knowing the truth had me laughing from the inside out. This gave both of our characters a human element, instead of just being two comics in peril. There are two other scenes that particularly stood out as key comic moments for this film, demonstrating the multi-decade consistency of the jokes (a.k.a. they may be aged by not moldy). In scene at a party where the search is on for the pair, someone asks a waiter if they have seen a particular person, the witty and honestly jaw-dropping comedy response is &#133; Seen him, I don't even know him. Translated onto the page, it isn't anything except words, but the delivery and boisterous retort had me in stitches. The second is when the Frankenstein monster is pursuing Costello and he pulls the tablecloth off a nearby table to trick Frankenstein. The joke comes when Costello pulls it off, the table furnishings and vase remain in place, and he quickly looks at the camera, smiles, and continues onto his part. To me, this was a classic moment in cinema; Costello takes us away from the film, pulls us into his life while giving us joy and laughter, and takes us back in &#150; without ruining anything. It wasn't overplayed, it wasn't dramatic, it was simple &#150; like all the jokes in this film &#150; but with a backend that will remain in your mind forever. It was moments like these that transformed Frankenstein into a film you just weren't ready for. I was ready for the shenanigans, but when it came as bold and intelligent as these were &#150; it just put another layer of icing on the cake.As the jokes were the obvious standout of this film, my only bit of negativity was the lack of screen time for Abbott. It was obvious that the camera favored Costello in this film, as the entire introduction to the monsters was only used with him. Even towards the center, as our caper is well into play, Costello seemed to be a stronger character. Perhaps we could have seen the full force of the duo by working with them both consistently. Not that I was hoping for an Apple Dumpling Gang repeat, but something that would have demonstrated both of their genius. Again, it was seen &#150; you see it &#150; especially near the end, but more could have been done. The one scene that only wetted our appetite was when the two were together in the hotel and Abbott was trying to explain what he saw. One character was based in fantasy, while the other was the strong disbeliever looking for the truth. Perhaps, this is the first vision of the pathos of Mulder and Scully except in comedy form &#150; think about that!Overall, this was a perfect film for a rainy summer night. The jokes and comic element had me laughing throughout, while the initial discovery of this duo had me on the edge of my seat. I was asked if I wanted to purchase the entire Abbott and Costello set, and it was debated. I have seen one film, but does their niche wear off over time. I am going to have to watch more, but for now, I am content with merely meeting Frankenstein. The memorable scene with the tablecloth remains a comedy moment that was well beyond its time, taking us away from the film &#150; laughing at the person of Lou Costello &#150; and finally bringing us back to the chaos that is ensuing. Watching, and being a fan, of the current re-releases of the Hammer films, this comedy pulled them all together well by bring the real actors back to play their monster counter-parts. It brought a sense of cinematic realism to the screen &#150; meaning that the world that these actors had created individually pulled carried well into this one. More time with Abbott would be my only gripe, but perhaps with more viewings of others features I will see what made this duo a staple in the comic world. I would recommend this film for families, individuals who like to laugh, or a perfect first date movie. It just leaves you feeling good inside, without laughing from the bathroom!Grade **** ½ out of ***** "},{"Title":"Wears well with age","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As everyone knows the title is a misnomer, Abbott & Costello don't meet Frankenstein. Wilbur & Chick meet The Monster.Playing delivery men, they are asked to deliver crates containing The Frankenstein Monster & a coffin containing the remains of Count Dracula to a local House Of Horrors thus setting the scene for the rest of the movie. Prior to delivery Wilbur had been called by Talbot (Lon Chaney) who tries to warn him of the contents but becomes The Wolfman.Wilbur is left alone with the coffin opening slightly several times & Dracula (Bela Lugosi) climbs out & has to hide himself in the shadows when Chick returns to show the coffin is empty.The owner of the House of Horrors (McDougal) has made display cards with the Dracula & Frankenstein Monsters legends on them which are both read aloud by Chick & Wilbur telling us their background.The second crate is opened revealing The Monster(Sadly NOT played by Boris Karloff but in slightly similar enough make-up), McDougal arrives and Chick goes to see him, Dracula hypnotizes Wilbur and revives The Monster (who talks!). Dracula flies off to a nearby castle (what country is this supposed to be set in?) and meets a crony (who turns out to be Wilbur's girlfriend, Sandra) who goes to examine The Monster.After losing their jobs and getting out of jail, Talbot finally catches up with our duo who lock him up in his room. A good plot hole is when returning Talbot's bag Wilbur has no real reason to go wandering around the room he rented, he only needed to put the bag in the room & leave, locking the door again.In the morning Talbot tells them about his Werewolf past, curious to find the crates. The duo are also pursued by a female insurance investigator called Joan trying to find where the missing crates have gone.Meeting up with Joan, Wilbur & Chick go to pick up Sandra from the castle (does anyone else think it's odd there's a Gothic castle in America?). Anyway, their left alone and Talbot phones there to speak to Dr Leyos (actually Dracula) and tells them their in Dracula's house and must search it so Chick decides they will to allay Wilburs fears.On exploring the cellar together Wilbur goes through a revolving wall into a room and ends up with The Monster & Dracula who chase him back through the wall to Chick who doesn't believe him.When he takes Chick through the wall, Dracula & his coffin along with The Monster had gone to the other side. Wilbur goes back again, is chased back through into the room yet again (if this is supposed to be where he calls Chick Abbott then it's not true, he was just gibbering).Taking Chick back out the the cellar and Dracula & The Monster had gone back into the room. Upstairs Joan finds Dr Frankensteins journal on The Secrets Of Life & Death. Sandra sees her reading the journal and finds out who she really is.Dr Leyos finally meets everyone and sends them all off with Professor Stevens (who lives in the castle) to a masquerade ball. Sandra cries off with a headache and goes upstairs to tell Leyos about Joan. Sandra tries to resist his power but is hypnotized and bitten.Finally going to the party Chick & Wilbur meet Talbot in the changing rooms and go to lock him in his room seeing Leyos & Sandra arrive at the party to get Wilbur and take care of Joan. Talbot confronts Leyos about his identity and is told he's delusional. After almost being bitten by Sandra, Wilbur, Chick & Talbot go looking for Joan & Dracula. Wilbur mistakes The Wolfman for Chick in his mask. McDougall gets bitten by The Wolfman (surely he'd have become a Wolfman right away, the moon was full) and blames Chick.Wilbur & Chick are pursued by a mob into the forest where Wilbur meets Dracula who morphs into a bat and forces him onto a boat with a very hypnotized Joan. Chick sees the bat morph back into Dracula and faints. Chick meets Talbot in the forest in the morning and realizes he is The Wolfman. When Wilbur is captured there's a different person playing The Monster (now being called Junior by Wilbur) and the make-up he wears is even more like Boris Karloff's original. Chick & Talbot rescue Wilbur and Stevens, they go to save Joan leaving Wilbur to start the boat and he is recaptured by Dracula (I guess we have to assume once hypnotized he can command people any time). Chick & Talbot then go to rescue Wilbur.Chick knocks out Sandra whilst fending off Dracula with a chair and runs away leaving Talbot to free Wilbur who then becomes The Wolfman who chases Dracula leaving The Monster who breaks free (and kills Sandra by throwing her out of a window). From there the film is a series of chase sequences until The Wolfman grabs Dracula changing into a bat and they both fall from a balcony into the (we assume killing them both), Dracula's death frees Joan from his spell.Stevens has enough sense to set fire to the pier, setting fire to The Monster (who falls through the burning pier) allowing Chick & Wilbur to make their escape apart from the unmentioned cameo by Vincent Price as the voice of The Invisible Man. "},{"Title":"Karloff does NOT play the monster","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie as a young man of 8, and this movie has left indelible, heart warming memories and chills. Though Frankie is hardly as frightening today, this was the first time I saw any of the Frankenstein monsters, and the first time I had an opportunity to see Bud Abbott and Lou Costello do their thing. I can still hear Lou trying to yell to Bud's character Chick Young, Chi...Chi...Chi... like he can't get Chick out because he's scared out of his wits (if he had any). Very funny stuff, and the duo's timing is impeccable.This was NOT the first time I had seen Bela play Drac, but he is as good as ever, the original vamp. People still mimic the pulled cape over the front of his face, even people who may have not seen the movie.This movie plays well all the way to the end and keeps you laughing after you get up from the movie. Who play the monster? Check it out. The irony is this actor was known for his boyish good looks. "},{"Title":"Pop the popcorn, grab the kids and have a frightfully fun evening!","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Slightly better than average old time horror flick, thanks to the comic antics of Abbott and Costello. When two mysterious crates need to be delivered to an upstarting House of Horrors, it's up to our two heros to deliver them. And when the items inside the crates turn out to be the real Count Dracula (Lugosi) and Frankenstein (Strange), the fun begins. Although the younger kiddies may need to sit this one out, my seven year old enjoyed this movie immensely, and even though it's been many a year since I saw it for the first time (on television!), I still got plenty a laugh and a frightfully good time from it. What a nice change from the slasher/gasher horror films of today. "},{"Title":"Abbott & Costello Save Their Movie Career","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No way I'll do that c**p. My little girl could write something better than this. So proclaimed chubby Lou Costello upon reading the script for the movie that turned around the duo's career, which had been deep in the doldrums at the time. Apparently, $50,000 and the promise that Charles Barton would direct eventually changed his mind, and the movie went on to become Universal International's second highest grossing film of the year.Shame.Even as a kid, I never really took to Abbott & Costello &#150; not once I was old enough to perceive the difference between their brand of humour and that of Laurel and Hardy, the double act to whom they are usually compared. There's something distinctly mean-spirited about this couple, as if they're friends only through circumstance, and that neither of them would hesitate to abandon the other the moment something better came along. The violence between Laurel & Hardy was always cartoonish and borne out of frustration; you never doubted that, at heart, they were friends who cared for one another &#150; just look at how often they stuck up for each other when a third party became involved in the fun &#150; but, more often than not, Abbott & Costello's violence is just plain spiteful. Bud Abbott slaps little Lou to keep him in line and for the slightest reason, and the hapless Lou accepts it all like a frightened child who fails to realise that he doesn't have to. A&C and L&H are poles apart and, if it wasn't for the fact that they worked for different studios, you might be forgiven for thinking that A&C lived off the scraps that L&H rejected.This movie &#150; the team's 22nd, and their fourth with Barton &#150; is generally regarded to be their best effort, but it's hard to see why. It was innovative in its day for poking fun at Universal's established movie monsters (whose movie careers, like that of the comedy duo, had declined considerably over the previous five years), something that had never been done before but, apart from a couple of one-liners (You and 20 million other guys, says Lou after wolfman Larry Talbot (Lon Chaney) explains how he turns into a wolf every night when the moon is full), the quality of the gags is nothing special. Too much time is spent on Lou pulling those faces of his, and then trying to convince Bud that he isn't imagining all the spooks that mysteriously disappear when the straight man finally appears on the scene.The storyline has Bud and Lou playing a couple of railway baggage attendants who are instructed to deliver a couple of crates which contain Dracula (Bela Lugosi &#150; who got the role when the producers discovered he wasn't dead after all) and Frankenstein's monster (Glenn Strange). Lou's girlfriend (Lenore Aubert) works at the house, and has plans to transplant his brain into the monster. Also involved is the wolfman (Lon Chaney Jr.) &#150; in a good guy role for a change. There's a lot of padding, even though the movie runs less than 90 minutes, and it's all too evident.On a more positive note, the monsters play it straight, which strengthens the film considerably; the special effects for this movie are actually pretty good for the period, although Dracula's transformation from bat to human is obviously a cartoon; and Jane Randolph, in her last role before retiring to marry a Spaniard named Jaime del Amo and lead the life of a socialite, looks pretty hot. The climactic chase sequence is also well-staged, and goes at least some way towards atoning for the tedious abundance of mugging and slapstick that precedes it.   "},{"Title":"bud,Lou,frank,Wolfie and drac","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i must've seen this movie maybe 60 times,as a kid in jersey they used to run this on TV all the time.Abbott and Costello star as shipping clerks who get tangled up with count Dracula(Bela Lugosi)Frankenstein monster(Glenn strange)the wolfman(Lon Chaney Jr)and a femme fatale(Lenore Aubert)its played for laughs,of course.Boris Karloff was originally approached to play Frankensteins monster but refused because he did'nt want to see Frankensteins monster mocked and played for laughs.this was made in 1948 towards the end of the monster cycle. so they felt these monsters should be played for laughs.vincent price makes an unseen cameo as the invisible man,unseen no pun intended. its a hilarious spoof of the universal monster movies it must be seen to be appreciated.Abbott and Costello also met up with the mummy,Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde and the invisible man in later films.10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A/K/A The Brain Of Frankenstein","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is a Classic!Many people consider it to be Abbott And Costello's best!In 1948,Bud Abbott And Lou Costello were against doing Abbott And Costello Meet Frankenstein.Why?Because they were burlesque comedians who had performed their classic routines for years in front of audiences so they were very uncomfortable with new material that had not been tested.The team knew where every laugh was at in Who's On First?However,in 1942 Abbott And Costello considered doing a live Broadway show that would've had Frankenstein's Monster,Count Dracula and the Wolf Man in it.But at that time,Jack Pierce the Make-up Wizard was consulted because he was creator of the physical appearances of these classic monsters ...consequently,the show was never done and the Great Jack Pierce was forced into retirement when Universal became Universal-International in 1947.The Great Mr.Pierce wouldn't change his ways because the new heads of Universal-International would have nothing to do with the Make-up Wizard's excellent,but time consuming Art.So in 1948, Bud Westmore was the head Make-up man at the new Universal-International studios. Robert Lees,Fredric I. Rinaldo and John Grant wrote the script and Charles Barton continued on a winning streak to direct the team.But as shooting time began Lou Costello still had no faith in the script so in one scene when Bud's Chick Young and Lou's Wilbur Grey deliver the crated bodies of Bela Lugosi's Count Dracula and Glenn Strange's Frankenstein Monster to MacDougal's House Of Horrors John Grant stepped into the Lou Costello role with Bud Abbott continuing to play his role of the straightman.Both Abbott and John Grant(who was six feet tall with gray hair) went through the scene while Lou roared with laughter at John Grant playing the Lou Costello role.Mr.Costello happily did the scene after that demonstration.In fact,Glenn Strange had said,... that it was the most enjoyable film that he'd ever worked on.Film purists have a tendency to run down this great film, but it is this writer's most favorite film of all time.Why?I love Abbott And Costello and I love Frankenstein's Monster.It's perfection from the opening scenes with Lon Chaney Jr. as Lawrence Talbot in London,England desperately trying to get through to La Mirada,Florida ...to the closing scenes of the team having escaped in a rowboat after the Frankenstein Monster has chased them out of the castle,down the side of a hill and onto a dock where they escape by boat. My enthusiasm has never ebbed for this classic film from when I first heard about it over thirty years ago. The American Film Institute think it's a treasure as well because they picked it as one of their 100 greatest film comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!!!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I fell in love with this movie when I was young and still get an incredible urge to watch it quite frequently.'Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein' is a wonderful combination of comedy and nostalgia. It brings the monster's everyone knows together and combines them with a pair of comedic geniuses.I love and never get tired of seeing Lou frightened or put in situations of panic and horror. He has such a naturalness to his behavior, which is plain hysterical.If you haven't seen this movie, what the heck is wrong with you? You're missing one of the greatest comedies out there. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy VS. Classic Horror, Everyone Wins !!!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What may well be the Benchmark Movie for Comedy Horror, A & C meet Frankenstein is a Winner on Every Level. Charles T. Barton delivers this triumph of culture clash with aplomb and uproarious belly laughs . Unbeknownst to Wilber Gray(Lou Costello) and Chic Young(Bud Abbott), The Dracula Coffin(with Dracula) and a crate with the Frankenstein Monster are being shipped thru their terminal to an nearby House of Horors .But the real purpose for The Frankenstein monster is a new Brain), to be administered by Dracula(Bela Lugosi) and Dr. Sandra Mornay(Lenore Aubert)at a nearby island . On the hunt for the Drac and his bud is Larry Talbot(Lon Chaney JR.), who is still having his problems with full moons, when he turns into the Wolfman. As things go, Dracula and Frankie disappear from the House of Horrors, an insurance inspector Joan Raymond(Jane Randolph) is sent to investigate, and she starts with Lou.Sandra has been setting up Lou to be the next brain transplant for Frankie , and they have a date for a costume dance , but first as fate would have it, the main characters meet at the castle of Dr.Lajos/Dracula.Barton directing is exceptional, he pushes Horror just to the breaking point and pulls back and lets you relieve your fears thru the antics of Abbott and Costello . The climax is terrific, with Costello on the operating table being unbuckled by the soon to be Wolfman, and then the unlikely recipient of the Frankenstein Monster . The irony is that Horror Movies made the bucks for Universal in the 30's and A & C made the jing in the 40's. Look carefully at the reactions of the streetwise Bud, a man who made his living by his wits and patter, play this movie for all of it's worth, a fascinating look at real life cultures, Bud, Lou, Lugosi, Aubert, Chaney, as diverse a cast as you will ever see .So for a dark and stormy night, or a beautiful sunny afternoon, a lot of popcorn to consummate the deal, for your enjoyment, Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein . Hot Stuff ! Very Funny After All This Time . One of the Best A & C Ever . "},{"Title":"Top Form","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" IMHO, this is one of Abbott and Costello's two best films. As to whether it, or The Time of Their Lives is the better, I cannot decide. But it is certainly well deserving as the classic title.Many reviews have noted that Chick (Bud) and Wilbur (Lou) are deliverymen caught up in the strange machinations of Dracula (and the countermoves by Larry Talbot, the Wolf Man). What makes it click is that for all parties, every next step is a logical consequence of the previous actions, and derives from previous Universal horror films.Minor spoiler ahead.But once one has seen the film, those paying attention to the plot will understand just why Wilbur is so popular with the ladies. Seeing it again with that knowledge doesn't diminish it one whit. Not one word of dialog was wasted, either.This is among my top ten favorites. It can be viewed any time, but is especially fun around Hallowe'en. "},{"Title":"Best Horror / Comedy of All Time","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein at least a couple hundred times and still I laugh. Despite what others say, I have to say that this film is the greatest horror/comedy film of all time, greater than Young Frankenstein. There is one prime reason for this. With one minor exception, the three monsters in A&CMF play it absolutely straight. But in YF, the monster is a comic character, played for laughs and sympathy. I always felt that this was terribly wrong for the monster's portrayal in light of movie history. Also, to think, this was Costello's least favorite of the team's pictures. His mother had to convince him otherwise after the film's release. Thank God she was right. This is the film that returned the boys to the top and rejuvenated their careers as a team. "},{"Title":"Comedy like it will never be again.","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is an example of the last few remaining years of the great Vaudeville and Burlesque comedians. Never again will there be slap stick comics like this to run amok on the big screen or even little screen because there isn't any vaudeville type shows that create these comic geniuses. This movie happens to be a prime example of the kind of hilarity that can be created and watched over and over again. Bud Abbott and Lou Costello definitely know how to do their stuff and they do it brilliantly in this film that spoofs all of the horror movies of the thirties and early forties. A definite must for any fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"About the best Abbott and Costello film","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I was a kid, I watched every Abbott and Costello film that came on TV--I was a die-hard addict. However, something strange occurred as I grew older. It seemed the older I got the less funny this duo seemed to be. I still enjoy them, but also see that there is a big difference in quality in their films--they're not all winners! Much of it could be that their humor was geared more to kids and much of it could be that so much of their humor seems now to be re-treads of old vaudeville routines. Having seen some of the very same routines done by the 3 Stooges and Olson & Johnson makes me now realize how tired Abbott and Costello films could be.However, despite this, I STILL find myself laughing at Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. Instead of hoary vaudeville routines, there is a delightful mix of jokes, excellent Universal studio horror greats and a creepy atmosphere. The film's plot is pretty weird. It seems that Dracula (Bela Lugosi) has found Frankenstein (Glenn Strange) and the monster is in pretty bad shape. So, to fix his problems once and for all, Drac has used his hypno powers to control a pretty doctor whose job is to operate on the beast--and giving him a simpler and easier to control brain so that Drac can use him for evil. Whose mind is the simplist and easiest to control? Lou's, that's for sure. So much of the film is spent scheming to get a hold of him and operate. However, the Wolf-Man (Lon Chaney, Jr.) has wind of this plan and is there to try to stop them. It may not sound very funny, but it definitely is. Plus, it's the best monster comedy ever with laughs throughout.Give it a try--even if you HATE Abbott and Costello, you're bound to like this one. "},{"Title":"Impossible To Watch","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen five or six A&C movies before this one and they've never really worked for me. I find Costello completely endearing, and he has had some wonderful small moments on screen, but I rarely muster more than a chuckle at A&C antics on the whole. After reading the IMDb reviews, I was so excited to watch this film, smiling with anticipation at a film that is so universally beloved and respected.I sat through 40 minutes of this film before I couldn't take anymore and had to shut it off. If it became a brilliant comic masterpiece after that marker, I missed it. It finally dawned on me during my excruciating 40 minutes of viewing time one of the main reasons why I don't like Abbott and Costello. When Hardy is mean to Laurel, we know that beneath all the bluster that Hardy loves Laurel, so we are able to laugh. Beneath all of the hardcore violence and name-calling shooting between each of the Three Stooges, we all know they love each other, so we are able to laugh. When Dean Martin gets annoyed with Jerry Lewis, we know deep down he loves the guy, so we are able to laugh. My problem with Abbott is that I have never watched a single film where I get the sense there is even one IOTA of love that he feels for Costello. He is mean, nasty, demeaning, and I find it very uncomfortable to watch. It is not funny to me in any way...all his abuse does is make me angry with Abbott and feel sad for Costello being so pathetic, spineless, and clueless.That is the only explanation I can find for not liking their comedy. I was going to blame it on the humor being aimed at a 9-year-old's intelligence level, but then so is most of Laurel & Hardy and the Three Stooges, and I love those comedy teams.The 40 minutes I watched of this movie was predictable, cartoonish, and thoroughly unfunny, BUT, since I am outnumbered so dramatically on this site, one must assume that I am the only one bothered by the movie, so check out the film and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Classic monsters never truly die.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By 1948, Universal's monsters had come to the end of their tether. A mixture of production-line film series, diminishing returns and lack of imagination had done for the classic monsters three years before. A script called 'Brain of Frankenstein' had originally been suggested as a serious entry into The Monster's film series, before being rehashed into this vehicle for Abbott and Costello, a hugely popular comic duo whose star was also beginning to wane.'Abbott and Costello' was a huge hit, but while the two comics found a temporary new lease of life, it was the last gasp for their three classic spooky co-stars.It's charming the way that Lon Chaney's Larry Talbot, being the wolf-man, constantly has knowledge of the activities of the other two titular monsters (Bela Lugosi as Dracula, and Glenn Strange as Frankenstein's Monster), who are currently exhibits in a horror museum (Talbot's role here is the sensible, level-headed custodian over the hair-brained pursuits of the other monsters and their unlikely plans for villainy). Chaney once said that featuring alongside A&C was career suicide, but the fact is, their goofy routines are genuinely brilliant.Perfect comic timing, a fine balance of wise-cracking and humility that rarely dates, and some terrific lines that never, ever laugh at the horror co-stars, but with them. Of course, by this stage, the monsters have become so familiar they rarely truly frighten, but this is a respectful comedy show, and all the better for it. Also, it appears to have a generous budget &#x96; there are model shots, animation effects, spacious sets and some elaborate set-pieces for the time.As for the monsters &#x96; Larry's looking a little more haggard than usual, but remains otherwise unchanged. Glenn Strange gets more screen-time here than in both of his previous Monster excursions put together and acquits himself well with his few lines (I love the fact that the Monster is frightened by Wilbur's (Lou Costello) appearance). Bela Lugosi, whose career had floundered somewhat by this time due to the unprincipled nature of film producers unable to see beyond his seminal vampire performance, finds the perfect balance between the solemnity of Dracula's reputation and interplay (often very physical) with his co-stars. In fact, that accolade can be shared amongst all three, and for the Universal horror 'style' that is faithfully recreated here.There is a real sadness knowing that The Wolfman and Dracula toppling into the sea, and The Frankenstein Monster's fiery pier-side demise, truly spell the end for three horror characters that had been so effective and carefully written for early on in their careers. Their reputations would endure however, often after the actors had passed away, to this day. Lugosi, in particular, is still held in fascination for horror fans, and it was Glenn Strange's Monster (as opposed to Karloff's) that adorned most of the Frankenstein merchandise released subsequently. The classic monsters never truly die. "},{"Title":"Lou's Best Performance in a Monstrously Funny Comedy","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Originally to be titled The Brain of Frankenstein. A high-budget film with an an almost flawless script and some of the best dialog and performance of Lou Costello's entire film career. Here, the monsters play it straight, not for laughs. The Wolfman tries to be the hero, but his curse prevents it. Only the second time that Bela Lugosi played Dracula for Universal Pictures. (He has even played Frankenstein's Monster.) They did such a terrific job with Glen Strange as the monster and he played it very well. He was 6-ft.-six. He often was cast in westerns, and he was Sam the Bartender in the Gunsmoke TV series. Look for the goofs next time you watch it Dracula's reflection. Frankie stumbles a few times. An operating table starts to fall before it is pushed over by the monster. Pretty-good effects animation by Walter Lantz Productions (Famous for Woody Woodpecker) Great sets, crisp photography. A legendary film score. (Too bad they re-used it at least 3 other times.) On the AFI's list of the 100 best comedies of all time. A film never equaled and it never will be. What a cast! When I was a kid, the brain operation scene scared me to death, even on a TV! What a startling, nasty sound the electricity makes! The monster that burns up at the finale has a cast-wax head, from the original mask. I had the opportunity to see this film on a big screen, at a Saturday matinée in the 1950's. I was 5. Of course, Vincent Price is the famous voice of the cigarette smoking Invisible Man. Best quote of the film is by Lou Costello The next time I tell you that I saw it, you believe me that I saw it Next best Wolfman During a full moon, I turn into a wolf... Lou Yeah, you and 20 million other guys. A bit of flicker on the opening titles, but otherwise a great copy in the 2015 re-issue. "}{"Title":"Funny Finale","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the last film that Universal's Frankenstein, Dracula and The Wolf Man appeared in together. It's a wonderful and funny finale to Universal's original monster film series. This film is well worth watching.Bud Abbott & Lou Costello are just as funny as always - throw in Universal's Monsters and you have one of the best, if not then the best, comedy-horror film ever made.This one is a film that the whole family can enjoy - even if they are not into classic horror they can easily enjoy the comedy in the film. This one can easily make a great family Halloween film.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"As fun as haunting an abandoned house!","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bela's back and Abbott and Costello have got him! Not that they want him, because Lugosi is playing Count Dracula for the first time on screen in 17 years! Of course, he had played the blood sucking creature of the undead on stage, but those were mostly second rate theaters where the quality was lacking.Utilizing all the trick that made his movie performance as Dracula so perfect in the first place, we'll go see appears to be much younger than he actually was. In a sense this is also an end to the whole horror series of Dracula, Frankenstein's monster and the wolf man which had seen many sequels over the years never sent their original appearances.Wildhorse Karloff would go on to appear in 2 Abbott and Costello films, he does not repeat his role of the Frankenstein monster. That goes to glens strange, who only speaks one line and is basically a minor character. Other than Abbott and Costello, the main characters are Dracula and Wolfman, as well as a female scientist who uses chubby little Lou to get ahold of the casket containing the monsters bodies.This isn't a light from start to finish, and even the most devoted of classic horror movie fan will temporarily forget that Lupo he was replaced by other actors as Dracula during the 17 year interlude. Only slightly juvenile in spots, this is a film in adult audiences can enjoy over and over again. There is a great gag in the last scene that sums up all that is right with this film. "},{"Title":"What else do you need ?","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a kid, I watched both Abbot and Costello and all of the just released Shock Theatre monster films from Universal in 1962. Then I came across this jewel of a film and was astounded. Rarely does Hollywood get it right, and here they're mixing two genres which don't seem to be made for each other. Charles Barton direction and the screenplay's choice to have the monsters play it straight give the power and tension to this movie. Only A & C take it lightly, as is the vaudeville custom. And here's where the humor lies. A & C were the original bromance. Why can't today's directors understand why two guys against the world should be funny ? "},{"Title":"Nothing brilliant but it is funny and if you like A&C then this will amuse them","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chick and Wilbur work in the luggage department and take receipt of two large cases due for delivery to a local house of horrors. Unbeknownst to them the cases contain Dracula and Frankenstein's monster and that Dracula has a plan to take the brain of a weak-willed individual and put it into the monster. While delivering the crates (on a typically dark and stormy night), Wilbur is sure that he has seen Dracula rise from his coffin but of course nobody believes him &#x96; nobody except Larry Talbot, who has come to hunt down Dracula. Of course, since nothing is simple, Talbot has his own issues as he was once bitten by a werewolf.Like several other people on this site, I think my love of Abbott and Costello can be dated back to when I was younger and they used to be on daytime TV during the school holidays. It has been quite some time since I actually watched them in earnest and recently I have been watching a few of them again. This has been a bit of a revelation as I learn that, while they have not changed, my sense of humour has and it has meant that some of their films are just too basic. With this film though I actually quite enjoyed it. Although it really hurt the monster franchise at the time, this monster movie provides an enjoyable frame for them to do their usual shtick. In this the film is generally engaging as a story (of sorts) but also has plenty of moments that drew chuckles from me. It helps immensely that both Bud and Lou are in good shape and seem up for the film &#x96; an impression that I didn't always get from some of their later films.The support cast are very good as well and it helps that this is not a spoof so much as it is using the characters in an affectionate comedy. Chaney Jr, Lugosi and Strange all play their parts straight and it works better than I expected it to - they are not just stooges to have laughs played off them and this adds to the film. Of course it is still Abbott and Costello and if you hate them then you'll hate this but, as a casual fan, I found this an amusing affair with plenty of chuckles and a good structure. "},{"Title":"Bud and Lou's best monster outing!","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello made several movies with monsters from Universal's gallery of horror films, and this stands on top as the best. It is not their funniest film in my opinion. Some of the jokes are even recycled from previous movies. I remember that the moving candle gag was in Hold That Ghost. What makes this movie one of Bud and Lou's best outings is that the monsters were really taken seriously by the writers and the actors. Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr., and Glenn Strange all give it their best here. This was actually Bela Lugosi's second and last time he played Dracula on screen, contrary to popular belief. The sheer absurdity of the monsters terrifying Costello, and Abbott's belief that Costello is just crazy, makes for an hour and forty minutes worth of great entertainment! The movie starts with the premise that Dracula is the new master of the Frankenstein monster. For reasons not explained, the monster is growing weaker and weaker, and Dracula intends to revive it by putting Costello's brain in its body, making it the perfect slave. Abbott and Costello have to deliver Dracula and the monster (they assume they're wax dummies) to the McDougal House of Horrors. From there, hilarity ensues from Costello's encounters with the monsters, which conveniently take place without Abbott. Lenore Aubert, who plays Dracula's partner Sandra, seduces Costello in front of a jealous Abbott, attempting to get him to come to Dracula's castle. Lawrence Talbot (the Wolfman) plays the role of the vampire hunter and helps Abbott rescue Costello before Dracula can perform the operation. None of Bud and Lou's future monster outings reached this level of quality. The writing was just not as clever, and the monsters were not as iconic. It is hard to beat Dracula, the Wolfman, and Frankenstein! The only other monster movie I would recommend is Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man. Funnily enough, Lou Costello thought the script was just too stupid at first. I believe it took his mother (or maybe his wife) to convince him that it was really good. Trivia fact That's Vincent Price as the Invisible Man at the end of the movie. I only wish he could have returned in Bud and Lou's Invisible Man movie! "},{"Title":"One of the best of the comedic duo.","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one's easily the best of the comic duo. First off, we have some pretty familiar characters reprising their most famous roles. Bela Lugosi dons his black cape for the last time (Dracula), Lon Chaney, Jr is still the cursed, hairy one (Lawrence Talbot, The Wolf Man) and Glenn Strange walks stiff legged again as old flat head himself (Frankenstein's Monster).Abbott & Costello have some fine comedy bits as baggage handlers who bite off more than they can chew when they inadvertently become delivery boys for Dracula and the Frankenstein's Monster (for a wax museum). Of course, the joke's on them when they turn out to be real instead of Mme. Tussauds wannabes. Dracula, and a female doctor accomplice, are in want of Costello's brain for a transplant into his Frankenstein Monster's head (thus giving him a much more controllable monster). Things go wrong for our conspirators when Talbot shows up knowing all of their secrets (and harboring his own furry one to boot).Lugosi gives one of his best (and last great) performances and the comedic duo are funnier than anything prior. The finale with Dracula and The Wolf Man battling one another (and Abbott and Costello thrown in with Frankie) is simply the most fun classic horror lovers could ever have.If you have kids (or simply love great comedy and classic horror), don't miss this wonderful time with some of the most memorable horror icons of film history.Charlie. "},{"Title":"Wait a minute.  What's the title?!","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought that the title was Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein. Now I see Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein. Is there not even that very important conjunction (I mean and) in the title? Oh well. That's not important. This is a cool movie, with Bud and Lou as freight handlers who get mixed up in Dracula's (Bela Lugosi) scheme to give Frankenstein's monster (Glenn Strange) a new brain, while the Wolf Man (Lon Chaney Jr.) tries to stop him. I just always find it neat when we get to see all the famous monsters together; aside from this combo, there was also The Munsters and The Monster Squad.So, it's nice, silly entertainment. A little known piece of trivia is that after the original Dracula movie, this was the only movie in which Bela Lugosi played the count (unless you count his photo appearing in Dracula's Daughter, which doesn't make sense since vampires can't get photographed). Really fun.So yes the next time that he says he saw what he saw what he saw, you believe him. "},{"Title":"Bud and Lou have fun with the horror stars","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Meet Frankenstein was the first and best of this series of movies with Abbott and Costello (A&C).In this one, Bud and Lou are luggage handlers Chick and Wilbur and take delivery of two crates containing Dracula and Frankenstein's Monster. Dracula comes alive and revives the monster and chaos ensures after they escape. Then Larry Talbot arrives from London to try and defeat Dracula, who wants the brain out of Wilbur to put into the Monster. Talbot and the other handler, Chick team up to try and rescue Wilbur but the situation is made worse when the full moon is out, turning Talbot into the Wolfman. After everything is solved, Wilbor and Chick think they are safe, but are joined by the Invisible Man...This movie is both funny and creepy, with the horror stars playing it straight. This was also the last movie to feature the Universal monsters all in the same picture.The rest of the cast consists of Bela Lugosi as Dracula, Lon Chaney Jnr as Talbot/Wolfman and Glenn Strange taking over from Boris Karloff as the Monster. The voice of the Invisible Man is non other than the great Vincent Price.This is a must for both horror and A&C buffs. Great fun.Rating 4 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great horror comedy!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chick Young (Abbott) and Wilbur Grey (Costello) are a couple of freight handlers who unwittingly find themselves caught up in a plot by Dracula (Bela Lugosi) to restore Frankenstein's monster (Glenn Strange) back to full health. After a package containing Dracula and Frankenstein's monster is sent from Europe to McDougal's (Frank Ferguson) House of Horrors, Wilbur and Chick are requested to deliver the package to its destination. Wilbur realises that Dracula and the Monster are alive but Chick refuses to believe him, even when Lawrence Talbot (Lon Chaney Jr.) arrives at their door claiming to be the wolfman. This is certainly one of the more entertaining horror comedies I have witnessed and what this movie lacked in actual horror it more than made up for in humour. The all round class of this movie shines through and gives the movie a definite timeless quality. Abbott and Costello are uproarious as the hapless Chick and Wilbur with so much excellent visual and verbal comedy between the two. Some gags were obvious and some repetitive but the majority showed their unique comic genius. Lou Costello's one line jokes are always spot on and even the poorer jokes can still generate a smile.Even though the movie has mainly comic overtones it still remains quite an intriguing and proficient horror film though if only in seemingly short bursts. Lugosi, Strange and Chaney Jr. are in excellent form as their respective characters, all of whom provide a commanding on-screen presence and the delightfully dark and menacing musical score during their appearances compliments their performances wonderfully. Although maintaining the comedy throughout the picture the last fifteen minutes present some wonderfully crafted horror and director Charles Barton's finest accomplishment with this film in my opinion. Delivering a perfect ratio of laughs and chills &#145;Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein' is a must-see movie in my opinion for all horror movie fans. There really aren't enough ways to describe how good this movie is and even with a select few problems is worth checking out if you get the opportunity. My rating for &#145;Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein' &#150; 7.75/10. "},{"Title":"The gang is all here. Laughs. Thrills. Chills.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the very best Abbott & Costello flicks. Plenty of slapstick mixed with humorous horror. The comedy duo play bungling baggage handlers that end up close and personal with Dracula(Bela Lugosi), the Wolfman(Lon Chaney Jr.)and Frankentstein's Monster(Glenn Strange). A nice looking Dr. Monay(Lenore Aubert) tries to seduce Costello into donating his brain to put in the Monster. In support Frank Ferguson and Jane Randolph. Harmless fun. Take time for a chuckle or two. The finale features Vincent Price as the voice of the Invisible Man.NOTE Folklore has it that this movie was showing(1948)in Tupelo, MS when Elvis Presley was fourteen years old and is believed to be the first motion picture he ever saw. The story goes that Gladys Presley did not want her son going to the movies and Elvis' dad, Vernon, helped him sneak to the theater and watched it with him. "}{"Title":"Juvenile, but worth it for the cast","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the first Abbott and Costello film I've watched, having never been much enthused about their style of comedy after seeing various clips of their films on television. I'm more of a Laurel and Hardy fan myself. But, in the spirit of completeness &#x96; and a love of classic horror &#x96; I saw down to watch ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN with mixed expectations. On the one hand, the film features two classic horror film actors and a host of horror trappings; on the other, Costello's constant mugging is a real toil to sit through on occasion.I'm pleased to report that this particular movie is probably the pair's best-known and most entertaining, with a lively pacing, a quick series of gags &#x96; some of which are even funny &#x96; and some fun antics. The story is muddled and revolves around a reincarnated Dracula attempting to revive the Frankenstein Monster; he's opposed by the Wolfman and Abbott and Costello, who bumble their way through much of the proceedings.The comedy is definitely the most dated aspect of the movie, and to a modern audience much of the humour seems laboured or obvious. It's on more of a kiddie level than something like Laurel and Hardy and not to my personal taste, although others may enjoy it. What is fun is to see Bela Lugosi in his second and last appearance as Dracula; although noticeably older, and with an overload of white makeup, it's still great to see Lugosi strutting his stuff and hearing that famous voice.Speaking of famous voices, Vincent Price is also present in a last-reel gag as the voice of the Invisible Man; he's uncredited on the cast list, but his silky tones will be instantly recognisable to any fan. The other actor of note is Lon Chaney Jr., looking a little haggard &#x96; although nothing like he looked in the '50s and '60s &#x96; but giving it his all as the depressed, world-weary Wolfman who just wants his life to be rid of hassles. Glenn Strange reprises his role as the Frankenstein Monster from HOUSE OF Dracula but the classic Jack Pierce makeup is here replaced by a cheap rubber mask that looks abysmal! The film is packed with slapstick humour, with many scenes being overdone as the same joke is replayed time and time again. However, thinks pick up well for the climax. All good fun and, as a whole, a film that has enough zest to make it impossible to dislike. "},{"Title":"A great way to close the Universal horror series","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's interesting that Lou Costello initially was reluctant to do this movie, since it became probably the most popular and successful instalment in the Abbott & Costello catalogue. It was so popular, in fact, that many of the Abbott & Costello movies to follow were along similar lines -- they would go on to meet The Mummy, The Invisible Man and Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde. You can sort of see where he was coming from ... horror/comedy isn't exactly a highly respected genre, although there have been several classics in it since (Young Frankenstein, An American Werewolf in London, etc).The story starts when a couple of crates arrive in the US, to an office manned by Chick Young (Bud Abbott) and Wilbur Grey (Lou Costello). The two of them are asked to the two crates to the their destination, a house of horrors. What they don't realise is that one crate contains Dracula's coffin and the other, the Frankenstein monster. Dracula awakens and escapes with the monster, leaving the two freight handlers to deal with the insurance company over the missing goods. But it turns out they have bigger worries -- Dracula has chosen Wilbur's brain to transplant into the Frankenstein monster in order to revive him ...Since the Universal horror franchise had stopped taking itself seriously several years previously, it made sense that the final movie should just go the whole hog and be a comedy. As a comic team Abbott and Costello were never of the same stature of, say, Laurel and Hardy or The Marx Brothers, but they do have their moments -- and a lot of them are in this movie. Abbott of course plays the straight man to Costello's blundering comedian, and it works very well with this script. They are backed up by arguably the strongest cast out of any of the Universal horror movies, with Bela Lugosi, Glenn Strange and Lon Chaney Jr in their finest roles. All of the monsters are played perfectly straight, with the comedy coming from Abbott and Costello themselves.Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is silly and zany and very, very funny. Whether or not it can be classed as part of the Universal horror series, it is as entertaining as any of them and absolutely essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Timeless A&C Classic","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A&C put together their finest film with the help of Universal Studios monsters. The movie is funny from beginning to end and is so widely regarded as A&C's best film that it will be seen and enjoyed for generations to come. Bud and Lou give their usual best mixing in the laughs while the plot unfolds. The monsters are more charming than scary in this film even though they play their parts mostly straight. I don't think it would really scare anyone over 10 years old, so it is a great one to watch as a family.Bela Lugosi is fantastic, as is Lon Chaney Jr. They hold the monster story line together and make it work as a continuation of the universal monster film series, with a comedic twist. Jane Randolph and Lenore Aubert show their versatility playing some comedy with A&C and drama in their relationships with each other and in keeping the honesty of the monster saga. Frank Fergusan does well as comedic antagonist to Costello and you will see some familiar faces from their TV show and other films playing bit parts. Charles Bradstreet has a small but pivotal role in the film adding a romance angle. Bud Abbott plays one of his better roles here too, being convinced There are no such things as monsters.This is what helps make the film such a timeless classic. That, and Glenn Strange as The Monster. One scene stands out at being really silly, when you think about it, is when Dracula and Frankenstein leave the House of Horrors. How could these two ever get around without being noticed? They just somehow make their way to the castle with Frankenstein dragging around that coffin. If you like this one you will also like the other Abbott and Costello meet movies, but this one is the best. "},{"Title":"I saw what I saw when I saw it!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is probably my favorite film by Bud and Lou, teamed up as they are with Universal Studios' all time horror trio - Frankenstein, Dracula and the Wolf Man. Part of the fun for me was seeing Bela Lugosi reprise his original 1931 role as Count Dracula, and Lon Chaney portraying his 1941 Wolf Man character. Maintaining continuity, Chaney's alter ego is Larry Talbot, the anguished soul cursed by the bite of a werewolf and doomed to become one whenever the moon comes out. Glenn Strange, a veteran of dozens of B Westerns primarily as a henchman, is cast as the Frankenstein Monster and does credibly well. In the scene when Lou's Chick Young character first encounters Dracula and the Monster, Strange does a great double take feigning horror at the sight of Chick. For some strange reason not explained in the film, Chick repeatedly refers to the Monster as junior. Rounding out the cast are Lenore Aubert as Dr. Sandra Mornay, assistant to the Count, Jane Randolph as insurance investigator Joan Raymond, and Charles Bradstreet as scientist Dr. Stevens, who helps the boys out when he realizes what the Count's plans really are. Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is pure silliness and fun, and is recommended for fans of the comedy duo. It's probably the best of the films created around other horror characters where the boys meet up with The Mummy, The Invisible Man, and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, all of which followed this 1948 title. "},{"Title":"A sad send off for some great characters","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Review contains minor spoilers)Don't get me wrong. I love Abbott and Costello and I love this film, but at the same time I can't help thinking how far once mighty characters like Dracula and Frankenstein's Monster had fallen. Back in 1931 they dominated the screen and scared the hell of out of people. By 1948, they were straight men to two of Hollywood's most popular film comics.Meet Frankenstein marked the triple swan song of Universal's big 3 monsters Dracula, Frankenstein's creature, and the Wolf Man. The producers scored a coup by casting the original and definitive Dracula, Bela Lugosi, in what was, incredibly only his second and final screen appearance as his most famous character. As The Wolf Man, Lon Chaney Jr. is wonderfully consistent as the tormented Lawrence Talbot, though perhaps in deference to the comedy trappings, his desire to die takes a back seat and he actually takes on the air of the hero, even as his monsterous alter ego. (The fact he was cured in the previous monster film, House of Dracula, is conveniently ignored; maybe he had a relapse). Glenn Strange meets Boris Karloff's record by making his third appearance as the Monster. Sadly, once again he never really gets a chance to do much with the role. The pattern of his previous two appearances continues he spends most of the film comatose, only to come to life in the last few minutes. He does, however, get a few lines of dialogue - the first time the creature has spoken since Ghost of Frankenstein.The supporting cast are basically just there. A pair of duelling femme fatales make nice eye candy, but otherwise don't make a big impact. Nor does the film's resident good guy scientist.Abbott and Costello are fun, as usual. Abbott gets a bit tiresome with his skepticism, but Costello is in top form. Some have said that A&C's decline began after this film, so it could be said this is in some respects their swan song, too. The same goes for Lugosi, who had already been written off for dead by movie producers by the time this film was made; only obscure b-movies and rock-bottom Ed Wood features lay ahead of him. Likewise Chaney's career never really prospered away from the Wolf Man.For fans of the monsters, this is a delight because it pokes fun at most of the conventions and the cliches the Universal series created. It's also worthwhile for film buffs who want to see Lugosi's second performance as the Count. But it's a shame that the beloved trio of monsters never got a chance for a serious, scary send off. "},{"Title":"One of the Team's Best!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   In Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein, there is actually no character named Frankenstein, only the Monster. What we have instead is a lady mad doctor named Dr. Sandra Mornay (Lenore Aubert). Abbott & Costello are working in a baggage room when Costello answers a phone call from London from an excited Lawrence Talbot (Lon Chaney). He warns Costello not to deliver two mysterious large boxes because there is evil afoot. This sequence is made funnier when Talbot transforms into the Wolf Man and Costello thinks he is talking to Talbot's dog. The boxes new owner, McDougal (Frank Ferguson) insists on the delivery of the boxes to his House of Horrors. The boxes contain the Frankenstein Monster (Glenn Strange) and the evil Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi). Of course Abbott leaves the room and Costello begins to see Dracula's coffin begin to open. He excitedly calls Abbott back into the room several times to tell him what he has seen. Of course, only Costello sees anything. After the Monster is uncrated, Dracula revives him and leads him to a mysterious island castle where he has arranged for Dr. Mornay to operate on the Monster and restore him to his full strength. In order for Dracula to be able to fully control the monster they plan to transplant the brain of a simpleton (guess who?) into the Monster. For this purpose Dr. Mornay has been playing up to Costello. Then Talbot arrives and enlists the boys help in finding Dracula and the Monster before it is too late with hilarious results. What makes this film work is the fact that Chaney, Lugosi and Strange all play their parts straight. The best parts are when Costello stumbles into their midst, either by chance or through secret doors, which of course Abbott never sees. The animation used in Dracula's transformation into a bat is well done but obvious. Others in the cast are Jane Randolph as an Insurance investigator and Charles Bradstreet as Dr. Stevens Mornay's assistant who throws in with the boys. And yes, that's Vincent Price's voice you hear in the final scene. This was Universal's farewell to their classic monsters that had been the studio's bread and butter throughout the 30s and 40s. Lesser monsters,the Invisible Man and the Mummy would bow out in later Abbott & Costello films. Oddly enough this film marked the first time that Bela Lugosi (in his best part in years), had played Dracula since the original film released in 1931. Strange had played the monster twice before and Chaney had played the Wolf Man in four previous films. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Has some laugh out loud moments, but mostly pretty dated","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Spoilers)What was hysterically funny in 1948 might not transfer over to 2004, and that's the inherent problem watching Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein, as we watch Lou Costello make crazy faces, talk gibberish, and scream out for Chick Young (Bud Abbott) ad nauseum.  The movie is basically a set-up for Costello's reactions to the classic movie monsters that are closing in on him, as we view scene after scene of The Wolfman & Dracula sneaking right up behind him, only for something to go wrong at the last moment before they rip Lou's still-beating heart from his chest.  That being said, there are a few funny lines in this movie (Chick I don't get it Sandra And you never will), and an hysterical last chase scene with Frankenstein hot on the trail of our heroes (the bed barricade and the That oughta hold em line is a classic).  It's also good to see Lon Chaney & Bela Lugosi reprising their most famous roles, but I just wasn't laughing enough to recommend this. "},{"Title":"FRANKIE WAS THE BEST","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  a&c meets frankenstein was probably one of the best,if not the greatest movie the boys made. it is a must to own on video. i usually don't care for comedy films but this is the exception to the rule. if you don't own this extremely fine film then you must go out and obtain a copy...i promise you won't be disappointed. the only improvement that could be made to this film would be colorization. "},{"Title":"Still Funny After All These Years","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are a lot of horror fans who put this movie down because they see it as the last straw.  By the late 1940s, Universal had put their classic monster franchises through just about every gimmick &#150; starting with this movie, the monsters would be played for laughs.  This, as far as many fans are concerned, was the latest in a long string of indignities.But, I ask, have you ever really watched `Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein?'First of all, it's laugh-til-you-cry funny.  This is Abbott & Costello at their height, back when you had actual comedians doing comedy, not just any actor who decide to try something different.  Bud and Lou are not just funny, they're having fun, and it makes the end product even more fun to watch.But the real secret to the movie is that they don't try to make the monsters funny.  The holy trinity of Universal horror (the Frankenstein Monster, Dracula and the Wolf Man) are allowed to just be their normal menacing selves.  Bela Lugosi returns to the role of Dracula, and reaffirms his title as the greatest vampire of all.  Lon Chaney does his patented agonized schtick, but fortunately he has Abbott & Costello to play off of this time.  And Glenn Strange does his usual workmanlike job as the Monster &#150; he never earns your sympathy the same way Karloff did, but he still entertains.`Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein' works as an affectionate send-off for the classic monsters.  It's one of the funniest horror comedies ever made only `Young Frankenstein' or `Love at First Bite' come close, I think. "},{"Title":"Good to see them back in their prime","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Abbott & Costello's career had taken a downturn in the late '40s. While they were at one time the top comedy team in films, both had personal problems (Lou's infant son drowned in his backyard pool, Bud had continuing problems with epilepsy) and had also had a very public falling out; they had gotten to the point where their characters in their films seldom appeared together (The Time of Their Lives, Little Giant, for example), and they didn't speak to each other offstage. By 1947, however, they realized that they had to put their differences behind them or their careers were over. Universal producer Robert Arthur got the brilliant idea to combine the talents of the team with the beloved monsters (which studio already owned, so it didn't have to pay for the rights to use them). That combination, along with a good script and a director (Charles Barton) that A&C had previously worked for and respected, resulted in not only the team's best film, but one of the few horror spoofs that actually works in both genres.In their first group of films in the early '40s, Bud & Lou's chemistry was undeniable; their timing was flawless, and they played off each other like a well-oiled machine, which is exactly what they were. This movie recaptures that time perfectly. Bud and Lou work together as well as they ever did, and the rest of the cast matches them. It's good to see Bela Lugosi looking relaxed; this was the first good movie he had made after years of making dreck for PRC and Monogram, and he was enjoying it. Lon Chaney Jr. did a good job as The Wolfman, Lasrry Talbott. Universal put a bit more money into this film than A&C's previous ones, and it turned out to be the team's biggest-grossing film ever. They never made a film this good again, and they broke up several years later.  "}{"Title":"funniest film ever","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" when i first saw this movie i thought it was like lair liar funny now after seeing it again i think it's there's something about mary funny the gags are hilarious especially costello's gags i'am glad that they got both bela loguisi and lon chaney jr were in this instead of some cheap ripoffs the acting and music was good too bad abbot and costello are dead cause if they ever made a remake of this (which they probably won't)i would of like to see them make a cameo or something but my 3 favorite scenes are the battle with the monsters the museum scene and the ending i like that the invisible man made a cameo at the end (probably to showcase the other abbot and costello movie) but this movie is a instant classic if you'd like a time killer and laughs then rent this movie somewhere a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Such a Classic.","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the very first films that I saw when I was very young. It came one to TV in the early 1990's and back in those days I was scared. As I grew up I continued to watch this film repeatedly and I must admit that this is an absolute classic. It is one of the funniest films I saw that starred one of the greatest comedy duos ever, Bud Abbott and Lou Costello. This 1948 classic is awesome and very funny. Abbott and Costello are hilarious and are also supported by two screen legends, Lon Chaney Jnr and the greatest Dracula ever, Bela Lugosi. If people or families want to find a great comedy they should take themselves back over half a century to the world of decent comedies that are suitable for everyone to watch. An absolute must see classic. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror comedies ever","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dracula (Bela Lugosi) wants to transfer the brain of Wilbur (Lou Costello) into Frankenstein (Glenn Strange) but Lawrence Talbot, the Wolf Man (Lon Chaney), is out to stop him.This isn't as bad as the title suggests. By the time this was made in 1948 the Universal monster movies were dying...and so were Abbott & Costello's movies. So Universal decided to combine them and give them a big send-off. This is (obviously) a big-budget production with great special effects (Lugosi turning into a bat) and settings (LOVE the castle on the island). They also got Chaney and Lugosi to recreate their most famous roles--only Boris Karloff refused to play Frankenstein. The best thing about this movie is they DON'T make fun of the monsters--they're all played straight and treated with respect. Abbott & Costello are there to provide the comedy and they do just great. The script was full of hilarious routines and one-liners that they pull off. Also there's a GREAT music score and it's very well-directed too.Acting is good all around. Abbott & Costello by that point had been together many years and worked well together. Lugosi is obviously enjoying playing Dracula again--and he's just great. Chaney's performance is routine but he pulls off some lines that might have sounded silly otherwise. Also beautiful Jane Randolph is good in a supporting role. And listen for Vincent Price's voice at the end! A great horror/comedy WELL worth seeing. I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"I've had this brain for thirty years. It hasn't done me any good!","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello get mixed up with a mad doctor, Count Dracula, Frankenstein's monster, and the Wolf Man. It seems that Dracula, with the assistance of the doctor, wants to cure the monster by finding him a new brain. Larry Talbot, the Wolf Man's alter ego, intends to put a stop to these monstrous experiments. And just where does Dracula think he'll find a new brain? That's where Abbott and Costello come in.There was a time when I thought this was the best film that Abbott and Costello ever made. Back in the 70s, I can remember this movie playing in the afternoons and I couldn't wait to get home from school to watch it. As I've seen more and more of their films, I realize that while it may no longer be my favorite, it's still a very good example of their work. If you're so inclined, you can read positive, glowing reviews for Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein all over the internet. I doubt I could add very much to what's already been written, so I'm not really going to try. I'll just mention a couple of my favorite scenes - the boys' argument with the museum owner and Costello strapped to the gurney. Both are comedy gold and never fail to bring a smile to my face.But as I said, the movie is not longer my favorite Abbott and Costello film. The reason I no longer think as highly of Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein as I once did is my problem with the way Dracula is presented. Frankenstein's monster is still the hulking nightmare of Universal's earlier films. Larry Talbot is still the same brooding woe is me character he always was. But Dracula is presented more as a parody of himself than a figure to be frightened of. He comes across more like the actor, Bela Lugosi, than the undead bloodsucker he really is. Many of Dracula's lines and scenes are just plain ridiculous given the character's history.Even with my growing distaste for the handling of Dracula, Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is still a film that I enjoy revisiting whenever I get the opportunity. "},{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This a very good comedy. It is different from must comedy movies. For one thing is funny. People do not just laugh at it because they are told they supposed to laugh. How many comedy are sequels to a very scary horror movie. Yes it is a comedy but it is also a sequel to House of Dracula. This is also a movie scarier then The Shinning. It funny but it is also scary. Dracula and The Frankenstein monster are back. And the wolf man must stop them. He tries to find help. From two very stupid delivery men. House of Dracula is better. House of Frankenstein is also better. But still the movie is a must see. Frankenstein meets the Wolf Man is also better. "},{"Title":"A&C's First Monster Mash.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this very much when I was a kid. I still enjoyed it twenty years later. Now much of it just seems silly, but it's still the best of the Meet Monsters movies. How can you go wrong with the original Dracula (Lugosi), the original Wolfman (Chaney, Jr.) and two lovely maidens, the sinister Lenore Aubert and the still sexy and mellifluous Jane Randolph. Boris Karloff was elsewhere, so the monster is played -- or played up -- by Glenn Strange, usually a bartender in cheap Westerns. True, the careers of most of the principals was on a downward trajectory, but so what? None seems to have lost his or her charm.The careers of Abbott and Costello were revived by this film but it was a dead cat bounce. Each sequel, each meeting with another of the Universal Studio monsters, was less innovative and enjoyable than this one. Besides, the two characters were pitched at a level that few people over the age of fifteen could get a kick out of. Who wants to watch tall, snarling, Bud Abbott kicking around short, plump, Lou Costello? Slapping him across the face and excoriating him at every opportunity. Certainly not us short, plump men! Most memorable scene, for adults, is the climax. It's a lot of slapstick but at moments comes to resemble late Marx Brothers. The funniest incident in the movie may be when Costello, in the middle of a frenzied brawl, yanks a tablecloth out from under a dinner service that remains in place. He stops for a second, stunned, glances at the camera with a big smile, and gestures at the table before dashing away. Charlie Chaplain used the gag effectively too, but we expected it from him. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best Horror Comedies.","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bud Abbott and Lou Costello at their peak team up with Bela Lugosi as Count Dracula, Lon Chaney as The Wolf Man, and Glenn Strange as Frankenstein's monster, in this hilarious and affectionate homage to Universal's golden age of Horror films. The film works brilliantly. The narrative, the production design, the atmospheric music, the mood, and of course the performances. Lugosi, Strange, and Chaney wisely play it straight, whilst Abbott and Costello do their act to perfection.There's some surprisingly nice Horror sequences such as Frankenstein throwing a woman to her death through a window, and the monster later been burned to death. That sense of threat just makes the comedy work even better.From the animated opening credits sequence right through until the finale,this is still one of the greatest Horror Comedies. The so-called Horror parodies of today should take note. Nothing made nowadays will match this Hoorror spoof. It provides laughs while respecting it's material. "},{"Title":"A Monstrous Comedy With A Superb Premise","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein ranks as one of the best Abbott and Costello film comedies. This unlikely synthesis of humor and horror succeeds because director Charles Barton and scenarists Robert Lees, Frederic I. Rinaldo, and John Grant integrate these two incompatible genres with finesse. The premise is Dracula wants a tractable brain transplanted in the monster's cranium so he can exert control on the hulk. Actually, this scheme is something Dr. Frankenstein should have insisted upon when he assembled the monster initially from disparate body parts. Of course, Dracula's seductive accomplice believes Lou's brain qualifies as the best candidate. This is the reason this film works because the filmmakers integrate the genres with ideal results. Furthermore, they don't stoop to farce. Aside from one instance when the monster shrinks in fear from the sight of Lou Costello, the monsters aren't played as buffoons. Some critics have questioned whether this hilarious comedy should be included in the vintage Universal horror canon. Indeed, Dr. Franz Edelmann cured the Wolfman in the House of Dracula while he killed Dracula. This was not the first time that Universal Studios played fast and loose with these horror icons. Dracula perished earlier in House of Frankenstein. Since the Count and the monster are both supernatural characters, you can make the argument neither is susceptible to the restrictions of ordinary mortals. Whether you agree or not is largely academic. Universal had two properties and they must have figured that a mash-up would reflect well on both. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein's on First, Dracula's on Second, Wolf Man's on Third","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This classically blended horror-comedy split is the first of several films where the eponymous duo meets classic characters from Universal's horror film stable, mostly to promote the studio's various monster franchises. Here, they encounter Dracula, Frankenstein's monster and the Wolf Man. The film is considered the swan song for the Big Three Universal horror monsters, although it doesn't appear to fit within the loose continuity of the earlier films. It doesn't have to. It's not remembered for its connection to its studio's promo crusade for its other movies, but for its very clever twist on the buddy duo gag movie. Each silver-screen comedy pair had their flavor. You like predominantly visual slapstick, watch Laurel & Hardy. Fast-talking, witty repartee, that's generally what you want to see Abbott & Costello for. But what they did in their movies, though on a cinematic level they're mediocre at best, was banked on the unexpected juxtapositions and non-sequitary nature of being side-by-side with what made audiences scream and grip their seats rather than laugh.This is arguably the ace of Abbott and Costello's madcap flicks, Lugosi and Chaney playing their monsters seriously, which makes the duo's counterpoints and reactions priceless. Abbott seems to be so secure in his real-world rationality that he doesn't even hear Dracula open his coffin four feet away from him, while Costello is so fearful that to see exactly what he is irrationally afraid of occur in reality is hilarious. It's the incomparable reaction we have to the dual nature of a scene of danger---with a classic character we're very familiar with you scares us---and broad, basal physical comedy as a reaction, with another classic character we're very familiar with in a refreshingly light-hearted sense.The comic tone is derivative, fittingly, from Groucho's handle of a straight man who isn't party to the joke. Not only Glenn Strange's Frankenstein Monster, but also Bela Lugosi's Count Dracula and Lon Chaney, Jr.'s Wolf Man play a joint Margaret Dumont to the frowns and scowls of Bud and Lou. Regardless, the script is practically out to lunch, plotting an obligatory amount of time in which one must endure the compulsory formula strains. like most other Abbott & Costello films, save perhaps The Wistful Widow of Wagon Gap or The Time of Their Lives, it does little for its stars other than winding them up and watching them go. And that's its design, and it plays just fine. It's the players from different worlds on screen together, doing exactly what they normally do despite their incongruity that makes it a special jaunt to revisit once in awhile. "},{"Title":"a whole lot of classic horror (and mostly classic comedy) fun","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbott and Costello make for one of those quintessential comedy duos, simply put. It's hard to mistake a more definitive (and probably, for some, the greatest) example of the two sides- straight guy and full-comic guy- in the skinny realist Abbott and the chubby, warmhearted but easily frightened Costello. It's clear that the latter is always much funnier than the former, but combined they're the kind of duo that will always garner a chuckle, if not outright belly laughs at every other moment (just the repeated use of CHICK! is a riot). This time the two get into a plot involving the Wolfman (Lon Cheney), Dracula (Bela Lugosi) and the Frankenstein Monster (albeit there is no Frankenstein in the flesh so the title is a slight lie), and how Dracula wants to get Costello's brain and move it on over to the Monster.There's other things that happen along the way, like Costello suddenly becoming a ladies man (and why not after all?), and a costume party that brings about a hilarious gag involving a guy in a knight costume not seeing a repeat punch-out. But mostly it's a wonderful showcase for Costello's excellent double (sometimes triple) takes, and his spot-on timing between his partner and his horror-movie counterparts (watch out for Lugosi's eyes, they'll suck you in!) It ultimately doesn't lead to much that's deep, which is just the way it should be. If it's not a huge laugh every minute it's no biggie; the ones that stick make up for really BIG gags, sometimes as simple as a look or glance or as complex as a chase through the jungle or the old hidden-wall trick in Dracula's chamber. It's a lot of fun, and should be considered a must-see for old-school comedy fans. "}{"Title":"They did the Mash! They did the MONSTER Mash!","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My first, and considering my preferences in cinema, most anticipated acquaintance with the fine gentlemen Bud Abbott and Lou Costello certainly didn't disappoint. Quite the contrary, A & C Meet Frankenstein is a terrific horror-comedy, and we all know how rarely one ever comes across of those! Comedy (the kind that is actually funny) and horror (the kind that genuinely scares) are two completely opposite styles and incredibly hard to amalgamate, but Abbott & Costello &#150; and of course the rest of the cast and crew &#150; seemingly pull it off without the slightest form of effort. The gags & clichéd comical situations never once negatively affect the overall horrific themes and settings and, vice versa as well, the horror atmosphere is never an obstacle for the humor. In fact, if I hadn't watched a gazillion of horror movies already, this would be the ideal film to carefully introduce me to the genre. The script features all the main horror icons and &#150; stunningly enough &#150; they're not caricatures of themselves, the story is engaging and the tone is light-headed. This film is actually a whole lot better than Universal's other attempts to assemble the monsters in one film, like House of Dracula, House of Frankenstein and Frankenstein meets the Wolf Man. Clumsy & easily scared Wilber (Costello) and cynical Chick (Abbott) work as baggage couriers and become unwillingly involved in a mad monster party when they lose track of two relics meant for Mr. McDougal's Museum of the Macabre. Actually, they didn't just lose the relics of Dracula and Frankenstein's monster &#133; they got up and walked away! Wilbur was the only one to witness this macabre sight and naturally Chick doesn't believe him. The only person who supports Wilbur is Larry Talbot, but he has some issues of his own since he transforms into a bloodthirsty werewolf each night the moon is full. Meanwhile, Dracula teams up with the ravishing female scientist Dr. Mornay in a search for a brand & docile set of brains to put into the Frankenstein's monster's skull. And which brains are more suitable for this operation than those of poor old Wilbur? The on screen chemistry between Abbott and Costello is excellent, although that is merely just stating the obvious, but especially their interactions with acclaimed horror icons like Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney Jr. are hugely admirable. Bela, Lon and also Glenn Strange as the monster obviously enjoyed being part of this comical film, still they never once mock their own characters and keep their faces straight even during the most absurd situations. Lugosi is at his most evil self again as Dracula (a role he hadn't played since the original 1931 classic) and Chaney once again masterfully depicts his alter ego of the tormented Larry Talbot. The smaller supportive roles are also terrific and for the true horror die-hards there's small but ultimately pleasing surprise at the very end of the film, in the form of a voice everyone will recognize instantly. Great, great, great, GREAT film! "},{"Title":"Comedy meets horror.","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A true goth classic. Abbott and Costello meet the original Dracula - Bela Lugosi and the original Wolfman - Lon Chaney Jnr. Glen Strange plays Frankenstein's monster faithfully and Vincent Price makes a brief addition to the film as the voice of the Invisible Man. The film has one other gimmick and that is a female mad doctor. A very nice touch.There are some wonderful albeit short animation sequences particularly as Dracula changes between a bat and himself. The comic playoff between Abbott and Costello is comedic genius. Abbott although short, fat and stupid has two women after him while Costello relies on his rejects.If you're not sure if it's comedy or horror call it goth. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Last in the Universal Monster Saga is definatly the funniest ever! Considering it has comedy legends Bud Abbot,and Lou Costello in it. Dracula's Coffin,and The Frankenstein Monster's corpse,are being delievered to a House of Horrors in Florida. Larry Talbot AKA The Wolf Man rushes to save the day. But Dracula has a plan to transplant Lou's brain into the Monster's skull. Which leads to great comedy skits. A very funny film,and a great way to send off the monsters,even though you cant help but feel sad that it ended.4/4 "},{"Title":"Frankenstein VII Mad Monster Party","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" BUD ABBOTT & LOU COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN (Universal-International, 1948), directed by Charles T. Barton, is, if not the best comedy Abbott and Costello ever appeared, then their most memorable. In spite of its title, Abbott and Costello don't play themselves, but in fact, Chick Young and Wilbur Gray. They encounter meeting the Frankenstein monster, but not the Frankenstein scientist nor any of his relatives bearing that surname. Other than the Monster, they also make the acquaintance with The Wolf Man and Count Dracula (and briefly The Invisible Man). The results are horror-sterical.In the last motion picture outing, House of Dracula (1945), which was to have officially ended the Universal horror cycle, Lawrence Talbot (Lon Chaney) receives brain surgery and is cured from his werewolf curse. Count Dracula (John Carradine) is destroyed and the Monster (Glenn Strange) perishes in a fire (again). Resurrected from the dead once more with no explanation as to what brought these creatures back to life, along with Talbot, the story starts in London where Lawrence Talbot makes a long distance telephone call, which, it is learned, to be a matter of life and death. Next scene shifts to LaMirada, Florida, where Chick Young (Bud Abbott) and Wilbur Gray (Lou Costello), two railroad baggage clerks, receiving two large crates addressed to McDougal's House of Horrors, a wax museum. Wilbur gets the telephone call from Lawrence Talbot warning him about not to open the crates. Before he can explain his reason, Talbot turns into a werewolf, making Wilbur to believe Talbot has left his dog growling into the receiver. Moments later, Mr. McDougal (Frank Ferguson) arrives, informing Sandra Mornay (Lenore Aubert), Wilbur's lady love, that the crates contain the remains of the Frankenstein Monster and the Original Count Dracula. Because Wilbur has been mishandling the crates, McDougal demands the clerks them delivered to his museum so they can be inspected by an insurance agent. After their delivery, Wilbur is the one who becomes the sole witness in seeing Count Dracula (Bela Lugosi) come to life and placing him under his hypnotic spell before Dracula takes the weakened Monster (Glenn Strange) away with him. Finding the crates empty, McDougal has Chick and Wilbur arrested. In the meantime, Count Dracula, using the alias of Doctor Lejos, along with the Monster, seek refuge in the castle on an isolated island of Sandra's technical assistant, Doctor Stevens (Charles Bradstreet), who has not only mastered Doctor Frankenstein's diary of Secrets of Life and Death, but has chosen Wilbur as the subject to have his brain transplanted into the Monster's head. After Joan Raymond (Jane Randolph), an insurance investigator, posts bail for Chick and Wilbur, they join forces to uncover the missing exhibits. Lawrence Talbot, having arrives from London, also takes part, in between transformations, in having both Dracula and the Monster destroyed (again).One wonders how many script revisions were proposed before coming up with the final results of what has become a true comedy classic. Without the presence of the comedy team of Abbott and Costello, then this new edition of Frankenstein would have been just another horror film. In fact, even with them, this is a straightforward horror tale with the comedy being left only to the comics of Bud and Lou. Those familiar with Abbott and Costello would acknowledge the fact that they were known for repeating their comedy material, and this is no exception. Regardless of some very funny verbal routines between Bud and Lou, and a candle routine first performed in HOLD THAT GHOST (1941), it doesn't take away from the context of the story.While Lon Chaney Jr. and Glenn Strange reprise their Wolf Man and Monster roles from recent past films, this edition, which might have resurrected John Carradine, Universal's most recent Count Dracula, instead, brought back its originator, Bela Lugosi (who enacted the part in both 1927 stage and 1931 screen adaptations) Lugosi's performance ranks one of his finest during his declining years. He even has the pleasure of attending a masquerade party dressed up as, you guessed it, Count Dracula. Let's not overlook Frank Skinner's eerie underscoring that deserves recognition. In spite of its popularity, past, present and future, whether it be from horror fans, Abbott and Costello fans or fans of both, this initial horror spoof does have some faults, goofs if you will, namely Dracula's reflection through the mirror, which initially did not occur in the original 1931 Dracula; and the Frankenstein monster's fear of fire that has him walking into it instead of running away. Glenn Strange's portrayal as the monster is more imbecile than usual, unlike Boris Karloff's interpretation in the initial three entries. Take note that Costello not only calls the Monster Frankie on some occasions, but also labels him as Junior.ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN has been selected one of the American Film Insititute's top one-hundred greatest comedies of all time. Not only is it available through MCA Home Video, but has become the first in a series of A&C horror spoofs to be distributed on DVD. It also had become a perennial favorite on commercial television before making its rounds on numerous cable channels over the years, including the Comedy Channel (late 1980s) the Sci-Fi Channel (early 1990s), American Movie Classics (1997 onward) and finally Turner Classic Movies (premiere July 23, 2004). Any movie that places Abbott and Costello with the Frankenstein Monster, Dracula and the Wolf Man (and a surprise cameo by Vincent Price), is worth any price of admission. (***) "},{"Title":"a lifetime favorite","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Curiously enough, if I remember correctly, I first saw A & C Meet F on black and white television on Christmas morning when I was about ten or eleven years old.  Until I saw it again in later years, the thing I remembered most about it was the excellent, old-fashioned animation that opens the film, introducing the monsters and naming the actors playing them--first the Wolf Man, then Dracula, then The Monster--then Lenore Aubert (what a dish!)  I have read others say that A & C Meet F is a disgrace to the Universal classics it spoofs.  Not so!  It is both funny (A & C at their best), and creepy (the sliding candle, for instance).  However, one of the funniest lines belongs to Lou/Wilbur.  He is confined in stocks, awaiting the surgery that will transfer his suitably pliable brain into the head of The Monster.  He says to Frankie that the brain switch is a bad deal--I've had this brain for thirty years and it hasn't worked yet!  I taped this film off AMC (before AMC went into the toilet), and I play it every Christmas morning.  Don't miss this film, on Christmas morning, Halloween, or any other time! "},{"Title":"I like it better as I get older","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a kid, I loved this movie because I like stupid humor and Universal horror.  Now I like it because I can appreciate the timing.  The movie is laser sharp as the humor of Abbott and Costello is slightly sedated by the ominous and thick mood of the presentation.  Instead of slapstick, Abbott and Costello flow with the plot and the plot never deviates with their standard routines.  It is a high water mark for their chemisty as a team. The monsters somehow play it straight and it works almost shockingly well. All three are involved throughout the movie like they never were in House of Dracula and House of Frankenstein.  Chaney probably gives his best performance in the Universal series in this movie.  It's as if he senses that the jig is up for his deadly serious Universal legacy and he gives a delightfully passionate and desperate performance.  Lugosi is older and worn, compared with his passionate magnificence in Dracula.  However, he was born to play this part and he's still good and very commanding.  Strange, apparently one the most genuinely nice people in Hollywood history, has his biggest turn as the monster and gets to be more physical for longer periods then in the past.  Lenore Aubert is great in her role as she comes off as distant and elusive, making her mysterious.  McDougal gives the movie a great shot in the arm for his scenes.  Abbott and Costello are very aggressive in this movie, recalling their glory days in movies like Buck Privates, which is interesting because it is documented that they didn't want to do the movie.  There are several firsts in the movie relating to the Universal monsters.  Dracula commands the monster for the first time in the series and Dracula and the Wolfman fight each other for the first time. Universal horror movies had my favorite sets of any movies I have seen and this movie is no exception.  The gothic horror movies are mythic in black and white.  The end sequence is also a blast.  The DVD for this movie has a fascinating narration on one version by a film historian that tells the behind the scenes story of the movie as it is playing.  Info such as Abbott's epileptic seizures on the set and Chaney's battles with alcoholism are provided.  And any discussion of a movie that provides a story of Gary Cooper, Ray Milland and others going to a brothel is too good to pass up. If you like Universal horror or Abbott and Costello or both, it is a must to hear.       "},{"Title":"`Next time I tell you that I saw something that I think I saw, you'll believe me that I saw it!'","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So shrieks Costello to Abbott in this movie, Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948). But the fun doesn't end there! How would you like to see Abbot and Costello meet the Wolf Man, Frankenstein and Dracula, all in one movie? Sound too good to be true? Well here you are in Abbott and Costello's arguably best picture and without a doubt their best Monster Comedy.Freight handlers Wilbur Grey and Chick Young are afraid and confused when they ship the remains of Frankenstein's monster and Dracula arrive from Europe to be used in a house of horrors. Dracula reawakens and escapes with the weakened monster, who he plans to re-energize with a new brain. Larry Talbot (the Wolfman) arrives from London in an attempt to thwart Dracula. Dracula's reluctant aide is the beautiful Dr. Sandra Mornay. Her reluctance is dispatched by Dracula's bite. Dracula and Sandra abduct Wilbur for his brain and recharge the monster in preparation for the operation. Chick and Talbot attempt to find and free Wilbur, but when the full moon rises all hell breaks loose with the Wolfman, Dracula, and Frankenstein all running rampant. What a funny movie this is! The timing is perfect, the story is great and best of all, it is one of the funniest movies of all time! A MUST SEE! So good, you'll want to see it again&#133; Over and over!MPAA Rating NAMy Rating 5 and upMy * rating 8.9/10  "},{"Title":"a True Horror/Comedy Classic","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Movie is a True Horror/Comedy Classics  With The Abbott & Costello Comedy Duo and the Classic Horror Legend Makes A Great Movie.  I also injoy the Behind The Movie on how the Movie was Made. I Recommend This Movie to anyone that like the Abbott & Costello Team or a Big Fan of the Classic Horror Legend. "},{"Title":"The Official End of an Era","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many people point to this as the official end of Universal's run of great horror films.  Even though this was an Abbott and Costello feature, this was the last time that Universal would produce a film featuring the monsters that helped them to become very profitable during the 30's and 40's.  After they killed off Dracula, Frankenstein's monster and the Wolf Man, the studio moved on to the giant monster on the loose genre.   "},{"Title":"THE Comedy/Horror Classic! For all Time & For (almost) All Ages!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A few years back, I saw this movie with a small audience. And something special happened. Most everyone was laughing out loud and laughing alot. I mean...Alot! (and in the right places). This was an age group that ranged between 18 and 55. And there were a few gasps too (also in the right places).  Which proves that this movie, after all these years, still stands the test of time. ESPECIALLY with an audience! Even though I had seen this movie dozens of times since I was a kid, I found myself laughing out loud along with everyone else; Like I was seeing this for the first time as an adult. That's the magic of fine-tuned comedy and the magic of Abbott & Costello. Something absolutely magical happens when this movie plays to an audience.This is a great introduction (for most kids) to 'Universal Studios' classic monsters of the 1930's thru 40's. And this is a great send off (and send up) for 'Universals' 3 most popular Monsters. Considering this is Movie # 8 in the 'Frankenstein' saga; Movie # 5 in the 'Wolf Man' story; and (probably) Movie # 4 for 'Dracula' (if you ignore 1936's 'Dracula's Daughter' and 1943's 'Son of Dracula'), A & C Meet F... surpasses many of the previous entrys and comes to a satisfying conclusion. That conclusion comes with many laughs, a few chills and a nostalgic respect for the 'Monsters' in their final original screen appearance, doing what they do best.Besides the 'Monsters' sincere portrayal that fits in with the continued (or re-hashed) storyline of the 'saga' what makes this movie feel so 'balanced' is this ALL the 'Monsters' are still around during the final reel (unlike 'House of Frankenstein' and 'House of Dracula') and all of Abbott and Costello's antics are in perfect sync with the story (right up to the end).Bela Lugosi's portrayal of 'Dracula' is actually more assured and less 'stage-like, than his previous 1931 movie interpretation. His evil plans are the thrust that propel the events to follow.No one but Lon Chaney Jr. could be 'Lawrence Talbot'. This is his signature role. And the unsung hero!Glenn Strange as the 'Frankentein Monster' links #6 and #7 to the final # 8 entry. And he gets to talk too!And 'Abbott & Costello'!!! Their impeccable timing!! They never lost it!One liners!!!! can't repeat them...they're funnier when Lou says it after Bud sets it up (or whoever sets it up!!)Atmospheric; Gothic; Funny!!A 9 out of 10!The Story 'FRANKENSTEIN'(1931); 'BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN' (1935); 'SON OF FRANKENSTEIN' (1939); 'GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN' (1942); 'THE WOLF MAN'(1941); 'FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLF MAN' (1943); 'HOUSE OF FRANKENSTEIN' (1944); 'HOUSE OF DRACULA' (1945); 'BUD ABBOTT & LOU COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN' (1948).Honorable Mention 'DRACULA' (1931); 'THE INVISABLE MAN REURNS' (1940).A Monster Fun-Fest! Much more fun after you've seen the other movies that preceded it. "}{"Title":"Abbott and Costello and the Monsters... Perfect Combination","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lou Costello did not want to make this picture, which deals with Count Dracula (a fitting swan song to the original and ultimate Count, Bela Lugosi) trying to put Lou's simple brain into the Frankenstein Monster (Glenn Strange, no Boris Karloff, but not bad) and Lon Chaney, Jr.'s (brilliant) Wolf Man trying to warn Bud and Lou against him. And I don't care what kind of temper he had in real life, if he were standing beside me right now, I would tell him he was WRONG, WRONG, WRONG!The story goes like this In 1943, Bud and Lou had finished shooting It Ain't Hay on the same day as Universal's Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man and considered doing a Broadway show with the monsters. Unfortunately, they could not spare the time, and a few years later, producer Robert Arthur pitched an idea teaming up Bud and Lou with the Monsters. When Lou read the script, he said, I won't do this crap. My daughter could write something better than that. In truth, he was afraid of being upstaged by the creatures when if he'd been able to do the Broadway show, they could have done what they wanted with them. But finally, they offered him and Bud $50,000 each to do it and a classic was born.Boris Karloff was offered the chance to appear in this picture but he turned it down fearing that the Monster would get parodied and he didn't want that. Fortunately, while this was the tack the original script would take (and I would have screamed blasphemy right alongside him if it did), the finished product has the creatures playing it straight, which is exactly what makes it work. The last hurrah for the Monsters and the best film (in terms of quality) that A&C made, whether they agreed or not. "},{"Title":"THE WHITE RABBITS REVIEW OF ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein- ***1/2Finally, Abbott and Costello must have got some sense knocked into them. Most of the time, their routines are all the same, however occasionally they do think of something original. There are many great comic moments in the movie, and I guess having Frankenstein and Dracula in it, add to that. Watch and think about their routines. Look at it from a writer's point of view. These are the moments we cherish when we think of Abbott and Costello. This is when they are at their best. The whole opening scene is hilarious, and probably is one of their best moments ever. Abbott and Costello are funny at times, even though we all get annoyed by them also. We all, I think, want Costello to listen and believe Abbott, but at the same time, that's part of their characters. This is by far, the best work of Abbott and Costello. -Micah Knapp "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is without doubt their best movie.It has so many funny Scenes and a few chills as well. The duo were at the top of their game and what a fantastic group of supporting players. I hope Universal release this on DVD in England. A real Classic. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Interesting and fun mix","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Abbott and Costello as comedians are an acquired taste but one that was always easier for me to swallow then other comedians like Martin and Lewis. I was a huge A and C fan in my youth and A and C meet Frankenstein is one of my favorites.  I think that the strength of the movie lies with the duo's ability to mix their humor in a plot that's horror laden.  In many A and C vehicles, they stand out (and are meant to) while the plot dwindles from little to nothing.  Not so in this case as a lot of things happen while the centerpiece is Dracula's wish to put Lou's brain in the Frankenstein monster to make him stupidly pliable.  Bud Abbott is especially on his game.  I agree with Jerry Seinfeld that Abbott is the greatest straight man who ever lived and he does a great job of once again holding up Costello so that he can be cut to ribbons.  The jokes are hard and fast and don't distract from the plot which is a goofy mix of horror and stupidity.  The sets are also dynamite and give the movie a thick, gothic, misty feel.  Abbott and Costello work so well in this framework that it's a shame that many of their other movies are almost plot free vehicles for their routines.  This is a great flick for those who know what fun flicks are about although once again Abbott and Costello's brand of quips will be lost on some.7.5/10   "},{"Title":"Horror/Comedy gem","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The pleasure of seeing 2 comics at the top of their game, pitted against the cream of the Universal monster cop is a true delight. The DVD also comes with a documentary, film historian audio track, the trailer and more.What's interesting here is the rare intersection of a film that goes knee-deep in 2 genres. In addition to showcasing the A & C comedy team at the peak of their prowess, this film also says a very respectful goodbye to the old-style monsters of the 40s.After Dracula, this is Bela Lugosi's only other appearance in the role.A must see.  "},{"Title":"Missing Only Boris Karloff as Frankenstein creation","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Along with Young Frankenstein(1974), Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein(1948) is a hilarious parody on the horror film.  The first and the best of the Universal monster themed Abbott and Costello series.  I loved seeing this film because of the genuine comedy that inhibits the story.  Features the usual Universal monsters including the monster, Dracula, The Wolf Man, and a cameo appearence by the invinsible man.Not an overly ridiculous piece of junk like Scary Movie(2000) which did not have one sincerce funny bone in its whole body.  Also, the comedy in that film seemed forced and uninspired.  Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein(1948) benefits from having actual funny actors who excells in the comedic sequences.  Bud Abbott plays the straight man to perfection.One of the few Bela Lugosi films where he doesn't ham it up like he did in most films in his movie career.  Lou Costello is the silly counterpart to Budd Abbott which is why they are one of the best comedy duos of the 20th Century.  Representative of the waning period of Universal Horror who would come up with one more great in Creature from the Black Lagoon(1954) before fading out.  Humorous situation involves Wilbur who is pursed by two women who unbeknownst to him want to use him for their own purposes.Lon Chaney Jr gives the film's best performance as Lawrence Talbot who wonderfully alternates between the humorous and the serious.  The only negative which I found with this film(small one) is that Boris Karloff did not participate as the Monster.  Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein(1948) has some terrific atmosphere and eerie sequences to supplement the comedy.  A classic horror comedy which never fails to lose its touch after fifty three years. "},{"Title":"Best Abbott & Costello film of all time","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In Los Angeles, during the early 1960's, channel 2 used to run at 330pm something called The Early Show.  This was where we first saw this film and to top it off on Halloween Day.  Right after the film we all went Trick or Treating and after only a few minutes my sister saw a Frankenstein walking up the street and ran home.  This was the lasting effect of this film that featured famous creatures and comedy.  Bud & Lou are joined by the Wolfman Lon Chaney Jr. in battling the evil plan of reviving the Frankenstein monster.  Bela Lugosi reprised Dracula and wants the compliant brain of Lou transplanted into the head of Frankenstein.  The whole plot was perfectly executed with the drama and comedy that makes this a classic film.  Just ask my sister, who to this day is still embarrassed that she actually believed that these monsters were real because of this Abbott & Costello Classic.  "},{"Title":"good mix of horror and comedy for the family","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this as a little kid and enjoyed it because it managed to show most of the classic horror monsters and had the comedy of Abbott and Costello. The duo are baggage clerks and the crates contain strange things. Dracula shows up and wants to revive the Frankenstein monster. Soon the comedic duo are faced with Dracula, Frankenstein and the Wolf Man. Good clean fun for the family. *** "},{"Title":"Frankenstein, Dracula, the Wolfman, Oh my!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was a favorite of my childhood. My gosh, all the universal monsters in one picture, it couldn't get better than this. Throw in Bud and Lou and you have the classic monster laff riot of all time. The mixing of the scares and humor work in this film like no other. This is by far the best of the Abbott and Costello feature films. Grab some popcorn, a soda, sit back and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Most Memorable Of The Boys","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      You can't really call this the best of Abbott and Costello considering that this movie was more of a way to wind down the flicks of Dracula, the Wolfman and Frankenstein's Monster. From their original movies, each of them crossed paths as Universal always picked up from where they last were in a succession of clash films. In this the last movie of the Universal monster series, Dracula wants to remove the psychotic brain of Igor from the monster (three roles that Bela Lugosi has played himself) and insert the childlike pliable brain of Wilbur Grey so that it will be more controllable. Throughout these movies, the whole brain-switching business had become ridiculous and it is even more ridiculous as the boys run into the things on every turn. Although cured of his curse in the last movie, Talbot (Lon Chaney Jr.) returns with his lycanthropy still in control of him. Costello has several quips about him as Talbot explains how he turns into a wolf. About you and fifty million other guys. Costello adds. Abbott still has the wierd tendency to be conveniently missing when something wierd occurs to his little buddy who has somehow become a chick magnet. Jane Randolph and Lenore Aubert are two incredible looking beauties I wouldn't mind fighting over me, although Aubert traditionally becomes even more erotic when she becomes a vampire (with one bite no less). Charles Bradstreet is the dashing other man evident in so many of the A & C films, and character actor Frank Fergerson is the angry boss out to get them. The plot is fast and furious, the comedy is traditional, but the plot is predictable as Universal finally destroys almost all of its top monsters. You have to pay attention, but immortal Vincent Price even sneaks under the door for some of the fun and one very memorable line. Don't miss it ! "}{"Title":"Abbott and Costello meet laughter and chills","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With this film, Abbott and Costello recaptured some momentum they lost in the immediate post-war years and took back their spot as top box-office draws.  The film also brings back the classic Universal horror characters.This comedy treasure may not have been the first time horror and comedy were brought together, but it is certainly the first time it had been done almost flawlessly.  Costello's reactions are hilarious, and the mixture of lighting with Universal's creatures produces an eerie effect.Credit must be given to a fine cast, especially since this is the last time Bela Lugosi played Dracula.  (Even though he dons a cape in Plan 9, he's playing a different character.)  Frank Ferguson is especially good as McDougal; you dislike him so much in the film that you almost wish the Wolf Man had done away with him!  The only area that doesn't wrap up well is the plotline where Bud is suspected of biting McDougal; there is no resolution to this in the film.  I guess Joan and Dr. Stevens could have vouched for him, or McDougal could have understood what happened after seeing the monster.  But this is not shown on film, and so one has the feeling that Bud and Lou have to take it on the lam.This is a minor annoyance, however; the film is so well put together, and the performances so good, that it doesn't matter.  I feel Who Done It is A&C's best film, but this one surely is a close second.  Deserves all the praise it has received over the years.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh and shiver.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Comedy and horror are two very subjective genres.  What might be funny to you may not even make someone else smile.  What might frighten you may even amuse another.  To do either genre well is a difficult task, to combine them and make them both work is a stroke of genius.  ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN is one of the few great horror comedies that handle this combination well.For the most part, most people didn't think much of Bud Abbott's and Lou Costello's films.  The duo got their start on radio and most of their humor comes from the dialogue (such as their classic Who's On First? routine) rather than the visual.  ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN is thought of as their best film and it's hard not to disagree.  In this film, A and C are a pair of railroad station porters who have to deliver a pair of crates to a spooky wax museum.  The crates contain Count Dracula's coffin and a wax replica of the Frankenstein Monster.  However, while he's reading the legend of Dracula, Wilbur (Costello) discovers that the coffin isn't empty . . . Dracula (Bela Lugosi, playing the Count for only the second time since the 1931 film . . . unless you count a short that he appeared in with a live-action Betty Boop lookalike) rises to prove that he's undead and well.  This scene has the right amount of humorous tension as Wilbur reads the legend and the coffin keeps opening, sending Wilbur over the edge with fear.  When he discovers that the other crate contains the actual Frankenstein Monster (Glenn Strange), he is apoplectic with terror trying to explain it to his friend Chic (Abbott).Dracula discovers that the Monster is weak and in need of a new brain.  He enlists the aid of Wilbur's girlfriend, Dr. Sandra Mornay (Lenore Aubert), a corrupt surgeon, both to seduce Wilbur and do the operation (you see, the brain can't be TOO big or powerful).  Meanwhile, hot on Dracula's trail is Larry Talbot (Lon Chaney, Jr.), a.k.a. the Wolfman.  He tries to protect Wilbur and Chic, but, wouldn't you know it, that pesky full moon keeps getting in the way causing Larry to transform and nearly kill them instead of help.  Also on the trail is Joan Raymond (Jane Randolph), an insurance agent who is investigating the empty crates from the museum.  Also on hand is Dr. Mornay's assistant, played by Charles Broadstreet as your typical dashing leading man of action.The movie has some great fun as Dracula and the Monster chase Wilbur and Chic, Wolfman chases Dracula and Dracula changes into a bat (with some STILL impressive animation).  There's even a cameo by the Invisible Man (voiced by the very distinctive tones of Vincent Price).  ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN  works well because A and C do their thing well and the Universal Studio Monsters (in their official cinematic swan song) do theirs with equal aplomb.  So, the next time when I tell you I say I saw what I saw when I saw it, YOU believe me when I say I saw it (you'll have to see the movie to understand that last line).   "},{"Title":"Their best film","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be my favorite of the Abbott and Costello movies. Their is a great blend of comedy and horror in this movie. This movie has all the classic movie monsters and the actors all give great performances. The sets and effects were also great. Hilarious lines from start to finish. This is one of those timeless films that can be loved by all generations.Thumbs way up! "},{"Title":"Perfect Comedy","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a perfect comedy. Abbott & Costello are at the peak of their powers and are able to spoof the monster stars without humiliating them. Bela Lugosi is the true star of the film and plays it straight against the comedy for wonderful effect. This is the only time he played Dracula other than the 1931 film and here he actually gets to talk and interact with actors who have some life in them. The sets and effects are great-- even by today's standards. Lugosi really shines in his final major motion picture.  "},{"Title":"the best they've made","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  simply put, A and C have never made a better film. As it stands fifty two years on, it remains one of the best Horror spoofs because the monsters play it dead straight throughout, giving the stars ample room to mug and ham within the confines of this admittedly creaky and predictable plot. That said though, this film should delight anyone and stands ALONE as the one real film they made that can make anybody laugh out loud. A riot from start to finish. See it and don't watch another! "},{"Title":" If i could have ranked it higher than a #10, i would've!","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hands down the BEST A&C film, and in many ways, one of Universal's best presentations of their classic monsters! Bela Lugosi is just fantastic in this, and due to the excessive make-up used to help cover up his 66 years, he indeed appears other-worldly!! This is hands down my favorite film of all time. "},{"Title":"Amazing combination of two genres, Comedy & Horror.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bud & Lou made numerous funny movies.  This was one of their unique ones where they crossed over into another genre, and still maintained the excellent quality of both.  While they made many genre-crossing films, only The Times Of Their Lives & this movie are of consistently high quality. I awarded this hilarious effort a 10!   "},{"Title":"The greatest film of Abbot and Costello","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a little masterpiece of fun and horror.Hilarious from the beginning until the end.Abbott and Costello are good,of coarse,but the real star it's Bela Lugosi in his famous character of Dracula.The scene when costello found bela for the first time it's a classic! "},{"Title":"Scares and Laughs that actually work!","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this as a child on Chiller Theater, it scared me and it helped cement my love of old Universal horror movies.  It is a classic in every way.  The actors that created Dracula and the Wolf Man in America cinema get to play their characters with a bit of parody, but keep them mostly true to form. If you enjoy the genre, consider reading Jeff Rovin's book, Return of the Wolf Man.  His story starts during the last part of this movie.  One note of caution, the author does away with the comedy of this movie, but he is true to all the monsters, including the Frankenstein Monster, Dracula, and even the Invisible Man!   "},{"Title":"You're not wrong...","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Frankenstein also mixed some black comedy in.  However, A&C Meet Frankenstein (and Dracula, and the Werewolf, and the Mad Scientist) is a comedy that definitely survives the test of time.  It stands as an actual sequel to the previous Frankenstein and Dracula movies, helped by the appearance of both Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney Jr.  It's an entertaining movie to watch, and much more of a childrens' movie than a lot of the tripe turned out these days.  Suitable for 5-10 year olds, as it mellows out the scary parts with lots of A&C comedy. "}{"Title":"the best","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  without a doubt the best a&c movie and the funniest supported also by chaney and lugosi what more can you ask for?? "},{"Title":"A & C at their best","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Perhaps the best attempt to combine horror and comedy, A & C are at their peak batt- ling the likes of Dracula, The Werewolf and the Frankenstein monster. Once again our boys are toiling at a menial job (a baggage claim in the Florida Keys) when two rather large boxes arrive from London, the contents of which prove to be anything but normal cargo.Lou is convinced he's seeing monsters (egged on by Lon Chaney Jr., dead-on once again playing perhaps his signature role) Bud of course thinks they're crazy. Bela Lugosi is simply wonderful mostly because the story allows him to tweak his legendary character while never losing any chill.The ending is classic, if only for its unique and deftly constructed blend of scares and laughs. A must see. "},{"Title":"Fun and Horror -- First time for the mix?","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't think I am alone in my opinion, but this movie has got to be considered a classic.  It is one of the first movies I ever saw that mixed real comedy with real horror.  I mean, these monsters (Dracula, The Wolf Man, Frankenstein's Monster) were REALLY killing people.  It is acutally a horror movie, with Abbot and Costello thrown in for laughs.  I recommend this movie wholeheartedly to anyone who likes the classic Universal Studios Monsters. "},{"Title":"Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein (well, his monster, that is). And Dracula. And the Wolfman.","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Baggage handlers Chick (Bud Abbott) and Wilbur (Lou Costello) are instructed to deliver and unpack two crates containing the coffin of Count Dracula and the body of Frankenstein's monster, which are destined to be attractions at a museum of horrors. While they are at work, the vampire rises from his coffin and reactivates the monster, much to the dismay of Wilbur, who has trouble convincing his friend of what he has seen.Meanwhile, Wilbur's girlfriend Sandra (Lenore Aubert) is preparing a special surprise for her beau she intends to transplant the hapless fellow's brain into Frankenstein's monster, having made a dastardly deal with Dracula. Fortunately for the chubby chap, lycanthrope Lawrence Talbot (Lon Chaney Jr.) is on hand to help defeat the Count and his lumbering lackey.I recall enjoying Abbot and Costello's movies as a kid, and I'm a long-time fan of Universal's classic horrors. I hadn't seen this film for the best part of four decades and was keen to see if it was as entertaining as I remembered. The answer is, I am sad to say, far from a resounding yes.Abbot and Costello's comedic antics obviously amused the younger me, but as an adult I found their routines rather dated and laboured, with quite a few of the scenes repeated ad nauseum. Chick's constant berating of his simple 'friend' Wilbur is difficult to find funny, although not hard to understand since Wilbur's constant blubbering and screeching rapidly gets on the nerves.Of course, the comic duo are not the film's only attraction the film features a lovely animated credits sequence, a few decent special effects, and some welcome eye candy in the form of the lovely Aubert and the equally delightful Jane Randolph as insurance inspector Joan Raymond. Then there's the little matter of it's trio of classic monsters&#x97;but while it's nice to see Frankenstein's monster (Glenn Strange), Dracula (Bela Lugosi) and the Wolfman (Lon Chaney Jr.) together again, this silly caper simply doesn't do them justice, the creatures proving so inept that they can't even catch a bumbling buffoon like Lou Costello. It's an unfitting swan song for these classic scary characters.5/10, purely for the sake of nostalgia. "},{"Title":"A classic part of Universal monster cycle, but not a great comedy","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a must film for fans of the Universal monster series, but unless you can stomach the antics of Abbott & Costello, it is also a painfully melancholy windup to the famous horror cycle. Anyone familiar with Lon Chaney, Jr. knows that he despised this film but wouldn't let anyone else play the Wolfman, so he did it with gritted teeth. He not only plays it straight in this film, he's practically seething. For Lugosi it was a job opportunity and he was no longer in a position to spurn even a send up of his most famous role. As noted many times before, the success of this film rests in the serious performances by the monster cast. But what also helps this film is the evocative music score by Frank Skinner. Much of the horror content is only made effective through Skinner's atmospheric orchestrations. As for the comedy, we get cute opening credits that are animated, and a few funny bits of dialogue. There's also a funny monster cavalcade at the end and a surprise cameo. Otherwise the A & C comedy is distinctly tiresome unless you're six-years old. In fact, Costello behaves like a six-year old throughout, crying ad nauseum for Chiiiiiiick!! as if screaming for his mommy. In one bit Costello starts skipping like a little boy, then gets hurt and says, I hurt my widdle head. It's embarrassing. And how many times can you watch Costello shiver and sputter Did you see that/Did you hear that? only to have the monsters disappear as Abbott arrives? And poor Bud Abbott, a talented high-speed patter comic, forced to play the straightest most distinctly unlikeable partner in comedy film history. Forever slapping, abusing and barking at his baby-like partner like a cruel parent, it's painful to watch these two with each other most of the time. But their routine worked early on and they kept the formula the same with almost no variations, including the follow-ups to this one (A & C meet the Mummy/The Killer/The Invisible Man). They also kept that terrible hack writer John Grant around, thus ensuring a reliable supply of exceedingly stale comedy material. But at least in this film the famous Universal monsters acquit themselves with dignity. "},{"Title":"The Best of Abbott & Costello","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The comedy / horror film known as Abbott & Costello meet Frankenstein will never be considered an old movie. 50 years have pasted since its opening week and it is still as funny and original as it was back in 1948. The style of comedy that was Abbott & Costello is classic, but far from old and unpopular. Still cracking up audience today as it did back in the 1940's, this comedy / horror movie is at times one of the best comedies that Abbott & Costello ever made. Much of their stand-up shows were considered shorts. In the list of features that Abbott & Costello made, this is far one f their most funny and most enjoyable films they ever made. With an interesting cast and a funny story-line, besides finding out who was on first, meeting Frankenstein was one of the best things Abbott and Costello did throughout there 40 + year career as comedians.  "},{"Title":"True Classic Horror!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the all time greats!This is awesome for Universal monster fans!Lon Chaney was great,Bela Lugosi was as scary as ever,and Glenn Strange was awesome as Frankenstein's Monster!Even years after the Wolf Man and Dracula Chaney and Lugosi performed as them flawlessly!Great music and chills!Perfect for Halloween time!I recommend Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein! "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It would be interesting to know how they came up with this idea of combining two great comics with an assortment of famous movie monsters, but however it happened, it's quite an entertaining show.  Some of the full-length Abbott and Costello features don't fit together very well, but this one really clicks.  The story takes the two comic characters and ties them in very nicely with the world of Dracula, the Wolfman, and the Frankenstein monster, with outlandish and very amusing results.Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney, Jr. do a fine job of playing their familiar characters in a much different setting, and the monsters are used creatively both in the story and to produce a lot of good gags.  They get good mileage out of all three of them.  Abbott's skepticism and Costello's perpetual panic both play nicely in the scenario, and make a good combination as the boys gradually find out what is going on.  It's surprising how well it all works, and it's very enjoyable, whether you like the horror classics, Bud and Lou, or both.  "},{"Title":"The Last Hurrah","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is with some melancholy that I saw this film recently, as it was the final appearance from the classic Universal monsters. But after the mediocrity of House of Frankenstein and House of Dracula this film sends them all out with a bang. After seventeen years of Dracula, Frankenstein and Wolf Man films, Universal brought them back to save the careers of Bud and Lou, who were on a slow ride downhill. The plot is no more ridiculous than the previous two films in the series, and the music, effects, production design and performances are actually a bit superior. The film was a surprise hit and although the monsters never returned, Bud and Lou went on to meet the Mummy, The Invisible Man, several ghosts, and ended up as aged men Lost in Alaska. It's great to see Bela back as Dracula, and he is in fine form reprising the role that made him famous. Cowboy actor Glen Strange played the monster for the third and final time, and Lon Chaney Jr., the only actor ever to play Larry Talbot, is terrific as the haunted, guilt-ridden Wolf Man.How the monsters survived what happened to them in House of Dracula is never mentioned, but Drac is back with the monster in tow and Talbot on his tail. Dracula heads to Florida so that he can revive the Frankenstein monster (why he wants to do this is never made clear) and good old Talbot wants to stop him. Talbot seems to have given up on his hope of finding a cure for his lycanthropy, but he is hell bent on stopping Drac and Frank from their fiendish plans. Unfortunately for him, Bud and Lou get in the way. The supporting cast is strong, with Jane Randolph and Ingrid Bergman lookalike Lenore Aubert playing the opposing human forces of good and evil. Randolph is an undercover insurance agent looking into the mysterious disappearance of two exhibits from MacDougal's House of Horrors. Aubert plays a mysterious European sexpot doctor who is seducing Lou so that Dracula can put his brain into the skull of the monster. Oddly enough, this crackpot exposition takes up little screen time and we have a fine grande finale in a magnificent castle where the three monsters all meet their doom. I especially love that the Wolf Man commits suicide by leaping from the castle into the sea, and he takes Dracula down with him. Chaney plays the part as sincerely as he always did, which was probably not easy for him since he had many scenes in the film with Bud and Lou. In effect he teams up with them, but he never loses his sincerity nor his haunted look.Lugosi had seventeen years of film acting experience between the original Dracula and this movie, and he plays the part much more naturally. But he is still Dracula, and those hands and eyes are perhaps even more effective in this film than in the original.I always liked Strange's portrayal of the monster. All of Karloff's pathos was long gone by the time this film came out, but Strange gives the monster one damn creepy lumbering walk. Also, Bud Westmore had taken over Universal's makeup department by this time, so the haunting, Jack Pierce design was well on its way into becoming the face of Herman Munster. Even so, he looks grotesque and scary.Bud and Lou are far funnier in this film than in most of their movies. They have a hysterical routine about the two girls last week that goes by in a matter of seconds. And I swear after several rewinds that at one point Bud threatens to beat Lou's anus off. Look at it yourself and tell me if I'm crazy.Frank Skinner's music is truly fantastic. He creates unique and effective themes for all three of the monsters and a dopey leitmotif for Lou. And look closely at the scene in which the monster hurls Aubert from a laboratory window that's Lon Chaney Jr. doing the hurling. Glen Strange injured his foot and was unable to do the scene, and Chaney, who had played the part of the monster before, donned the makeup, hoisted Aubert's stunt double and pitched her out the window. A true trooper. My only regret was that Universal had their classic monsters survive fires, explosions, drowning, staking, freezing, sulphur pits, quicksand and the passage of centuries only to be finally conquered by Abbott and Costello.  "},{"Title":"Lou Costello Was Not Funny","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From my perspective - It was primarily the super-annoying presence of that tubby, little, cry-baby, Lou Costello, who definitely lost this potentially humorous picture some major points.Since Lou Costello was the star of the show here, being present in almost every single scene in the film, it took all of the patience that I could possibly muster just to endure having to tolerate his annoying, whiny, sucky-baby antics and calmly sit through this picture from start to finish.About the only thing that saved this somewhat weak-scripted Comedy from being a total write-off was the thrilling presence of 3 of Universal Studios' most famous of monsters, Dracula, Frankenstein, and the Wolfman.Even though this picture was supposed to be a rip-roarin' Comedy, thank goodness that, at least, these 3 monsters played their parts straight, with no humor intended - 'Cause, otherwise, had Dracula, Frankenstein and the Wolfman been directed to ham-it-up, then, you can bet, that that would've undoubtedly sent this whole, decidedly silly, production straight down the tubes, in no time flat. "}{"Title":"A horror spoof classic...one of the all-time great A & C comedies...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Since my favorite kind of films are the comedy/horror flicks of the '40s, this one is certainly near the top of the list. It's arguably the best of the Abbot & Costello movies--even scarier than 'Hold That Ghost' or 'Who Done It?' The reason is the classic horror stars play it straight--and the creepy effects are startling and real. The laughs come fast and furious as the plot hinges on whether Dracula and his assistant can get Lou's brain for the Frankenstein monster--a notion funny in itself but helped along by a witty script that gives Costello ample opportunity to be scared out of his wits--along with the audience. Bela Lugosi is truly scary in his first appearance and is used well as the film progresses. Lon Chaney plays his Larry Talbot character to the hilt--investing the man with genuine sympathy for his plight and managing to do so despite the constant barrage of gags from Abbot and Costello. It all moves briskly and reaches a climax that's both frightening and amusing. Great fun all the way and definitely a film classic for all movie fans with a sense of humor who appreciate the rich mixture of laughs and fright. "},{"Title":"The First GREAT Horror Spoof!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can be said about this classic that HASN'T been said? This send-up of Universal's horror superstars revived interest in the genre, which had been waning throughout the mid-forties, as endless low-budget sequels made the rounds. Horror purists were appalled that these classic characters became 'straight men' to Lou Costello, but this was actually an inspired mating! The rotund comedian had always represented the 'everyman', and seeing his reactions to these 'boogie men' was the perfect tonic to a post-war America, who needed a good laugh! What many people don't realize is that this film 'saved' A & C's careers, as well; they had gone into a slump with the end of WWII, and were contemplating breaking up; the release of '...Meet Frankenstein' rejuvenated their popularity, and added 10 years to the team!The film marked Lugosi's last 'official' appearance as Dracula, and he played the Count with the same jaded European elegance that no other actor ever matched! By the way, Dracula never sucked any blood in this movie, a concession to the younger A&C audiences. He controlled via his hypnotic stare, and telepathy! Lon Chaney's Wolfman has always been a favorite of mine, as he was the most humane of monsters; more a victim than a villain, he struggles to protect others from his full-moon transformation. Chaney was one of Hollywood's least-appreciated actors, a performer of considerable skill who would always have to live under his famous father's shadow, much as Larry Talbot lived under the shadow of the wolf. A piece of trivia Glenn Strange, who portrayed the Frankenstein monster, broke his foot during the chase finale; to finish the shoot, Chaney donned the make-up, and can be seen as the monster in a few long shots. So Lon Chaney could say he was the only actor who ever portrayed the Wolfman, Dracula, AND the Frankenstein monster!Watch for Vincent Price's famous unbilled cameo, at the end of the film! He was a frequent visitor to the set during filming, saw how much fun everyone was having, and nearly begged for a chance to make an 'appearance'!I hope these comments are helpful in making 'Abbott and Costello Meets Frankenstein' even MORE enjoyable! It has been a personal favorite for nearly forty years (I first saw it, at eight, at a Halloween party!), and it's a classic I think you'll treasure, too! "},{"Title":"Still Hilarious....","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was so fascinated by it. Iremember laughing at all the slapstick and terror, watching Bud and Lou running into trouble and colliding into more, Dracula, the Wolfman, and the Frankenstein monster goingafter Lou for his brains to reform the monster.Lou's  girlfriend Sandra is also plotting with Dracula to takeLou's brain and in the mix there's a reporter who pretends to be interested in Lou but actually wants to know what'sgoing on.My favorite is always Lou but without Bud he'd be nothing.                                            9/10*I love you Maryland* "},{"Title":"Bud and Lou's best film","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"       Bud Abbot and Lou Costello put out a lot of comedy classics in the forties, such as HOLD THAT GHOST,BUCK PRIVATES COME HOME, WHO DONE IT, HIT THE ICE, and THE NAUGHTY NINETIES, but this one, done in 1948, is probably their best. The title understates the film, for Bud and Lou not only encounter the Frankentstein Monster(Glenn Strange)but also the Wolf Man(Lon Chaney Jr. of course) and Count Dracula(Bela Lugosi). Bud and Lou play delivery men, Chick Young and Wilbur Gray, who are assigned to deliver two crates, supposedly containing the remanins of Dracula and the Monster, to MacDougall's House of Horrors as new exhibits. What the boys don't know is that Dracula is alive, and has placed himself and the Monster in a dormant condition in order to sneak into the country.     The Count, with the help of Dr. Frankenstein's book The Secrets of Life and Death, hopes to revive the Monster, but he wants a new brain for it, because, as he tells his assitant Sandra(Lenore Aubert), he doesn't want to repeat Frankenstein's mistake, and revive a vicious unmanageable brute. Sandra tells him she has found a simple, pliable brain for the Monster.(Lou's, of course)      Meanwhile, Larry Talbot, the Wolf Man, aware that Dracula plots to revive the Monster, attempts to convince Bud and Lou to aid him in thwarting the Count. Bud is sceptical, but Lou, who saw the exhibits escape from their crates, belives him. Even Lou, however, is somewhat sceptical of Talbot's request that the boys lock him in his room on nights of the full moon.      To Abbot's further disgust, both Sandra and a pretty insurance investigator, Joan Raymond, apparently fall for Lou. Both, however, have ulterior motives. Sandra wishes to gain his brain for the Monster, and Miss Raymond hopes to induce Lou to lead her to the exhibits which the insurance company and MacDougall belive the boys stole.      I won't reveal any more of the plot, as it would spoil this hilarious movie, but I will, in closing, quote one of my favorite lines from it. It occurs when Lon Chaney Jr. is trying to convince Lou to aid him in destroying Dracula and the Monster. Lou I can't help you. I've got a date. In fact, I got two dates. Chaney But you and I have a date with Destiny. Lou Let Chick go with Destiny, won't ya? Please? Huh? "},{"Title":"Classic...","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oh this is a good one alright, still funny, the second time I have seen it in my time, a good 15 years after the first. All the Monsters-Lugosi(underappreciated because of the dreck he did), Cheney, Glenn Strange(Sam the Bartender from Gunsmoke!), are good, as they were in their 'straight' horror flicks earlier. They played it straight, they did this movie a service by doing so.Abbot and Costello actually made some good flicks besides this-Buck Privates being one that comes to mind. But yeah I agree, this one holds up awfully well. Their timing was great and it was nice to see Costello playing the upper hand for a change when he was suddenly 'set upon' by Two gals, not one-leaving Abbot to beg....Love the crate/coffin opening scenes of course, when Drack and Frankie first show, and the running round in the woods, the secret passages, the burning doc, and the cameo by the Invisible Man ala Price. This is the way to make a flick like this, its clear that the Ghostbusters guys saw this and 'Ghost Breakers' with Bob Hope before starting up their own franchise.By all means, check this one out--***1/2 outta ****, is Good! "},{"Title":"Classic that's stood the test of time","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I still love this movie. I bought it the day it came out on dvd.  Some of the lines in the movie and their perfect timing, still make me laugh (Chaney At night, when the moon is full, I turn into a wolf Costello Yeah, you and 20 million other guys. Throws him in the locker).Sure Abbot and Costello are really funny in this film, but what makes this movie stand out is that the monsters play it straight. Chaney as the wolfman, Strange as the monster and Lugosi (in only the 2nd, and last time) as Dracula are their usual selves, here, and it's A&C who dilly up the laughs. Especially Chaney, who is excellent as Talbot, in a couple scenes with Lou where he *almost* gets him, but just misses. You watch it and you know, it's painfully obvious that he's missing on purpose (after all, if he caught him, there'd be no more movie). But it doesn't matter. Chaney is so good, as is Lou, you accept it. The only really sad thing is that this was the last of the Universal monsters in their original carnations and all the A&C monster films that followed, were good, but never in the league as this film.   Even when asked what movie makes him laugh, Dana Carvey said without a doubt, Abbot and Costello meet Frankenstien is still one of my all time favorites. Mine too. "},{"Title":"Bud and Lou at their Best","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember being so scared as I watched this film as a child of 10, the uncrating of the monster Frankenstein and the first meeting of the Wolfman and Count Dracula left me with many sleepless nights. As I watched the film as an adult, I appreciated the comedic talents of Bud Abbott and Lou Costello. An all around great cast for that period in time. I'm sure todays young audience would view this funny film as silly and nonsensical, Oh, to be a kid again.  "},{"Title":"The Humor never Dies!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found out about this film through a horror film documentary (really). I knew about Abbott and Costello being a very famous comedy team, but I was more excited about classic horror than comedy. That is, until I saw this movie. A&C meet Frankenstein is a horror film spoof, but it in no way ruins my enjoyment of horror films. Bela Lugosi is as great as ever as Count Dracula. Lon Chaney Jr. still wins sympathy as the tortured werewolf. Lenore Aubert brings to life the mysterious (and ultimately wicked) Sandra, who is no less a nonvampiric cohort of Dracula! Glenn Strange brings some pathos to the Frankenstein monster. Jane Randolph is attractive (and also takes advantage of Costello) as the insurance investigator Joan Raymond. And, to finish, Abbott and Costello are hilarious in the shenanigans they pull on each other. Costello always gets taken advantage of because he is often too naive and trusting to know better, and for that I cannot help but adore him. Bud Abbott is also hilarious against Lou Costello, and is always hilariously angry at him.As of now, I have seen only three of their films and will very shortly watch a fourth, and I DO NOT think that comedies are funny for a certain period of time and then get unfunnier. Some of the films I saw (particularly In the Navy but not this one) would sink if it weren't for Abbott and Costello starring in them. Abbott and Costello are much more talented than most actors, and tend to have more screen presence. My advice If you cannot always enjoy Abbott and Costello consistently, you're a hopeless case. "},{"Title":"Final Appearance Of Universal Golden Age Monsters/Return Of Lugosi As Dracula","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The last appearance of the Universal Monsters Frankenstein, Dracula, and the Wolf Man. The Wolf Man/Lawrence Talbot played by Lon Chaney Jr. for the fifth and final time (he was the only one to play this character). Frankenstein was played for the third and final (Universal) time by Glenn Strange (House OF Frankenstein, House Of Dracula), and Dracula was played by the original himself--Bela Lugosi, re-creating his 1931 role from the movie Dracula 17 years later, and if I'm not mistaken, this is the only other time he played Dracula in a movie! The movie managed to be funny without ridiculing the monsters, and a good horror picture without destroying the elements of comedy Abbott And Costello brought to the movie. I watched this movie as a six year old kid and was terrified (though entertained). Years later, I was convinced there was a comedy version of this movie and a horror version. If you like the Universal movies, I just finished a book that picks up where Abbott And Costello Meet Frankenstein ends in 1948 called Return Of The Wolf Man, published in 1998. The author, Jeff Rovin must have watched every Universal horror movie because he refers to incidents from virtually every Universal horror movie. Very good book for fans of the old movies. "},{"Title":"Their funniest film.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is undoubtedly Abbott and Costello's funniest movie.  The plot is well-formed and everyone's acting is great. I like how none of the monsters lose their integrity.  Dracula is still charming and evil, and Larry Talbot/The Wolf Man is still pitiable and tortured. Glenn Strange as the Monster is pretty good, but not as good as it would have been if Boris Karloff was still the Monster.  I love the part when Dracula (Bela Lugosi, in his second and final performance as the vampire) and the Wolf Man (Lon Chaney, Jr., in his final performance as the Larry Talbot werewolf) fight, since Dracula throws things like chairs and vases!  The music sounds like the score from Psycho at some parts; I wonder if Bernard Herrman copied it? This is Abbott and Costello's best movie, and any audience should enjoy it.9/10  "}{"Title":"In search of blooper","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Last week, the Sci-Fi Channel broadcast a week of Abbott & Costello Meet the Monsters movies. After so many years, it was great fun watching this film again.Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein shines above the other meet the monsters films. The pacing of this film is first-rate. It moves along at a nice pace. The combination of comedy and horror works beautifully in this film.In this film, boogie men Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney, Jr. are pros from start to finish. No other actor portrayed Count Dracula with such a commanding presence as Bela Lugosi. Viewing The Raven, along with this film, showcase Lugosi's talent as a first-rate actor.This film is pure magic. "},{"Title":"Abbott and costello are great","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Abott and Costello have to be my favorite comedic duo they are very funny in this spoof on Frankenstein but the thing I like is that people that acted in the movies that are being spoofed played the parts as the monsters and stuff.  It wasn't like the spoofs nowadays the people that made the movies that are being made fun of laugh and don't go arrrg  I hate these people. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable more as a trainwreck","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't find this film particularly funny--although it does have its moments, and it's certainly not scary, but it is moderately enjoyable, partially because of its many goofy missteps.Bela Lugosi hams it up as much here as he does in films like Bride of the Monster, and the plot makes about as much sense. He also bizarrely walks around with his Dracula cape covering half of his face much like Tom Mason in Plan 9 from Outer Space, but there, Mason was trying to hide the fact that he wasn't Lugosi.Many of the effects--such as Lugosi turning into a bat--are provided by cartoonish animation.Lon Chaney Jr.'s performance as the wolfman is a bit bizarre in that he's trying to play it so seriously, but given what he's said about the horror comedies--he thought they ruined the horror genre--I suppose that's not surprising.The presence of so many monsters, along with the evil henchwoman subplot, seems like a let's throw in everything but the kitchen sink approach. "},{"Title":"OH CHIC!! A&C'S BEST & FUNNIEST/SCARIEST CLASSIC; ONE OF MY ALL-TIME FAVES","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN (1948) **** Bud Abbott, Lou Costello, Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney, Jr., Glenn Strange, Lenore Aubert, Vincent Price (uncredited voice only).  Arguably Bud and Lou's greatest and funniest film and the first in the A&C Meet... series.  Classic comedy/horror flick with the boys as baggage clerks who unearth the remains of Dracula and The Frankenstein Monster, with The Count after Lou's brain for The Creature, and a sympathetic Larry Talbot (aka The Wolfman) abetting the daffy duo from harm's way.  Incidentally this was only the second (and last) time Lugosi played Drac.  Best lines Chaney In half an hour the moon will rise and I'll turn into a wolf.  Costello You and twenty million other guys. Definitely one of my all-time personal favorites! "},{"Title":"The crashing of symbols","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Comedians are uncomfortable about symbolism in their schtick.  A routine that wowed 'em in vaudeville, radio, movies, and TV is just a schtick -- a bit, a gag, a routine that lets the clown collect laughs and a paycheck.  But if we are to remember, relish, and celebrate our baggy pants ancestors of the Twentieth century we shall have to look for, and enjoy, the symbolism that indirectly and unintentionally grows in their films down the tunnel of Twenty First century vision.  In A & C Meet F we find the brash duo of Bud and Lou confronting the very real ghouls of cinema horror.  Vampire.  Science demonized.  And brute animal rage.  Nobody who had a hand in this luscious harem scarem has ever claimed the movie was anything but a quickie comedy to take advantage of the top comedians of the era and the quirky monsters Universal studios had under contract.  Yet the subtext is there and gives the film an amazing philosophic undertow.  Dracula represents the relentless bloodsucking of a capitalism gone mad; a financial religion that drained mankind with The First World War, The Great Depression, and numerous other fiscal follies.  The Frankenstein Monster is nightmare science -- radiation and pollution and genetic mutations run amuck.  The wolfman is the bestial element in all mankind, barely restrained at the best of times and when let loose undiscriminating in carnage and outrage.  We are all afraid of these things.  And so are Bud and Lou.  But the message, the philosophy, of the movie shows us two uneducated upstarts armed only with good hearts and good intentions soundly defeating the supernatural and corrupt powers that have plagued mankind since Adam shook hands with Eve and asked what was for dinner.  This movie is utterly manipulative; you're supposed to laugh here and shiver there, once you've paid the price of admission.  Nothing more.  Yet a moments pondering leaves us with the happy thought that perhaps, just perhaps, somewhere there are a couple of dimbulbs, weak as the rest of us, who have enough sanity and grace to disembowel the fears that stalk us.  They are neither angels nor devils, and never will get straight just exactly who is on first, but for a few glorious reels they show us a goofy courage and honesty that can keep us looking up, even when we are spiraling down.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining , even in 2004","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How can any person judge this film.Sure , the style and characters are old fashioned but the film gives Universal fans a last hurrah.The film is a Comedy/Horror and is easily categorized as both.The movie may not be scary but it sticks to traditional horror cultures and ways.Sure ,the movie may also have less funny parts but how many film epics have had even longer boring stretches than this.There are a few flaws but they have to be ignored.And about it being outdated , it's 1948 you must understand that.That's all it is.By the way , besides me, does anybody know where Nauru is! "},{"Title":"C series horror spoof with repeated gags getting really old","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As someone said, probably in 1948 there was something magic about this film...no longer these days. First, i never liked A&C very much...the Dean Martin & Jerry Lewis smart wannabe yet goofy + outright idiotic & vulnerable kind of duos grow old quickly. I think these duos are aborted spoof of the immortal Laurel&Hardy, yet those two had still something magic about them, not two distinct, cardboard roles tied to motioned clichés repeated over&over&over&over. We welcome back the classic monsters Dracula, Frankie & the Wolfman, yet i cannot really laugh the 45th time the typical sturdy southern Italian Costello pulls his gag about first ignoring, then wondering, then acting overly excited & conceited because some monster appears.Gags are worthy because they are somewhat rare... a joke told seventeen times through a party gets BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING... BORING...like the above lines.Lon Chaney is good as the Werewolf; Lugosi is the one who seems not to notice how low he has fallen (well, plan 9 excluded ) & acts as if in a serious movie. The two femmes fatales are really pretty...too bad they're dead now, otherwise they'd be 98 years old or something.Not bad for a nice evening at home when it's raining outside & there's nowhere to go & nothing better to see. I got a bit nostalgic thinking about those great times ( even earlier on, the Wolfman, the Invisible Man etc ) which were dying out of a gangrenous disease. Those old film could still bring thrill without gore, nor hideous special effects typical of recent movie of such kind. A very unpretentious family movie. "},{"Title":"don't like mesh ups","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Abbot and Costello play mail room clerks that end up with two interesting packages. The packages are to be delivered to a horror exhibition house and they contain the bodies of two legendary monsters; Frankenstein's monster and Dracula. The monsters get loose and Dracula takes the monster to his castle to make him his servant and he has many partners and some know whom he really is and some don't. All kinds of twists and turns follow as the owners of the horror exhibit, the wolf man and Abbot and Costello are searching for the truth about these legendary creatures and their whereabouts.Some familiar crew for Bud and Lou, and it was what helped convinced them to do the project, thinking originally it was crap. The story was flawed and silly and too over the top. Glenn Strange had to step in as the monster once again because Boris Karloff thought it was not a good idea to make Frankensteins monster as a comedy. He did however later team up with the guys in Abbot & Costello meet the killer, Boris Karloff. Bela Lugois got to play Dracula for the second time in a feature but only after the studio found out he wasn't dead as they had originally thought. Lon Chaney, Jr. was once again wonderful as the Wolf Man, and a great reprisal cameo with the voice of Vincent Price as the invisible man.This movie was fun, but nothing great. It's one of those things where Universal was trying to squeeze money out of two cash cows at once. Universal monsters should not be used as a comical thing. Abbot and Costello did many partnerships with other things, but I wish the monsters had been left alone. A & C had a few good laughs and the monsters were merely there to accompany them. It was nice to see Bela Lugosi, as he is so great as Dracula, also I liked Lon Chaney Jr. reprising his role as the wolf man. I am sure many loved this, but I will be honest and admit I don't like my monsters used as a joke. This movie made me laugh a few times. I enjoyed the silly fight between the wolf man and Dracula at the end. I didn't care much for the animation for Dracula but it wasn't the first time it was used. All and all it was okay, but not to be taken serious and just a fun little mesh. 3/10 stars "}]