[{"Title":"Unparalleled Forties Thriller","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" If you are into nail biting suspense in your movies look no further than SORRY,WRONG NUMBER. An excellently structured climactic noir thriller made by Paramount Pictures in 1948. Produced by Hal Wallis and director Anotole Litvak it bears all the hallmarks of what was best in Hollywood's Golden Age when it came to producing great thrillers. With its slick and stylish black and white cinematography by legendary Sol Polito, masterful direction by Litvak it boasted a magnificent central performance from its star Barbara Stanwyck. Written by Lucille Fletcher the film is an expanded version of her hugely successful radio play. And to give it greater depth and density the picture is underlined by a terrific score by Franz Waxman (Over the titles an ostinato figure in the horns cleverly simulates the busy signal of a telephone).Stanwyck is Leona Stevenson the pampered well to do daughter of industrial magnate James Cotterell (the always excellent Ed Begley). She pursues and marries beneath her a lowly drug store assistant Henry Stevenson (a miscast Burt Lancaster) much to the chagrin of her father (Who is he anyhow? Why he hasn't even got a proper job!). The marriage however is doomed from the very start. Cotterell sets his son-in-law up in an executive position but Henry is unable to take the domineering ways of the spoiled Leona and wants to leave her culminating in his embezzling from the company and the degeneration of Leona into a bedridden neurotic invalid. The film's primary setting then takes place during one night and concentrates on Leona in bed and alone in her big house trying to contact Henry on her bedside phone. Then on a crossed line she suddenly overhears two men plotting a murder that is to happen that night. Frantically she phones the police first, then her father, her doctor (Wendell Corey) and her husband's secretary but either they are not answering and or no one will believe her. It isn't very long before she comes to the conclusion that it is she herself who is the intended victim. The picture ends in a terrifying sequence with the panic stricken Leona hearing a noise downstairs and then just outside her open bedroom door seeing the shadow of someone coming up the stairs. Brrr......Stanwyck totally dominates the second half of the picture. The great actress has the screen virtually to herself. In stunning medium shots and close-ups her fear and panic is brilliantly portrayed with her every terrible thought etched in her harrowed face. Leona is a pathetic figure unable to summon or persuade someone - anyone - to come quickly to her aid. Few actresses would be as convincing in the role here as Stanwyck and she quite rightly was nominated for an Acadamy Award for her electrifying performance but lost out to Jane Wyman's equally riveting performance for Johnny Belinda. Maintaining the tension of Fletcher's original radio story the film version, quite naturally, does make a greater impact and has a more palpable dramatic thrust thanks to Stanwyck's exceptional well measured and engaging performance.So if you are looking for a hyper, climatic edge of the seat thriller then SORRY,WRONG NUMBER will certainly get you to where you want to go.......and how. "},{"Title":"A Great Film Noir with Splendid Screenplay, Direction and Performances","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" In New York, the spoiled Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanswick) is the invalid wife of the VP of a pharmaceutical industry Henry J. Stevenson (Burt Lancaster)and becomes aware of a murder that would be committed late night of that day through a cross-wire, when she overhears two men planning the murder.Leona tries to find the right number to tell the police and she discovers that her former friend and ex-girlfriend of Henry, Sally Hunt Lord (Ann Richards), had lunch with him. She recalls the first encounter with her husband and parts of her life with him through flashbacks. Along the night, she learns dirty secrets about Henry and she finds that she might be the intended victim.Sorry, Wrong Number is a great film-noir with a suspenseful story and top-notch performances. The screenplay and the direction are excellent and keep the attention of the viewer until the end of the last scene. This movie deserves to be watched more than once and is highly indicated for fans of film noir. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) A Vida Por Um Fio - O Clássico (The Life for One Line - The Classic)Note On 29 September 2013, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"One of the finest film noirs","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"45 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" An expanded radio play and subsequent TV drama, this film builds terrific tension around a bedridden heiress and her telephone.Sympathy builds for this unlikeable woman, Leona, played by Barbara Stanwyck. She is a spoiled heiress used to getting her own way, but as we come to see, very much created by her father (played by Ed Begley) who bows to all her wishes.Her husband, Henry, played by Burt Lancaster, whom she chases and captures from her best friend, initially goes along with being an employee in her father's corporation but eventually starts chafing at the restraints imposed on him. The movie just about plays in real time with the addition of many flashbacks, one of which secures the knowledge that there is nothing wrong with Leona, it is all psychosomatic based on her mother's fatal illness.From the moment Leona accidentally overhears a plotted murder for later on that evening, the viewer is taken on a ride that builds suspense and tension to a terrifying conclusion and the movie's title.Not to be missed. The cinematography is superb, a lot of play in light and shade. Barbara deserved an Oscar but lost. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The ultimate nail-biter!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  As a child I was riveted by the classic radio play starring Agnes Moorehead, and here playwright Lucille Fletcher gets her chance to expand the relentless tale of what happens to wealthy. spoiled Leona Stevenson one lonely night in the heart of New York City. Harold Vermilyea is Evans, the devoted employee destroyed by her wastrel husband's greed, and Ann Richards is Sally, Leona's loyal (though we wonder why) ex-classmate. These two are the only likeable characters in SWN. Still, as the minutes tick by toward the horrific conclusion, life in the unconcerned city goes on ... roaring subways, loud conversations, and traffic sounds, all accentuating the mounting apprehensions and, eventually, our realization of the immense evil that has found  Leona Stevenson.  "},{"Title":"Three harmless little words have suddenly become the most chilling!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"37 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry Wrong Number lacked the humor and humanity of Hitchcock's 'Rear Window,' but was more relentlessly frightening, and, like Rear Window, it exerted its grip because of the helplessness of the principal character, confined to one room&#133;Barbara Stanwyck played, with terrifying conviction, a wealthy, neurotic, partly paralyzed, bedridden woman, alone at night in her New York home with only the telephone for company because her husband, Burt Lancaster, has given the staff he night off&#133;Calling to see why her husband is not back from his office&#133; Stanwyck gets a crossed line and hears two men discussing a murder which one of them has been paid to do that night paid by a husband who wants to get rid of his rich, neurotic and bedridden wife whose servants have been given the night off..At first, Stanwyck does not realize that she is to be the victim. Then, as the killing hour approaches, she does realize&#133; In mounting panic she starts calling the police, her doctor, anywhere for help... As the vulnerable woman menaced, Stanwyck won her a fourth Oscar nomination&#133; Her bedside telephone has a star role to play...Lancaster was sufficiently persuasive as the husband, who only can save his own life by getting money for his gambling debts&#133; "},{"Title":"Strangers In the Night","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Anatole Litvak directs the movie version of Lucille Fletcher's radio war-horse Sorry, Wrong Number was gusto and drive. The photograpy is deceptively simple at first blush, but soon evolves, giving each scene an individuality and clarity not unlike deep-focus. There's an overall feeling of gloom in this largely nocturnal movie, which is stylistically a sort of vest-pocket film noir Citizen Kane. Some of the touches border on the surreal, such as Lancaster's (among others) repeated references to his home town of Grassville, which happened at least thirty-six times and grows alternately funnier and more disturbing with each passing mention. The feel of New York in summer has seldom been so well captured in a studio-bound film, as scene upon scene appears to be enveloped in fog or cigarette smoke, and the horns of boats moving down-river or out to sea are often audible, at times suggesting, not wholly inapprpriately, the world of Eugene O'Neill and his theme of universal frustration. For all this, there is little actual movement in the film, which reflects the heroine's bed-ridden state, as scenes are acted out semi-theatrically, with characters talking to one another continuously, and whether wicked or benign seldom communicating clearly, as each little chat leaves someone more in the dark than before. The story moves, one might say, from one misinterpretation to another, until the climax, when all becomes clear, as tragedy trumps melodrama, giving the viewer a much needed jolt of reality. "},{"Title":"Barbara Stanwyck's Calling","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck (as Leona Stevenson) is a neurotic woman, confined to her bed. She is married to the very attractive, and mysterious, young Burt Lancaster (as Henry Stevenson). Ms. Stanwyck relies on a state-of-the-art 1940s corded telephone to help communicate her needs. One evening, she picks up her phone and overhears two men plotting a murder; eventually, the crime moves too close to Stanwyck for comfort&#x85;Stanwyck is excellent as the spoiled, arrogant, and wealthy, but, ultimately, helpless heroine of Lucille Fletcher's adapted radio play (the part was originated on radio by Agnes Moorehead). The story picks up some flaws in its extension into a feature film; it is most frustrating as (flashbacks) ((within flashbacks)) (((within flashbacks))) occur; and, the story becomes a little confusing. Still, Stanwyck's fine performance carries the film to an exciting, tense, conclusion.******** Sorry, Wrong Number (9/1/48) Anatole Litvak ~ Barbara Stanwyck, Burt Lancaster, Wendell Corey "},{"Title":"It starts off very slow but the payoff is there--just keep watching","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" When I first started watching this film, I wasn't hooked until well into the movie. Seeing the bed-ridden Stanwyck's monologue just didn't hook me--even when she accidentally overheard a plot to kill someone. A lot of this was because her character wasn't very likable--she was a very whiny little princess who frankly annoyed me! This is why I rate the movie lower than many on IMDb--I just didn't care much about her and early on I was hoping that SHE would be the one murdered. However, as the story unfolded in a series of flashback, the film became less claustrophobic and very entertaining. None of this really made me hate Stanwyck's character less, but it did help the audience to understand her more--as well as her husband (Burt Lancaster). While the story still was hampered by a long list of unlikable characters (actually, I never really liked any of them--except maybe Wendell Corey), it did excel by being super-creative and for ending on a very powerful note. The film was a lot like the first drop on a roller-coaster--very slow and uphill until a wonderful conclusion. I'd like to say more, but don't want to spoil the film.The movie had generally good and very creative writing, good direction and excellent acting. It certainly WAS creative, but allowing Stanwyck to be more three-dimensional would have improved the film greatly. "},{"Title":"Crossed telephone wires","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Lucille Fletcher wrote the original version for the radio. It only lasted 22 minutes, which then grew to one hour and then to 89 minutes of playing time in the film version. Since the original work had everything it needed to create the suspense and paranoia that Leona Stevenson felt, other situations were added to fit into a motion picture release. Anatole Litvak brought the film into the screen, letting Ms. Fletcher write the screen adaptation. The film relies on the use of flashbacks in order to tell the story, otherwise it would have been impossible to have the original premise play so long on the screen. Supposedly the crime was going to be committed at 11.15PM as the subway train went across the Queensboro bridge. Barbara Stanwyck, an actress who did great work on films of this genre, was perhaps the wrong choice for Leona Stevenson. As the hysterical woman who discovers an assassination plot when she hears a conversation on the telephone, Ms. Stanwyck was not as effective as in other roles. The pairing of Burt Lancaster with her shows no chemistry between them, even when one realizes why his Henry Stevenson marries Leona. Mr. Lancaster seems awkward in most of his scenes.The film asks a lot of the viewers in making them believe how Ms. Stanwyck, who was in her forties, is seen as a young college student, always looking like she does as her older self as when we first meet her as the film opens, and she is supposedly, a woman of a certain age! The film is a must see for fans of Ms. Stanwyck, who could have been better, perhaps directed by another director. "},{"Title":"Gimmicky noir still shocks despite its shortcomings","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Chrome-plated hokum, Sorry, Wrong Number works despite itself.  And works and works. Starting out as a radio drama by Lucille Fletcher in the 1940s, it boasted umpteen performances plus a 1946 production in the nascent medium of television before Anatole Litvak turned it into film noir.  During most of its earlier incarnations, Agnes Moorehead created the role of the hysterical, bedridden heiress, the `cough drop queen,' but the film fell into the lap of the First Lady of Film Noir, Barbara Stanwyck.  Moorehead was more than a strong enough actress, but Hollywood required a star.The Irony is that Sorry, Wrong Number is far from her finest hour on screen.  Rarely has one been made so aware of Stanwyck `acting' in the most unabashedly actressy way.  And the same can be said of Burt Lancaster who, when a role didn't set well with him, communicated his discomfort blatantly.  In The Rose Tattoo, against Anna Magnani, he was ingratiating and unconvincing ; here, he's almost as awkward as the henpecked husband in whom the worm has at long last turned.But maybe Fletcher's slice of devil's food cake calls for mannered histrionics.  Ensconced in her bedchamber one sweltering Manhattan evening, her pill bottles and her telephone at her elbow, Stanwyck eavesdrops on a sinister conversation &#150; a murder is being plotted &#150; thanks to a crossed line.  This makes her even more restive, and she starts working the phone, tracking down her tardy husband.  Litvak `ventilates' these calls, turning them into a series of flashbacks filling in the background to what will prove a very bad evening for Stanwyck.  (The sequences on Staten Island, however, could have sprung from the pen of Franklin W. Dixon, the Hardy Boys' puppeteer.)Unavoidably talky, owing to its source, Sorry, Wrong Number moves inexorably to its preordained end.  Basically, it's a gimmick, and one that Hitchcock might have fine-tuned into a nifty infernal machine.  Litvak doesn't do badly, though, and the movie's shock value outlasts its staled conventions.  Its most chilling moment comes when Stanwyck frantically dials a number that she thinks will give her solace.  But her answer is `BOwery 2-1000 &#150; the City Morgue.' "}{"Title":"Suspense film of Hitchcock calibre","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Barbara Stanwyck as a bedridden,neurotic woman who due to crossed telephone lines accidentally overhears a murder plot. As this tense thriller moves along she comes to know that it is her the murders are after.Panic arises......This is a one-actor piece and Stanwyck carries the assignment brilliantly.As the selfish,neurotic Leona Stevenson she lets us see all of the characters frailties and her mounting fright as she becomes aware that she's to be a murder victim.Burt Lancaster has limited screentime as the husband,but he makes the most of it. A suspense film almost of the Hitchcock calibre. "},{"Title":"What good is a dream when your too old to enjoy it!","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Being that Sorry Wrong Number was originally a 22 minute radio suspense/thriller staring Agnes Moorehead as the tragic and doomed Leona Stevenson it had to have incorporated into it a number of multiple flashbacks, including a very long and effective flashback within a flashback, to put on enough running time for it to be a full-length motion picture. Still it packs quite a wallop with an almost unbearable and heart-stopping & nail biting ending.Trying to get in touch with her husband Henry J. Stevenson, Burt Lancaster, the vice president of her fathers James B. Cotterell, Ed Begely, giant pharmaceutical conglomerate Leona, Barbara Stanwyck, overhears on his office phone, that was left off the hook, a conversation between two men planning a murder someone that very evening. Bed-ridden with a heart condition Leona calls the police to stop the murder from happening. What Leona doesn't know until it's too late is that the murder victim is her and the person behind it is non other then her dear and loving husband Henry J. Stevenson. Marrying into money Henry always felt that he was nothing but a leach and would never get anywhere as long his father-in-law and wife, Mr. Cotterell & Leona, controlled his life and finances. Given the job as vice president of the Cotterell Corp. all Henry did was fill out forms and attend board meeting with him having nothing to say about the future of the corporation. Henry feels that he's nothing more then an overpaid and glorified paper pusher who'll always remain that way. Henry wanted to make it big in the world of business but he wanted to do it all by himself not on the coat-tails of his very successful father-in-law Mr. Cotterell. That cause tensions between him and Leona to the point where she suffered a number of heart attacks that left her a bed-ridden invalid.It was then that Henry came up with this bright idea to siphon off shipments of Cotterell products to his middle man and Chicago mobster Morano, William Conrad, with the help of a Cotterell employee scientist and researcher Waldo Evens, Harold Vermilyea. Reluctant at first Waldo agreed to go along with Henry's plan and it all worked to perfection in splitting the ill-gotten cash with Henry & Marona until six month later. That's when Evens was transfered from the Chicago area to Bayonne N.J and that's when things really started to go sour for him and Henry. Henry trying to ice out Marono by telling him that he's out of the deal and the criminal drug smuggling business was actually deep into it and into it so over his head that the NYC District Attorney office were alerted and began to investigate him. Marono also was on to Henry's actions and found the secret hideout on New York's Staten Island that he was using as a smuggling point in his and Evens' operation. Gotten to by the Marono Mob Henry is told to come up with the stolen $200,000.00 in cash plus interest from their operation if he and Evens wanted to live. Reluctantly Henry agrees to have Leona murdered to collect the insurance money on her life in order to spear his own. But what Henry didn't know as the evening of Leona's planned murder came was that his whole plan had been exposed and put out of operation. With Marono & Co.being arrested by the FBI & NYPD and the hideout in Staten Island burned down by Evens making Leona's murder, and his involvement in it, not a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for Henry & Co. But a one way ticket to the Sing Sing electric chair. ***SPOILERS*** Powerhouse ending with death lurking just outside her bedroom as Leona desperately tries to call for help with the only means of communications left open to her her bedside telephone. With Henry on the phone trying to check that everything is going smoothly in his wife's planned demise he soon realizes, by talking to Leona, that his plan was kaput and had been blown. Henry now knows that the murder of Leona will only result in his being sent to the Sing Sing death-house if it succeeds. With her life slowly ticking away as the hired killer gets closer to his helpless quarry for the kill all Leona can do to save her life is alert her neighbors, and police outside, by screaming her lungs out for help. But even that's been taken care off by the killer! With the exact time of the New York subway roaring across the 59th Sreet Bridge at the very moment of his attack. Thus downing out her last desperate and ear-splitting screams. "},{"Title":"Lacks the tight suspense of the radio thriller...too much padding!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, but 'Sorry, Wrong Number' loses a lot in its transition to the screen. For one thing, there are too many flabby flashbacks--a form quite popular in the '40s but used extensively in this film, ad nauseum. All of the suspenseful action in the bedroom of the bedridden victim is held at bay while we watch another endless flashback attempting to show us how selfish and unworthy this woman is. If you heard the original radio drama with Agnes Moorehead giving a spine-chilling portrait of Leona, you'll see why the film becomes too diffuse in an attempt to give us filler material. The fact that Lucille Fletcher adapted her own work for the screen would give the viewer hope that this is going to be just as good as the radio drama--but it's not. Barbara Stanwyck gives an excellent performance, bordering on hysteria toward the finale--but it's an actressy performance and not as controlled as some of her other film noir roles. Burt Lancaster has a colorless role and can't do much with it. Ann Richards is impressive as the woman who tries to warn Leona. By expanding the plot outside the bedroom, Fletcher created a confusing number of sub-plots that simply take away from the tension. Too much padding actually hurts the film. Anatole Litvak's direction is strong--but not strong enough to put the film on the same level with the classic radio drama. The plot is overcomplicated to the nth degree.Trivia note The only other film with such heavy use of flashbacks to tell a complicated story is THE LOCKET ('47), but it was done more efficiently than it is here. "},{"Title":"Promising, but plot complications sent me to sleep","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" I love movies of this era for the social comment. I like the glimpses we get of the characters' lives. Dr Alexander with his younger girlfriend in a sleazy nightclub, for instance. (I doubt that cardiac neurotic is still in the DSM as a diagnosis.) Sally Hunt lives in one of those New York apartments with a strange layout - you come straight into the kitchen, and all the other rooms seem to open off it. The little boy sleeps in a closet screened off only by a curtain. And if Barbara Stanwyck is so rich, surely she could afford to live somewhere quieter? Is Staten Island really semi-deserted? Who would build a clapboard Victorian house on a beach and name it 20 Dunstan Terrace? Where are numbers 1-19? Why does Sally Hunt have a peculiar English accent? And why does Waldo Evans waffle about growing up in Surrey among horses, and his longing to buy a little place in Dorking, England? "},{"Title":"Silly and Overheated, But Anchored by Stanwyck","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" It's stylish, no doubt, and the ending is a remarkably shocking nail biter for its time, but Sorry, Wrong Number seems like an awfully overwrought affair now. Barbara Stanwyck acts up a storm as a bed-ridden woman who inadvertently hears plans for a murder over her phone and spends the rest of the film trying to get help. It's like a melodramatic, women's picture version of When a Stranger Calls. The film is fleshed out with a lot of back story that feels more like padding than anything else, but I guess they had to fill out the run time with something, since the basic story could have been told in 15 minutes. Stanwyck handles the film like a pro. Even when she's overacting (which is often) she keeps you thoroughly interested in this rather silly affair. She would win her last Best Actress Academy Award nomination for this film, forcing the Academy to toss her a consolation honorary award over thirty years later, one more shameful oversight in the Academy's long and unmatched history of shameful oversights.True noir lovers take note---this is not really a film noir, not in the strictest sense of that overused phrase. But it's an entertaining way to spend an hour and a half.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Don't hang up!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock himself praised this movie that was for him one of Barbara Stanwyck's most extraordinary parts.Besides,he did include Lucille Fletcher's short novel in his anthology stories not for the nervous(sic)The story of this woman in her bed,who has heard on the phone someone is in danger,and who little by little discovers the horrible truth,is a first-class screen play which requires the viewer's attention,,or else he may lose the vital lead.The first people who enjoyed it had no pictures,since it was originally a radio broadcast,so they had to show a lot of imagination.The movie remains talky but the numerous flashbacks give it substance.The phone,is along with Stanwyck ,the star of Litvak's work;Burt Lancaster,a great actor though,only serves as a foil to both of them.50% of the dialogue consists of phone calls,that's what makes this thriller unique.A strong connection with Hitchcock's work is the father's part(Ed Bigley).He is some equivalent of the Mother in many movies of his.The stuffed animals in his desirable mansion are a symbol of his daughter's lifelessness.(Coincidence?There will be such hunting trophies (and more) in his psycho twelve years later,and the topic is present in the man who knew too much(2nd version))If you are fond of suspense,this is an unqualified must! "},{"Title":"Meaninglessness","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" 'Sorry Wrong Number' is an exercise in how to ruin everything that worked in a tightly-written 22 minute radio play, via its transformation into a hideously-padded 90 minute movie. The play was so short as to defy the need for a star but the movie is seen as a chance to sell you Barbara Stanwyck. The idea for the play just didn't have 90 minutes in it.The play built tension by confining listeners along with the invalid protagonist in her bedroom, which rapidly became a cage. Unfortunately it was expanded every which way until the clean machinery of the play is convoluted beyond recognition with plot, plot, plot as far as the eye can see; and secondary characters of no importance whatsoever talking the life out of things. We cut away from the room dozens of times for equally meaningless developments. There's an nightclub floor show. There's a secret chalet on a beach introduced with a clam-digging scenario. There's a chemistry lab, car trips, intrigue, sub-plots&#133; Expanding the play just loused the whole thing up. None of it is of any quality.It's all pointless elaboration of the weakest variety; it has no effect on the outcome. Stanwyck is just plain wrong for the role. You want to see an excellent confined, single-set movie? Rent Rear Window. This is very confused, very limp movie. A model of efficiency converted into a showcase of deficiencies. "},{"Title":"Disturbing -- In a Good Way -- Gorgeous Black and White Cinematography","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry Wrong Number packs the wallop of a creepy urban legend told around a campfire. It's cheesy and contrived and yet it gives you goosebumps and makes you scream and inspires nightmares.It's a classic film study of claustrophobia, paranoia, and powerlessness.Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck)is a bed-ridden rich woman alone in her Manhattan townhouse at night. She overhears a plot to commit murder ... and concludes that she is the intended victim.The real star here is the old fashioned telephone, the kind we had before cell phones. It's attached to a stable spot in the wall; if you want to talk, you go to it; it doesn't go with you.You stick your finger in and dial it. Busy signals sound very, very creepy. If you make a long distance call, you have to go through an operator, who is saddled with an ungainly apparatus and must stick plugs into a dystopic board of wires and holes.And, by accident, your wires could get crossed, and you could find yourself conversing with someone who may be planning to kill you . . .and that someone could be downstairs in your very house.Or, you could be suffering from an overactive imagination . . .For the next ninety minutes, Leona, never leaving her bedroom, dressed in a fabulous lace negligee, makes contact with characters from her past and present. Flashbacks and voice-over narration of a motley crew of film noir-esquire usual suspects slowly put the puzzle pieces together.There's Sally Lord (Anne Richards), as a too-good-to-be-true, vaguely accented blonde whom Leona had double crossed in her past. Sally seems to be trying to do something nice ... or is she just out for payback? There's Doctor Alexander (Wendell Corey), who tells Leona something she very much does not want to hear.And then, in perhaps the film's creepiest, and most memorable performance, there is Waldo Evans (Harold Vermilyea), a mild mannered scientist who leaves a very, very odd message ... and a number for Leona to call that leaves her shaking in horror.Leona writhes in her bed. Her town house closes in on her. She trembles ... she's an invalid ... she's alone ... shadows menace.The climax is a real nail biter. Creepy. Distubring. But in a good way.A real star here is the crisp, deep focus, black and white cinematography. It's as if you entered a time machine and traveled back to New York, 1948. Check out that vintage radio on Leona's night stand, the sand and surf on Staten Island, the neon signs. Film noir heaven looks something like this. "},{"Title":"Powerful, unconventional thriller","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, Wrong Number, on the surface, seems derivative of every other suspense drama from the 1940s with its climactic score and shadowy cinematography. Yet, at the end of this gripping thriller (which is economically paced at 88 minutes), I was stunned at how it really stands on its own as a great piece of film-making. It is full of heart-stopping suspense, twists and turns, and an ending I guarantee you won't see coming. Another surprise is our heroine, bed-ridden heiress Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck), isn't your typical, spunky female lead (like, say, Theresa Wright in Shadow of a Doubt) or a coolly elegant Hitchcock blonde knockoff. On the contrary, our protagonist is, in many ways, the antagonist. Leona is a shrill, spoiled, manipulative rich girl who bulldozes her way into humble young Henry (Burt Lancaster, looking remarkably clean-cut)'s heart until he agrees to marry her. A so-called heart condition forces Henry to agree to Leona's every whim, all for the sake of her fragile health. But Henry's patience with his domineering wife starts to wear thin, and it's one fateful night when Leona accidentally overhears a murder plot on the phone that she faces not only some ugly truths about herself, but also her own mortality.I really loved the slow camera work in this movie, the way it cautiously creeps over every bit of scenery, enhancing Leona's (and our) sense of dread. Kudos as well to whoever put the sound of a rotary dial in the score during the opening credits. After you've seen this movie, that sound becomes downright menacing. Sorry, Wrong Number relies heavily on the convention of flashbacks, so if you have no patience for this plot device, this is not the movie for you.Stanwyck makes Leona someone you root for, even though she plays the most hateful rich girl this side of Paris Hilton. Then again, Stanwyck also made a con artist lovable in The Lady Eve and a middle-aged schemer in Double Indemnity sexy, so it really comes as no surprise. She also shows how Leona's icy calm slowly unravels, and by the movie's end she looks as if she's aged a decade.Lancaster is also good as the fed-up husband, creating a character so complex you don't know what to think of him.This is an underrated, unconventional classic that is especially powerful seen in the dark. See it, and count your blessings that we no longer live in the era of rotary dials and inefficient operators. "},{"Title":"Classic film noir, slightly diluted","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" The title is dialogue spoken at the diabolical finish to this classic and famous film noir based on the radio play of the same name. It stars Barbara Stanwyck as Leona Stevenson, a rich invalid who overhears a telephone conversation between two men who are plotting the murder of an unidentified woman. Alone, from her sickbed she desperately tries to find somebody who will listen to her story and stop the murder from happening. Burt Lancaster co-stars as Henry Stevenson, Leona's handsome husband from the wrong side of the tracks.Stanwyck's performance is excellent, although according to what I understand (not having heard the radio play), she is not as good as Agnes Moorehead was in the original. Be that as it may, Stanwyck grows in the part until as the story ends she is totally authentic and believable.Lancaster too does a good job in one of his earlier roles. He went on to star in scores of important films, perhaps most notably in From Here to Eternity (1953) and Elmer Gantry (1960). Here he is a bit tentative, his enormous screen charisma held in check playing a compromised character.The screenplay by Lucile Fletcher, based on her radio play, was expanded for the silver screen and consequently the story loses a bit dramatically as the tension is diffused as the end is delayed. Fletcher uses flashbacks to fill us in on the story of how Henry and Leona met and how the murder plot developed and why.I thought director Anatole Litvak did a good job with the flashbacks, but frankly their artificiality was noticeable. I would have preferred starting the story at the beginning when Leona and Henry first meet and then telling it chronologically without flashback. But that would have been a great departure from the structure of the very successful radio play.Because of the added material, the movie becomes something more than the original intention. Indeed the theme is expanded, that of the possible consequences of marrying for money, and the consequences--from Leona's point of view--of marrying someone who may or may not love you. I thought this was well done. It is especially interesting to see how trapped Henry feels working for his father-in-law and even living in his father-in-law's house. Also interesting is how Leona's insecurities regarding Henry's love are manifested in psychosomatic symptoms.When Hollywood once again reprises this (and you can be sure they will, but perhaps they will use email and not the telephone) I suggest that they concentrate on both the dramatic and psychological aspects of the story and tell it straight.Bottom line Despite some awkwardness and dissipation of tension, this is one of the best film noirs from that classic era of the genre, the late forties and early fifties. See this for Barbara Stanwyck, one of Hollywood's celebrated stars whose career spanned half a century beginning in the silent film era.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "}{"Title":"Complex noir plot builds and builds...and builds, until...!!!!","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, Wrong Number (1948)You can tell this thriller was once a radio play--it is mostly talk, and often over the telephone. But what drama can be built on a string of conversations around the office, in cars in the rain, out on a lonely beach on Staten Island, and on the telephone, often filled with mystery and doom.\Not that it's not a visual movie, either. There is a big gloomy house, and lots of dark city streets. Shadows and moving camera and close-ups of faces and telephones, all keep you glued and increasingly worried. By the end, the really jarring, memorable end, you are ready for what you can never be ready for.Beware, the plot is confusing. Even seeing it twice I had to pay attention to who was who, and what turn of events had just taken place. Part of the reason is there is a bewildering use of flashbacks, even flashbacks within flashbacks, told by all kinds of different characters. The plot is laid out methodically, but take notes as you go, or at least take note. The initial overheard phone call is key to it all, and it gets reinforced later somewhat, but pay heed there. And the person on the phone? A sharp, bitter, convincing Barbara Stanwyck, who really knows how to be steely and vulnerable at the same time. Burt Lancaster is more solid and stolid, and maybe less persuasive overall, but he carries a more practical part of the story. It keeps coming back to Stanwyck in bed, and the telephone which is her contact with the facts, as they swirl and finally descend.Director Anatole Litvak has some less known but thrilling dark dramas to look for, including Snake Pit. But this is his most sensational winner, partly for Stanwyck, and partly for the last five minutes, which is as good as drama gets. "},{"Title":"A Kept Man Tries To Claw Out","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" For her fourth and final Oscar nomination for Best Actress, Barbara Stanwyck starred in an expanded version of the Lucille Fletcher radio play Sorry Wrong Number. The original drama was only thirty minutes and it only concentrates on a crippled woman and her terror. We certainly get that in this film and it's when we do that Stanwyck went into Oscar contention.Besides the moments of present terror, the story is fleshed in a series of flashbacks, sometimes flashbacks within flashbacks, although not approaching Passage to Marseilles which set some kind of record in that department. The people that Fletcher creates aren't the most sympathetic group of people you'd ever want to meet. Stanwyck is the spoiled only child of pharmaceutical millionaire Ed Begley and we her put on a full court campaign to sweep poor kid Burt Lancaster off his feet and away from Ann Richards. We see Lancaster trapped in a velvet cocoon of luxury, but not really being his own man. He's as kept as William Holden was in Sunset Boulevard. As the story unfolds it actually becomes Lancaster's struggle to claw out of captivity. Stanwyck does not become the most sympathetic figure either as she wields her illness as a weapon as surely as Eleanor Parker did in The Man With The Golden Arm. Imagine Bill Holden's character in Sunset Boulevard married to Parker's from the Otto Preminger classic and you've got a really sick marriage.The flashback story is a bit much to take, but when it comes to Stanwyck's present terror the film goes into high gear. Think of the extraordinary range of roles that Barbara Stanwyck was nominated for an Oscar. The white trash mother in Stella Dallas, the mob moll in Ball Of Fire, the evil wife in Double Indemnity and finally this psychosomatic clinging cripple in Sorry Wrong Number. All completely different from the others, yet all stamped with Stanwyck's indelible screen persona.According to the Axel Madsen biography of Stanwyck she was not entertaining hopes of winning in 1948 in what proved to be her last shot at a competitive Oscar. She picked out exactly who was going to win that year and her other competition was Ingrid Bergman in Joan Of Arc, Olivia DeHavilland in The Snake Pit, and Irene Dunne in I Remember Mama. The winner in who Stanwyck said was the Best Performance for an Actress in 1948 was Jane Wyman for Johnny Belinda.When Sorry Wrong Number concentrates on Barbara it's one of the best fright tales around. Would that the rest of the film was as good as her performance. "},{"Title":"Stanwyck Needed Call Waiting ***1/2","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck's fourth and final Oscar nomination came for Sorry, Wrong Number. She gave us every possible emotion in a memorable performance. Stanwyck always knew how to put on the hysteria and she is quite effective here as Leona Stevenson, a wealthy woman, who marries Burt Lancaster and with her father, an excellent Ed Begley, becomes overly-possessive of him.Leona, who in certain ways, reminds me of Leona Helmsley, is a hypochondriac. Her self-inflicted stress leads to symptoms of coronaries.There is however just too much coincidence in this film to believe. In all of N.Y., a cross-wire occurs and Leona hears of a plot to kill someone. Guess who that someone is? In addition, a former rival for Lancaster, is married to a D.A., who has startling information about Stevenson.The thriller is engrossing up until the end. With the killer stating the title at the end, we have been taken for quite a rousing ride.Lancaster appeared to be much younger than Stanwyck in too many scenes. At the very end, he shows a maturity when he is sorry for what he has plotted. It's too late but don't hang up on this one. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Thriller","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  This turns out to be a pretty good thriller despite some quirks and shortcomings. Once you accept the premise, it builds up the tension at a good pace, and the use of flashbacks in the narrative is handled in a way that works in itself and that is also suited to the story. If some of the characters were just a little less unpleasant, it would have been even more compelling, but then perhaps the unappealing characters were considered an essential feature of the story.In order for the story to work, you do have to accept some far-fetched coincidences at the beginning. But after that, most of it develops naturally, and it gets increasingly interesting as each sequence fills in another part of the overall picture. The most satisfying feature of the movie is to see how the plans and schemes of each character all come together.Barbara Stanwyck portrays her character effectively, but the character herself is not sympathetic enough to get the most out of the situation. Much of what is going on remains merely interesting, rather than generating any deep feelings, because there is no particular reason to care deeply about Stanwyck's character or any of the others. The lack of positive characters does give it a good noirish feel, though, and as such it works well.  "},{"Title":"Listen to the radio show instead","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  This film is based on the classic Suspense radio play of the same name.  That radio show starred Agnes Moorehead and ran about 30 minutes in length.  Having heard the radio show (and after seeing this film you should hear it) you can see how maredly different the movie is.The plot is simple, an invalid, wealthy woman is home alone late at night.  When making a telephone call, she overhears another conversation about a murder that will be committed that night.  The radio play the drama is very tense and you will be on the edge of you seat.The film production is bogged down with lengthy flashbacks.  These flashbacks take away the tension that has built up, and it is hard to get that momentum back.  The final 5 minutes of the film are exciting, but the first part of the film is painfully slow.Ann Richards, while a wonderful actress, is supposed to be the dowdy, poor girl that Burt Lancaster gave up to marry Barbra Stanwyck, however her regal bearing and eloquent voice make her appear far more superior to the Stanwyck character, who is supposed to be a well educated snob.The actors all did a good job, and the film can be tense, but the flashbacks slow the film down and help to dissipate the tension that should be there.  Do yourself a favor and listen to the radio show first, then watch the movie.  Of better yet, just listen to the radio show and envision it in your own mind, its even scarier. "},{"Title":"Only the scenes straight from the radio play are compelling.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Sorry, Wrong Number is one radio play that should not have been adapted to the screen, unless it were a short 10 minute filler.  Part of the appeal of the radio play is the fact that we never really figure out what the killer's motives are.  The film adaptation seems content with endlessly showing flashbacks within flashbacks to tell us everything that should have been left to the imagination.  This results in the destruction of any suspense that has been built up.  In fact, the only interesting moments of Sorry, Wrong Number are the scenes that were actually in the radio play.The ending may be a bit of a shock for those who haven't read the radio play, and the last line of the film is certainly classic.  If you haven't read the play, you may want to give Sorry, Wrong Number a watch.  If you have read it, don't bother with the adaptation. "},{"Title":"Pretty Sorry Number","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" I've never heard the legendary radio broadcast (featuring Agnes Moorehead in what has been described as basically a one-woman tour de force) but it had to be better than the overblown movie version, which today emerges with all the entertainment value of a film noir telemarketing call.Basic plot rips long arm of coincidence out of its socket--screechy self-centered invalid is accidentally patched into phone call where she overhears two men plotting a murder--her own! (What are the odds?)Then, to expand this flimsy premise to feature-length, a badly-cast Barbara Stanwyck (who appears so robust she looks like she should be out stringing wire on telephone poles herself) engages in a series of frantic phone calls that all invariably end up with person on other end of line drifting into a lengthy, often confusing, flashback. (Or, even more baffling, flashbacks within flashbacks.) Corny, dated, way over-acted. . .and by far one of Stanwyck's worst--and most over-rated (an Oscar nomination for this hysterical performance?)--roles. Worse yet, rarely very suspenseful, although some viewers will doubtless be on edge of seats waiting for the annoying heroine to get her come-uppance. On other hand, frequently funnier than a call to Dial-A-Joke, especially when Stanwyck (one of the strongest film actresses of that era) repeatedly, and unconvincingly, bellows I'm a sick woman! into the phone at top her of lungs. "},{"Title":"Stanwyck Barely Watchable In This Noir Soaper","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This kept my interest in the early going but almost lost me as it turns into too much of a soap opera instead of a film noir, in which it is classified. There are some good touches film noir cinematography here and there which I enjoyed. Barbara Stanwyck, whom I usually like to watch, was nothing but a whining hypochondriac and not somebody you root for because of her constant demanding of everything. Yet, I somehow found her character at least bearable.I did like the ending and I thought it made the film more memorable and credible. "},{"Title":"Definitely It's a must for lovers of noir film genre.","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" We are witnessing one of the great works of black cinema and intrigue of the 40s, the golden era with titles like Chained, Remember, Have and Have Not, In a Lonely Place, The Third Man , Laura , the woman in the Window , rope ... and many others. However this title Wrong Number, one of the least known is undoubtedly one of the best. Undoubtedly it is the masterpiece of Anatole Litvak, Ukrainian immigrant who fled communism is installed in the United States and makes a very interesting race. Titles like Anastasia or The Night of the Generals demonstrate the proper office of the director who nevertheless performed in Wrong Number, probably his masterpiece. The film is based on an prodigious script Lucille Fletcher, who also does his best work here, with dazzling cinematic treatment time and its ability to convey distress. The actors do a splendid job, Barbara Stanwyck, who was nominated for an Oscar, takes also one of the best work of his life and is simply wonderful as hypochondriac daughter of a millionaire pharmacy industry who marries on a whim with Burt Lancaster it is gorgeous despite being only his second film. See how it moves, as you feel suits as ... grabs hat. In short it is one of the least known of the classic highly recommended for all film lovers and essential to the film intriguing jewelry. Recent as Fargo, Memento, Mobile or Last Call Movies are inspired by this film. But even the largest, Alfred Hitchcock, is clearly inspired by Wrong Number to develop his famous Murder. One of the films, with a steady pace and intrigue and intensity that goes in crescendo as the plot unfolds. The interpretations of the characters are very good, especially Barbara Stanwyck "},{"Title":"Hello, hello...anybody there?","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" What we have with SORRY, WRONG NUMBER is a half-hour premise (originally done on radio with Agnes Moorehead) that has been painfully stretched into 89 minutes. The entire thing feels padded, like the flashbacks are used as filler just to draw it all out and reach the required length of a feature film. Another problem is the dialogue. It is obvious that they didn't rewrite it for the screen and relied heavily on the original text of the radio version.Close your eyes and listen to it and it is like listening to a radio program. Some people like that, but I don't. I think dialogue should be sparse (unless it's a screwball comedy where we're supposed to have a series of rapid fire exchanges) and that especially in noir or a suspense drama, filmmakers should show whenever possible and not tell. Instead, this film is too talky and way too shrill. One contemplates what it would be like if it had been produced in the hands of someone like Alfred Hitchcock-- how it would be much more visually striking and what other dramatic possibilities (and ironic humor) might have been achieved with the story. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Stanwyck performance with expert support from young Burt Lancaster","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" From Capra's early talkie hit Ladies of Leisure(Columbia, 1930) through her Emmy winning turn opposite Richard Chamberlain in The Thorn Birds(ABC, 1983) Barbara Stanwyck was one of Hollywood's greatest actresses. An amazing run even outlasting Joan Crawford and Bette Davis in terms of longevity and quality. Anatole Litvak's masterfully directed Sorry Wrong Number captures Stanwyck at her exact Hollywood peak. A marvelously suspenseful expansion of Lucille Fletcher's celebrated 22-minute radio thriller, Stanwyck delivers a mesmerizing performance that brought her a fourth and final Oscar nomination. A critical success as well as a big box-office hit, this films pulls you in and never lets you go. Unlike the great Davis who often seemed overly mannered or the underrated Crawford who had a habit of walking through parts with an insolent attitude whenever the scripts were weak, Stanwyck is always very natural and believable. Even in high melodrama she keeps it grounded in reality. Lancaster delivers a very fine performance as her boy toy of a husband. Top notch Paramount production values and lush cinematography are big pluses...And the supporting cast is outstanding with Ed Begley terrific as Stanwyck's father, a sinister young William Conrad, and a very good performance from the forgotten Ann Richards as Stanwyck's competition for Lancaster. A must especially for Stanwyck's still huge following. "},{"Title":"What a ride!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Just finished watching this gripping, tension-packed film noir thriller and enjoyed every moment of it. Barbara Stanwyck is superb as the spoiled rich woman trapped in her bedroom by illness and Burt Lancaster, playing against his he-man type, is great as the compromised husband who is stuck under the thumbs of his wife and her father.As the story plays out in nearly real time, and as much of the present dialog is spoken through phone calls, I admired the way the director was able to weave in flashbacks that explain how the situation got to such a serious, deadly point. Far from bogging down the plot, they built the tension and suspense to such a point that when the shocking and perfectly abrupt ending came, all I could say was, Wow! "},{"Title":"A sense of paralysis....","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Perhaps intentionally created for the audience, by Hitchcock. Having read other prolific reviews, I do agree with the mixed assessment.People are trapped in their own psychological cages (similar to Tony Perkins' quote in Psycho). Stanwyck, the heir apparent to a pharmaceutical company, is a woman entrapped with hypochondriasis and narcissism, demanding attention of her beleaguered husband, woodenly presented by Burt Lancaster.Her performance is stellar, but her character is not sympathetic. Perhaps this was the intent. There are several noir visuals, the NY subway scenes, the foreshadowing, which are visually interesting. Overall worth watching. 8/10. "},{"Title":"There's Someone In The House!","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This somewhat better-than-average, 1948, Hollywood Thriller was originally a 30-minute radio play written in 1943 by Lucille Fletcher.So, with that in mind, you can just imagine how much extra padding this film's story required in order to turn it into a 90-minute vehicle for the likes of Barbara Stanwyck and Burt Lancaster.Featuring some excellent b&w camera-work, Sorry, Wrong Number certainly contains enough suspense and tension-filled moments to allow the viewer to forgive its decidedly convoluted storyline that (once again) gets itself bogged down with way too much flashback nonsense.Well, if nothing else - Being a vintage, Hollywood production, Sorry, Wrong Number does, at least, rise above your typical screwball comedy which seemed to prevail during that particular era in movie-making history. "},{"Title":"Murky Nail-Biter","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Heck of a thriller, though the narrative is difficult to piece together at times. Stanwyck gets to run through a gamut of hysterical emotions as the intended victim. Her Leona is not particularly likable as the rich man's daughter who gets her way by bullying people around her. So there's some rough justice in her predicament&#x97;alone, disabled and dependent on the phone while a killer seemingly stalks her. Even the independent working-man, a studly Henry (Lancaster), is bullied into taking up with her. Of course, it doesn't hurt that she's got scads of money to assist her schemes. Incidentally, catch how Henry's several capitulations to others (Leona, Morano) are marked by allowing them to light his cigarette. Nice touch.The idea of only gradually revealing why Leona is being set up for murder is a good one. It adds to the suspense&#x97;not just a 'when' but also a 'why'. The trouble is the disclosure is only revealed in pieces over the phone using flashbacks, and these are hard to piece together over a stretch of time. But enough comes through that we get the idea. There's some great noir photography from Sol Polito that really adds to the tense atmosphere. Anyhow, it's a great premise that also played well over the radio that I recall as a kid. It's also a subtle irony that one could end up being so alone in the middle of a great city. Poor Leona, maybe if she had been a little nicer and less bossy over the phone, she might have made the human connection she needed. "},{"Title":"Very Effective Piece of Suspense","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Leona Stevenson, a wealthy heiress, travels from her home in Chicago to New York to obtain medical treatment for the heart condition which has left her a bedridden invalid. She is obliged to remain in bed with the telephone as her only link to the outside world. One evening, she gets a crossed phone connection and accidentally overhears a conversation between two men who seem to be plotting a murder. This film is sometimes described as having been shot in real time, but it is very different from, say, Hitchcock's Rope, also made in 1948. Rope has a simple structure, observing the classical unities of time, place and action; the action not only takes place in real time but also takes place in a single location and tells a single story, with no subplots and no flashbacks. In Sorry, Wrong Number the main plot line, taking place in Leona's bedroom, may take place in real time, but there are also numerous flashbacks. These all occur in the context of a telephone conversation between Leona and some other person, and they relate what has happened in the past or what is happening in some other place. One such flashback, for example, tells the story of how Leona met and married her husband Henry, whom she seduced away from her college friend Sally. For a film which lasts for less than an hour and a half, the plot is a fairly complex one; in its complexity and its use of flashbacks it reminded me of another American drama from the late forties, John Brahm's The Locket. Much of the drama surrounds Henry, an uneducated but ambitious young man from a working-class background. After his marriage to Leona, he was made a vice-president of the company controlled by her wealthy father. He soon realised, however, that this job was little more than a sinecure, and his marriage to the spoiled, demanding Leona quickly went sour, especially after her illness left her an invalid. Bored and restless, he concocted a dishonest scheme to siphon off money from the company, a scheme which led to his becoming dangerously involved with a ruthless organised crime gang. Some have complained that Burt Lancaster is miscast as Henry, although I suspect that is because they think of him either as the action hero of the fifties or as the socially liberal Hollywood heavyweight of the sixties and seventies. In the early part of his career in the late forties, however, he tended to specialise in crime dramas and film noir, the best-known example probably being his debut film The Killers. Henry is therefore typical of the sort of role that Lancaster was playing around this time, and his performance is a perfectly good one. One of the problems with the film is the lack of any characters with whom the audience can sympathise. Henry and his associates are obvious villains, and Leona is so spoiled, wilful and hysterical that she forfeits the sympathy we would normally feel for her because of her illness. (It is, in fact, revealed that there is nothing organically wrong with her heart; her symptoms are purely psychosomatic ones arising from her neuroses). Barbara Stanwyck's performance is, technically, a good one- it won her a Best Actress Oscar nomination- but I felt that the film could have been improved if Stanwyck had toned things down and tried to make her character more likable. Another weakness arises from the structure of the plot. Because the various flashbacks are related to Leona's various telephone conversations, there are occasions when the people she is speaking to tell her far more information than they would have been likely to do in real life, which occasionally makes the film seem rather unrealistic. Another plot hole comes when Sally's husband Fred, a lawyer with the DA's office, has a sensitive and confidential conversation with a colleague from his own home telephone in the full hearing of his wife. It struck me as highly unlikely that he would have done this, especially as the conversation concerned his wife's ex-boyfriend Henry, who is under investigation by the police. Nevertheless, director Anatole Litvak handles his material well, making use of typical film noir conventions such as low-level lighting, looming shadows and circling camera shots, as well as a spooky musical score (even if this occasionally becomes a bit too intrusive). The final scene, after Leona has come to realise that the murder she has overheard being discussed is her own, is unbearably tense. Overall, Sorry, Wrong Number is a very effective piece of suspense, reminiscent of some of Hitchcock's works. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hypochondriac karma","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Leona (Barbara Stanwyck) is alone in her house and bed-ridden. She spends the film trying to track down her husband Henry (Burt Lancaster) by telephone. The story unfolds as each person she speaks with starts a flashback sequence. We gradually discover what is happening and build towards an excellent climax. Some, like myself, will find it extremely satisfying.This film has a good cast and memorable scenes include the segment where Waldo Evans (Harold Vermilyea) phones Leona as well as the final sequence when Henry is on the phone to Leona and is trying to save her. Basically, she has overheard 2 men discussing a murder that will happen that night at 11.15pm. Leona eventually realizes that they have been discussing her murder and she has a race against time to work out what is going on. All from her bed and her only tool is the telephone.Barbara Stanwyck plays a really annoying bitch/cow of a woman. She is detestable yet she just manages to make the viewer sympathize with her at the end. I actually felt more sorry for Burt Lancaster. Poor man. The good storyline over-rides the irritating Stanwyck and the film ends with a memorable final line of dialogue. "},{"Title":"The main character never leaves her room...","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" ...yet this one will have you on the edge of your seat. Impoverished Henry Stevenson (Burt Lancaster) meets wealthy Leona (Barbara Stanwyck) and falls for her - or her money, or both, it's really hard to tell. Leona certainly falls for Henry, as much as she is capable of falling for anyone. They marry, but after the honeymoon, things begin to fall apart. Leona treats Henry at worst like a pet, at best like the kept man that he actually is. Henry wants a chance to be his own man. He wants a real job, not the make-work executive title his father-in-law (Ed Begley) has given him, or at least he wants he and Leona to have their own apartment rather than living with Leona's father. Leona will have none of it and shows her displeasure by having a heart attack each time Henry tries to break free, and matters are only made worse by Leona's enabling father whose wife also had heart problems and died of them. He has no intention of allowing history to be repeated or at least hastened by what he considers to be Henry's minor complaints. Thus Leona seems to have Henry whipped, with him playing the part of a bird in a gilded cage. Henry's current predicament is revealed using a series of flashbacks via a string of telephone calls Leona takes part in one evening when she is all alone in her spacious mansion. One caller is from her past, Henry's old sweetheart that Leona bested; another is from her present, her personal physician; and finally there is a call from a mild-mannered chemist she doesn't know at all claiming to be Henry's partner in a criminal venture. Each caller fills in a piece of a puzzle that altogether paints a very unflattering picture of Henry, his present predicaments and illegal enterprises, and his probable plan for getting out of all of this trouble. Particularly chilling is Leona's call to the Bowery 2-1000 number given to her by the chemist who claims he is Henry's accomplice. He says he is to be reached there if anyone is looking for him later in the evening. Beginning to get concerned about all of these calls, Leona attempts to leave a message, but it is a place where no messages are ever transmitted - the city morgue. What makes all of this so interesting is what preceded all of these calls - when Leona was trying to make a call herself she heard through what was then called crossed connections one man telling another man how and when to commit the murder of an unnamed woman. No names, addresses, or motives are given, and then the conversation cuts off.Highly recommended as a very engaging film noir with lots of rather unsympathetic characters that you'll come to care about nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Not everything in this film succeeds, but it's still mostly a good adaptation of the radio play","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" I never knew about the 1943 radio play, Sorry, Wrong Number, written by Lucille Fletcher and starring Agnes Moorehead, until last year when I finally heard it. The play certainly caught my attention, just like it obviously did to many people who heard it when it was first broadcast, decades before I was born. Several years after its original broadcast, it was adapted to this film-noir by Fletcher herself, starring Barbara Stanwyck. After hearing the radio play for the first time last year, I was already interested in seeing this movie. This month, I heard the play for the second time and then finally got around to watching this 1948 adaptation. Was it as good as I could have possibly hoped for? Definitely not, but I thought most of it was at least reasonably well done.Leona Stevenson is a wealthy heiress who is bedridden due to a severe illness. One night, she is all alone in her New York home. Her husband, Henry, promised he would be home hours ago, but for some mysterious reason, he still isn't back! With nobody else around and Leona hardly able to walk, the only way she can contact anyone is through the telephone beside her bed. She tries to call Henry, but does not succeed. Instead, the phone lines cross, and she hears a conversation between two thugs who are planning the murder of a woman, which is intended to happen at 1115 that night! Obviously shocked at what she has just heard, Leona is determined to foil this evil plan she now knows about, and begins to call different people on the phone. During the series of phone calls, starting unsuccessfully with the operator and the police, she gradually learns a lot, as we learn more about the character, her husband, and other people she knows! This version of Sorry, Wrong Number is mostly steady around the beginning, with the lead character in bed on the phone soon hearing the sinister conversation. Unfortunately, it doesn't stay consistent. In order to make a full-length movie out of the story, it obviously had to be extended, and one of the ways they extended it here was by adding a series of flashbacks. Not all of these work so well, including the tedious one early in the film showing how Leona's relationship with Henry began. This part really shows how unlikable our lead character is! However, while the film drags in a number of spots, there is a decent amount of suspense for much of the time, sometimes with an intense and haunting atmosphere, and most of the flashbacks do work. There's also great cinematography, with some nice shots of New York City, sometimes through Leona's window, and mostly good acting, with a decent if slightly flawed performance from Barbara Stanwyck, and other notable performances such as Burt Lancaster as Henry Stevenson. So, while this 1948 film-noir is no masterpiece, and is inferior to the radio play which it's based on, fans of suspense might want to give it a try. "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" ***Spoilers*** Ever since seeing this film in the fall of 2008, I've been obsessed with Barbara Stanwyck Lol -P. Normally the old black and white classics don't hold my attention (I will say, most of these surpass the quality of films released today). But for a movie where the main character spends about 75% of her time in her bedroom, this was damned good -D. Stanwyck's character is severely ill and is bed-ridden. Burt Lancaster was quite good in this also.I will say though that I was upset to see her actually get killed. But hey, that was a twist of an ending (especially back in the day). And I really enjoyed the portrayal of Stanwyck & Lancaster's courtship and marriage through the years. At first, Lancaster's character is taken with her. Then he kind of gets trapped under her and her father's thumb. Naturally, this creates some kind of disdain. So he puts a hit on her. For her insurance money, no less. He was overlaid with greed and anger. Towards the end in his confession, all of his love for her comes back. They're just a little too late. It's really an amazing movie. It drags a little and it has a few flaws. But for this little film with a bed-ridden main character, it certainly did its job. Wonderful acting, pretty good script, and old-fashioned suspense make this a classic gem. "}{"Title":"Flashback Film Noir","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" A woman confined to a bed overhears a murder plot on a crossed telephone line and tries to alert the police. The plot structure is quite convoluted, with most of the story told in flashbacks. In fact there are flashbacks within flashbacks, making it somewhat hard to follow. The audience is supposed to feel sympathy for Stanwyck, but the character is too self-centered and whiny for that to happen. Given her character's propensity for histrionics, the actress manages to keep her performance somewhat controlled; Lancaster is fine as her trophy husband. Litvak creates a good film noir atmosphere, although at times his camera roams aimlessly, becoming a distraction. "},{"Title":"You can't live on dreams forever. Waiting only weakens you and your dream.","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, Wrong Number is directed by Anatole Litvak and adapted to screenplay by Lucille Fletcher from her own radio play. It stars Barbara Stanwyck, Burt Lancaster, Ann Richards and Wendell Corey. Music is scored by Franz Waxman and cinematography by Sol Polito.In the tangled networks of a great city, the telephone is the unseen link between a million lives... it is the servant of our common needs ~~ the confidante of our inmost secrets... life and happiness wait upon its ring... and horror... and loneliness... and... death!Excellent, near pure film noir that's shot in real time, contains flashbacks, looming shadows, fluid camera work and hapless protagonists on a one-way trip to bleakville. Tightly wound and paced to precision, Sorry, Wrong Number flourishes as a noir suspenser by projecting the story from one enclosed bedroom, we are primarily in the company of bedridden invalid Leona Stevenson (Stanwyck). Once she overhears a murder plot on a crossed telephone line, the walls begin to close in and the flashbacks reveal herself and her hapless husband, Henry (Lancaster), to be very flawed and unlikable characters. Plot unfolds with help from third and fourth party characters, all impacting greatly on the outcome by being either sketchy in motives, menacing or genuinely trying to help. And that denouement, when it comes, is classic film noir, with no cop outs and carrying with it that bleak inevitability that crowned the best film noirs of the classic cycle. Top dollar acting from Stanwyck and Lancaster to boot! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Terror By Telephone","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, Wrong Number is an extremely tense drama about the ordeal of a woman who overhears a murder plot being discussed and believes that she is destined to be the victim. The story is based on a tremendously successful radio play written by Lucille Fletcher who also wrote the screenplay. The screen version is full of suspense, interesting plot twists and excellent performances from its strong cast. It's also very successful in conveying the intensity of the anguish experienced by the threatened woman.The style of cinematography used, the numerous flashbacks employed to explain the back story and powerful themes of entrapment and fatalism are just some of the characteristics which place this movie firmly in film noir territory and the pace of the piece is driven by the fact that the woman in jeopardy is involved in a desperate race against time.When Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck), an invalid who is alone and confined to the bedroom of her luxurious Manhattan home, fails to contact her husband by telephone, she asks the operator to connect her. This leads to her being inadvertently connected to another call between two men who are discussing a plan to murder a woman later that same night. Leona reports the matter to a police officer but he's clearly not inclined to take any further action.Leona, the spoiled daughter of a wealthy businessman, married her husband Henry (Burt Lancaster) after breaking up his relationship with devoted girlfriend Sally Lord (Ann Richards) and despite her father's strong disapproval. Henry, an impecunious underachiever, rapidly found that Leona used her financial power to control him and after being given a job by her father found himself also being strongly controlled by his new employer. When Henry's attempts to gain greater independence by moving to another job were thwarted by Leona's father, he became increasingly bitter and remained determined to leave his job. The conflict that this situation caused between the couple led to the onset of Leona's psychosomatic illness and eventually to her becoming an invalid.Leona's anxiety about the murder plot continues to grow after a series of telephone conversations reveal that her husband and another man who also works for her father have been partners in a scam involving the illegal sale of drugs from her father's pharmaceuticals company. She also becomes increasingly fearful as it becomes evident that Henry is involved in dealings with a gangster who has made financial demands which he is unable to meet and that he's arranged for Leona to be murdered so that he can pay off the gangster with the money he would receive after her death. Leona becomes utterly terrified as she realises that plans exist to murder her and then gets totally hysterical when she hears the sounds of someone breaking into her kitchen. The way in which her ordeal ends brings the story to its extremely impressive and shocking conclusion.The two main characters in Sorry, Wrong Number are both trapped in different ways and also illicit ambivalent responses from audiences. The sympathy felt for Leona because of her isolation, immobility and terror is counterbalanced by the disgust which her manipulative, abusive and ruthless behaviour attracts. Similarly, the deplorable treatment that Henry suffers at the hands of both Leona and her father gains him some sympathy. His untrustworthiness, involvement in criminal activity and the murder plot, however, are appalling and unforgivable.The use of the telephone is a constant feature of the story and it's ironical that an instrument which would normally be a source of great comfort and enjoyable communication to people who are isolated mainly provides Leona with information which is either distressing or terrifying.Predictably, Barbara Stanwyck (whose contribution gained her an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress) and Burt Lancaster provide the movie's stand-out performances but also the talented supporting cast are consistently good. "},{"Title":"One of the most nail-biting movies you'll ever see.","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" The movie is cursed with a horrible, B-movie sounding, title but other than that In film-noir style but also with lots of modern thriller style elements in it. It makes this one of the first full-blooded thriller movies, that set new standards and obviously also inspired many later genre movies.The movie has an absolutely brilliant written and told story. The movie constantly features flashbacks, due which the plot becomes more and more clear, until the unavoidable and brilliant suspenseful climax. The main character of the movie is bound to a bed, due to 'illness'. It narrows down the environment, which allows the suspense to grow even bigger. She is restrained to only a small number of possibilities and objects, mostly her phone. She investigates 'the over-heard murder plan' and the disappearance of her husband from her bed. She digs in past with the people she calls (this is were the flashbacks come in) and slowly things start to make sense and become clear to her and us. It's such a great concept and approach, I'm probably making it sound weaker and more ridicules than it in fact is. It's a movie that works because of its writing, not necessarily because of its directing or acting.The movie is so great with its thriller elements. It has many, really nail-biting moments, even though once you start thinking about it, not an awful lot is happening in the movie. Everything gets build up extremely well, with lots of implying things in it. The story allows you to make your own conclusions, only learning later that it was far from the truth. It are elements like this that make it obvious that this movie is based on a stage play by Lucille Fletcher, who also wrote the screenplay for this movie. It's not the only or earliest movie based on this stage-play but it's definitely the biggest and best.The movie has a great cast with Barbara Stanwyck (Oscar nominated for this movie) in the main lead, who perhaps isn't always likable enough though. Burt Lancaster also stars, in one of his early movies roles. Also the other actors are well cast and do a more than great job. Of course they are also being helped by the great written story and its dialogs.The movie also features some surprisingly brilliant and lively cinematography by Sol Polito, that definitely helps to build up the tension and to imply- or lay the emphasis on certain things and provide the movie with an uneasy atmosphere.The movie its ending is really the icing on the cake. It's so incredibly suspenseful, climatic and just overall brilliant. Truly on of the best movie endings I've seen in a long time.Definitely an underrated and often overlooked thriller-movie that deserves way more recognition.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Worse","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" By sheer coincidence, I recently heard a tape of the original radio broadcast. I remember it from many years ago and it really is superb. Agnes Moorhead was brilliant as the hysterical woman, lashing out at the telephone operators and police officers she reached on the phone. It was a tight plot but she was a hard character to like.Barbara Stanywck was one of the great Hollywood stars -- versatile and almost always excellent. She does a very good job here, though she is not up to the original.Good for the producers in keeping Lucille Fletcher, author of the radio play, as the screenwriter! Though the movie is opened up considerably -- there are anonymous voices in the radio play but it is essentially a one-woman vehicle -- it holds together well.Burt Lancaster is one of my favorite actors. He does a fine job here, in a slightly far-fetched plot line. I'd say the strangest casting was Ann Richards as his girl friend from the small town from which wealthy Stanwyck dragged him into wealth. With all the more plausible performers who were surely available, why was an Australian, with a distinct accent, chosen? The suspense is still here. And Stanwyck's character is still not very likable, though sympathetic owing to her plight.It's exciting but not the tour de force the radio play is. "},{"Title":"Stanwyck and Lancaster!  How can this be a wrong number?","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  I love Barbara Stanwyck, who gives one of her finest performances in this film.  Who doesn't love Burt Lancaster, who pulls off a great performance as well.   There is not much action to this film.  It is extremely dialogue based.  In fact, I am almost certain Sorry Wrong Number was a long running stage act either before or after the film.  Don't hold me to that, but I think so.  The dialogue and nerve piercing camera techniques are what make this film so thick with suspense.  That, is the genius of this film.  Today this film could not be pulled off, atleast not in color.  The Black and White help the mood of the atmosphere.  Sorry Wrong Number is a classic.Sorry Wrong Number  9 crows of 10 killed.  One is calling for an ambulance. "},{"Title":"Applause For Stanwyck","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Barbara Stanwyck gives one of her best performances in this, Burt Lancaster less so, but her role as a hypochondriacal, soon-to-be-murdered neurotic is nothing less than superb. Miss Stanwyck gives us a fine picture of a woman who cannot live without the husband who wants to murder her, and of a spoiled, superficial heiress. The film as a whole is also terrific,with the last line delivered actually being the film's title. "},{"Title":"fun to watch","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  This film is not quite perfect, but it's pretty damn close.  There are just a few stretches, mostly near the beginning, which are slightly tedious. But for the most part, this is engrossing stuff, especially when the flashbacks and stories begin.  Eventually a richly textured story emerges.  It's not profound, but it is engaging.This film benefits from that rarest of attributes the strong ending. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Wrong Number","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Tense and gripping thriller with Stanwyck as a  bedridden neurotic who overhears a plot to  murder her. Her performance is near perfection and  Lancaster is quite effective as her murderous husband. Director Litvak moves the production along swiftly, making it an engaging suspense movie.  "},{"Title":"A woman overhears a plot to kill - her!","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck stars as an invalid who hears about a murder plot on the telephone in Sorry, Wrong Number, a 1948 film based on a radio script that also stars Burt Lancaster, Ed Begley, and Wendell Corey. You can really get how beautifully this must have worked on radio - it's a natural.Stanwyck's character is Leona Stevenson, whose father owns a huge drug conglomerate. She's a total bitch - I mean, there are points where you wonder why someone didn't knock her off before. Because of a heart condition, she is an invalid and this particular night is alone in her father's house (though she's married, they live with her father - she likes it there). She picks up the phone and asks the operator for a number. The operator gives her the wrong number, or there are crossed lines - at any rate, she hears plans to murder someone. Eventually she comes to realize that she's the victim.This would be such a fascinating film to show students who don't remember an operator asking for a telephone number or even dial phones! It's also of interest because there aren't the old-fashioned type invalids that there used to be - although it turns out that Leona is an invalid, all right, but not where she thinks.Now to the problems. In 1948, Barbara Stanwyck was 41 and Lancaster 35. Frankly, he looks a lot younger. We are supposed to believe - apparently - that they met in college not that long ago. It made the scene where they met almost impossible to understand, because I didn't realize at first that they were at a college dance. Then later she says she's cutting some classes. Oy. It's aggravating because that could have been so easily altered in the script. Burt Lancaster is to die for gorgeous. Those shoulders, those lips, that hair, that face - yikes! One certainly can't fault Leona for going after him, but one certainly wouldn't have faulted her if she was a slightly older woman going after him either.Nevertheless, Sorry, Wrong Number is a very intense film, especially in its final minutes. Much of it is told in flashback, and there is actually a flashback within a flashback, a device used a lot in the film The Locket. Highly recommended for Stanwyck's performance and for a look at the old days, when operators said number, please! "}{"Title":"Thriller. Should you believe everything you hear?","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Barbara Stanwyck plays Leona Stevenson, a wealthy woman self exiled to her bed. She believes she is in dire health, but actually her sickness is more mental than physical. Leona's husband Henry is played by Burt Lancaster. He is vice president of a company owned by his father-in-law. He is unhappy with his job and not satisfied with his marriage. He is long over due in changing his situation.Mrs. Stevenson, in her sick bed, over hears a suspicious conversation on a crossed connection on her telephone. Paranoia sets in and she fears she is about to be murdered. This makes for a tense time while she makes hectic phone calls trying to find her husband.This movie will test your nerves. But it is classic film-noir. Supporting cast includes Ed Begley, Wendell Corey, William Conrad, Leif Erickson and Ann Richards. Great climax. "},{"Title":"Barbara Stanwyck is beyond excellent","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"     If you have never seen this film but are a fan of Barbara Stanwyck's, then have you got a treat in store! Barbara Stanwyck, in my humble opinion, never gave a better performance, and is hysterical, overbearing, and pompous all at once. Her electrifying performance, cultivating in a suspenseful scene where the hired killer walks up the stairs to her room as she watches in horror and screams to her husband over the phone for help. The other performances are less stellar, excluding maybe the man portraying Barbara's father. Also, the film lags at some points where Stanwyck is not in front. It is easy to notice that Miss Stanwyck pulls the film to its suspenseful height with her emotionally draining performance. "},{"Title":"There must be 50 ways to leave your lover.....","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" .....or as it is also said in the song of the same name, 'The problem is all inside your head'. Barbara Stanwyck made 'Sorry, Wrong Number' stand as a top notch suspense/thriller six years before Hitchcock made the much lauded and superior 'Rear Window'. It's not a real fair comparison. Hitchcock had the great Jimmy Stewart, the radiantly beautiful Grace Kelly and an unbelievable set. This movie had a competent performance from Burt Lancaster and strong but brief appearances from Ann Richards and Ed Begley. Stanwyck is what makes this movie click. For a good part of the movie she is seen in just a medium close up, bedridden from a mental illness with nothing more than a phone and some cigarettes. How she commands our interest throughout the film is a testament to her always stellar acting. Although nominated for the Best Actress Award that year, she lost to Jane Wyman in Johnny Belinda.It's not all just cigarettes and phone calls, we do see her outside of the bedroom in a series of flashbacks that lead up to her illness, but it is the scenes where she is confined to her bedroom where we feel the suspense of the movie brewing to its exhilarating climax.Try watching this film with someone who doesn't know that it's not a Hitchcock film. Then ask them if they happened to see Hitchcock make his customary appearance. Then tell them to watch it again and again and again until they see it. Don't be surprised if sooner or later they think Hitchcock is the shadowy figure at the end. You may also end up thinking that as well. 8/10.Clark Richards "},{"Title":"Not up to usual noir standards","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" One of the flaws of this film is that the screenplay is a muddled mess. It not only contains repeated flashbacks, but flashbacks within flashbacks. However, complicated plots are not unusual for 1940s noir films. Compared to The Big Sleep, this screenplay is a model of clarity, and if you play close attention, you can follow it reasonably well, although it does leave a few threads hanging.The fundamental flaw of this film, however, is the egregious miscasting of Barbara Stanwyck in the lead. Stanwyck is one leading lady whose appeal I have never understood, but that's just my personal prejudice. But if you are casting a film in which you are portraying a female lead whose plight is expected to engender some sympathy, I would think Stanwyck would be the last actress you would cast. Rather than hoping she would somehow be rescued from her ultimate fate, I found myself eagerly anticipating the moment that this shrieking, hysterical hypochondriacal, domineering, whining nasty shrew would be croaked. And my only disappointment was that her demise happened offscreen.Not that any of the other characters are that sympathetic. Burt Lancaster plays against type as Stanwyck's wimpy husband, and Ed Begley plays her ruthless, manipulative father. The conclusion of the film, however, is ultimately satisfying Stanwyck's character gets croaked, and the Lancaster character is in custody and will probably be charged with her murder, so we're well rid of both of them. And the ultimate villain, the Begley character, is unscathed by everything that transpires. Very true to life.This film had a lot of potential, so it's too bad it's such a mess. If Lauren Bacall had been cast in the lead, at least we'd be pulling for her. Oh well, that's life. "},{"Title":"Trust your camera","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" From the first slam bang of the jarring musical theme this film seems to throw itself at the viewer too forcefully. After the opening an absolute torrent of words spill out, every second crammed with dialog, literally thousands of words, spoken by characters who seemingly never take a breath. OK, I understand that movies don't need to be Budd Boetticher or John Ford westerns, moving along almost elegantly with visual storytelling and camera work telling you as much as the dialog, but Sorry, Wrong Number goes too far in the opposite direction it is a radio play stretched out with thousands of added words. The camera work in this film is technically alright but not used the way that a great director turns a film into art. Ms. Stanwyck is terrific but her character is immobile, an invalid, mostly speaking or listening to spoken dialog. All of the other actors are good, including an English actor who recites extensive dialog while blacked out in profile, standing like a statue and talking into a phone. In other words, everybody just stand and spew the dialog as fast as you can then move on to the next scene.A limited amount of location movement is done including some flashbacks but there is constant dialog, narration or the jarring theme overlaying most of it. We can visually follow what is going on as characters move around at the seashore and it could have been done with the sound of seagulls or surf or boat whistles or something atmospheric, but the director doesn't seem to trust his camera. Hitchcock in Vertigo confidently features much moving around in automobiles, in and out of buildings, in a church/cemetery etc (not to mention the classic crashing surf scene) with little or no talking and mostly just the low bassoon sounds of Bernard Herrmann's musical score. Similarly, much of the actual story of Hitchcock's Rear Window is presented via his camera lens rather than spoken words.Every character in Sorry, Wrong Number seems either menacing or overwrought, in well-edited scenes briskly following one another, sometimes with unbroken dialog jammed from the end of one scene into the beginning of the next. Jeez, can you pause the dialog blast for a second and let us see what room we are in?The end of the film is thrilling, as advertised, and it delivers. Overall, the radio-play styled acting is good but I expected to see more of a film classic, and was disappointed to find little artistic value here as film-making. Also, my ears almost hurt from the 128 minute wall-to-wall verbal assault. I think that the original radio play format would be the best format for this work. The lesson to be learned from all this is that if you are going to direct a film, trust your camera to help you convey some of the story ideas, you don't need to totally dominate the camera with added noise and talk. "},{"Title":"classic noir","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Bedridden New York cough-drop heiress Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck) calls her husband Henry (Burt Lancaster)'s office. The lines get crossed. She listens to a mystery man confirming with George on a plan to murder a woman that night at 1115. In flashbacks, Leona stole Henry from sweet Sally Hunt. They get married despite her successful drugstore chain owner father's objection. Sally Hunt is now married to a lawyer from the D.A. office. She tells Leona about her husband's mysterious investigation and possible connection to Henry.This is classic noir. Barbara Stanwyck is terrific in her posh room. I would be perfectly happy with less flashbacks and more of her in that room. The shadows and darkness outside give a claustrophobic sense of the situation. I'm not sure why Sally Hunt is trying to help Leona who was so cruel to her. Again, I would like less explanations except for that great Staten Island location. This has a lot of similarities with my favorite psychological thriller of all times Rear Window. Great noir! "},{"Title":"What does a dame like you want with a guy like me?","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This is a brief review of Decision Before Dawn, Sorry, Wrong Number and The Long Night, three films by director Anatole Litvak.Born in the Ukraine, Litvak's career as a film-maker took him from Russia to Germany to France and eventually to Hollywood, where he became a contract director for Warner Bros. He directed Decision Before Dawn, regarded as one of his finest pictures, in 1951. It tells the tale of Happy (Oskar Werner), a German soldier who, in 1944, defects and becomes an Ally double agent. At the command of American Colonel Devlin (Gary Merrill), Happy embarks on a mission deep behind German lines.Decision Before Dawn was one of many Hollywood films released in the 1950s which attempted to rehabilitate Germans as now our allies. Like the similarly themed The Big Lift (1950), it boasts superb location photography, Litvak filming in actual cities still scarred by war and still littered will real WW2 machinery. Whilst the film's promises of complexity are eventually betrayed, Litvak's establishing shots, handling of spaces and architecture, his grand outdoor vistas and a beautifully dour performance by Oskar Werner, elevate things tremendously. Werner would milk similar material in Martin Ritt's 1963 masterpiece, The Spy Who Came in From the Cold. Today, Decision Before Dawn plays like a rebuke to Litvak's own Confessions of a Nazi Spy (1939), one of the first blatantly anti-Nazi films.Released in 1947, and a remake of Marcel Carne's superior Le Jour Se Leve, Litvak's The Long Night stars Henry Fonda as Joe Adams, a man who blockades himself in an apartment following the murder of Maximillian the Great (Vincent Price), a nightclub magician. Via flashbacks we delve into the circumstances which led to this crime.Typical of Litvak, The Long Night boasts audacious camera work. Litvak's whip-pans, cranes, clever forced perspectives and snaking cameras were novel for the era, and his locations drip with atmosphere. While beautiful in a clinical way, Litvak's visuals still can't match Carne's poetic realism and the gauzy romantic humanism which made Le Jour Se Leve so famous. Litvak's film &#x96; noirish and brooding &#x96; also ends on a note of optimism, a reversal of the Carne's more downbeat ending. The film was a financial flop.Litvak released Sorry, Wrong Number (1948) a year later. A precursor to high-concept, modern thrillers, Number stars Barbara Stanwyck as Leona, a crippled woman who overhears a murder plot on her telephone. From her bedroom &#x96; the film's base of operations &#x96; Litvak's camera embarks on a dizzying quest to avert the crime, dipping into the past, different locations, through telephone lines and back out again.Sorry, Wrong Number was based on a Lucille Fletcher radio play, which Litvak's aesthetic attempts to break free from. He glides from New York suites to State Island beaches to Manhattan skylines, but the film's print-oriented origins are hard to escape. Interestingly, Stanwyck's character is revealed to suffer from psychosomatic issues, and it is her very own flights-of-fancy, her constricting nature (epitomised by her crippled legs) which results in the film's central crime. Leona smothers her lover (Burt Lancaster), wants to make him as immobile as she is, a fact which pushes him into criminality. Throughout the film, Leona's stationariness is thus contrasted with the film's countless telephones and telephone wires, devices which seem to enable and amplify Leona's neuroses. Rather than connecting her to the outside world, these wires alienate Leona further, wrapping her up in paranoia and further illusions of control. Litvak followed Number up with The Snake Pit, Wrong Number's thematic mirror image.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Young Man With a Horn (1950). "},{"Title":"Hysterical, in every sense of the word","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This is the tale of a star-crossed marriage. Stanwyck offers us the quintessential portrait of a domineering, neurotic heiress while Lancaster turns in a solid rendition of an ambitious yet dull everyman who has the misfortunate to marry well above his station. Conflict inevitably ensues, spiced up by Ed Begley's effective cameo as Stanwyck's nasty industrialist father. The whole thing unravels with fatal consequences all around when Lancaster hatches an unsophisticated scheme to achieve financial independence from his pushy wife and her dyspeptic dad.Sorry, Wrong Number is a melodrama on steroids. Stanwyck is essentially out of her mind for most of the movie, playing the overwrought invalid to the nth degree. The music might have been effective in 1948 but today it merely accentuates the inadvertent campiness of Stanwyck's overacting and of the production as a whole.This movie is often extremely funny, though it was never intended to be. I thought it was quite dated and also quite stupid but thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Suspense Tale.","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Anatole Litvak directed this suspenseful tale that stars Barbara Stanwyck as Leona Stevenson, a rich but neurotic heiress who is now bedridden, and married to Henry(played by Burt Lancaster) who loves her but resents having his ambitions stifled by her father, and is getting tired of her hypochondria. One night, Leona picks up the phone and is horrified to overhear a sinister, cross-wired conversation involving two men discussing the imminent murder of a woman. Leona frantically tries to convince both Henry and the Police of this, but is unable to, and will come to learn that the murdered woman is to be her... Based on a successful radio play, film is quite interesting, as its plot unfolds via flashback, with mounting tension leading to a truly chilling end... "},{"Title":"dial N for noir","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" I had never heard of Sorry, Wrong Number before watching it. I then learned that it was originally a radio play starring Agnes Moorehead (Endora on Bewitched). For the movie they cast Barbara Stanwyck as the bed-ridden woman who overhears what sounds like a murder plot on the phone. The real-time action adds to the suspense, with flashbacks telling much of the story. A lot of the acting is more like overacting, though. Even so, any noir is good noir. I actually thought that the flashbacks were the most best scenes, explaining the main character's acquaintances with various people, and how they play into what's now going on. It's no Hitchcock, but still worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Quite a seductive film","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Once the credits rolled, I imagine the audience looking silently at each other, their minds clinging to the last scene of the film. The premise is simple, an invalid woman gets her self mixed in a murder scheme. At first the film doesn't seem as much of a thrill, but it slowly builds itself into something beyond thrilling. The viewers slowly get seduced into a jaw drooping sensation of a movie that is defined by the climax and the final scene of the movie. The acting, I believe, was purely majestic. Stanwyck delivers a most convincing performance as a invalid rich egotistic woman. All the other cast including Burt Lancaster were second to the performance of Barbara. Unkwown(at least by me)Director Anatolie Litvak delivers the story in such a way that the audience gets into the mind of Stanwyck and slowly unravels the mystery of the film by small segmented stories told by different people, a very interesting way to tell a story.Overall, the film is a very nice film noir with original storytelling and beautiful acting by Barbara Stanwyck. The last scenes of the film defines the greatness of the movie and its acting. Thus this film deserves 8/10 in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"A classic noir with a few flaws","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, Wrong Number started as an extended radio play and a TV show. Because of its huge success, Paramount Studios finally decided to make it into a noir film, and gave the honors of being a director to Anatole Litvak.What begins as a harmless phone call suddenly turns into a fast-paced and riveting story of deception, felony, betrayal, great fear, and death. Bedridden Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck) eavesdrops on a conversation between two men, and happens to realize that what she just heard is a murder plot that is going to be performed in a few hours. The precious telephone is the only thing that connects her with the outside world. But as it turns out, this seemingly neutral device can also be an object of homicide (like later in Dial M for Murder). As the hours pass by, through conversations with various people, she stumbles onto a mysterious plan - which involves stealing big amounts of money from her father's firm - designed by no one other than her husband Henry (Burt Lancaster). And going further into details, Leona suddenly understands that she might actually be the one, who is in a grave danger on that ill- fated evening.The telephone calls intertwine in a fine manner with the flashbacks, which reveal all the missing links in the storyline. Additionally, the used narrative technique is able to build the tension and form an authentic noir atmosphere.The chilling music plays very well with the most climatic and frightening sequences in the film. One of them occurs when Leona comprehends that what seemed to be a call for salvation is really just another step towards deadly end &#x96; 'Bowery 2-100 - the City Morgue'. Another example Leona hears a clicking sound when she talks to the hospital nurse and knows that someone just got inside her house and listens to all that she says on the phone.Unfortunately, as much as I like the storyline, I'm not able to say the same about the two main actors. Barbara Stanwyck's character just makes you wish from the start that she would be the true victim of the whole intrigue. Her portrayal of a selfish, mentally unstable and maniac princess is quite convincing, but not satisfactory enough for the first lady of the noir genre. I wasn't really capable of feeling any compassion towards her character. Burt Lancaster is a great actor, of course, but in this movie his performance is a bit too stiff and uneasy. He sometimes looks as though he was completely detached from the story.However, I would highly recommend this movie to any fan of the great noir cinema. Its gripping storyline, surprising plot twists, great direction and perfect use of the suspense factor account for a movie that every cinephille should watch and admire. "},{"Title":"A mix of Hitchcock.. with a chilling ending.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This film was quite clever, and got into the storyline quite quickly which i found quite amusing but which added to the effect. The bed-bound woman was only sitting bait, and awaiting her fate. Although the film was clever and nicely linked, the way the husband wanted to kill her, yet finally did not. It did frustrate me a little, that the woman could not walk, when she previously had attempted and succeeded. The film reminded me of two Hitchcock classics merged together (however the film was before it's time), those films were rear window with James Stewart in the wheelchair, awaiting to be attacked by the killer and Dial M for Murder, in which a man had hired an old school chum to kill his wife, Grace Kelly. This film was thoroughly intriguing and a worthy 8 stars ) Oscar Nominated ) "},{"Title":"A thriller in the Hitchcock mold","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" In many ways the movie reminded me of Hitchcock's Rear Window.The same kind of tension,but not as confined to one movie set as Hitch's masterpiece.Director Litvak uses the well-worn flashback technique,even flashback within flashback,to tell the story of a neurotic,bedridden heiress who overhears an assassination plot on the telephone. Barbara Stanwyck's performance is the movie's driving force and she's excellent.Burt Lancaster is her henpecked husband.Definitely playing second fiddle here.It's intriguing to watch the hints of incest and drug-dealing in a movie from a time when the censorship was still strictly enforced.A great movie on a quiet night. "},{"Title":"Interesting for different reasons","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" To me this movie is worth about 5 stars; raise it 1 more due to the total bodies of work contributed over the years by Stanwyck and Lancaster, and another as an example of classic noir genre. The three lead characters - played by Stanwyck, Lancaster and Begley - don't have a likable bone among all three of their bodies. Even at a brief hour-and-a-half as a feature film, and with flashbacks, it still reveals it was more appropriate in its shorter, original radio version, less than one-third of this length. It reminds one of those disappointing stories, today, in some full-length movies, which are over-long, and seem more appropriate to skits on shows, say, like Saturday Night Live, or in half-hour (read 22-23 minutes) sitcoms. This is likely the reason why so many popular t.v. success-story personalities have done poorly on the large screen. In addition to their being unlikable and unsympathetic, there may be less chemistry between/among these lead characters, in whatever array compared, than just about anything ever put on celluloid. Finally, Barbara chews more scenery than a horde of beavers could consume - one is surprised the bed, telephone and end table remain in-tact from this metaphorical assault. (Burt and Ed Begley are no strangers to gnawing the scenery, either.) I saw a tape of this film, again, at a friend's home - shortly after I'd seen Will Smith, Hackman and Voight in Enemy of the State. I found myself wishing that this film would have ended with the three leads in the bedroom, pulling weapons, and opening-up on one another - the way Voight's bad-guy feds and Will Smith's gangster acquaintances did on one another at the climax of that film. "},{"Title":"BOwery 2-1000","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  The moment Barbara Stanwyck hears on the telephone what that number represents, you are in for a final ten minutes of scintillating suspense. In one of Stanwyck's supreme performances, she plays a mentally invalid heiress, bedridden and alone, on the telephone when she overhears a crossed line conversation about a planned murder that evening. Flashbacks and more telephone calls reveal sinister crime scheme involving her restless husband (Burt Lancaster). The first 70 minutes of the originally radio drama are pretty talky, but still involving, featuring some misty beach photography and a grand musical score. Lancaster is a bit stiff, but Ann Richards is excellent as his ex-girlfriend, as are others in the supporting cast. I can't praise enough Stanwyck's towering acting here, nominated by the Academy, and should've won. The last line is priceless. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"   The old ones are still the best!!! No junk, just good, clean suspense.They rarely made them better.  Burt Lancaster is great. And Barbara Stanwyck really shines as the spoiled, hypochondriac wife who overhears her own murder being planned. "},{"Title":"WHAT A GREAT MOVIE !","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Many reviewers use words like Riveting and Spellbinding I am going to keep it short and simple.Barbara Stanwyck is brilliant, the movie is Great!Rent it, Buy it, Watch it, you'll love it! "},{"Title":"One of the best non-Hitchcock suspense films!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock was the Master of Suspense, but not all great suspense films were made by the Master.  Here is a perfect example.  Barbara Stanwyck received a well-deserved Academy Award nomination for her brilliant performance.  This picture is not dated at all and is as nerve-biting today as it was in 1948.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of cinematography","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This film is a superb example of the work of the master big studio cinematographer, Sol Polito, whose B&W style honed as one of Warner Bros.'s top lighting cameramen did so much to establish the look of classic film noir. The source of this look was the series of gritty films made in the early 1930s about real people in real situations, foremost among them Polito's classic I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang. Sorry Wrong Number, one of the first Polto shot after moving over to Paramount Pictures, has a silky nocturnal look which makes the situation even more terrifying. When books are written about the auteurs of Hollywood's golden age few writers give proper credit where credit is due to the largely anonymous technicians, studio staff employees who went from film to film, men and women whose artistry made the movies what they are. "}{"Title":"Film noir at its noirest","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" I've never been a Barbara Stanwyck fan maybe because she lacked the physical beauty of a leading actress. In 1948, Jane Wyman won the Oscar for Johnny Belinda, a truly remarkable film. I saw it and recently saw Sorry Wrong Number for which Stanwyck was likewise nominated.Barbara was GYPPED. Wow, what a performance as the chief neurotic of the western world who's just about confined to bed for life, must depend on her phone for any type of normalcy and because of screwed up lines, hears a murder plot regarding someone she knows personally and as the pieces of the jigsaw slowly come together, realizes she's the one going to get whacked. And throughout the entire film, you can wonder why it's called Sorry Wrong Number but you'll never figure it out until...until...until.It's a great plot about a younger man's ambitions(Burt Lancaster) being suffocated by his older wife's contentment and security pitted against his resentment and the actions taken to break the stranglehold. It's a grab-hold-of-you movie from the outset that slowly creates tension,fear and horror not only for Ms. Stanwyck but for YOU also. A film masterpiece of a horrific mind game--spellbinding and a better than chilling ending. "},{"Title":"Murder she says!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" One of my oldest tapes, from 1988, and yet in the intervening time I've only watched this potboiler about 5 times. Barbara Stanwyck, although alluring (and maybe even easier on the eyes than Agnes Moorehead would have been) was too hyper as the bed-ridden histrionic hypochondriac for my tastes, probably slightly putting me off.And yet it's still a worthy if contrived film - via umpteen more and more frantic telephone calls Stanwyck gradually deduces her husband Burt Lancaster has some pretty nasty thoughts and plans in his head - some of which closely concern her. There's nice Paramount production values throughout, from Stanwyck's sumptuous bedroom to all of the scenes necessarily told in flashback by people on the phone. Lancaster glided in and out putting in his usual good performance even if without a stunt or tightrope, while Ed Begley was perfect as Ed Begley. Poor lonely old Waldo Evans lugubriously notifying Stanwyck where he can be reached sticks in the mind!An absorbing film generally and well worth watching especially for noir fans, but imho the very best noir films were not Hollywoodised stage plays. "},{"Title":"Great use of celluloid","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  There's something that captivates me about films made prior to the common use of color. Even on forgettable stories there's always something intriguing about the lack of color. Some famous director (I forgot who) said he much preferred black and white because it played to the actors a lot more and to their emotions. Rather than looking at the scenery and special effects, the concentration is on the performance of the actors/actresses. &#145;Sorry, Wrong Number' is a perfect example of this. Great performances from Burt Lancaster and Barbara Stanwyck, but especially Stanwyck, who did the majority of her acting in bed, talking on the phone (or struggling to get to it). The supporting cast was subtle and mysterious, and despite the main actress being bed-ridden the story was never boring or slow. I had a fun time watching &#145;Sorry, Wrong Number', and you probably will too. Rating 27/40 "},{"Title":"Extreme paranoia","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  A wealthy woman (Barbara Stanwyck), who is on the bed for long, caught a phone talk with information about a murder, and not only that, trying to get in contact with her husband (Burt Lancaster) also by phone she knew how he was betraying her. If you want to understand well this thriller you'd better sit and watch it carefully. The fact is that plot consists of various sub-plots (stories) told by different actors/actress. Barbara Stanwyck with her paranoia and initial arrogance in the film showed her class with an extraordinary acting, but let's not forget the serious work carried out by the director Anatole Litvak. In this film, in addition to Burt Lancaster and Barbara Stanwyck, other actors/actress did it also well as Wendell Corey and Ann Richards. The soundtrack from compositor Franz Waxman is also good.     "},{"Title":"better than Hitch?","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" This was 1948, way before Hitchcock's best known pictures and TV shows, so Anatole Litvak was not trying to imitate Hitchcock, as so many of you here have claimed. In fact, we know Hitchcock admired Sorry Wrong Number and a few years later made his own film about a man unable to leave his apartment, Rear Window. One can argue, however, that the nature of tension and suspense found in the last 5 minutes of Sorry, Wrong Number is something Hitchcock perhaps never quite achieved in any of his own films. I've always found the final scene of Rear Window, for instance, somewhat anti-climatic and lethargic, due to those interminable flash bulbs and the lousy back-projection in Stewart's fall from his window. Plus that fat, clumsy killer Raymond Burr will never kill James Stewart, the ultimate Hollywood hero, it's obvious. Having said that, and considering his incredible output, Hitchcock later became a far superior filmmaker and storyteller, and by far my favorite director.Although Sorry, Wrong Number is indeed very talky, it's also intensely visual. This is not merely a filmed radio drama, the close-ups of Leona and the shade of the killer coming up the stairs, to use just a few examples, are extremely cinematic.The criticism of Stanwick being too old for the part is irrelevant. I can't see anyone better to play Leona, not even Bette Davis. Lancaster is also superb, especially in the final scene when he confesses his crimes to the wife. The score by Waxman is perhaps his best, too bad it was never commercially available in its entirety. The flashbacks within flashbacks are also very smart. The only aspect that bothers me about the script is Leona listening to a crossed-line conversation between two killers planning someone's murder and it turns out to be hers! What are the real odds of THAT? I drive under Queensboro Bridge by Sutton Place a couple of times a week and I think of poor Leona Cotterell every time. Great thriller! "},{"Title":"Great thriller!","Date":"24 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  For somebody who really hates blood and gore, this movie is the best!  I recommend it to people like me or people who like slashers because it would be a good change of atmosphere.  I liked it so much--I saw it two times in a one-night Blockbuster rental.See this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Spoiled socialite vs. streets-smart handsome husband","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck gives an Oscar-Nominated performance as a bed-ridden hypochondriac who makes husband Burt Lancaster's life miserable. An overbearing father-in-law, who also is needlessly critical of his daughter's husband, adds to the nightmare. When Lancaster learns from Stanwyck's doctor that 'the poor thing' has been faking her illness in order to gain sympathy, Lancaster sees red.Although originally a Radio-Play, the limited story stretches nicely into a movie. Black & white photography works well for this classic suspense drama. Get the Pepsi and the popcorn, you're gonna like this picture! "},{"Title":"Fine quality  film from the good old days of Hollywood","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Excellent suspense story with every element, music, story digressions, misleading clues, frustrations of the telephone system, all building frustration and tension. Barbara Stanwyck gives a great performance. Her well acted scenes of increasing desperation and hysteria lead to a smashing climax.This film tells its story, a skillfully written story, with a plot and build-up of suspense which engross the audience, all without relying on special effects or bombastic music. The film has no car chases, no shoot 'em up slice 'em up violence, no nudity, and no gratuitous foul language, unlike too many current films.Anyone interested in old standards of quality, delivered in a film with exquisite suspense and mystery, should definitely see this one. "},{"Title":"One of the best film noirs","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Invalid Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck) is alone and bedridden in her mansion. Her husband Henry (Burt Lancaster) is nowhere to be found. While trying to contact him on the phone she accidentally overhears a conversation between two men plotting a murder. She slowly comes to realize that she is to be the victim! This was based on a one hour radio play which I've never heard. It was expanded by an extra half hour for the movie--it sometimes shows. The plot seems overly convoluted and (at times) padded. There's also some hysterically bad back projection (take a look when Lancaster is skiing at one point). Still this film is well worth catching.It's beautifully directed--atmospheric with lots of darkness and shadows--even the scenes at a beach look sinister! The acting is very good for the most--especially Ann Richards in a small part as Ellen Hunt. Lancaster seems a little bit stiff but this was one of his first films. But this is Stanwyck's film all the way. She acts WAY over the top when she realizes she's in danger--but she does it in a very entertaining fashion. It's easy to see why she was nominated for an Academy Award for this. It all leads up to an exciting and very powerful climax.Worth catching for the direction and Stanwyck's performance. Try to ignore the slow parts. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"A film noir classic","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Barbara Stanwyck always turned in a great film performance as she does here in Sorry Wrong Number, her fourth and final Academy Award nomination of her career. She never won an Oscar and was beat out by Jane Wyman for Johnny Belinda in her last chance. The Aceademy did however present her with a special lifetime achievement Oscar in 1982. Here she plays a bedridden New York heiress who is married to a man who is in over his head in debt to mobsters. He plots to have her killed to get money to save his own skin. Burt Lancaster co-stars with a great support cast including Leif Erickson, William Conrad, Wendell Corey and Ed Begley. Russian born Anotole Litvak directed this film noir suspense classic. Litvak was known for his heavy drama and foreign intrigue films and directed many fine films including the Sisters, Tovarich, Mayerling, All This and Heaven Too, Anastasia, The Snake Pit, The Night of the Generals and many more really good films. I've seen a good many of his movies and always liked him as a director. He got his start working with the famed German Expressionist film director G.W. Pabst and after he fled Germany for the United States began directing fine movies in the 1930's and worked with Frank Capra on his series of government WWII films during the second world war. Veteran cinematographer Sol Polito who himself was foreign born and had been photographing films since the early days of silent film is behind the lens here. Noted film composer Franz Waxman provides the score. Based on the radio play by Lucille Fletcher she adapts her radio play into a screenplay for this film. Some may compare this to being Hitchcock-like or not as good as Hitchcock which both may or may not be true but I don't think director Litvak set out to do a Hitchcock film. He was well respected and proved in his body of work and puts together a good film here. I would give it an 8.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"interesting but formulaic film noir","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  The highlight of this movie is the interesting concept around which the narrative structure is built. The entire movie basically takes place in a single evening by the telephone of bedridden Leona Stevenson (Barbara Stanwyck). Everything else we see, other than one of her own flashbacks, is a visualization of someones story being told to her over the telephone. Through the evening she both makes and receives a number of calls, always learning more but never quite enough.Stanwyck is excellent in her role, and why not? It's basically just another variation on the film noir role she had been doing so well in previous films. Burt Lancaster provides excellent support and William Conrad is very appealing in his brief but unusual characterization of the gangster Morano. The story itself is a typical crime tale unfolding with twists and turns, nothing to rave about but not bad either.Unfortunately, the film lacks direction, being little more than a straight-forward presentation of the script in a somewhat clumsy film noir style. I've never heard the original radio program, but apparently it chose to leave more to the imagination. Attempting this in the film would have required paying more attention to the subtle nuances of the staging and acting, which could have had the potential of raising the movie to another level. Still, it's an entertaining film and a must see movie for any fan of film noir. "},{"Title":"So Good That I Swore it was Hitchcock!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  I tuned in to this movie on AMC about a second after the title had left the screen. I was planning on watching something else, but quickly got interested in this movie. I am quite a fan of Alfred Hitchcock, and I knew that his _Dial M for Murder_ was about a man who hired a guy to kill his rich wife for her inheritance, so I assumed the whole time that that was what I was watching. I found it a little weird that I didn't know Barbara Stanwyck was in _Dial M for Murder_, but oh well. This film was as tense as any Hitchcock movie, and it shared a lot of similarities to one of my favorite Hitchcock films, the underrated _Rope_. I was biting my lip at the end of the movie with tears in my eyes. It was so suspenseful. The acting is great, too. It has one small problem, though. Sometimes the story is told too fast and often confusingly, so it is easy to miss a detail. I don't think I missed too many, but there were a couple of times, especially early in the film, where I was playing catch-up. Well, that is no big criticism. This is a pretty great film. Check it out! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hold The Phone","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":" Maybe he was trying to atone for The Long Night, the incredibly inept remake of a French classic, Le Jour se leve, which he made in 1947 because in 1948 Anatole Litvak made both The Snake Pit and this one. It was always going to be difficult to transpose a twenty minute one-woman radio play to the screen but Lucille Fletcher probably did as well as any when she rewrote her own radio play and fleshed it out with both extra characters and a reasonably plausible reason why bed-ridden Barbara Stanwyck should be the target of a hired killer. Though Agnes Moorehead had originated the role on radio it might have been written for Stanwyck who could do tough, ice-cold femmes with a vulnerable centre with one hand behind her back. This is very much her movie but Burt Lancaster registers in an unselfish performance designed to showcase Stanwyck. A tad dated perhaps but still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Sorry, wrong director more like it!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Mystery","Review":"  'Sorry, Wrong Number' is a Hitchcock-like thriller that suffers greatly because it wasn't directed by the Master himself. I don't know much about Litvak other than he made 'The Snake Pit' (a movie I like) the same year as this, but he's definitely no Hitch! If Hitchcock had directed this movie I imagine it would have been vastly improved, and that he would have tightened up the script, which was written by Lucille Fletcher adapting her own very successful radio play. Now I haven't heard the original radio drama, but watching the movie it's pretty easy to guess which bits are directly from it, and which bits are added to pad out the film. Basically, the former bits work, and the latter ones don't. Every time the narrative opens up with flashbacks the momentum is lost. I can imagine that the radio version would have been much tighter and more suspenseful. My other big problem with this movie is my intense dislike of Barbara Stanwyck. How this women ever became a popular star is beyond me! What on earth is her appeal? Her character in this movie is so irritating, and in the back story, so bitchy that it is very difficult to have any sympathy for her whatsoever. Burt Lancaster is great, though under used, but casting Stanwyck in the main role was to me a big mistake. With someone like Ingrid Bergman or Grace Kelly starring say, and Hitchcock in the director's seat this might have ended up being a classic suspense movie, but as it is it is fatally flawed, and only just above average entertainment. Sorry, close but no cigar. "}]