[{"Title":"Seven short Disney animations, done in a similar style to Fantasia but not as successful as that film.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" During the '40s many of the animated films released by the Disney studios were compilation-style movies. By that, I mean that instead of telling one story over the course of 80 or so minutes, the films were made up of a series of short animated stories linked together. The most successful example of this approach was Fantasia (which was linked together by pieces of classical music), but nowadays many people are not aware that the studio made several films of this kind. The Three Caballeros, Make Music Mine, Saludos Amigos, Fun and Fancy Free and Melody Time are some of the other examples.Melody Time is split into seven sections. Once Upon A Wintertime deals with a loving couple who go ice-skating on a frozen river; Bumble Boogie deals with a bee which is pursued by a variety of living musical instruments to the accompaniment of Rimsky Korsakov's Flight Of The Bumblebee; Johnny Appleseed retells an old American legend about a pioneer who struck out west and planted the first apple forests; Little Toot deals with a mischievous young tugboat which redeems itself by saving a liner in a storm; Trees is a short poetic sequence in which the title tells you all you need to know; Blame It On The Samba is a simple dance sequence starring Donald Duck; and Pecos Bill, which begins with real-life actors (among them Bobby Driscoll) talking around a desert campfire, and proceeds to relate the animated story of the titular Wild West character who was raised by coyotes and got into various wacky adventures.Generally-speaking, I find the longer sequences the best. The opening sequence, Wintertime, is excellent, with just the right touch of comedy and excitement. Little Toot is excellent too - arguably the best episode in the film in fact. And Pecos Bill is thoroughly entertaining and has some laugh-out-loud moments. Of the longer episodes, only Johnny Appleseed feels laboured and frankly dull. The shorter episodes are actually rather disappointing. Bumble Boogie has terrific musical accompaniment, but is forgettable; Trees is pleasant but ordinary; and Blame It On The Samba looks like a rejected sequence from The Three Caballeros (1947), and is by far the most irritating sequence in this film, despite the presence of the perennially popular Donald Duck. On the whole, Melody Time might only really appeal to Disney completists; it has amusing and ingenious moments though you have to wade through some dull stretches to find them. "},{"Title":"A beautiful binding of Disney shorts.","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" All possibly to reflect Walt Disney's dreams and possibly some of his new ideas, while the world was recovering from the terrifying Second World War, Disney released Melody Time, a collection of beautiful, heartwarming, musical and entertaining shorts. At the beginning, a speaking mask (who at times is the narrator), explains that there is something for everyone and there indeed just about is! A lot of different kind of shorts await you and you are bound to like at least one a little bit.In order of when the shorts are shownOnce Upon A Wintertime A different kind of Disney animation, including pristine backgrounds, Disney shows a rather messy winter love story. Not the best short in the bunch, but definitely not the least best, with a good woman singer. Bumble Boogie Good for the eye, this short shows a very angry and upset bee trapped and flustered in a world of musical caterpillars and images. A good short mainly for the older, for the young it may be a bit upsetting, especially as the bee is quite a likable character.Johnny Appleseed One of the few shorts with a proper plot, with some of the best animation in the set, Johnny Appleseed is a heartwarming story, you may even be inclined to believe this beautiful American story is true! Good for all ages.Little Toot Unfortunately, this short is rather tedious babyish and a slight bit depressing, probably the least good of the lot. However, it is likely to entertain the wee ones and maybe some grown-ups would not mind watching it.Tree Is basically a poem, a moving painting and a picture of a tree. Like Bumble Boogie, it is plot less and another feast for the eyes, hopefully it will become your favourite of the set. Very beautiful for any animation and stunning.Blame It On The Samba Featuring Donald Duck, a parrot friend of his and a rascal of a waiter bird! Showing a naughty bird bullying and entertaining Donald Duck and his friend with the amazement and annoyance of the samba.Pecos Bill The last of the set, Pecos Bill is pretty entertaining - even with a rather tedious beginning and animation that could do with some work. The songs and characters are certainly entertaining. It shows a young boy being bought up by coyotes and becoming a rooting, tootin' cowboy.So, enjoy Melody Time! "},{"Title":"Scattered moments of animated magic","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Seven animated musical shorts from Walt Disney (with some live-action interspersed) include themes of young love and the wonders of nature. Highlights are the raucous Pecos Bill segment and the story of Johnny Appleseed. Obviously, Melody Time was a holding-pattern release for the studio while they completed their more high-profile pictures. Certainly it is filled with gorgeous color, animated grandeur, and old-fashioned songs, but it's considered to be one of Disney's lesser efforts, and for good reason. The lack of a strong theme, matched with Disney's penchant for cuteness, may cause some non-Disney buffs to start squirming after thirty minutes or so. Pretty much interchangeable with Make Mine Music, which was released in 1946. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly....","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" The WWII years were not good to 'ol Walt Disney. First, a crippling strike occurred just before the war (in which he lost about a third of his animators) and then the war took a whole bunch more. Plus, apart from making military training films and a few shorts here and there, the production of full-length films ground to a complete halt. Up until this time, Disney had produced some amazingly good cartoons such as Snow White, Pinocchio and Bambi among others. Once the war was over, the studio was a mess and they were in no shape to try to replicate their past glorious films. So, the studio worked on a wide variety of short films--intended as experimental productions and opportunities for the new animators to hone their craft. To put it bluntly, it was almost like the minor leagues of Disney--or perhaps the pre-season! Regardless, by 1946-8, they had A LOT of shorts and decided to clump them together (sometimes clumsily) and release them as full-length films, such as Make Mine Music, Saludos Amigos and this film. Unfortunately, these all were wildly uneven pictures--full of very good stuff, some poor stuff and some downright awful stuff. For kids, in particular, they were second or third-rate films--often full of dull songs and varying wildly in style, content and focus.Of the collections marketed as full-length films, Melody Time might just be the most consistent of them. While it still is uneven and occasionally bad (Once Upon a Winter Time), it also had more good stuff--though nothing exactly great. The best of them were probably Pecos Bill and Little Toot....though I also liked Bumble Boogie. The rest of the crop would fall somewhere between these extremes. Enjoyable but probably a film best for die-hard Disney fans or people who adore animation...REALLY adore animation. Otherwise, I anticipate some very disappointed people out there. "},{"Title":"Nice and pleasant, nice animation and songs, in terms of the quality of the shorts the success is variable","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Overall, I enjoyed Melody Time very much. It isn't as good as Fantasia, which I consider a perfect introduction to classical music, but there are some entertaining parts. Elevated by some lovely animation, good songs and cute characters it is very pleasant to watch, even if there are segments that are better than others.Once Upon a Wintertime(9/10)- One of my personal favourite segments from the film. I admit I knew about this one long before seeing Melody Time from watching my old Christmas videos. The animation is absolutely gorgeous in this segment, with a nice romantic story and a truly beautiful title song, sublimely sung by Frances Langford.Bumble Boogie(9/10)- When I first heard of this I thought Rimsky Korsakov jazzed up? How will that turn out? My verdict is surprisingly entertaining, despite its scant running time and being a tad too rushed, with a cute and endearing title character, nice animation and a clever arrangement of Flight of the Bumble Bee. I will say I don't know what Rimsky Korsakov would make of it though, he was very particular about how he liked his orchestration.Johnny Appleseed(10/10)- My personal favourite. Very colourful visually, with some lively songs and the perfect melodious voice of Dennis Day elevated it to a greater level. Could've easily been very dull in terms of story, but the above elements made it worth seeing.Little Toot(8/10)- I have one word for this little segment- CUTE! Little Toot himself is adorable. I loved the animation and music here, the Andrews Sisters have wonderful voices that blend beautifully together. A little too slow in places.Trees(8/10)- Plot-less it is, but it is a visual and musical feast, and the poetic narration was lovely. If only it wasn't so short! Blame it on the Samba(7/10)- Sorry, this was my least favourite, despite the presence of the wonderful Donald Duck and his little green parrot buddy. Excellent music and decent animation, but the editing and pacing seemed somewhat rushed, and for some strange reason Ethel Smith left me cold.Pecos Bill(8/10)- This is one rootin' tootin' cartoon. While starting off a little tedious and some of the characters were a bit deflated, there were however some very nice backgrounds, funny moments and a corker of a soundtrack. Not to mention the fabulous Roy Rogers, wow! Overall, uneven mix but pleasant enough. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wonderous Historical Magic from Walt Disney.","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" One thing children don't have anymore is appreciation for (or even knowledge of) legendary American heroes, whether fictional, exaggerated, or real. Public schools have even gotten in the habit of eradicating our Founding Fathers from American History. Here in this wondrous Walt Disney classic the Magic Paintbrush will take us back to the days of Johnny Appleseed, Paul Bunyon, Pecos Bill and others. I'm writing this from fond memory of having seen it 55 years ago. I remember it well. If me and the wife go to a movie this weekend, one thing is certain If we successfully choose the very best movie at the multiplex we will have forgotten it by the next day. Hollywood simply does not make quality movies anymore. Cars? It wasn't bad; but who will remember it in 5 weeks let alone 50 years? Melody Time was Walt Disney at his low ebb. He would soon regain his reputation with Cinderella, Peter Pan and Treasure Island. Disney at his low ebb beats the pants off today's Hollywood at their very best. "},{"Title":"Disney animation with music shorts (again)","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Following on the heels of 'Fantasia' (which used classical music to accompany animated shorts) and 'Make Mine Music' (which used popular songs and recital instead), comes another musical anthology, 'Melody Time', the weakest of the three.The Andrews Sisters perform 'Little Toot' to give life to a charming tale about a mischievous tug-boat who eventually redeems himself; while Roy Rogers performs the dullest piece of the film, 'Pecos Bill'. In-between we have a mixed bag - a choral version of the croaky old poem 'Trees'; a hot samba with Ethel Smith and Donald Duck; 'Bumble-Boogie' (which has a bee trying to escape from the musical cacophony which is Freddy Martin's orchestra and The Flight of the Bumble Bee); and the tale of Johnny Appleseed.OK to pass the time but does not have anything on the scale of 'The Whale Who Wanted To Sing At The Met' or 'The Nutcracker Suite' from the previous films. "},{"Title":"Nice compilation of Disney musical shorts...","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  'Melody Time' showcases seven classic short stories utilizing the talents of The Andrews Sisters, Dennis Day, Roy Rogers, Sons of the Pioneers and Frances Langford. Highlights include Pecos Bill and Johnny Appleseed, as well as Little Toot, the tale of a mischievous tugboat. Bumble Boogie and Blame it on the Samba are other highlights.A nice mixture of fun and fantasy with some great music on the soundtrack while the Disney animation dazzles with its highly stylized cartoon art. Although an uneven blend of sketches, it's got plenty of entertainment value. A winter wonderland romance sung by the Andrews Sisters gets it off to a good start. Kids of all ages should love it and adults won't be bored. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Part III of both Fantasia, and The Three Caballeros","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Arguably, the most obscure of Disney's feature-length films to be released on VHS and DVD, Melody Time is pretty much a 3rd installment in the Fantasia series, but if not, than you can definitely count it as a twin of-or part II to Make Mine Music (1946). It's virtually the same. But with one exception. Now, almost all 7 segments are longer than those from Make Mine Music. And this time, the selection of shorts are much more eclectic in variety. We have 2 American folk tales, a visual poem with words, a visual story without words, and much more.Technically, Melody Time is superior to Make Mine Music. But- not where you might expect it to be. For instance, the longer segments are, obviously, Johnny Appleseed and Pecos Bill. Of these two, Pecos is definitely better. But, even for Disney, and in the 1940's - this is just too silly to be that entertaining most of the time. You would have to be the least intelligent, most childlike person out there to find this mostly humorous segment to be that amusing. But, it has the right look and feel for Western-themed Disney animation. Then, Johnny is more serious but... there's something odd about this one, to say the least. I guess it's Disney's complete rejection of actual historical events during a sequence where the pioneers and The Indians (yep, complete with Red-faces and all) dance and eat apple bakings together. It may be pleasant if you don't want to see violent history, but it's still stupid. Then, this may not bother anyone else either, but there are a few too many references to God's work, which is too much to think about in a family-oriented cartoon. Prayin's for church, as they say.Next, is Little Toot, which for some reason doesn't strike me as that great a story. I believe it's become a favorite showing on the Disney channel between shows / movies (or, at least that's how it used to be before their new millennium Tw'een programming took over). I don't know why. It may be based entirely on the song. It's a pleasant song, but strictly for fans of old radio / big band / 1940's music.All the other segments, though, are practically perfect for what they are. The first, Once Upon a Wintertime, has some of the most magnificent colors I've ever seen in a Disney movie in a long time. For 1948, this is just pure visual delight - the blues and reds are just beyond vibrant. The tale is perhaps a little generic, but then so is most of what Disney puts to film. But that magic is there in full force on this segment. The second, is Bumble Boogie. It's short and for what it is, it's good. Not very memorable, at all. But, if you don't mind alternate versions (what we today call the Remix) of popular / famous pieces of music, you might enjoy it (I certainly did).The fifth segment is Trees, and this is one of the most beautiful scenes I've ever witnessed in any Disney movie. It is basically the fill-in for the Interpretive segments from Make Mine Music, only the colors are so beautiful - especially the greens, yellows, and oranges. Parts of the poem itself are a little hard to hear, but the singing mixed with these visuals is just a sight to behold. Then, the sixth, Blame It on the Samba, mostly goes for the cuteness of that trouble making bird from The Three Caballeros, the Araquan. The pitch of his voice / giggle have changed and it's now much squeakier and mousier. The animation is good, but the song is great and it's great to see Donald and his green parrot buddy return. Also returning is a live-action person added to the mix who may be a sister to the Cookie Woman from Caballeros. There's some funny chaos later on in this one.This is the first of these musical package features from Disney (post Fantasia) to have few weak parts, for which each of those have their positive attributes too. Johnny Appleseed may not be told very well, but the colors again are unbelievable in several scenes, that it makes moments of the segment uplifting. And then, Pecos Bill has so many songs for one of these segments, that one of them is likely to end up getting a little stuck in your head. My favorite is Blue Shadows on the Trail. "},{"Title":"Although the gag is kinda corny he brought rain from Californy.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Fun Disney anthology movie that features seven musical cartoons. Most are very good and all are watchable. My least favorite is probably Bumble Boogie. Not because it's bad, it's just nothing that memorable. The ones I like the most are The Legend of Johnny Appleseed, with Dennis Day, Once Upon a Wintertime with Frances Langford, the adorable Little Toot, and Pecos Bill, a retelling of the folk hero's story introduced by a live action segment that includes Roy Rogers and Bobby Driscoll. This last segment is the one most likely to offend the PC police, both for its depictions of Indians as well as Pecos Bill smoking a cigarette. Stupid, I know, but some think we live in a time where we need others to do our thinking and decide what's best for us. The other two cartoons in this movie are Trees (the poem put to music) and a Donald Duck cartoon called Blame It on the Samba. Both are good. All of these cartoons were released later on their own as theatrical shorts. This is a very enjoyable way to pass the time. It'll put a smile on the face of any fan of old-school Disney movies. "}{"Title":"Some Good, Some Boring","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" In the years following Fantasia, Disney came up with some animated films which are a collection of shorts. Melody Time is one them. It contains seven unrelated musical vignettes.1. Once Upon a Winter Time A lovey-dovey young couple go ice-skating and there they have a cutesy misunderstanding but make up cutesy-ly in the end. As though this doesn't ooze enough icky cuteness, there is a rabbit couple imitating the human couple. A poor beginning.2. Bumble Boogie The movie starts getting good. This is Disney's take on Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's Flight of the Bumblebee and a very interesting one too. If anything it ends too soon.3. Johnny Appleseed A romanticized story of Johnny Appleseed, a real- life, pioneer apple-cultivator, this short has some of the best animation in any Disney movie. 4. Little Toot The good run continues with the story of a naughty little tugboat who eventually learns to be responsible.5. Trees A short, totally forgettable song on how trees shelter animals and birds.6. Blame it on the Samba Donald Duck and Jose Carioca dance to some Samba music played on piano by Ethel. It has some interesting animation but nothing special.7. Pecos Bill This is the longest feature and has a live-action sequence. It tells the tale of the folklore hero, Pecos Bill and it is really enjoyable.Watch the better shorts separately rather than the entire movie. "},{"Title":"One that got away...","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" All through my childhood of watching Disney movies on video, I'd somehow never seen MELODY TIME (although some footage had been used in sing-along montages).MELODY TIME (1948) is similar to Disney's FANTASIA (1940), setting short animated stories to music, only this time Disney uses popular contemporary vocalists and musical acts instead of classical masterpieces. The Andrews Sisters sing a tale about a little tugboat and Dennis Day croons the saga of Johnny Appleseed. There's some live-action footage of organist extraordinaire Ethel Smith (integrated with Donald Duck and his feathered pal Jose) and Roy Rogers's singing posse (relating the legend of Pecos Bill). Once Upon a Wintertime (sung by Frances Langford) is the sleigh ride romance that is edited into Disney's Christmas sing-alongs.This is definitely a second-tier Disney production, but it has its charms and is nicely animated. Kids should enjoy it, and it's an interesting sample of the musical 1940s. "},{"Title":"Good Cartoon Anthology","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Melody Time a successor to Walt Disney's Make Mine Music didn't quite reach the standards of the previous film, but it still has a lot to recommend it. As in the previous film, some of the segments of Melody Time are better than others.Buddy Clark who died the following year provides the overall narration and the animation effects of the paint brush. Clark was one of the best singers of the Thirties and Forties, his was a great law to American popular music.Pecos Bill the final segment proved so popular that it got issued as a short subject feature. But I like Dennis Day in the Johnny Appleseed segment. Also Donald Duck and Jose Carioca doing the Blame It On The Samba dancing to the music the Andrews Sisters sing and that Ethel Smith plays on the Organ. Ethel is the only other participating artist who is actually seen other than the Pecos Bill segment.Melody Time is a good cartoon anthology still holding up well for today's audience. "},{"Title":"A medley of melodies, painted poetry and a bit of boogie too.","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Melody Time is yet another one of the Disney packaged shorts features and it's, sadly, one of their lesser movies. I'm sure there are others, especially some of my American friends, who will enjoy many parts of this feature but I was often a bit bored and at times irritated by the preachy nature and overblown sense of self-importance that a few of the sections contained.First up we get Once Upon A Wintertime, a nice enough, if slightly bland, tale about two young lovers skating on ice until cracks begin to appear, in more ways than one.Then we get Bumble Boogie, the highlight of the whole thing for me. This is a jazzed up riff on Flight Of The Bumblebee and mixes a great tune with some vivid colours and wonderful images.The Legend Of Johnny Appleseed is fun in places but it goes on for a bit too long and suffers as it tries to convince viewers that the central character is a real hero, worth remembering and celebrating.Little Toot is all about a small tugboat doing wrong and then trying to make up for it. The words are sung by The Andrews Sisters. It's as twee and unengaging as you could imagine.Trees is a bells and whistles recitation of the famous poem by Alfred Joyce Kilmer.Blame It On The Samba, featuring Donald Duck and Jose Carioca (among others), would have been more enjoyable if it didn't feel like something that we'd already seen at least twice before in the previous Disney films of this type.Last, but not least (I grudgingly admit), is Pecos Bill. It's all about a famous hero from Texas and this section also features the extraordinarily bland Roy Rogers and Trigger plus a bland couple of kids to blandly create an excuse for the tale to be told. Damn them.As usual, with this kind of Disney film, the number of directors and writers involved seems to add up to more than the number of characters on screen. A lot of work goes into each and every section, which is why I can't bring myself to actually rate it as a poor film. The animation is very good, with some moments holding up as surprisingly smooth and polished examples looking as if they had been painted yesterday, and the mix of audio and visual work shows a certain standard of care throughout. It's just a shame that the end result wasn't better. "},{"Title":"A real treat for the younger set","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Disney or at least his collaborators must really have known how to entertain and educate the lower elementary level children of America. While substituting for grades k-3, I chose from a shelf of videos made available by the music teacher as noted in her lesson plans. I chose Melody Time because it was by Disney and because it contained The Flight of the Bumblebee, which I knew should delight everyone. I only had time to show the first four segments of the movie, but the children really enjoyed it. They seemed fascinated by the Bee being chased by the piano keys, first in the form of a serpent and then broken into individual keys. Even though I found the Johnny Appleseed segment a bit hard to digest, the children loved it too. I later watched the rest of the movie at home and I'm sure the kids would have been entranced by the other stories as well. So even though grownups may find Melody Time a bit less rewarding than say Fantasia, believe me the younger set will love it. "},{"Title":"Sing aloud! This movie is genius!!!!!","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Seven musical Disney animated shorts come together in Disney's 1948 movie, Melody Time, a movie cartoon starring all your favorite Disney friends together being so very musical!!!!! Here are five things that I liked the best about this film1. The shorts. Nice selection by Walt Disney on all those cartoons selected for Melody Time. They were quite a toe-tapper!2. The history. Yes, this movie has aged quite well, and this movie is a window back in time to when cartoons were enjoyable!3. The folk tales. Yes, I remember folk tales quite well! Here, we have a couple of them made into shorts Johnny Appleseed, and Pecos Bill. You might remember these!!!!!4. It's Disney. What could an old Disney film be like without the Disney characters of Mickey, Minnie, Donald, Goofy, etc.?5. It's fun! It's that plain simple!Have these five reasons convinced you to have a go at Melody Time yet?10/10 "},{"Title":"Please Read This Review....","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I am astounded at the level of vitriol and self-inflated arrogance displayed by many of the IMDb reviews of MELODY TIME. MELODY TIME is a delightful compilation/potpourri of 7 episodes that showcase POPULAR MUSICAL ARTISTS of the day. And despite Disney's temporary post-war decline in quality, I challenge anyone to cite another example of animation that is so GLORIOUS and flawlessly rendered; it is a true feast for the eye, and contains some of Disney's absolutely best visual work. True, the film lacks the narrative cohesion of a single-storyline feature but---GUESS WHAT??--- that's the way the studio designed it!A few specific reactions.1.) Once Upon a Winter -- the overall design is as sumptuous and gorgeous as anything you will ever see; the studio designed this in a post-Deco visual style that was used in 1940's Christmas cards and graphics. It is stunning (the sky, the trees, the horses, the use of light and shadow, etc).I find the story a bit too crude and slapstick-y, especially where the young lady is concerned, which works against this segment's overall elegance and beauty. Frances Langford and the expert singing of the chorus are also first-rate.2.) Johnny Appleseed-- A continual marvel to look at and listen to. Gorgeous pastels, pinks, blues, apple-blossom clouds, landscapes, vistas, rivers, wind-rain-snow storms....the visual design of the pioneer's covered-wagon procession is another example of Disney's artists at their very best. And popular Irish tenor/comedian Dennis Day's virtuoso vocal performance (he portrays all of the characters) is a whimsical delight. And yes, Johnny's main song, with its graceful melody and charming whistling refrain, is happily titled The LORD IS GOOD TO ME. How about THAT?!3.) TREES -- with the ever-popular Fred Waring Chorus (ever heard of them? Look 'em up. A little research might broaden my fellow reviewer's appreciation of Melody Time's appeal to audiences of its day).TREES is the nature/concept segment of the film and simply stunning in its visual design and execution. Seriously, show me anything that surpasses it in terms of its beauty. It's like a fantasy on the best parts of Fantasia's Beethoven Pastoral Symphony...but expanded and amplified.4.) I find Little Toot a bit tedious, since it's so predictable. But it's very well-done, great for the kids, and features the iconic Andrews Sisters of the '40's (ever heard of THEM?....)5.) BLAME IT ON THE SAMBA!!! --Must be seen to be believed. Donald Duck and his parrot-pal Joe Carioca in a hallucinogenic tropical-fantasy that echoes Disney's bizarre Pink Elephants on Parade from Dumbo...but in a South-American jungle-cafe setting. Totally, joyously insane...and very sophisticated in its design.The unhinged goofiness is highlighted by the combination of live-action footage of ETHEL SMITH, a popular and fabulously talented Organist of the day, who specialized in Latin Dance Music. Ethel floats in a big mojito glass, Ethel dances with our two bird-brain friends, Ethel plays the congas, Ethel gets a hot foot (with a stick of dynamite) from that crazy Aracuan bird, Ethel's organ EXPLODES, comes raining down and magically reassembles itself... Wildly imaginative and hilarious. OH YES....in case any of our reviewer colleagues are interested, Blame It also includes the fantastic singing of The DINNING SISTERS--- another popular female trio of the era, whose technical accuracy and flawless vocal blend is ANOTHER bonus in this delightful musical journey. (Incidentally, the lyrics of the song mention three Brazilian folk percussion instruments, here used as part of the recipe for the Samba CABASA (a gourd/shaker), PANDERO (tambourine), and PUITA (a little drum with a string device that produces a curious groaning sound).6.) PECOS BILL -- with Roy Rodgers and the SONS OF THE PIONEERS, the greatest Western harmony group of all time. Check their history, should you be interested. It's good to see them together on screen and in color. And, in response to a couple of IMDb negative swipes at the two young child actors in the prologue, Luana Patten and Bobby Driscoll were among the most talented kids of the day (Bobby, especially). Read about his accomplishments and his tragic end here on IMDb; you may want to reconsider your snarky comments about his talents.Most of the PECOS BILL animated segment is pretty over-the-top in tone; it's almost off-putting, since it's characters are SO grotesque and exaggerated. However, the present-day ninnies at Disney, obsessed as they are with political-correct enlightenment, chose to CENSOR the first verse of the rollicking Ballad of Pecos Bill on this DVD release---WHY? Because the animators dared to show Pecos Bill lighting a cigarette as he tames a cyclone.But all is not lost the night-time imagery of the desert in this segment---the moon and stars, the echoing wail of coyote, etc etc, are simply STUNNING. It's hard to believe that a mere cartoon could evoke such a magical, otherworldly atmosphere. And the combination of the Sons' legendary performance of Blue Shadows on the Trail with Disney's artwork HAS to be one of the most enchanting, ravishingly beautiful things ever put on film.There is SO MUCH to treasure in MELODY TIME...not only its visual perfection, but the way in which it preserves 7 great performances by popular musical artists of the day in their prime. If anyone ever makes it through all of the other pathetic, ill-tempered, short-sighted, dismissive reviews here on IMDb and reads my comments, I hope you will be convinced to decide on the merits of MELODY TIME for yourself.LR "},{"Title":"Melody Time","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" When you think of classic Disney films, this is perhaps one that does not come to mind. Melody Time is essentially a series of shorts put together to make up a narrative feature. As you might expect, it is a hit and miss show. It's not that it's bad per-se, it's just that when the company that made this, also made Fantasia, Beauty and the Beast and Pinocchio, you can see why it doesn't hold up.As usual, the animation is superb. Animation wise, there is nothing to fault. At times, it feels like visual poetry. But sometimes, the content falls short of what could be an interesting film. The good includes 'The Legend of Johnny Appleseed', a gorgeous look at one of America's first pioneers, and 'Pecos Bill', a country and western jamboree about an impossibly adventurous cowboy. Both of these segments remind us that Disney is at their shorts best, when they are focused on folkloric tales. See Icabod and Mr Toad for further proof. However, it's not all fun and games. One segment, 'Little Toot' was so abysmal that it made me yearning for the blandness of the kids TV show, 'Tugs'. And 'Blame it on the Samba', featuring the most irritating Disney character ever committed to celluloid, The Aracuan Bird. There also seems to be this constant idea in the segment which says that the Samba music is impossible not to dance to. I know a lot has changed since 1948, but did I miss a meeting where it was agreed that this music was supposed to be intoxicating? The other segments full under the radar. 'Trees' in particular felt only about 1 minute long, which is a shame because the animation in the that is the best of the film. The original title of Melody Time was 'All is Fun'. After seeing the film, you can see why they changed the title. But it doesn't mean there is no fun to be had along the way. "},{"Title":"The best of Disney's short film collections","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Disney made a whole lot of these short film collections after the war years as a way to bide time until they got an actual feature film together. They're a mixed pack, but this one is arguably the best, if only because it contains the smallest amount of bad or boring segments.Though there certainly are a few of those here as well. Once again the segments are a gamut of musical segments mixed with actual stories. And once again the musical segments are usually the weaker ones. Like Bumble Boogie and Trees, which are mainly mood pieces. The music and poetry is nice in both, but they're as good as Fantasia's similar pieces and are there mainly for padding.Not that the story segments are all great either. Little Toot, the story about a tugboat child, is just as predictable and pandering as the story about an airplane child in Saludos Amigos. And speaking of Saludos Amigos, we get reacquainted with José in Blame It on the Samba, which is all of the worst parts of Saludos Amigos done with slightly different songs and images.But luckily we have Once Upon a Wintertime, the opening segment, a nice, soothing winter pastoral with nice animation style, cute characters and good use of music.And of course we have both The Legend of Johnny Appleseed and Pecos Bill, two of the most famous short films Disney has ever made. And they've both earned their legend. They're animated perfectly, the characters are amazing, the humour topnotch and as a whole they're just immensely entertaining.And that's Melody Time. Most segments are at the very least average, with some of them earning the moniker of classic. If you want to check out Disney's early package films, see at least this one. "},{"Title":"A watered-down version of Fantasia.","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Like Fantasia, Melody Time is an anthology of animated sequences, but is not as long like the former and not as brilliant or vibrant in my opinion. It contains seven animated shorts, some with just music and some with dialog and music.You won't find much plot in this film - just a bunch of cartoon shorts set to the music of contemporary oldies and songs sung by singers from the Golden Era. The animation looks pretty washed up and the overall movie misses the rich music, dynamic and scenic animation sequences and the excitement and majesty Fantasia was able to present.While each segment wasn't very appealing, the Johnny Appleseed sequence was a little touching and the Trees segment was quite beautiful. The story of Little Toot was too cute but has some heroic elements, and the Blame it on the Samba sequence was quite catchy with its Latin music (and it's nice to see a familiar face, Donald Duck, star in that sequence). However, the Once Upon A Wintertime short was boring, Bumble Boogie was a little too mindless and the Pecos Bill story, while set to some good ol' American flavor, dragged the film.Overall, the film doesn't have much that would grab your attention and has that all-around lazy feel to it. It might be something that is OK for adults to watch once to pass the time, but children might not be able to sit through it.Grade D+ "}{"Title":"True, each era has its entertainers...","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" ...but no one in the 21st century is going to recognize any of the people who did the music for Melody Time. Dennis Day? Fred Waring? Frances Langford? And besides, the movie has some of the hokiest sketches. As for Roy Rogers, maybe he and John Wayne were seen as role models in the '40s and '50s, but can we in the 2010s truly see them as such?* So, it's not just that I'm the sort of person who prefers to watch all sorts of different movies from around the world. I prefer it if family movies have a more complex purpose than being happy-go-lucky. For example, I wouldn't call Frozen a masterpiece but I thought that it made a good point about accepting oneself as one is and others as they are. But more than anything I always preferred the Looney Tunes cartoons; their irreverence and grittiness starkly contrasted with Disney's cuteness.The point is that I don't recommend Melody Time.*Read John Wayne's comment about relations between white settlers and American Indians if you want to know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Saccharine Americana","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Disney's package movies in particular are often quite hokey and this mediocre example even lacks the usual highlights, with most parts missing dramatic punch and excitement, while the quality of the animation varies strongly.On the other hand, the shorts are all quite watchable, with the rhythmic episodes outshining the narrative ones; but nothing's really memorable and the kitsch factor becomes slightly grating after a while. Not to mention the sugar-coating of frontier life.Loved the confused bee, though.5 out of 10 howlin' coyotes "},{"Title":"A great enjoyment for the little ones","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I have seen this movie dozens of times and can't get tired of watching it. It's a great movie for small children, like my son and nephew, who are just 9 and 20 months, respectively. They're great entertainment, beautiful songs, nice stories of love, respect for others and nature and fun. For me the best are Pecos Bill and Little Toot. You just have to admire Disney's cartoonist for all the wonderful work they did as you cannot forget that this was made in 1948 thus all hand drawn! This is a great way of introducing kids into cartoon and animation movies, as other Disney movies, such as Lion King, Finding Nemo etc are for when they're a bit grown up. Once again, thumbs up for this, just as The three caballeros, Fantasia and Make mine music. There's just way too much violence and sex on TV for small kids to watch it, so stick to this magical movies and keep their innocence and imagination alive. "},{"Title":"A sort of Fantasia but with mostly contemporary music","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":"  Bumble Boogie and Blame it on the Samba rate as some of the best stuff that Disney has ever done. "},{"Title":"Melody Time brings back memories","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I believe I first saw Melody Time when it was re-issued to theaters in the Fifties, but like it's successor, Make Mine Music, certain episodes found their way onto Disney's weekly TV show. That's when it was on Wednesday nights, not Sundays, and in black and white. Johnny Appleseed and Pecos Bill were the two most repeated segments on television because of the popularity of their characters. Dennis Day of course was well known to youngsters because of his appearance on the Jack Benny show and of course Roy Rogers was the top western star in 1948 when the movie was released. Even today, my favorite part of the program is the song, Blue Shadows on the Trail. Make Mine Music had the classic Casey at the Bat,as told by Jerry Colonna, whom even though you may never have heard of him, brings laughs at his narration. The other character to come from Make Mine Music was Bongo, the circus bear. There were Bongo story books and of course records. While modern day audiences may find fault with Disney's story telling techniques as being stereotyped or old-fashioned, he brought to life in vivid Technicolor the classic stories of childhood. "},{"Title":"Lame!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" Throughout the 40's, Walt had a great problems with staff and money issues thanks to the Second World War and had to produce cheap films containing short stories. But most of them were good like Saludos Amigos (1943), The Three Caballeros (1945) and Make Mine Music (1946). Fun and Fancy Free (1947) proved that the gloss was starting to wear off but still provided good entertainment but with Melody Time (1948), you could tell that the studio was starting to head into trouble! I afraid this is lame, boring, clichéd, over-used and dweary. It starts yet again with Donald Duck (he's a very great character most of the time but let's just face it back in the late 1940's he was just been over-exposed! It's now just overkill!) starting with a silly dance with will give nobody any pleasure or interest whatsoever. Then it all turns into a bunch of flat stories which tries hard to recapture the charm and the wit the Three Caballeros had but fails miserably. One or two of the shorts are worth watching but overall, they boring and same-old! No even an appearance from Jose Carioca, possibly one of Walt's best characters from the 40's could save this one! If you are a Disney enthusiast and wants to wonder all of Walt's work than this will do but for everybody else DON'T BOTHER because they is so much better other Disney films out there (like Lady and the Tramp and The Sword in the Stone). I'm sad to break it to Walt with all his financial problems at the time but this truly does suck!2/10 "},{"Title":"A stupid, dumb and totally dead follow-up to Fantasia","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Music","Review":" I was so let down by the lifelessness of Melody Time when I first saw it. I went on holiday in 2000 and I went to a video shop and I chose it over Make Mine Music and Saludo Amigos. This is possibly the stupidest feature-film ever made by Walt Disney. If you think about it, Fantasia, a stunningly beautiful masterpiece, was first released in 1940 and Melody Time debuted in 1948 and I seriously would expect to see a decent amount of progress in eight years! Here are the segments in Melody Time which all will never stand against Fantasia ONCE UPON A WINTERTIME A man and a woman go ice-skating and just because he trips her up unintentionally she rejects him and the same happens to a man rabbit and a woman rabbit - just plain stupidity, if you ask me! BUMBLE BOOGIE A constantly irritating version of Flight of the Bumble Bee is performed here. JOHNNY APPLESEED The holy spirit is not here at all, even though Johnny Appleseed is a holy man, and his guardian angel is no holy ghost either. LITTLE TOOT is a young tug-boat who is arrested just for trying to help out which may distress a few people. TREES A lifeless follow-up to Bambi BLAME IT ON THE SAMBA Donald Duck and his parrot-friend Joe Carioca go to a café and find themselves inside the glass cup of water they had been drinking and that, perhaps is the only slightly interesting thing about Melody Time but then a very silly song and dance takes place. PECOS BILL I think I perhaps like this one because it kind of takes me to how it was in the Wild West in the 1800s sometime. Over all, this film is just dead, dead, dead almost all the way through it. I advise you to never reject Fantasia for this. It's BORING! "}]