[{"Title":"Hard to resist going out 'On The Town' with *this* cast!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've rewatched both these movie musicals in the space of a week, and ON THE TOWN is no SINGIN' IN THE RAIN. I mean, what is? By 1952, the sheer technical mastery of Gene Kelly had melded perfectly with an entire soundtrack of classics and a clever, satirical plotline with some of the best film characters ever created (Lina Lamont, anybody?).Having got *that* out of the way, however, there is simply no denying that ON THE TOWN is essential viewing in the Kelly oeuvre. It tells the story of three lonely sailors who finally get shore leave in New York for 24 hours. Of course, they're on the prowl to paint the town red, preferably with girls on their arms. (Though for a brief while Sinatra does charmingly play a skinny little geek bent on seeing the sights of New York, flinging facts from his guide book and appearing unaffected by Betty Garrett's streetwise cabbie flinging herself at him.) Gabey (Gene Kelly) falls for 'Miss Turnstiles' or Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen), and spends the day trying to track her down from information on the poster. Chip (Frank Sinatra) meets cabbie Hildy (Garrett) who teaches him how to have a little fun while they romp gaily through two great duets together ('Come Up To My Place' and 'You're Awful'). Ozzie (Jules Munshin), in the meantime, gets entangled with the Claire Huddesen (an absolutely delightful Ann Miller), who likes how much he resembles her ideal 'Prehistoric Man'. They dance and sing their way through a series of misunderstandings between Gabey and Ivy, but all comes right in the end as the girls bid their fellows farewell from the dock.So what's so good about ON THE TOWN, you ask? Well, first of all, it's brilliant fun and very amusing--from the dancing to the singing to the snappy dialogue. It takes a while to get used to the *very* forward New York women (played with marvellous wit and charm by Garrett and Miller), but once you get over their throwing themselves at Chip and 'Specimen' respectively, you really appreciate ON THE TOWN for what it is pure, unadulterated, and unpretentious entertainment. Granted The songs aren't as catchy as in SINGIN' IN THE RAIN. But there are definitely some minor classics to be heard here--'You're Awful', Frankie's serenading of Betty, and 'Count On Me' being among them. I thought it was a really nice touch to have Bern Hoffman singing a lazy-morning song, 'I'm Feeling Like I'm Not Out Of Bed' to bookend the film beginning and end, to give the sense of a full day having passed.It should probably also be granted that there isn't quite enough dancing, especially not from Gene Kelly (who is always a delight to watch, even when mostly playing the bystander as he was in the 'Count On Me' number) and Ann Miller, who got the chance to show off her amazing tap-dancing skills and gorgeous gams in the wildly energetic 'Prehistoric Man'. (It only whetted my appetite to see *more* of her dancing and singing! I'd have liked it if Miller's role was expanded, period. She gave her character an indescribable life and vivacity in the limited screen time she had and overshadowed Vera-Ellen easily.). I'd have loved it if Kelly had danced properly with Miller too, the latter being one of the best female tap-dancers in the business. All the same, the sweet ballad 'Main Street' that Gabey sings to Ivy is accompanied by a beautiful dance routine that shades naturally and easily from dancing to walking and back again--a perfect example of Gene Kelly's ability as both dancer and choreographer to present and capture movie magic with no special effects. I actually much prefer the 'New York Ballet' in this film to the one in AN AMERICAN IN PARIS, mostly because it fits the plot beautifully, and is smaller and more intimate and more focused on Gene Kelly the dancer rather than Gene Kelly the choreographer. It gives Kelly the opportunity to shine as both dancer *and* actor the scenes when he dances with the Miss Turnstiles poster are achingly believable in the way they could only be if Kelly were dancing in them. The shadow sequence at the ballet barre with Vera-Ellen is also something incredible to behold and perfectly-staged.ON THE TOWN is a great night at the movies, and is time well-spent with a few characters you really get to know, an excellent cast (Alice Pearce practically steals the entire show as Lucy Schmeeler, for example--not an easy task considering who she was playing against!), and a great soundtrack. It's probably one of the best precursors you could have to Kelly's much more ambitious musical undertakings in the form of AN AMERICAN IN PARIS and SINGIN' IN THE RAIN. But on its merits, it is definitely worth watching. Perhaps again and again. 8/10.   "},{"Title":"The Bronx Is Up and the Battery's Down--","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  	Here's an idea  Get a group of exceptionally talented performers together, sketch in an outline of a story based on a successful Broadway show, then supply the score, songs and setting in which they can individually and collectively showcase their respective gifts, turn them loose and see what happens, see if it works.  Of course, by the time this film was made in 1949, MGM knew it would work, as it had for them many times previously; there was no guess work involved.  The result this time around was `On The Town,' a lively musical which marked the directorial debut of co-directors Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, with Kelly starring and also doing the choreography.  The plot is simple  Three sailors get twenty-four-hour shore leave in New York and set off to make the most of it.  Chip (Frank Sinatra) wants to see the sights; Ozzie (Jules Munshin) wants to play; and Gabey (Kelly) immediately falls into an obsession over a girl he sees on a subway poster, `Miss Turnstiles' of the month, Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen), and vows to find her.  Along the way they run into a quirky cab driver, Brunhilde (Betty Garrett), and a young woman, Claire (Ann Miller), doing some research at a museum.  But what this movie is really all about is entertainment, and it delivers it by the songful.	Kelly and Donen bring it all to life through the words and music of Betty Comden, Adolph Green and Leonard Bernstein, and the score, which earned an Oscar for Roger Edens and Lennie Hayton.  it kicks off with Sinatra, Munshin and Kelly doing `New York, New York,' in which they enlighten you to the fact that `The Bronx is up and the Battery's down, and people ride in a hole in the ground--'  a dynamite opening that sets the stage for all that comes after.  And it's pure entertainment that just sweeps you away with it while you hum along with the six stars of the show as they do what they do best, and it's a delight from beginning to end.	Without a doubt, Kelly emerges as the star among the stars, and his solo numbers and the ones he performs with Vera-Ellen are especially engaging; but this is one of those musicals in which one memorable number follows another, with each of the principals getting their own moment in the spotlight.  Vera-Ellen has a great number early on in the film, in which Miss Turnstiles is introduced; Ann Miller taps her way through a rousing routine in the museum (in which she is joined by Sinatra, Munshin, Kelly and Garrett) that really gives her a chance to show her stuff; and Sinatra and Garrett engage in a memorable bit in song, as she attempts to get him to `Come Up To My Place.'  Through it all, Sinatra exudes a certain boyish charm while Garrett and Munshin provide the comic relief.  All of which makes for a fun and thoroughly entertaining movie experience.	The supporting cast includes Alice Pearce (Lucy), Sid Melton (Spud), Hans Conried (Francois) and Florence Bates (Madame Dilyovska).  Some movies are made simply to transport you to another place for a couple of hours, put a smile on your face, a song on your lips and just make you feel good; and `On The Town' is certainly one of them.  This is pure, uplifting and satisfying Entertainment, beautifully crafted and delivered and guaranteed to make your day a little brighter.  The fact is, they just don't make &#145;em like this anymore, and it's a shame.  Because this is what the magic of the movies is all about.  I rate this one 9/10.  "},{"Title":"New York IS a wonderful town!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Grand, sure-fire musical entertainment courtesy of MGM, On the Town brings euphoric life to the 'Big Apple' like no other piece of celluloid, comedy or drama, before or since.  More than just a breath of fresh air, this breezy souffle of a movie is like taking a huge whiff of pure oxygen, leaving you so exhilarated you'd swear you were on some kind of substance-induced high. Drenched in old-fashioned innocence and loaded with dazzling footwork, it gave a tremendous boost to the careers of all involved and helped to create a whole new style of musical film.Three swabbies on a 24-hour shore pass during WWII bask in the sights and delights of NYC while running into new lady loves in the interim.  That's all there is to it.  The first musical to actually shoot on location, the viewer has the surreal-like thrill of a first-time vacationer as the movie juxtaposes every tourist trap imaginable, plus some, while capturing the pulse and heart of the City to endless effect.Briskly co-directed by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, the movie would initially appear to have everything going AGAINST it.  The plot is so thin and flaky it almost evaporates into thin air.  Moreover, the directors made the seemingly unwise choice of dumping nearly all of the charming Leonard Bernstein score and Betty Comden/Adolph Green libretto for newer, untried songs by Roger Edens.  Well, in good reliable hands, this not only works, it dances circles around the original!There's so much going for this movie in the name of talent that its hard to know where to begin.  Gene Kelly prepped his choreographic talents here for the later landmark musicals An American in Paris and Singin' in the Rain.  He is sheer delight as the lovelorn sailor who pines for Miss Turnstiles, a billboard fantasy.  Jules Munshin unleashes pure Ed Wynn buffoonery as the sailor with the least animal magnetism.  Even Frank Sinatra,  allows himself to get caught up in all the fun.And the girls are irresistible too.  Betty Garrett shoots with both barrels as the man-chasing cabbie and proves she is quite capable of stepping up to the plate in the dance department.  Lithe and lovely Vera-Ellen, who never won the attention she fully deserved, is poetry in motion as Kelly's dream come true.  In particular, her adagios with Kelly are imbued with such unsullied passion that it can't help but tug at the ol' nostalgic heart-strings.  Peppy Ann Miller is, as always, a revelation as the toe-tapping anthropologist, taking full advantage of the zingy score's newer songs and embellishing them with now-classic dance routines.As a special treat, my favorite character actress, Alice Pearce, offers side-splitting comedy relief as Kelly's impromptu blind date managing to steal one song from the star ensemble while finding a touching moment of pathos in her final scene.  The homely comedienne went on to play nosy neighbor Gladys Kravitz in the Bewitched TV series to Emmy-winning acclaim.  Florence Bates also makes the most of her patented huff and scowl as a tipsy ballet mistress, and see if you can scout out an unbilled Bea Benadaret (Kate in Petticoat Junction) as a subway tootsie.Still the highlight, and there are many highlights, is the infectious title tune atop the Empire State Building with Kelly & Company.  Nowhere in the history of filmed musicals will you find such barn-storming talent and exuberant fun packed into one simple little tune.  That sequence is a natural tape-rewinder.You know the old saying, They don't make 'em like this anymore?  Oh, they are so right.  "},{"Title":"New York, New York -- it's a Helluva Town...","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Three soldiers on shore in New York City have a 24-hour romp in the city. That's it. There is nothing else to the plot of this fantastic musical, but that doesn't hurt ON THE TOWN one bit.New York has been the focus of film since the beginning of film itself when a 10 minute short about the New York City subway system was made. Here, although not all scenes were actually filmed in New York (and according to Betty Garrett, she and the other girls never saw the city except for the final scene on the harbour, the subject and main character of the film is New York itself bustling energy, its loud, screeching subway system complete with adverts and pin-up posters (one of Ms Turnstiles which catches Gene Kelly's attention), its (then) tallest building the Empire State Building, its urban landmarks.As I said in the beginning, there is not much plot. What plot there is consists mainly of the three soldiers pairing off with three women Jules Munshin with Ann Miller, Frank Sinatra with Betty Garrett, and Gene Kelly with Vera-Ellen, the only one with a back-story and a secret, one that has her slipping from Kelly's arms and leading to a remarkable chase against the clock to find her. The musical numbers are outstanding (especially Garrett's and Sinatra's frantic duet My Place which, if this weren't a musical-comedy, would send men running to the hills at the sight of an aggressive man-hungry cab driver) and all women dance admirably, but the only one who one remembers is Miller in the museum sequence, twirling like a Tasmanian devil and looking fabulous while doing so. Not a great actress, she could move like not many dancers-turned-actresses could, and it's a pity she decided to basically retire from movies so early and only came back for her small role in MULLHOLLAND DR. As a matter of fact, all except Kelly and Sinatra virtually stopped acting in the late 50s, possibly due to MGM-styled musicals coming to an end at that time.As a curious note, there's a cute appearance as well by Alice Pearce who would later be remembered as the nosy neighbor Gladys Kravits in the TV series BEWITCHED. According to facts, she is the only one from the theatrical version to reprise her role here and this role made her career move ahead as well as it gave her a chance to walk away with the movie as well.ON THE TOWN is one of the best musicals of all time, up there with SINGIN' IN THE RAIN and WEST SIDE STORY. "},{"Title":"Gotta See The Whole Town, From Yonkers On Down To The Bay ... In Just One Day","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Bronx is up and the Battery's down, and Kelly and Sinatra are back in sailor suits, in this effervescent MGM musical.  The three matelots (our two heroes are joined by Jules Munshin for this caper) have a 24-hour shore leave in which to savour New York City.  What can happen to ya in one day? asks a shipyard worker, and the guys answer the question by picking up girls, destroying a dinosaur and getting chased to Coney Island by the cops... in just one day.Leonard Bernstein composed the tunes, and the writers of the stage show (Green & Comden) provided the lyrics, supplemented by Bernstein himself and the associate producer, Roger Edens.  Of the songs, On The Town and You Can Count On Me are nerve-tingling showstoppers. Prehistoric Man is much weaker, but saved by crisp, playful choreography. The two expressionist ballets, Miss Turnstiles and A Day In New York bear the hallmark of Kelly's directorial style, which first reached its maturity in this picture.  Kelly's slide on his knees towards the 'Miss Turnstiles' poster is a piece of cinema magic.Kelly plays Gabey, a supposedly worldly-wise lady's man who turns out to be a Mid-Western innocent in the big city, and who falls in love with a struggling hoofer(Vera-Ellen), a girl he takes to be a celebrity.  Sinatra is the serious-minded Chip, the enthusiastic sightseer who gets snapped up by Hildie Esterhazy (Betty Garrett), a knowing cabbie who has one aim - to get Chip alone in her apartment.  Ann Miller sings and dances impeccably as Claire Huddesen, the bluestocking who gets turned on by Ozzie's primitive quality.On The Town has a daffy story, as musicals often do, but it fizzes with flirtatious youthful energy.  Each of the three couples has its own song and/or dance, and these are sensitively tailored to suit the individuals' personalities.  The Empire State Building observation platform set is a knockout, and the film's sense of fun even extends to a sly Ava Gardner joke at Sinatra's expense.  Notional time runs from 6am at the start of the boys' leave ('boys', or 'kids' as they are twice described, is not quite accurate - Kelly was 37 and the other two 34 at the time of filming) until 6am the following morning, as it ends.  Three new sailors come charging down the gangway to start their 24 hours in the Big Apple, reminding us that love and youth are eternal, and New York's a wonderful town.     "},{"Title":"Experiencing as much New York as One Can","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On the Town is one great fast moving musical, one in which the dance is supreme. Not surprising because this is the first film that Gene Kelly had total creative control over. On the Town ran for 462 performances on Broadway from December, 1944 to February, 1946 and it's score was composed by Leonard Bernstein with lyrics by Adolph Green and Betty Comden. Naturally the book included some topical war time references for 1944 which were eliminated in 1949. So was about half of Bernstein's score, but Comden and Green wrote the lyrics for the new songs also with Roger Edens. That certainly helped keep the continuity.Of course the signature song of the Broadway score, New York, New York was kept. The rest of the score is really not all that great in terms of marketability. But Kelly was interested in giving the dance center stage in this film and he succeeded admirably. Of course of the six principals in the cast he had both Ann Miller and Vera-Ellen, a pair of very good dancers to help. The plot of On the Town is threadbare. Three sailors, Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and Jules Munshin get 24 hour shore leave and they are determined to experience as much New York as they can. That opening number with the men pouring out of the ship on the Brooklyn Navy Yard dock is unforgettable and then Kelly, Sinatra, and Munshin singing and dancing New York, New York. Munshin attracts the attention of Ann Miller who finds his resemblance to a caveman recreation astounding. Her big moment on the screen is tap dancing to Primitive Man ending with Munshin destroying one of the dinosaur skeletons in the Museum of Natural History.This was Munshin's third film after MGM signed him up for a small role in Easter Parade. He was a borscht belt comedian who got his big break on Broadway in Call Me Mister. With Sinatra and Kelly in Take Me Out to the Ballgame before On the Town, he was a pretty funny fellow. He spent his career equally between the stage, screen, and later television. Perhaps it's why he's not really remembered today by film fans that much.Sinatra catches the eye of cabdriver Betty Garrett. One big reason for rewriting the score was in the original play there was no ballad for Sinatra's character. Besides the ensemble numbers, Sinatra and Garrett sing Come Up to My Place from the original score and You're Awful, Awful Nice to be with. Nothing terribly memorable, in fact Frank never recorded any of the material from On the Town. But to have in the film and not give him one ballad would have been ridiculous.It's the dance numbers that make On the Town. Besides the ones previously mentioned, Kelly and Vera-Ellen do a salute to their common small town in Main Street and there is the lengthy A Day in New York ballet. The year before Kelly had shown what he was really capable of creating in the Slaughter on Tenth Avenue ballet in Words and Music. Now that he had complete creative control and he made maximum use of it. Of course this was nothing compared to what he was to create in later films.Vera-Ellen probably is best known for being Rosemary Clooney's sister in White Christmas. But she's shown to far better advantage here. I'm surprised Kelly did not team with her more often. On the Town is really helped a lot by the location shooting in New York. Director Stanley Donen very skillfully blended his shots of well known New York landmarks like the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the Brooklyn Bridge, Wall Street, Columbus Circle with the later interiors done on the MGM soundstage. Really great job of editing.To see New York in 1949 you couldn't ask for three better guides than those sailors on a 24 hour pass. "},{"Title":"New York New York!  It's a wonderful town!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Another Comden-Green triumph!  Although it may not be as good as Singin' In The Rain, it's truly a masterpiece that no home should be with out!Jules Munshin is energetic in the role of Ozzie!  Gene Kelly plays the part of the lovesick Gabey absolutely perfect!  And although I am a die hard Kelly fan, I must say that the best male performance given in this film was from Ol' Blue Eyes himself, Mr. Frank Sinatra!  In the role of Chip, he brings a certain innocence as well as that sailor spunk and vitality!  And the three of them crooning songs such as New York, New York, Let's Go To My Place and On The Town is absolutely wonderful (especially Kelly and Sinatra)!Ann Miller is fantastic as the leggy anthropologist, Claire!  She brings a lot of zest to her role!  (It's hilarious to hear her refer to Ozzie as Specimen!)  Vera-Ellen also is WONDERFUL in the role of Ivy, or Miss Turnstiles!  She is a highly underrated actress... and her dancing is truly DIVINE!  However, another highly underated actress is Betty Garrett, who portrays the female cabbie, Hildie!  She makes the role zippy and sassy... and she and Chip singing Let's Go To My Place is an absolute knee-slapper that will have you laughing and singing with it every time!  Alice Pearce is also rather funny as Hildie's roomate, Lucy Shmeeler.I recommend this movie to anyone who is a fan of musicals, especially the older ones, such as An American In Paris, Singin' In The Rain and Take Me Out To The Ballgame.  This carefree frolic of a film will leave you laughing and singing for days!  "},{"Title":"'On the Town' paints the town red!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have found that On the Town is one of the best movies from the 1940's. It has the perfect chemistry for a movie.  From the all-star cast of Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Ann Miller, Vera Ellen and others to the script itself written by the wonderful Betty Comden and Adolph Green, it is no wonder that this movie is still around. When 3 sailors have a leave in NYC, and their main objective is to pick up girls, you know that you are in for some laughs.  From the dinosaur to the cab drivers, this movie is a score on my list.  The dancing is also great. Ann Miller taps her heart away and Gene Kelly amazes us yet again.  This movie is here to stay! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Enough for Anyone in the Mood for Soft-centred Escapist Entertainment","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film has a very simple plot. Three sailors have 24 hours shore leave in New York. They met three attractive girls, and three romances blossom. And that's about it. The characterisation is really no more advanced than the plot development. The sailors and their sweethearts are each given their own idiosyncrasies, but none of them really emerges as a rounded individual. Fortunately, however, a complex plot and well-developed characters are not always essential to the musical genre, and On the Town manages to succeed reasonably well without these elements.The film's most important quality is the energy and vivacity of its song-and-dance numbers. It was shot on location in New York itself, and the city is portrayed as a vibrant, exciting place, a new world as far as the sailors, who are all country boys, are concerned. There is also plenty of humour, such as the scene where Frank Sinatra wants to go sight-seeing, unlike his new-found girlfriend, a man-hungry female cab driver, who would rather take him back to my place, Gene Kelly's search for Miss Turnstiles, whom he imagines to be a glamorous and famous beauty queen, and the scene where the three men manage to demolish a dinosaur skeleton in the city's Museum of Anthropology. (Jules Munshin's girlfriend is described as a lady anthropologist, although the scriptwriters seem to have blurred the difference between anthropology and palaeontology). The songs are tuneful, although with the possible exception of New York, New York none of them are particularly memorable. Some have criticised the more formal balletic sequence near the end, but as far as I was concerned this was one of the best parts of the movie. After all, if you are going to make a film starring a dancer as talented as Gene Kelly, you might as well use his talents to the full.This is not really my favourite musical. It lacks, for example, the indefinable magic of Singin' in the Rain, which also starred Kelly, or the depth and social comment of West Side Story, Leonard Bernstein's other New York musical made twelve years later. (The contrast between these two films shows just how far the genre had progressed in just over a decade). Nevertheless, it is enjoyable enough for anyone in the mood for soft-centred escapist entertainment. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Classic musical that set Kelly on the path of true stardom","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Great score by Bernstein and awesome dancing (of course) by Kelly and company.  Nice color and photography, engaging and amusing story lags only at the end.  Sinatra is pleasingly pursued by Betty Garrett (much as in the previous Take Me Out to the Ball Game).  Only 4 songs from the original musical by Bernstein, MGM pulls another Roger Eden (a man whose mission in life seemed to have been to ruin good stage musicals.... as witness his atrocity of Funny Face). Comden and Green's wonderful sparkling words are often missed, but this musical did fortunately bring their talents to the attention of MGM, Freed, Kelly and Donen.  They scripted Singing in the Rain and I guess the rest is history, although Comden and Green should be better remembered for their outstanding broadway hits  On the Town, Wonderful Town, Bells are Ringing and so many more. "}{"Title":"We're going on the town...","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Boy, is this a great film! Three sailors on a 24-hour shore leave, their first time visiting New York City, set of to find some pretty girls and have a good time. They find some girls, only not the ones they'd imagined, and it all turns into quite an experience, something our navy boys weren't really prepared for.Arthur Freed, producer and head of the Freed Unit at MGM, hit the jackpot in trusting directors Kelly and Donen to film on site in New York, in the days when most movies were totally shot in studios. On the Town had been a big hit on Broadway, and the movie turned out to be a great success. This was the highlight of movie musicals.There's a great cast, and the best thing about this movie is that all six main characters are in focus and get a chance to show themselves off. Some pretty smart songs, some original and some written for the film, and a witty dialogue. If ya like sailors, New York, Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra, you absolutely must see On the Town.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Bronx is Up and the Battery's Down...","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a really great musical, and that is an odd thing to admit. Because, for a great musical it has little in the way of great music.The reputation of Leonard Bernstein as a composer is one of the stickiest points about his career to discuss among lovers of American music and musicals. Bernstein was a great conductor. He was also a great teacher of music appreciation, as his series of Young People's Concerts on television showed. But was he a great composer? He tried to be, composing serious music that was for the concert hall, most of which has never caught on with the public.As for his music for the theater, the results are mixed. On The Town (based on the music for his ballet about sailors in New York, Fancy Free), Trouble In Tahiti, Candide, Wonderful Town and (best of all)West Side Story were popular hits of the 1940s and 1950s. But how successful do they remain. Forgetting West Side Story - which has his best, truly memorable score, Candide manages to get revived, but there are problems with the book (will they use Lillian Hellman's version or Hugh Wheeler's). Come and be Gay is a semi-standard, but how frequently does one hear This is the best of all possible worlds. Same problem happens with Trouble In Tahiti, which is revived even less than Candide. On The Town had a successful revival in New York four years back, but it's sole semi-standard (hardly sung by singers in concert or nightclubs) is It's a Wonderful Town. Wonderful Town has a good book (based on My Sister Eileen) but the tunes like That's the Way to Lose a Man and Ohio are serviceable but not permanent repertory. Those are the memorable musicals. His last one about the Presidency, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, was a flop from the first day (care to hear The Thomas Jefferson March?).The music in On The Town is, again, serviceable. Some of it is sprightly - like the duet between Sinatra and Betty Garrett, Come to My Place. But it is basically music that was written for the purpose of dance numbers (which it serves quite well - especially for Kelly and Vera-Ellen). Note the number about Miss Turnstyles, wherein Kelly is reading Vera-Ellen's biographical information, and we see her dancing in matching sequences to the descriptions. Or the ballet where Kelly finds himself abandoned by her when she fails to show up for a date (which I suspect influenced him and maybe Vincent Minnelli in the better ballet at the end of An American In Paris where Kelly dreams of the loss of Leslie Caron).The story of three sailors on shore leave in New York City for twenty four hours, and how they each meet the woman of their dreams is quite enchanting (if impossible) to watch. The parings are fascinating Kelly and Vera-Ellen both dancing into each other's life. Garrett (as Brunhilde Esterhazy) as a man hunting cab driver, pursuing and winning a frightened Sinatra (still in that annoying naive dimwit series of roles - though less annoying than in Anchors Aweigh). Miller as an anthropology student attracted to the Neanderthal looking Munshin is quite funny. Yet there is a missing element here from the musical not found in the film.Miller has a boyfriend, mentioned once or twice but never seen in the film. He is financing her education. In the musical, he does appear - a judge named Pitkin. Pitkin is a sweet, nebbish, who lets Miller's character Claire twist him around his finger for much of the musical. They are supposed to be going out to dinner that night, and she keeps putting him off, telling him to meet her later (she is busy with Ozzie (Munshin's character) at a variety of nightclubs). At the same time, in the musical, Alice Pearce's character Lucy Shmeeler is being pulled around by Gabey (Gene Kelly's character) while he is trying to romance Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen's character).But after the fourth time, Pitkin gets tired of this mistreatment. He sings a song (cut with his character in the movie) showing that the hidden lion in his personality has been aroused in anger at Claire's selfishness. He has been always too docile (with his mother, his brother, Claire) and he has suffered for too long as a result. But the only person who hears this is Lucy (the other six have gone off together). Grabbing Lucy, Pitkin chases the sailors and the three girls, and is there at the conclusion - to help humiliate Claire and to renounce her. The lion has arrived. And there is a hint as he leaves with Lucy that possibly they might become a fourth couple. Pity this was not in the movie version, as Alice Pearce's character is treated by Kelly and the others as a good sport, but sent home alone.My comment may seem a trifle harsh, but in fact the musical is terrific as an entertainment for all the flaws I point out. But rarely has a great movie musical had so little reason to have been so successful. "},{"Title":"Even If You Hate Musicals, You'll Love This Movie","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" because it's just a big, silly MGM confection with no (okay, very few) pretenses towards art. Three sailors on shore leave in New York meet three girls. That's the entire plot. However, two of those sailors are a couple of the 20th century's greatest entertainers, Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra, so MGM builds an extravaganza around them complete with ballet sequences, love duets and then-current digs at popular culture (you might have to explain the dinosaur/Dinah Shore joke to younger children). Along for the ride are some venerable MGM contract players like Vera-Ellen and Ann Miller, not to mention a couple of future TV sitcom wacky neighbors, Alice Pearce (the paranoid Gladys Kravitz from Bewitched) and Betty Garrett (the liberated Irene Lorenzo from All in the Family). How can you lose? It's easy to loathe Gene Kelly. He's smarmy and egotistical (those massive close-ups in Singin' in the Rain remain scorched onto my retinas) but he's also a great dancer and a brilliant choreographer, and here co-director Stanely Donen manages to keep his personality flaws in check. In On the Town he plays Gabey, an Iowa hick, and his unusual willingness to not be the smartest guy in the room makes him much more tolerable. Kelly spends a big chunk of his shore leave tracking down Vera-Ellen, whose image on a subway poster inspires a comic fantasy sequence. When he finally meets her, the rest of the cast spends a lot of time and money protecting him from the truth, which is that she's a two-bit hoofer and not a celebrity. Sinatra plays Gabey's buddy Chip, another wide-eyed yokel in the big city. Frankie doesn't create much of a character, but he looks pretty and sounds great so it doesn't really matter. Ol' Blue Eyes hooks up with Garrett, a lady cab driver (scandal!) with average looks but great comic timing. She's also blessed with a decent singing voice and a hysterically frumpy roommate played by Pearce. The third singing sailor is Jules Munshin as lovable big lug Ozzie, who provides adequate but unnecessary comic relief and is mightily upstaged by his romantic interest, the very funny, sexy, and graceful Ann Miller as manic rich girl Claire. Miller was such a mega-talent that she was impossible to classify -- she could sing, dance, act and tell jokes -- and that very versatility might have kept her from becoming a bigger star. But she's magnificent here, outshining her better-known co-stars with bits like the hysterical Prehistoric Man number (Bearskin! Bearskin! I love bearskin!).So that's the plot, which is, of course, tertiary to the song and dance. Leonard Bernstein composed the score, and some of the songs are magnificent -- here Sinatra takes on a New York, New York with a rousing chorus and silky verse that's far superior to the plodding nursery rhyme he would popularize in the 70s. Frankie's love duet with Garrett, You're Awful, is a riot, and the title song is nice and lively. Kelly warbles a couple of dirges but they're blessedly short. The dancing, when it's integrated with the plot, is loads of fun but Kelly stops the action cold for a ballet sequence called Three Sailors and a Girl, which is dull, but to its credit nowhere near as disruptive or self-indulgent as the Broadway Melody number from Singin' in the Rain. (To its debit, it doesn't have Cyd Charisse and those six-foot legs of hers.) So pop this one in the DVD player and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Mostly a grating bore","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This plot less and structureless musical has somehow reached classic status despite the fact that, aside from the main number, it features one song and dance number after another that are awful.It does have some good points - the image of the three Sailors on leave is iconic and the opening sequence is always fun and promising, Ann Miller is her usual saucy and sexy self, Jules Munshin turns in a performance that actually pips Kelly and Sinatra, the 7 minute Gene Kelly fantasy dance is masterful unto it's own (but doesn't fit in the narrative the same way his similar sequences in Singin' in the Rain and An American in Paris didn't really fit). Also, much of this was shot on location which documents 1949 New York City interestingly.But as a film, a story, and as a musical, it is decidedly below average, and overrated. As hard as you pull for it to be as entertaining as other MGM musicals from the period, it just isn't. It's arduous, shallow, underwhelming, very often nerve damaging, and pointless. You just get the feeling all the scenes were scripted the night before they were shot, or Kelly and Donen as Directors were just making it up on the fly.It's a worth a look of course for the pluses mentioned above. But it's hardly a great musical and Kelly, Sinatra, Donen, and Miller all did much better work in other films. "},{"Title":"Terrific talent in search of worthy material","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Seldom has a film had a more talented cast and crew of supporting talent than On the Town, yet the result is just a mess of Average.  One good number - the eponymous On the Town -  has to carry a frail storyline which is pushed to exhaustion by the overacting of the cast, who seem to be on amphetamines.  I love the musical genre and generally look forward to seeing any of these people's work, but this was a real disappointment.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Musicals Ever","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On the Town bristles with energy and humor and terrific performances by a great cast.Three sailors on a one day pass in 1949 New York City meet three girls, fall in love, and go back to sea. That's about it for plot but this great musical is filled with top songs and dancing.Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and Jules Munshin are the sailors; Vera Ellen, Ann Miller, and Betty Garrett are the girls. Vera Ellen is Miss Turnstiles whom Kelly thinks is a swanky society girl. In reality she's a dance student who works at Coney Island to pay for lesson to despotic teacher Florence Bates. When the three couples go on the town, Vera Ellen has to leave to go dance. Garrett calls her roommate--hilarious Alice Pearce--to fill in. Kelly is despondent and the gang's attempt to cheer him up leads to one of the best numbers, You Can Count on Me. While the Leonard Bernstein tunes are not exactly top 40 hits, they are wonderful and lively. Great dancing (of course) from Kelly, Miller, and Vera Ellen, and Sinatra gets a few songs for himself. Garrett may be the big surprise for those who only know her from Laverne and Shirley. Film buffs will recognize Carol Haney and Jeanne Coyne as the dancers in Kelly's big dance number. Also notable are Bea Benaderet on the bus, Sid Melton as Spud, George Meader as the professor, Tom Dugan as the cop, Hans Conried as the club manager, Bern Hoffman is the singing dock worker, and Claire Carleton is the red-headed floozie.Kudos to writers Betty Comden and Adolph Green as well as co-directors Kelly and Stanley Donen. Haney and Coyne assisted Kelly in choreographing the film. Haney and Coyne were also featured dancers in Kiss Me Kate's From This Moment On number.Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Love letter to New York","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Much has been said about this movie that is very true but I want to add a couple things from my own perspective. I love watching it every year or so because it is so joyful and upbeat. I love the street scenes. The women's bright outfits against the men's whites are visually fun. The songs are fun--right now I'm remembering You Can Count on Me with a smile as the one I would leave the theater singing. My mind always drifts off during the ballet and I miss the variety of the women that enlivened the other numbers but then I don't care for long ballet sequences in most other musicals. Call me a lowbrow but there it is. To me, generally speaking, that's when the momentum of the musical screeches to a halt and we step into another movie for awhile.One of my favorite parts is the kindness that Kelly's brash character shows Alice Pearce's character when he takes her home. Aw shucks, he's really a small town gentleman after all. His mother would have been proud of him.I wouldn't compare this to Singing in the Rain. I would compare it to New York, New York, which I also enjoy. The ballet sequence and the bracketing of the story with the morning hush and enthusiastic sailors makes this one seem more serious and philosophical in tone, and in a way, a little sad with the couples waving goodbye after just one day. It makes a person think about the next three guys and detaches us a little from our three. It's an interesting camera and plotting technique as if as soon as they get on the ship they have started to sail away. And it emphasizes that these are ordinary people. The next will have adventures, too, as can any ordinary person in the course of 24 hours in such a wonderful town. "},{"Title":"On The Town was one of MGM's brightest films of the post-WWII era.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On The Town is so exuberant that it threatens at moments to bounce right off screen. Three sailors (Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin) enjoy 24 hours' shore leave in New York.Most of this brash location musical counts as among the best things ever to come out of Hollywood; the serious ballet towards the end slows things down, but finally it's the film's sheer joy and vitality, and its astonishingly exuberant opening sequence that stick in the memory. It was an instant success and won the Academy Award for Best Music. In 2006 the film ranked #19 on the American Film Institute's list of best musicals. "},{"Title":"A description of New York City, a survey of the United States.","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On the Town was directed by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen. It was the first film they directed. So which director can you thank for this spectacle New York musical? Both. As we know Gene Kelly today, he's probably responsible for all the cheer, spectacle dance scenes and Stanley Donen was most likely more intimate as a director. He makes the pauses in between of the dancing, which are very important. They're the pauses to the actors and to the viewers. That's where the reality happens. So this was a great idea to combine two talented filmmakers, because you need both of those elements for On the Town.The story reminded me of another musical starring Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra, Anchors Aweigh (1945). In On the Town three sailors Chip, Gabey & Ozzie get a one-day long break to spend in the city of New York. The three boys want to hook up with some good looking NYC girls, even that Chip wants to go sight-seeing he also understands the fine art of dating when he meets a woman taxi-driver, Brunhilde Esterhazy (Betty Garrett). When Gabey (Gene Kelly) sees a poster of the Miss Turnstiles of the Month AKA Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen) he gets a sudden urge to find her. Along the searching process, Ozzie (Jules Munshin) also finds a girl of his own, Claire Huddesen (Ann Miller) from the museum of anthropology.The three main characters (Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin) are wonderfully created. They represent American men, who lived in a world where WWII was over and whose minds hadn't yet been depressed by the Korean War, a peaceful era. The three supporting female characters were great too (Betty Garrett, Ann Miller and Vera-Ellen), maybe though a little oppressed by men. Men make them dance and through that, forget their troubles. That's maybe the negative side of the film, it shows women as people oppressed by men who are just waiting to be found and whose only job is to bring happiness to men. But all together, great characters! The milieu of On the Town is amazing. The film was untypically for that time, actually filmed in New York City. It's a great documentary of New York in the time between WWII and the Korean War. No movie before the year 1949 had given such a great view on the particular city. There are actually three layers of the city. The underground where Gabey finds the poster of the Miss Turnstiles, the streets, the museums and the sights where they try to find her, and then there's the sky. Where they can get by going to the top of the Empire State Building. In my opinion the latter represents the illusion, that's where everything they've hoped for happens. The streets are the reality, but also because of the musical scenes maybe some sort of a modern fantasy. The underground has no illusion at all. It is the actual reality, where Gabie sees Ivy Smith for the first time. The first time they meet is important, but I'll let the enjoyment of that to you.So On the Town is a great reflection of the United States in a cheerful era. It's a good documentary of NYC, it has great characters and the milieus of the film are fantastic. The basic themes that it deals up with are the relationships between men and women. Maybe the view on that subject could have had a little more depth though. On the Town also wonders one's attitude to life. But basically it's a survey of the people of that time and their thoughts. First film directed by Donen & Kelly and one of the finest, if not that finest.5-6 is my usual rating for a decent, enjoyable musical. So this clearly had something more. In addition to the fact that it's great entertainment, it works on a higher level. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An Astounding Technicolor Evocation of 1940s NYC","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  One the last great movie musicals, On The Town was given a top-level treatment by MGM. The film has the kind of look you never get tired of seeing every shot beautifully composed and in jaw-droppingly beautiful COLOR! The DVD transfer should elicit the same response that the disc of The Wizard of Oz does. It looks absolutely spectacular.As far as audio is concerned, there are no complaints here either. The sound is so good, you never once wish it were stereo.For those unfamiliar with the movie, the cast speaks for itself, and the lesser-known Jules Munshin and Alice Pearce are worthy of the company of the giant stars. There are so many enjoyably choreographed numbers, but those taking place atop the Empire State Building might be the most memorable.Musically, this show does offer a few disappointments. Most of the wonderful songs from the original Bernstein score were eschewed in favor of newly composed ones by Roger Edens. There is a stylistic clash between the two composers that, if not bothersome, is certainly noteworthy. The Edens songs just don't have the melodic sophistication of the Bernstein ones. You Can Count On Me is perhaps the best Eden song, but all numbers benefit from the terrific Comden and Green lyrics. And when performers are really on top of the material, as in You're Awful, any minor limitations are transcended by the pure pleasure of hearing a clever lyric delivered by experts.For this viewer, the single best thing about On The Town is the astoundingly beautiful use of New York locations. This film has captured the city at the peak of 1940s charm and excitement. It can be enjoyed on a purely visual level in a way few other films can. "}{"Title":"All time most fun Hollywood dancical romantic comedy!","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Simply the most fun Hollywood dancical romantic comedy of all time! I call it a dancical, rather than a musical, because there is comparatively little singing or background music that doesn't include some dancing or prancing around(outside of the opening and closing New York, New York, two Sinatra-Garrett duets, and an opening and closing song by an uncredited shipyard builder). Also, aside from New, York, New York, there are no standard songs, although several fine songs that express the mood of the person or persons. With 3 of the most celebrated Hollywood dancers of the '40s and early '50s(Gene Kelly, Ann Miller, and Vera-Ellen), and the remainder of the stars being competent show singers and dancers, it's no wonder that song and dance was emphasized over pure crooning. But, what makes it the top entertainment dancical is the near perfect blend of story, comedy, and musical numbers, the sheer energy of the performers, and the comradery between the 3 male and 3 female stars. Too many musicals and dancicals of this era stuffed the between musical scenes with complicated romantic or professional conflict drama, which soon gets tedious and sometimes dominates your attention away from the often great musical numbers. That's minimal here.There's no misunderstanding whose girl is whose. The main drama elements involve the occasional disappearance of 'Miss Turnstile'(Vera-Ellen), the periodic police chases, and the problem of homely Alice Pearse as Kelly's enforced substitute date, after the unexplained disappearance of 'Miss Turnstile', all leading to comedic incidents. Of the 6 stars and Alice Pearse, only the Sinatra and Vera-Ellen characters weren't gifted at comedy in this action-packed film, with emphasis on 3 24 hr romances by sailor buddies on limited NYC leave. Sure, Ann Miller and Betty Garrett's characters come across as brazen big city hussies, but they are lots of fun as dates. In contrast, Vera-Ellen is the shy unsophisticated small town girl-next -door who appeals to Kelly as something more than just a one-night stand trick.(It turns out they are from the same small town!). Alice Pearse is great as the primary supporting actress, with her trademark homely old fashion spinster act, complete with periodic raucous cackles, exploited to the comedic fullest. She played a similar character in the Fred Astaire-Vera Ellen dancical The Belle of New York. She was also the only member of the Broadway version of On the Town to play the same role in the film version. There is one highlight after another. Among the tops are the Prehistoric Man museum scene, led by Anne Miller's sexy tap dancing, and the comedic Coney Island hootchy-kootchy episode, near the end. Vera Ellen does a pantomime ballet dance illustrating her various talents and interests.Also entertaining is the long comical You Can Count on Me number, performed by the gang, especially featuring Alice Pearse. This was soon followed by the long Kelly-featuring A Day in New York, pantomime ballet, in which Kelly recounts an outline of the Day's salient events, and demonstrates his infatuation with the vanishing Miss Turnstile. Actually, the song that sticks with me the most is Main Street, a soft shoe number which Kelly sings to Vera-Ellen, while they begin to get acquainted, and then they dance to, seemingly effortlessly floating back and forth over the stage. Yes, I live on Main Street, in a small town.This film was an adaptation of the Broadway play of the same name.As often happens, there were many changes in the details. Many of Leonard Bernstein's songs were dropped in favor of new ones, causing Bernstein to boycott the film. Nonetheless, it won the Oscar for best music, and the Writer's Guild of America's award for the best written musical. I would rate the choreography and cinematography as superb, as well. Partially filmed in NYC, poor weather and crowds of onlookers limited more extensive on-location shooting.This film was released only months after the well received Take Me Out to the Ball Game, with a very similar format, and which I rate as near the equal of the present film. Kelly, Sinatra, and Munshin were again in uniform, enforcing their comradery. Garrett was again immediately smitten by Sinatra's character, and Kelly again winds up with that female star characterized as the most wholesome, having had his fill of easy pickings. It too is much fun, but lacks any female star with exceptional dancing or singing talent, and also lacked Alice Pearse.Six years later, MGM would make a musical It's Always Fair Weather, which was originally conceived to be a sequel to On the Town, in which the 3 sailor buddies meet in a bar, after 10 years of not seeing nor corresponding with each other. However, of the 6 On the Town stars, only Kelly returned.Although this film included a number of technically more challenging dance numbers, such as the 'trash can lid' dance, Kelly's roller skating street dance, along with Cid Charisse's 'Boxing Ring routine, it simply lacked the charm, romance, sustained comedy, and youthful exuberance of the original, and was rather coolly received by audiences. Nonotheless, it has its moments, and you might want to check it out. It is currently offered very cheaply as part of a 5 MGM musicals DVD package. "},{"Title":"Life in a day","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Energetic and enjoyable musical from Hollywood's golden age. The plot is back-of-a- cigarette-packet deep but engaging for all that and I guess New York is the place for a 24 hour furlough.The movie is justly celebrated for its use of actual locations - for once the characters' shadows seem real - it only remains for the three couples to career around the city before getting all loved up on top of the Empire State Building in time for the neat final touch of the next batch of three sailors to take on the town in their day's leave.The songs are peppy, if not all top-notch, the title song and the city's anthem New York New York (at least until Sondheim / Bernstein and Kander / Ebb came along in later decades) being the best. The dance routines are fun and engaging, typical Kelly fare. As has been said before, his dancing lacks the finesse of Astaire but compensates through his superior athleticism and he finds a good partner in Vera-Ellen, particularly their ballet bars routine and extended film within a film fantasy sequence which prefigures the greater glory of Singing in the Rain and  An American In Paris. Like Fred naturally his acting veers to the hammy side and he's no singer but obviously that's why Sinatra's on board who also provides the most personality of all the leads and if Jules Munchen gets squeezed out a little in this company, that's understandable. The women are portrayed a little stereotypically as either simpering or voracious, but inoffensively enough - there' s even a part for a prototype Ugly Betty who Kellly lets down gently.It's all very easy on the eye and ear and certainly one of Hollywood's top, if not quite very best musicals. "},{"Title":"Pity about the music","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It is surprising how many people don't seem to realise (or don't care) that a large fraction of Leonard Bernstein's music score, written for the original stage musical of 1944, was dropped when this film was made. Only four of the original numbers were retained. The replacement music, credited in the titles to Roger Edens, is serviceable enough but simpler and decidedly more brash, and as such it detracts somewhat from the character of the original. In particular the absence of such numbers as 'What's more I can cook' and 'Some other time' is highly regrettable. It seems odd to me that that having done the maestro such a disservice the film was still awarded a music Oscar in 1950. Nevertheless it remains a highly entertaining romp &#150; how could it fail with a cast that includes Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Betty Garrett, Ann Miller and Vera-Ellen. It's just that it could have been even better.For anyone who wants to find out what Bernstein's original score was like, there is a live recording of a semi-staged performance of the musical made in London in 1992 with the London Symphony Orchestra under Michael Tilson Thomas and a magnificent cast of singers including Thomas Hampson and Frederica von Stade. The only thing you don't get is the dancing! It is available on CD and hopefully a few copies of the video may be knocking around. Unfortunately it seems that no DVD was ever released. "},{"Title":"Exhilarating musical, with minor faults of course, but great fun","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After finally seeing this film, I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed this film. There are faults though, one is the substitution of dancers for Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin in the ballet, while it worked in Oklahoma, I for one found it distracting here. The other fault I had was the omission of Some Other Time, that is a truly beautiful song and could've worked so well, but alas it was missed out.Other than that, there is still much to enjoy, namely the magnificent title number, New York, New York, as Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin hail the delights of New York, New York. Also a delight was Prehistoric Man, mostly because of the dancing of Ann Miller. While songs from the original score are missed out, regrettably, the score and songs here are still a treat, and the choreography is fabulous.The performances are terrific. Gene Kelly is wonderful once again as Gabey, and Jules Munshin puts real energy into his role of Ozzie. While Frank Sinatra is exceedingly charming as Chip, possibly even the best of the three male performers. As for the ladies, Vera Ellen looks alluring and dances a dream, while Betty Garett is deliciously sassy as Brunhilde. With her impeccable dancing talents, it is Ann Miller who I would deem as my personal favourite, as I have said already her dancing in Prehistoric Man is simply incredible.Other advantages are a witty script, a delightful supporting turn from Alice Pearce as Lucy Schmeeler, fast pacing and some lovely costumes and sets. Plus I loved the depiction of New York and the film's feel good nature. Overall, flawed but nonetheless exhilarating musical. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Still the Prototype for All the Great MGM Musicals Thanks Mainly to the Dazzling Kelly-Donen Choreography","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While 1952's Singin' in the Rain is definitely the more accomplished musical film, I think this buoyant 1949 classic best typifies what MGM produced during Hollywood's golden era when talents were at their peak. Co-directed by Gene Kelly and a 25-year old Stanley Donen in his feature film directing debut, the movie has a consistently propulsive energy thanks mainly to the remarkable choreography by Kelly and Donen, the seamless blend of Leonard Bernstein's familiar music with studio tunesmith Roger Edens' original compositions, and the sheer ebullience of the performers.Written by the estimable team of Betty Comden and Adolph Green, the threadbare plot is simply about three sailors - Gabey, Chip and Ozzie - on a 24-hour leave in New York City and the women they meet and romance. Based on a subway poster, womanizing Gabey falls for Miss Turnstiles and spends his time searching for her. Phobia-ridden Ozzie finds romance with anthropology student Claire, while timid Chip is focused on sightseeing in spite of the persistent attentions of aggressive lady cab driver Hildy. The closest the story comes to dramatic tension is in the deceptions around Miss Turnstiles, who is not the big-time celebrity Gabey assumes she is but an aspiring ballerina named Ivy, who has to work nights as an exotic dancer in Coney Island.The film is obviously at its best when it's focused on the musical sequences - beginning with the actual locations used for New York, New York in establishing the sailors' energetic arrival, continuing with the elaborate Prehistoric Man number at the Museum of Natural History and bouncing through the title tune ensemble with all six principals singing and dancing their way down from atop the Empire State Building. Everyone gets a chance to shine, though as Gabey, Gene Kelly clearly dominates with his graceful athleticism. As Chip, an overshadowed Frank Sinatra mainly gets to sing to Betty Garrett, who admirably contains her brassiness as Hildy.Though hardly believable as an academic type, Ann Miller gets to tap impressively during Prehistoric Man, and rubber-faced Jules Munshin provides mostly comedy relief as Ozzie. When dancing rather than acting to deceive Gabey, Vera-Ellen dazzles as Ivy from the fantasy-laden Miss Turnstiles Ballet to her superb duets with Kelly on Main Street and A Day in New York Ballet. The only sour note is the patronizing attitude toward Hildy's squawk-voiced roommate Lucy (played with gumption by the original Gladys Kravitz from Bewitched, Alice Pearce). Harold Rosson's color-saturated cinematography has been maintained quite well in the print transfer on the 2000 DVD, though the only extra is the now-battered theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"What a joy to see New York with this crew","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A fabulously fun 40's musical, On The Town is up there with the greats of the genre. It overcomes the lack of a plot (but how many musicals actually have a good plot?) and some unlikely situations with it's great dancing sequences, humour and stars.Wonderful Gene Kelly is, well, wonderful as usual as Gabey, one of the three sailors who have a 24-hour leave in New York. The other two are Frank Sinatra as Chip, and Jules Munshin as Ozzie. The motley crew are determined to see the sights- 'in just one day!'- until Gabey falls for Miss Turnstiles aka Ivy Smith. The other two pair up with Ann Miller as ravishing scientist Claire Hudderson and Betty Garret as the vivacious and sexually-aggressive taxi-driver Hilde Esterhazy. And then we go 'On The Town'! The two outstanding musical numbers are, of course, the title number and 'New York, New York'. The latter is famous not only because it's an excellent tune, but because it was the first number in a musical film not to be filmed on a sound stage- it was filmed in New York. Yes, those people staring at the frolicking antics of Kelly & Co were native New Yorkers, not simply extras. The title number is a masterwork and one of the catchiest numbers you'll hear in a musical. The dancing is sublime- The 'Miss Turnstiles' ballet with Kelly and Vera-Ellen a standout.It's exuberance and colour in the musical sequences is matched by the wit of the dialogue- lots of references to Hollywood and famous MGM players at the time. One must chuckle at the mention of Ava Gardner- Sinatra was courting her at the time! We also have references to A Streetcar Named Desire, The Lost Weekend and a very subtle and funny skit on child stars Shirley Temple and Margaret O'Brien. We also have the guys disguised in drag, and some very funny interplay between the sailors that would be probably be interpreted as 'homo-erotic' now-days(where has the innocence gone?).All the actors are very likable here, yet I can't help feeling that some of the couples were mismatched. The spunky Ann Miller with her dancing brilliance and beauty seems an unlikely partner for awkward Ozzie. Kelly and Vera-Ellen look attractive and dance beautifully together, yet I never quite believe their relationship. I did believe Sinatra and Garrett, though. Garrett almost steals the film from the others, and I'm liking Sinatra more with every role I see him in.Great film, and Gene is FANTASTIC.9/10. "},{"Title":"A Classic Musical that can be watched again and again","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The thing that really makes a work of art timeless is that when you go back to it your enjoyment increases. When art is routine and banal, you feel on second viewing that you've seen the scenery before and might as well not bother. Some popular art is so banal you feel you've seen it before even if you haven't - like one more mile of prairie on a long train trip or a one note actor in an action flick. (no names mentioned). I've seen On the Town somewhere between 10 and 20 times, but I'm always discovering something new and pleasurable . This latest time around for instance - the continual ribbing and double-entendre aimed at Sinatra. and the brilliant transitions between segments of music. Leonard Bernstein was probably the most successful composer at bridging the gap between serious and pop music. Like a great athlete, he made the difficult seem graceful and easy. But, as you listen closely you realize that the effortless sounding pop music isn't even pop music at all. The rhythms and harmonies are on the cutting edge. They just don't have that painful angst that the cutting edge too often seems to carry like an albatross around its neck. Looking at all the musical credits it's hard to say just how large his contribution was, but the flavor of his work is heard throughout. As, I imagine, his collaborators left their pop music mark on his serious music. Is On the Town the father to West Side Story? I wouldn't be surprised. Gene Kelly's first job was as a dance teacher and it really shows here. Look closely and you can see him taking his co-stars by the hand and leading them to heights they could not reach without him. And, as the other great dancer of Hollywood's golden age, he shows himself to be incredibly generous with the spotlight. In fact, the flashy moves belong to the gorgeous and sexy Ann Miller who dominates the museum scene. In contrast to the earlier work of Busby Berkley and Hermes Pan, this choreography flows naturally out of the action and looks like spontaneous fun - no geometric floral arrangements - no canes imitating machine guns. Instead we see an ensemble looking like they're having a great time and getting laughs while they're at it. Sinatra is at the pinnacle of his early singing period, though he has little in the way of romantic material to work with. (he's stuck with the cabby after all). What stands out in this movie is his ensemble singing, reminding us that he started out singing with Tommy Dorsey's Pied Pipers. Whenever he joins the ensemble, the harmonies just seem so much richer. This really shows when they group the boys together and the girls together. The boys win cause they have Sinatra on their team. I could go on and on about the details and the depth in this movie, but that would detract from its most salient characteristic. On the Town is FUN FUN FUN from start to finish. What more could you ask from a musical. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable, & Nicely Crafted Despite Its Casual Atmosphere","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This funny, upbeat, colorful musical is very enjoyable, and is also nicely crafted despite a seemingly casual appearance and atmosphere. The cast members work together very nicely, and there is a lot of quality material that gives the performers many good opportunities to show their talents. The plot, of course, is negligible, but that ends up working in its favor, since the focus stays on the appealing characters and on the excellent musical numbers.Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly are already enough to make a movie worth seeing, and this one is easily the best of their pictures together. Ann Miller's dancing ability and Betty Garrett's comic ability are both used well, and Jules Munshin and Vera-Ellen, as the other two main characters, also have their moments. Alice Pearce also has a couple of funny scenes in a smaller role.The musical numbers are very good, and some of them are excellent, the kind of sequences that you look forward to each time that you watch the movie. It all works well, and On the Town is a very entertaining picture that can be enjoyed more than once.  "},{"Title":"ON THE TOWN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  They surely don't make them like these any longer and it's a shame. In 2004 we bring our kids to The Matrix and they are involved in some SF-thing only the director understands but in 1949 (even if it was just 4 years after the war) you could find great musicals in where everything was fun, fun, fun. On the town is a delicious ride in where three mariniers are looking for a girl for 24 hours. The feminists will rise their hairs and saying they were just after sex or whatever but why should we think about that? It's great entertainment and the movie didn't annoy me one second, and that's a bit typical knowing that you're in the company of Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly. Outdated? Perhaps yeah but whatever... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romp","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This 1949 MGM offering is an improvement on the similar `Anchors Aweigh' with better songs and more feisty leading ladies.Kelly (as ever) is the star, stealing every scene he's in. The other major star is New York itself, the tourist board must have been rubbing their hands together when this came out!Generally well paced (to stop you lingering on the flimsy plot too long) the one dull moment comes near the end when the whole film is re-enacted in a pointless dance presentation. Probably a bit of self-indulgence from Kelly the director.Overall very enjoyable although it is interesting to note that within a few years Sinatra would be re-inventing himself in `From Here To Eternity' and Kelly would be dancing his way to immortality in `Singin' In The Rain'. 7/10  "}{"Title":"ANCHORS AWEIGH, but in New York","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you've seen ANCHORS AWEIGH, the 1945 Gene Kelly/Frank Sinatra musical about sailers on leave in Los Angeles, quit while you're ahead. This is basically the same story except it takes place in New York and has co-stars another sailer played by Jules Munshin, who doesn't really add much to the film.ON THE TOWN has slightly better music and songs than ANCHORS AWEIGH mostly because Leonard Bernstein was involved and there are one or two funny one liners (Dr. Kinsey, I presume). The one scene that stands out involves brilliant comic timing of Kelly's character down on his luck after Vera-Ellen leaves him and the new blind date that replaces her played by Alice Pearce (who later played Mrs. Kravitz on Bewitched). "},{"Title":"Textbook case how to f*** up a film","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I HATE this movie. It has everything going for it, except (1) taste, (2) music, (3 )intelligence.Leonard Bernstein, Betty Comden, and Adolph Green wrote a great musical called On The Town. It's about three sailors with a 24-hour leave in New York City in the middle of WWII. It's still a great musical, a musical with a great book of the quality of that of Oklahoma! that tracks the adventures, romantic as well as touristic, of three guys who cross the bridge from Brooklyn to Manhattan and want to drink in the whole city at once.MGM takes an estimable amount of talent Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Jules Munshin, Vera- Ellen (the prosecution exhibit for Tap Thighs, but lovely nonetheless), Betty Garrett (the least well-used comedienne of the era) and Ann Miller (exploited but never really employed), and turns what could have been a landmark film into a dismal excursion that would leave the average guy wondering why anybody would want to live in NYNY. This is one of the supreme examples of why I hate MGM, the outhouse of the movie musical.They dump the wonderful Carried Away number in favor of the inane Prehistoric Man number for Ann Miller to dance to. Gee, thanks, Roger Edens! They eliminate Hildy's great I Can Cook, Too! not to mention Ya Got Me, I Wish I Was Dead, Imaginary Coney Island, The Real Coney Island, and the incredibly lovely Some Other Time with more Roger Edens crap.The stars that MGM hired to do this movie were capable of making a masterpiece, but MGM, in its infinite wisdom, knew how to turn it into a colossal dump, and they did. Part of the problem was the pretentious image it decided to project for Gene Kelly (speaking of crap, what about American in Paris*?) This is part of my prelude to Why MGM Musicals Suck essay; You can see my top 10 movie musicals (there are really 12 so far) in my review for You Were Never Lovelier.Stanley Donen went on to make some wonderful movies (Charade and Bedazzled, which features Raquel Welch as one of the seven deadly sins, guess which? among them. But MGM, especially when adapting Broadway musicals, showed an uncanny propensity for turning great theatre into execrable cinema, piling Pelions of goo on Ossas of substance, and doing no one any good in the process. MGM certainly didn't bring out Donen's best.*In its Ferde Grofe orchestration, the most perverted of George Gershwin's great works--but that's for another discussion! "},{"Title":"A cheaper version of Anchors Aweigh. Disappointing","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Prior to this Movie I Really thought Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra were an unbeatable pair but I really feel this Movie was lacking any originality or showed off any of the extreme Talent from it's Main Stars. I'm not sure if it was the fact it just felt like a cheaper version of Anchors Aweigh but I feel Frank didn't really get many memorable Songs and Gene didn't get his chance to Shine in the magical Dance numbers he usually delivers.The Women in this Movie really stole the Spotlight with their variety of personalities and Charm. I found myself being drawn to them instead of Gene and Frank mainly due to the female Characters carrying the entire Film. "},{"Title":"Uplifting.  Three couples dancing.","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Observations Loved this movie. Three couples dancing. Frankie a hoot. Sightseeing in New York City.I had one day there, myself. Thought of this movie. Took a sightseeing bus and saw several famous places. Marveled at all the characters did in this movie, in just one day. Meadowville. Nostalgic town. Liked the dance performed in this scene by Kelly and Vera-Ellen. Liked her costume. Both smooth dancers. Florence Bates great in her part; secret alcohol imbiber -- hilarious when she threatened Vera-Ellen. More observations. Great song sung by construction worker in the hardhat. Aggressive Brunhilde cabdriver. Betty Garrett a former Martha Graham dancer. Ann Miller a terrific tap dancer, and great green costume in the anthropological museum. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Musical","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Three sailors on a day of shore leave in New York City look for fun and romance before their twenty-four hours are up.You have to love any collaboration between Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen. I am a little less impressed by the singing and dancing of Frank Sinatra, but he is alright in his own way. Vera-Ellen's terrifying waist makes an appearance, and this is a good showcase for her, even though she is now better known for White Christmas.The Breen Office of the MPAA refused to allow the use of the word helluva in the song New York, New York, and so it was changed to wonderful. That seems pretty strange, even for the 1940s. Though, I have to wonder, what sort of movies would we have today (2015) if the censors still had this kind of power? "},{"Title":"Wonderful town gets a wonderful movie.","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" As would be tradition, the story at the core of On the Town isn't anything to sing from the roof tops, but it plays out as one of MGM's most memorable slices of froth. Propelled by talented stars and singers, it's a musical of comedic delights. Adapted from the successful stage production, charges of being dated and that not all the songs are great, is correct. The dated thing is not always a viable debating tool, but certain stereotype and sexist elements here will ring a little hollow with some folk. Yet if you can just run with it and accept the era of film making it comes from, then this is mostly a joyous and uplifting picture. So roll with the boys and girls, with the wonderful dances and the wonderful singing, for New York New York, A Wonderful Town. 8/10 "},{"Title":"the best musical I have ever seen since Yankee Doodle Dandy","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly's On the Town (1949) is one of the best musicals that I have seen in a long time. The movie tells the story of 3 sailors named Gabey (played by Gene Kelly), Chip (played by Frank Sinatra),and Ozzie (played by Jules Munshin) who are on a day of shore leave from the Navy plan to get some dates and see New York's landmarks before their one day break has expired, and the whole thing is mostly successful when it comes to getting girls to date in which Chip is dating a taxi driver named Hildy (played by Betty Garrett), Gabey ends up dating a girl named Ivy Smith (played by Vera-Ellen) and Ozzie dates an anthropologist named Claire (played by Ann Miller) who thinks that Ozzie is the perfect of a caveman, but the only part of their day that gets worrisome especially for Gabey is that Ivy is gone and they look all over the city for her until Gabe finds her at the symphony hall and talks to her for a few minutes until he is forced to leave. Besides this being a musical to me it was more of a love story because of the love and emotion all of the major characters show one another which made the movie very good, and of-course the dance choreography is well staged as well as the songs well written (which the songs unfortunately didn't get recognized by A.M.P.A.S.)but however it did win an Oscar for best music scoring which it didn't get nominated for anything else. This for me was a nice and enjoyable movie to watch with memorable songs and dance moves and a movie that I could never get tired of. "},{"Title":"In my top 10 film musicals of all time!","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Over 60 years since this film was made, but still better than most pictures produced today.3 sailors on an over night shore leave go to sight-see New York, day and night. They sing, dance and laugh their way through various adventures including romantically.Super songs, great dance routines, and a marvelous funny script. Good insight into the culture of a different generation. Lots of style and elegance and in the nicest possible way a good dose of camp.The only reason I cannot give the top vote is that in my opinion some of the dream sequences seem forced and out of place.Alice Pearce as Lucy Schmeeler gives a hilarious performance and steals the whole film.New York, New York what a wonderful town!8/10. "},{"Title":"A rare case of a much altered movie musical being better with the changes from its Broadway source.","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Broadway purists have debated this for over 60 years. But it was obvious that the ballet heavy original could not be done on screen as it was on stage. What remains are the choice bits of music and dance plus a few great new songs. The basic storyline remains of three sailors on leave in the Big Apple and the three women they fall in love with over a 24 hour period. Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra return into their sailor suits from Anchors Aweigh and are joined by the comical Jules Munshin and three of MGM's top singing and dancing beauties. Betty Garrett stands out as the flirtatious taxi driver (A lady cab driver, how revolting, she cries in one hysterical comic moment) who makes it her ambition to get Sinatra all alone at her place. Ann Miller adds her usual enthusiasm and fiery tapping in an amusing if somewhat silly museum set musical number, Prehistoric Man. The dubbed Vera-Ellen has the least showiest role but stands out in the dance sequences. A hysterically funny Alice Pearce steals her brief scenes with her squeaky dead pan delivery as Garrett's lovable plain Jane roommate, and when she joins the leads for a comical production number, it is a moment of pure joy. Another scene stealer is lovable Florence Bates as a dipsomaniac dance instructor.There is one ballet moment left for fans of the Broadway show to enjoy, plus a few of the original songs which includes New York, New York. Up until Kander and Ebb wrote the same-titled song for diva Liza Minnelli in the 1970's, this was probably the definitive song about the Big Apple. How many people have gone to Manhattan and not gotten lost because of those lyrics, The Bronx is Up, and the Battery's Down!? That lyric was even used comically in Tim Burton's adaption of Sleepy Hollow. When Sinatra and Garrett duet Come Up to My Place, the lyrics are slightly different than the original version, but they are just as witty. Ironically, Garrett would star in another altered version of the Broadway musical Wonderful Town with songs by Bernstein, given back its original title of My Sister Eileen, where all of his songs were dropped in favor of a new score by Jule Styne. Unfortunately, the decision to drop the beautiful Lonely Town from the original was a mistake, as well as Lucky to Be Me and the totally profound Some Other Time which could have been the anthem for sailors on leave during World War II. Lonely Town could really have been a great solo for Sinatra as he had the perfect pipes to sing it. Otherwise, this ends up being perhaps the best movie musical of a hit Broadway show with tons of changes only slightly affecting its impact. "},{"Title":"great music, so-so movie","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gene Kelly, Vera-Ellen, and Ann Miller again showed that they were super dancers, Frank Sinatra exhibited his unequaled singing ability,and Jules Munshin showed that he was a nut. The storyline was simple three sailors were on a twenty-four-hour pass in New York, (though most of the movie was filmed in Los Angeles), and each made the best of it by finding a female companion and touring the city. While Betty Comden and Adolph Green let the public know via this classic that they were adept at writing screenplays, the movie lacked good acting, though the music was entertaining. I personally liked the songs New York, New York, On the Town, and, my favorite, the dance number A Day In New York. To reiterate, the acting was bland, the story was passable, but the music was great; in fact, the music made it worth the while. "}{"Title":"On the Town (1949)","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 24 hours in New York turns into a wild ride of girls, dance routines, and memorable songs. Munshin, Sinatra, and Kelly make an excellent trio. They blend well as a comedic triplet, but when they tell each other I love you it feels genuine and true. Sinatra perhaps shines the most as a sailor more interested in culture. Each guy encounters a fairly saucy girl. It's Frank's partner, an aggressive female cabbie, that steals most of the show. Her direct approach, and the brotherhood of the lead three make this more than just a guys getting some film. It's surprising to see an older film more progressive than many today. The dance routines are fascinating, even today, and the singing is just darn catchy. A treat for the eyes and ears. "},{"Title":"Adventures in the big city.","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was simply a very entertaining movie to watch, even though the early, big studio's, musical genre isn't my favorite one.The concept is what's making this movie very entertaining. It's about three sailors hitting the big apple for the first time on their shore leave. They all want to do different things but eventually everyone of them ends up with a girl, that show them the fun sides of New York but also gets them in trouble, also to the boy's their own doings of course.Guess that the movie it's story could had been a bit more entertaining though, by adding some more places and perhaps characters as well. The movie now at times shows still more potential that eventually actually gets seen in the movie. Some small additions could had made this a perfect 'sit back and enjoy' movie. It was as if they hadn't paid the most attention to its story and were more focused on its musical aspects instead.Fore On the Town above all things remains of course a musical. Not to not make this a musical when you have both Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly in the lead roles. This movie was their third collaboration together and would also be their last one, as the musical genre was already starting to come to an end at the time of this movie. It could be just a coincidence but their pairings also form some of the more entertaining movies within the genre, that are hard not to like.Also it's musical numbers are quite good actually. Normally I'm not too fond of these old fashioned musical stuff but this movie has some great songs in it and some of the actors show some fine dancing, such as also actress Ann Miller.A very entertaining movie that still had even more potential in it really.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Oh Vera-Ellen,how I dreamed about you...............................","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I even collected a dozen or so Bubble-Gum cards with blurred colour photos of you which I kept hidden in the case of the Crystal-Set radio my dad spent hours rigging up with an aerial that ran down to the clothes-line.As Miss Turnstiles you set my 9 year-old heart a flutter so you did. On The town was the first Hollywood musical I ever saw.It was a time when British pics were mostly cheap,crude,slow and creaky.I had never seen anything so noisy and brash,bright and joyful.I was entranced. Three sailors in impeccable whites have 24 hours leave in New York. They dance,they sing,they meet girls.They go back to their ship and three more sailors take their place.Cue music. Marvellously energetic and optimistic,good-natured and made with real love by performers reaching the peak of their careers,it is a sheer delight from the opening number. Mr Frank Sinatra,yet to discover the angst that was to envelop his later movie personae,is grinning and light-footed,33 years old and all-unknowingly on the brink of his first fall from grace.Mr Jules Munshin,skinny and limber,Mr Gene Kelly,dapper and self-contained with the grace of a leopard stalking its prey.Miss Anne Miller,the amazing helicopter woman herself with her legs that seemed to take on a life of their own,Betty Garret,New York smart,and,of course,queen of my heart,Miss Vera-Ellen,shy,modest but oh-so-classy. The undoubted highlights feature the boys on the prowl in The Big Apple and the quite brilliant Prehistoric man featuring Miss Miller and Mr Munshin. Whilst time might have dimmed not only my passion for Miss Vera-Ellen but also some of the movie's more run-of-the-mill numbers,On The town remains on balance an invigorating experience;a production that,consciously or otherwise,raised the bar for the new generation of Musicals. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Musical","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This breezy film about three sailors on leave in New York is notable for being the first musical to be shot on location. Kelly and Donen, who would go on to make Singin' in the Rain, the greatest of all musicals, enliven the screen with great numbers based on the music of Bernstein and lyrics by Comden and Green. The snappy tunes are accompanied by fancy footwork by Kelly, Sinatra, Miller, and Vera-Ellen. Song highlights include the opening New York, New York, My Place (Sinatra and Garrett), Prehistoric Man (featuring the fabulous dancing of Miller), You Can Count on Me, and the title tune. The cast works great together and seems to be having fun. "},{"Title":"A Nice Night on the Town","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" With all the busyness and stress in our everyday lives, watching something like On the Town is such a relief. Maybe not too many places to roar with laughter, but lots of chuckles. I especially enjoy the song You Can Count on Me. And, even though Sinatra and Kelly do a nice job overall, my favorite characters were the secondary ones Jules, Betty, Ann, and Alice. Alice especially. What a funny lady! I would put the rating higher, but the usual Gene Kelly need to throw in a ballet-style dance -- just as in Singin' in the Rain -- breaks up the continuity too much and invades the story with too much seriousness.Other than that, it's thorough relaxation and a good time. "},{"Title":"New York, New York!  (It's a Wonderful Town)","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Three sailors spend their 24-hour shore leave looking for women in New York City. Gene Kelly (he's Gabey) finds Vera-Ellen (she's Ivy), Betty Garrett (she's Brunhilde) finds Frank Sinatra (he's Chip), and Jules Mushin (he's Ozzie) finds Ann Miller (she's Claire).The movie opens with the extraordinary production number New York! New York!, with the Kelly, Sinatra, and Mushin trio dancing and singing all over New York City. It's one of the best musical introductions ever, and the New York City location footage is exquisite. You should know that, while the film is classy and energetic throughout, it never again even approaches the high standard exhibited in the openings. The exuberance is enough to sustain the film for some time - how long will depend on individual tastes. ******** On the Town (12/8/49) Gene Kelly, Stanley Donen ~ Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Ann Miller, Betty Garrett "},{"Title":"Gnash, gnash","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" You can't buy this film on DVD in the UK. I don't know why - it's so unfair.OK, perhaps the plot is a bit light in substance - but it's a musical, it's supposed to be! The acting is great, the dancing is tight, as are the costumes and the sets, the lines are all delivered beautifully ... if we're allowed State Fair on DVD why not something really good?I can't think of anything I'd rather watch on a wet summer's (or winter's) afternoon than Ann Miller's legs, or Sinatra's ears or anything to do with Gene Kelly, but someone, somewhere has decided the UK doesn't deserve it.We can do suspension of disbelief along with the best of you - give us the movie! "},{"Title":"One of MGM's Best Offerings from its Golden Years","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ON THE TOWN is the splashy 1949 film adaptation of the Leonard Bernstein Broadway musical, which has now been tailored to fit the MGM stable of stars. Co-directed by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, this film made history as the first musical to actually do some filming on location in Manhattan. The story is simple three sailors (Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and Jules Munshin) have a 24-hour leave in New York and are looking for romance. Betty Garrett plays a female cabbie who has the hots for Sinatra and Munshin falls for an anthropology student played by Ann Miller. Kelly sees a poster in the subway for this month's Miss Turnstiles (Vera-Ellen) and decides to spend the whole day looking for her. This thin plot allows room for some memorable musical numbers including the classic, New York, New York, Miller's memorable Find Me a Primitive Man and a fun duet with Sinatra and Garrett called Come up to My Place. Actually My Place and New York are the only songs from the original Broadway show, but why carp? It's a musical classic that is a delight from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Sailors on the Prowl","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" An energetic and fun screen adaptation of the Broadway musical, outfitted in the grand MGM style. This acts as a kind of bridge in the career of Gene Kelly between his lightweight emerging efforts of the early to mid-40's (Anchors Aweigh, Cover Girl) and the artistic dance spectaculars he's most known for now (An American in Paris, Singing' in the Rain). On the Town is better than American but not as good as Singin'. It feels more structured than many musical offerings of the era, maybe because it's based on source material rather than an original story. The dance and songs feel more integrated into the plot, a la a stage musical, rather than just there to dazzle. And there's a fantastic score by Leonard Bernstein to help things along. Kelly is ably abetted by Frank Sinatra and the ever-intriguing Vera-Ellen as Miss Turnstiles---she in particular is one of the most amazing dancers I've ever seen on screen, and it's a shame she didn't do more.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Vera-Ellen's contribution to this classic","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I will keep my comments on this classic confined to Vera-Ellen, because she did not get her due credit for this movie, either in credit.She was listed far from top billing on marques!---and on the VHS tape-she's not even listed on the cover!!And,paltry salary,750 bucks a week;a total of $8,875. Her co-star, Gene Kelly, got 2,000 a week, and a total of 42,000. To be fair, he also directed-w/ Stanley Donen, and choreographed!.But, Alice Pearce, who played Betty Garrett's roommate, got the same salary per week as Vera-Ellen,and only had four scenes!To me, the very first scene with her dancing in a cheerleaders' outfit sets the pace for he whole movie! Her acrobatic talents; I'll refrain from commenting on her 'perkiness'!. It's for sure she looks like a gal from 'Meadowville, Indiana'.In real life she was the same as the gal in this part, according to A.C.Lyles, who was dating her at the time;he's still alive, as is Betty Garrett, and screen-writer, lyricist Betty Comden. There is a group of fans of Vera-Ellen on Yahoo Groups. All of my info comes from the second edition of, The Magic, and the Mystery Vera-Ellen... by David Soren "}{"Title":"Pure Entertainment","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is just a plain fun film. Three sailors on shore leave have 24 hours to spend in New York, and they intend to take full advantage of it. In particular Gabey (Gene Kelly) on the hunt for Miss Turnstiles Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen), while Chip (Frank Sinatra) is snared by taxi driver Hildy (Betty Garrett) and Ozzie (Jules Munshin) falls for beautiful anthropologist Claire (Anne Miller).This film is just good, old-fashioned entertainment, with some great songs and fun comedy. From today's standards it has dated, and the traditional stylised musicals of old have fallen out of favour, but this perfect for anyone who wonders why they don't make them like that anymore.It is just plain, wholesome fun. "},{"Title":"Could have been better but is still an enjoyable musical driven by its energetic delivery and cast","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" At 557am New York is just waking up with only the earliest of shift workers coming onto the job. However at 6am the doors are thrown open of a US Navy cruiser and the crew run out with only 24 hours to see the city before having to be back on board. Three pals &#150; Gabey, Chip and Ozzie head out to Manhatten, with Chip keen to see as many sights as he can, while the others just want to get their hands on some fine New York women. Combining both aims they head out on the subway where Gabey sees a poster for Miss Turnstiles and gets smitten by her, making it his mission to find her using the clues on the poster.It has been many, many years since I last saw this film and, since then, have been lucky enough to visit New York City and crammed as much into the couple of day stopover as I could. That trip was in my mind when I saw this film coming onto television and I decided to give it a try again. The first thing that strikes you is the cheerful energy it has to it and, in reality, it is this that drives the vast majority of the film as nothing really steps in to support or replace this energy. Narrative-wise the film is weak at best and the story never really engaged me other than to keep moving enough to keep me interested in it. The vague romance is quite fun but never that involving and the film relies more on other aspects.Specifically the song and dance numbers are key moments but not all of them are that impressive. Some of them are great fun, very catchy and enjoyable but others seem a bit simple being set on very basic sets. To me this was a problem; that a film that seemed to be boasting New York as part of the ride just backed off from actually using the city very well at all. I can understand why the film had to be mainly located on the set but it is a shame that they couldn't have used actual locations more than once or twice. The dance numbers are still good but setting them in a fantasy sort of world rather took away from their magic and impact &#150; still enjoyable but not as good as they could have been.Of course a lot of the fun comes from the characters and the performances here. Kelly is good but he is handed the sappy stuff which, although he does well with it and he still has good charisma to match his physical ability. Sinatra might well have been so skinny that his trousers had padding added but he suits his role, providing New York personality while also delivering a rather nice performance that is part of a diverting subplot. Munshin is the lesser of the three and his performance is just a bit of mugging but it works pretty well. Vera-Ellen is a bit sweet but does well in the dance numbers; Garrett is much more fun as she has a real sass too her even if it is a slightly forced Noo Yark stuff.Overall this is an enjoyable film but not a great one. The narrative is weak and the song & dance numbers, while being fun, don't use New York anywhere near as well as it could have done and aren't as inventive as in other films. The film is driven though by its energy and some good performances and, at the end of the day, those and a few songs are what will stick in your head. "},{"Title":"It's a hell of a town!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This Broadway musical was magically translated into the screen thanks to the direction of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen. They have opened the play in a way no other director could. Even though the amount of location filming was minimal, it still shows a Manhattan of the late 40s. What innocent times those, in comparison to the way we live today.Betty Comden and Adolph Green working with the amazing Leonard Bernstein created a musical about what it was like to discover Manhattan for the first time. These three New Yorkers had an eye and an ear for whatever was going on around them, then, they ask us to accompany these three sailors through their 24 hours in their fabulous city! The cast was excellent. Every one of the stars is at his best. The three sailors that want to explore Manhattan in their 24 hour leave are young men from the interior of the country and it's through their eyes we see the magic that was New York of that time come into life. It's the most fun journey anyone can have.All the principals are amazing. Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Jules Munshin, Betty Garrett, Vera Ellen, Ann Miller and Alice Pearce, ask us to join them in the journey as the New York of those years is explored.This musical is a tribute to New York City and its spirit.  "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I must admit... I'm only 13 but I LOVE Frank Sinatra and I love musicals...well, On the Town gave me a 2 for 1 special!! If you love musicals...then you must see it. 3 Navy sailors Chip (Sinatra), Gabey (Kelly), and Ozzy have a day to visit NYC and they are very interested in the Women of NYC. So Gabey chases after Miss Turnstiles for a date and Chip and Ozzy pick up dates along the way. Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly did a wonderful job. It's hilarious and the songs and dance routines were great!!! And all the characters are great! Personally, I liked Chip the best (how could I not like Frank Sinatra's character the best?!) and I quote New York, New York- it's a wonderful town!!  "},{"Title":"The Best Musical Of 1949","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This groundbreaking musical about three sailors on 24 hour shore leave in New York City is, quite simply, the best musical of 1949. Among its several innovations were the location shooting, forward female characters, and seamless integration of musical numbers into its story. The musical score won the Oscar, even though the film dropped several numbers from the original Broadway production, and added several new songs by Roger Edens. The best songs are the opening New York, New York number, and the title song On The Town. Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and Jules Munshin play the three sailors, and Vera-Ellen, Betty Garrett, and Ann Miller play the three girls they meet for a day. Each of the stars has moments to shine either with a significant other or within the group. Alice Pearce, later Mrs. Kravitz from Bewitched fame, steals her scenes as the homely stand-in date for Gene Kelly Lucy Shmeeler. Florence Bates is delightful as Madame Dilyovska. There are equal helpings of comedy, dancing, drama, and singing.The location shooting showcases several New York City landmarks; the wonderful colors are still vivid after over 50 years. Several scenes stand out, including the opening number, the museum scene with the Prehistoric Man number and the Empire State Building number. The film wears a little in the last half hour; however, it's not enough to dim the absolute bright and cheery atmosphere the film creates overall. Look fast for several bit roles by Bea Benaderet, Sid Melton, Hans Conried, and Judy Holliday in that order. This is the directorial debut film of both Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, a hint of what was to come from each. It's just a wonderful, feel good film. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"New York, New York, that wonderful town","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Three sailors hit the streets of New York on a one-day leave, and of course the main things on their minds are sight-seeing and girls.  Gene Kelly falls for &#145;Miss Turnstiles' (Vera-Ellen) who he imagines to be a very grand model &#150; in one sequence he fantasises about dancing with her in an overblown ballet number.  Jules Munshin is snared by jungle-hunting Ann Miller who leads the boys in dance to the tune Prehistoric Man.  And Frank Sinatra is chased by cab driver Hildy (Betty Garrett) who only wants to &#145;take you back to my place'.One of the first movies to go on location, the shoot takes in many of the landmarks of 1940s New York, and gives the cast many chances to shine in a variety of places and situations.  The songs are done well &#150; although many from the original show have been cut.  Perhaps the saddest omission is Lonely Town, a song intended for Kelly's character Gaby.Although Kelly and Sinatra are the better known of the three sailors, one shouldn't discount Munshin, an excellent musical comedy player who more than holds his own in this film.  Of the girls Vera-Ellen is perhaps the most memorable, although Garrett gets a healthy chunk of screen time and Miller is always good value.  "},{"Title":"A scintillating 24-hour vacation","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The brilliance of this film is, more than anything else, its energetic, slightly frenzied story and adaptation. Sailors-on-leave movies have been done in the past, but few have been done with this level of exuberance. As a result, the film is upbeat but not always perfect (it slows down in pace in the last 25 minutes, and the re-hash of the plot in the Kelly 'art ballet' is totally unnecessary). But there are unforgettable moments as well shots of the old Brooklyn Navy Yard which bookend the film; the opening number New York, New York, which resembles a modern-day music video with its cross-cutting shots of classic New York attractions; an aura of suspense throughout the film maintained by a crawling timestrip which always reminds the viewer of the remaining time left. Plot-wise, it's a circus Kelly meeting, than losing sight of, poster girl Vera-Ellen is a perfect springboard for the day-long cab chase which unites Frank Sinatra with the rambunctious Betty Garrett, stopping en route to bring Jules Munshin together with Ann Miller (who performs an electrifying, leg-displaying, tap number in the film's best song, Prehistoric Man). By the time the sextet has sung On The Town from the roof to the lobby of the Empire State Building, 60 minutes have passed and the film's lighter than air pace comes to a grinding halt. At that point, it doesn't matter. You might as well sit back for the rest of the ride. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece Musical","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Masterpeice musical comedy film that has incredible cinematography and overall production qualities.The cast here truly are a joy to see because you can feel they are truly having a good time filming this movie.The flow o this film from scene to scene is flawless and truly accomplishes it's objectives of showcasing 1940's New York City and 3 Navy men on shore leave out to have super fun.The music could have had grander quality melody but still comes off very good because of the fun lyrics and funny atmosphere surrounding every musical scene.Only for big fans of dance musical movies and fans of the the lead actors....   "},{"Title":"Kelly's best after SINGIN' IN THE RAIN!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Oklahoma!, the first modern musical, conquered the audiences in search of a differed non-Ziegfeld glamour tone. In turn On the Town, Adolph Green and Betty Comden's masterpiece little creation, proved the fact that audiences were ready for a new kind of musical entertainment...a show carried by a small, intimate group of principal performers.In retrospect, Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra have matured as sailor characters in the four years since Anchors Aweigh, clearly evident through the fact that this time the men search the town no strings attached...no young boys, operatic singers and the entire MGM studios...and they're fancy free. Although they're in search of girls again, this time it is without Jose Iturbi on their backs...and there's only twenty four hours to do it in as they scour the big apple, ambitious to find love and see it all in a day.In tow with the brilliant Kelly and Sinatra, is Jules Munshin, who played a food enamoured waiter in the 1948 Judy Garland/Fred Astaire vehicle Easter Parade and now responsible for destroying a dinosaur. The delightful singing and dancing cast is headed by Betty Garrett, a determined taxi driver responsible for ferrying the group around during their all too short stay, Ann Miller, the anthropologist and Vera-Ellen, the beautiful subway 'celebrity' Miss Turnstiles. On the Town became a musical pioneer in itself when Kelly rallied for filming to occur in New York itself when most filming was done previously in the controlled conditions of an indoor sound stage. However, it provided a whole lot of firsts for the Freed department besides another practice run with Kelly. It marked Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly's co-directorial debut. Comden and Green excised their wise cracks and humour in their witty, amusing New York tale. And Gene was allowed to choreograph another serious ballet which killed the humourous and youthful-like story and revived it with great songs. MGM, the champion of musical production and its legendary Freed unit this time didn't have to recreate Ziegfeld Follies or The Great Ziegfeld to achieve a successful musical, nor did they have to hand out as many paychecks. Perhaps they finally began to realise that.Unfortunately musicals were coming to an end, as was the pairing of Howard Keel and Kathryn Grayson, possibly the musical team to follow Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald. The work that followed of the great actors in On the Town became scarce. What followed next was Kelly's legendary career topping performance in Singin' in the Rain, Sinatra winning an Oscar in From Here to Eternity and Miller in Kiss Me Kate. Yet what followed for the others, and everyone else specialising in musicals, is questionable.Despite all that eventually happened to the mostly forgotten musicals of Hollywood's Golden Days and this being one of the last, the fact that they don't make them like they used to is not a worry because this is such a brilliant musical example. Rating 9/10      "},{"Title":"In the city of New York","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Three sailors, Gabey(Gene Kelly), Chip(Frank Sinatra) and Ozzie (Jules Munshin), have exactly 24 hours to hang around in New York before the ship leaves.In that time they pick up girls, destroy a prehistoric dinosaur and are chased by cops.Gabey falls in love with a girl from the poster who he thinks is a celebrity but she is just a dancer.This girl is called Ivy Smith, played by Vera-Ellen.He can't leave New York, before he finds Ivy.Chip's girl is a cab driver called Brunhilde Esterhazy(Betty Garrett).Ozzie finds his girl from the museum.That girl is called Claire Huddesen(Ann Miller).The boys go all around New York singing some classic songs.On the Town was filmed in actual sets, not in a studio, like they usually did with musicals.There ain't one dull moment  watching On the Town.New York, New York-it's a wonderful town. "}{"Title":"The Collection Musicals (5/6)","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Well, the captain has taken 4 years to make the trip between LA and NY but all our same two sailors (Kelly and Sinatra) are again on leave, joined by a third buddy rather primitive. Personally, this movie is better than Anchors Aweigh. It's fast-paced, very funny and the NY area is more stimulating than LA. I would never expected but it gives me good laughs (the museum dance, the terrible roommate, the pearl dance). The running after the one is an original idea and it offers even a car chase in a amazing shining taxi. Watching those old movies should be mandatory because you discover the roots for our time and the inspiration of today filmmakers (Lynch, Burton, Spielberg, Zemeckis). And for those who mourn NY without the twin towers, remember that as the time of this movie they weren't even a memory on the skyline. As illustrated in the final sequence of the movie, life is a perpetual start again and will always triumph! "},{"Title":"Great Dancing!  Horrble songs.","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've seen 1945's Anchors Aweigh referred to as a warm up for On the Town. This is strange, since the former is better in almost every way. The former had a warmth that On the Town simply didn't.On the Town features three sailors on a 24-hour liberty in New York City... Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and.. Jose Carerras. No, seriously, the third one was Jules Munshin, but it might as well have been Jules Verne given that his name probably lives on only in the hearts of aficionados at this point. Anyway, the film starts out smashingly with the legendary song New York, New York and then the boys seek to find a few hours of true love.The basic love story between Kelly and Ivy is believable and of course both are incredibly telegenic. The other two haven't stood the test of time so well with Sinatra - who believe it or not was around 34 at the time of the movie but looks about 12 - appears to be on the wrong end of the statutory stick at some point in what appears to be a highly inappropriate relationship. The neanderthal song where munshin's ozzie meets his girl is quite racist by today's standards in that it basically equates modern traditional cultures with cave men. nice.Anyway, hi-jinks ensue including near the end a tacked on chase scene but of course they are really just filler for the musical numbers. sinatra's voice is a thing of beauty, as are kelly's moves. but, the chosen songs themselves were horrible. other than new york new york, i can't remember one song from the thing, which is unfortunate given that I just watched it less than 3 hours ago. but, the dancing was something else and the choreography was excellent. again, not as good as anchors aweigh (well, this one had more 'ensemble' dance numbers, thus meaning kelly was often limited to moves that his costars could also do), but still excellent.if you're in the mood, it's a nice little film. but, if you have only time for one such vanity, see anchors aweigh. "},{"Title":"On the Town","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" From the directors of Singin' in the Rain (the star and Stanley Donen), this is quite a good early musical. Basically three Navy sailors, Gabey (Gene Kelly), Chip (Frank Sinatra) and Ozzie (Jules Munshin) are very excited when their ship has stopped, and they have 24 hours leave to spend in New York, New York - a wonderful town! In the first few hours of the morning they have spent sight seeing, and then Gabey spots a poster for the girl of his dreams, Brunhilde Esterhazy (Betty Garrett), and seconds later they actually see her. Following her in a cab, Chip meets the woman he will eventually fall for, she immediately feels attraction, Claire Huddesen (Ann Miller). Then looking in a museum, a woman who is shocked to see Ozzie looks exactly like a prehistoric figure, he gets his girl, Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen). After finally getting to talk to Esterhazy again, they arrange to meet on top of the Empire State building, where the others are also hanging out. Esterhazy does have to get back to her job quickly, and she did fib about her work, and for a tiny while break with Gabey, but they are all fine in the end. They may not all get to keep their girls when they get back on the ship, but they still had a great time. Also starring Florence Bates as Mme. Dilyovska, Alice Pearce as Lucy Shmeeler and George Meader as Professor. I am sure other people will agree it deserves its five stars, but to me in some ways it is too similar to future musicals, and there's a ballet like in An American in Paris, but it is still fun in most places. It won the Oscar for Best Music for Roger Edens and Lennie Hayton, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Cinematography. Gene Kelly was number 66 on The 100 Movie Stars, and he was number 15 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Frank Sinatra was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, New York, New York was number 41 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 19 on 100 Years of Musicals, and it was number 54 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Very good! "},{"Title":"Great Singing and Dancing","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  On the Town is a trifle; it offers little in the way of plot, dialogue and characters. But that's not the purpose of this film. The purpose is singing and dancing, and that On the Town provides is spades. It's breezy, happy, joyful, and thankfully not schmaltzy. Besides the fantastic singing and dancing, it has two other features of interest. First is that the film was shot on-location in New York City. The second is the manner in which the three female characters handle their sex lives. They don't seem to be the obedient hausfraus that current social history proscribes for post-war American women. These dames just want to have fun, just as much as their sailor consorts. I recommend that you join them on their 24-hour jaunt through the greatest city in the world.   "},{"Title":"The best parts are sterling, but you can't quite overlook some weak writing and filler songs","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On the Town (1949)There is so much going right with this movie--from the photography (yes) by Harold Rossen and the music (famously) by Leonard Bernstein, from the leading actors (Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly) to the directors (Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly)--it's hard to realize how dated or almost bad some moments have become. This is delightful, fantastic, and inspired stuff, total fun top to bottom. But it also has moments that are cringe inducing.And I like musicals.If you don't like musicals in particular, you should start with specimens with wider appeal, and higher standards Singin' in the Rain and West Side Story would work for me, if we're talking classics. Throw in Swing Time or Top Hat if you want an Astaire classic, too. Or a Garland singing musical.This one is from the amazing run of polished hits by producer Arthur Freed. The choreography varies from excellent to wonderful. If it's choreographed dancing you like, check this out. Some of the format it is from the standard style of the Golden Age, where the characters break into song or dance in the middle of their normal doings--in this case, three sailors racing through Manhattan on 24 hour leave.Other parts have choreography, probably by Gene Kelly, that becomes abstract and cinematic, a Hollywood innovation (also seen, famously, in Singin' in the Rain and An American in Paris). The scenes, whether stylized or realistic, are fabulous. The standards are high--space, light, and control of color (Technicolor, of course) inside and out.What drags the movie down is some awful writing, both in the dialog and even in some of the songs. I know lots of musical lovers who don't give a hoot if the lyrics make sense or are especially good--they become secondary to the rest of it, and the artifice is part of the game. But I know others who, like me, prefer the clever, the lyric, the original. And there are some real wincing moments.And in fact, the movie as a whole is awkward, a series of vignettes that do eventually string together into a chronology, but they hardly have to. They survive, or struggle, independently. Some of the acting is forced and you may or may not like the sidekicks like the third sailor, who's just too comic and goofy for my taste. Even the lead actresses, Ann Miller and Vera-Ellen, are no match for Debbie Reynolds, let alone Judy Garland.Now, let's finally add--the best of the songs, and the dancing and photography, are top notch. For all musical lovers. The great final pieces at about 117 into the movie is amazing stuff.Note Bernstein's music originated in a ballet, Fancy Free, which turned into the Broadway play On the Town in 1944. But when this film was made, most of Bernstein's music was replaced with new stuff--some of which is the mediocre music that brings the production down a notch.At times the biggest star in the show is New York itself. Love it. "},{"Title":"Talk about fun and enthusiasm!!!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  What a movie this is.  I highly recommend it for any one of any age. I even showed it to some friends of mine who don't like old movies, let alone musicals, and they loved it!I won't spoil it for you - just see it - you won't be disappointed!  "},{"Title":"A HUGE disappointment","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  ON THE TOWN is probably one of the best musicals ever written.  Leonard Bernstein's score is truly astonishing, and Comden and Green's book is quite good.  You'd never know it from this movie, which shreds the score, adding far inferior songs, and totally ruins the spirit of the source.  This should never have even been a movie.  A shame. "},{"Title":"On The Town Surges Forward **1/2","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film started off quite boring despite the marvelous talents of Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra.It got very funny with the coming of Betty Garrett and the memorable Alice Pearce as Lucy Schmeeler. Kelly was wise to take Pearce from the Broadway stage and transfer the part of Lucy that she performed there to the big screen.The people still ride in a hole in the ground. Yet, that's what N.Y.C. is basically about is this fun thrilled film dealing with 3 gobs on a 24 hour pass in Gotham.The ending tended to be more slap-stick with scenes of cops chasing our culprits throughout the city.Kelly, as always, shows his mettle in his dancing. He is ably backed up by Sinatra and Vera-Ellen. Ann Miller is along for the ride as one of the broads that the 3 guys pick up during their 24 hour adventure. Remember Miss Subways? That was an integral part of this city. In this film, it's known as Miss Turnstiles.Jules Munshin, the able comic and dancer, joins Kelly and Sinatra here. A sad note is the early deaths of Jules Munshin, Vera-Ellen and Alice Pearce. All 3 died way before their time and Hollywood was a sadder place for this. "},{"Title":"One of my new favourite films!","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is my first Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin (who deserves to be credited) film and I was very VERY pleased! In fact, I was more than pleased - I was anything BUT disappointed!! From the first moment, this film is a GOOD THING, with the singing, dancing, acting, storyline, humour and oldness of the film. I hope I have given you a good impression of this film, but you will need to see it first before you start thinking about what it's like (which is not too surprising). I have to say my favourite little bits of the film are the song New York, New York and the mad but beautiful way all of the sailors fall in love with their gals.In this film, three sailors are spending 24 hours in New York City. After seeing all the sights, they decide to start looking for girls to meet. The surprises each of the men find with their gals are funny and sweet ones, making this film an ultimate delight!I recommend this lovely motion picture to people who like old films (this is not black and white though), to people who like Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra and to people who like New York City. Enjoy On the Town! -) -) "},{"Title":"Great Movie.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. I first watched it when I was about 9 or 10 years old. I fell in love with Gene Kelly, and have loved him ever since. I highly suggest you watch this movie. You will be satisfied.  Everyone in my family calls me an 78 year old at heart because ever since I watched this movie, I have gone out and watched any other Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra movie I could find. I have watched every movie they've made together. I've started to watch Gene Kelly and Judy Garland movies.  I suggest you watch Gene Kelly movie musicals if you like classic movies. I love this movie...Always will...I suggest you watch this is you want to watch a good quality movie. "}{"Title":"A must-see film for all fans of musicals","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  On the Town is a treat!  All the major elements of a good musical film are here great ensemble casting, fine writing, spirited dancing, wonderful songs & music, top-notch direction, and excellent production.  In addition, the viewer is treated to on-location shooting (unheard of in most musicals, especially at MGM), good comedic repartee, and even a clever ending that brings the story full-circle.  As the first of three movies directed by Donen & Kelly (followed by Singin' in the Rain and It's Always Fair Weather), it's a true tour de force for the talented pair.  "},{"Title":"Frank Sinatra at his best...","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you are a fan of Sinatra, or a fan of musicals, you will love this film. Combines a great plot, great acting, great singing, and good looking women. What can be better?  Oh yeah, the chase scene between Sinatra and his clique being chased by the New York City Police Department.I will give this movie an 8, without Sinatra, with Sinatra I give it a 10.5, but since the highest we can rate it is 10, then I will give it a 10. "},{"Title":"What a film","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Gene Kelly is wonderful!! Vera Ellen has the talent!! Those two have a remarkable talent in tap dancing. There two numbers that they are in A Day in New York and Main Street. I'm just shock!!! That Vera Ellen didn't get much attention or didn't get any real good plum roles. Other then that See the movie "},{"Title":"Remember when you could load a film down with stars?","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Try putting an ensemble like this together now. It would never happen. The chemistry that this cast has is magic. I laughed through the entire picture. The sight gags, and one liners are superb. Hildy the cab driver was almost forward enough to be raunchy, and played wonderfully off of Sinatra. Gene Kelly will go down as one of the true greats. "},{"Title":"On the Town is a really fun film!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The above summary should be sung to the tune of New York, New York, the most famous song to come from this rollicking adaptation of the Broadway musical.  There's nary a dull moment as we watch Gene Kelly search desperately for Vera-Ellen, Frank Sinatra play a young and naive sailor (!) who tries to resist going up to Betty Garrett's place but eventually gives in, and Jules Munshin add comedy to the proceedings while his young lovely, Ann Miller, adds her dancing skills.  In fact, everyone sings and dances at one point or another (usually at several points), and all are excellent.  Add the sly pop-culture refrences in the witty Betty Comden-Adolph Green script, the hilarious performance of Alice Pearce, recreating her Broadway role of an Agnes Gooch-esque roomate, and wonderful shots of New York itself, and you've got a fun-filled evening.  Sure, the plot is nothing, and this can't touch Singin' In the Rain, but who cares?  It's a fun film, and that's more than enough for me. "},{"Title":"On The Town is the best film I have ever, ever seen.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This has to be the best film ever. Everything about it is perfect. The impeccable timing, singing, dancing and everything makes it automatically into my favourite film. Every actor was perfect for their part, and played it so well. I wish I was singing and dancing in New York with the On The Town cast. "},{"Title":"A Toast To This Movie! While We're At It...","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  let's do the real old-fashioned champagne toast, it's so Viennese.  ; ) While it is most certainly not the best film ever, On The Town is a very entertaining movie. Let's talk about the stars, shall we?Gene Kelly really shines in it. Frank Sinatra is adorably shy as Chip. Jules Munshin provides the extra dash of comedy that would've brought the movie down a tad if not for him. Vera-Ellen bugs me. Betty Garrett is cool in this. Ann Miller definitely deserved more than one number, and I think she and Vera-Ellen should have switched parts. Well, you can't have it all. Not even while going ON THE TOWN! "},{"Title":"A song and Dance salute to the Navy and good old New York","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  No, this colorful songfest is not Singin in the Rain, but then again how many films can successfully compare to that classic. On the Town is just great of fun to watch, especially for native new yorkers who weren't around in the late 1940's when it was made. Funny how the city looks so much the same. Kelly is at his usual charming best, a little weak on voice and dramatic technique but more than makes up for it with his stupendous dancing and that smile. Sinatra is perfect as the shlub with the nice plain face who Betty Garrett's taxi driver can't help but fall for. Some of the song and dance numbers lose you but New York New York and the title number are priceless. Again don't expect Singin in the Rain, because missing here are the very lavish numbers and statements about Hollywood et al. This is simply super entertainment, MgM technicolor style. "},{"Title":"First-class musical!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have just watched this film and fully enjoyed it. While it doesn't quite reach the heights of the other Kelly/Freed/Donen musical Singin' in the Rain, it isn't very far away. Best musical numbers are On the Town, the song sung by Frank Sinatra and Betty Garrett in the taxi and of course the famous opening sequence of New York, New York. "},{"Title":"a disgrace to the memory of Leonard Berrnstein","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Regardless of the estimable performances of the leads here, and irrespective of the virtues of the film on its own merits, I have to pan this movie as a total misrepresentation of the musical of the same name written by Adolph Green and Betty Comden, with music by Leonard Bernstein. It's probably true that whoever bought the rights for the movie version bought the right to alter it (i.e., butcher it) for the screen. Anyone who has had the good fortune to see the recent brilliant Broadway revival of the original show knows that the screen version has little to do with the original, except the bones of the story line. Very little of Bernstein's original score makes it to celluloid, doubtless because the producers in their wisdom thought the complexity and originality of Bernstein's score too much for the average moviegoer. What little remains of the original music was abbreviated and watered down. Evidently Bernstein resented Comden's and Green's participation in the movie production, which is odd because evidently he served as a consultant as well. If you see this flick, whether you enjoy it or not, just know you are not seeing On The Town. "}{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On the Town (1949) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Musical about three sailors (Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Jules Munshin) who gets a 24-hour leave and head to see NYC. I'm going to try and catch up with more musicals and it seemed this would be another winner and it was. The only complaint I have is that it starts off a tad bit slow but quickly goes to high gear as the guy's start searching for Kelly's girl (Vera-Ellen). The musical numbers, which I'm guessing were directed by Kelly, are terrific to look at and the colors are also wonderful on the eyes. The songs are also very good with the title track and New York New York being the real standouts. I thought all three of the male leads were terrific with Kelly and Sinatra there usual greatness. Munshin holds his own with them very well. "},{"Title":"Sparkling, Ground-breaking Ourdoor Musical; 3 Guys, 3 Gals and 3 X the Fun","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a major capital musical, the old story about three sailors/soldiers from out of town in the nation's capital. The capital could have been Paris, Budapest, Istanbul, London or Moscow, in an sense; but the viewer I believe will be glad that the locale of this charming musical was New York City. The camera roves all about the great city; and the three stories of the sailors and the girls they meet are played for comedy and occasionally for more than laughs. Gabey, Chip, and Ozzie understandably are excited get leave in the big city; all three find someone to fall in love with. Chip, Frank Sinatra, tries but can't resist the bold advances of a cab driver, Betty Garrett; Ozzie, Jules Munshin, gladly fills the role of a lovely anthropologist's prehistoric man, she being Ann Miller; and after a rather desperate searching, Gabey, Gene Kelly, finds the model who has posed for the Miss Turnstiles advertisements, Vera Ellen; she turns out to be a dancer at Coney Island, but the two find they do not mind her lack of celebrity one bit after all. The production is first-rate, I suggest, because of the MGM top talent who contributed. Helen Rose did the costumes, Cedric Gibbons and Jack Martin Smith the art direction, veteran Edwin B. Willis and Jack D. Moore the elaborate set decorations; cinematography was by Harold Rossen, and the songs supplied by Saul Chaplin, Roger Edens, Leonard Bernstein (by permission) and the authors of the musical play Betty Comden and Adolph Green. (who also wrote the screenplay. Stanley Donen directed this masterly tour of the city with Gene Kelly doing the choreography. The best scenes in this very atmospheric movie, apart from the staged numbers in a museum Garrett's pursuit of Sinatra and the big number with charming Alice Pearce are the outdoor numbers; the opening number on the docks, those that take the boys and their girls out into the city. The dialogue is man versus women takes and cross-purpose bickerings; it is more than serviceable to keep the screenplay moving forward. In the talented cast apart from the classic six leads one can find Alice Pearce, as mentioned, Florence Bates, George Meader and in smaller roles Carol Haney, Sid Melton, Bern Hoffman, Hans Conreid and Claire Carleton among many others. The real stars of this Arthur Freed unit MGM winner are Donen's usual charming and glowingly-fluid camera work and the rightness of the cast performing what he and the script are asking. This is not a great musical; but it is an interesting and vivid story, one that stays with the viewer long after the details may have faded from the mind. "},{"Title":"good, but the show is better","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie, with fantastic songs. I first saw this movies because my high school was going to do it as the annual musical and i wanted to audition. After seeing the movie i was excited about doing the show because it is entertaining and well-written, but one of my friends told me that the movie and show are very different, and it really is. Many, if not most, of the songs from the show are not included in the movie, And there is a whole side-plot including another character(Judge Pitkin W. Bridgwork). The songs in the show are much better in my opinion and the side-plot is very worthwhile, but none-the-less the movie is still entertaining. "},{"Title":"by Bernstein?","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  On the Town is a wonderful, exuberant, and quite popular film.  Purists, however, carp that half the songs are by Roger Edens, not Leonard Bernstein. But is that so?  Bernstein sold both his Broadway score for On the Town AND 10 additional 'trunk' songs to MGM at even greater expense.  It's hard to believe that tight wod Louis B. Mayer would shelve out that money for nothing.  Could the 'trunk' songs have been the source of the additional Edens' songs (e.g. 'You're Awful', 'On the Town' theme song, etc.)?  A Bernstein scholar would have to find the sheet music for all the songs in question and compare them. Parts of rousing hoe-down 'You Can Count on Me' has always reminded me of 'Gee Officer Krupkee' from West Side Story (the sort of 'slapping music' in both).  If my suspicions are true, this would provide a direct link.  Why would Bernstein disown his own music, if he indeed provided the source for the additional songs?  Bernstein and Arthur Freed didn't like each other and 'Lenny' felt insulted that his serious ballet musical had become a mere 'comedy'.  Any ideas, thanx, HJ "},{"Title":"On The Town best movie I've ever seen","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" On the Town is, without a doubt, the best movie I've ever seen. All the characters are very likable and well cast, the singing could not be better  (although Betty Garrett isn't really a singer, she does her best), and the dancing blew me away. I think the teaming of Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra was  clever, although Jules Munshin seems to have been left out. It's all the  little quirks that make this movie fabulous. you've got to admire Ann Miller's dancing in Prehistoric Man. She needed more attention in the rest of the  picture, though. Oh well, nobody's perfect. "},{"Title":"Irrational exuberance","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is probably the most overrated MGM musical, though it's really not too bad. I would put it on a par with Words and Music. (The unofficial sequel, It's Always Fair Weather with Gene Kelly on roller skates and Cyd Charisse's killer boxing number, is far better.) The location shooting, novel in musicals then, was hardly novel in movies in 1949. The Bernstein music is not bad, either, although most of it is pretty unmemorable (the title number, nicely arranged in Big Harmony style, does linger in the mind). The lyrics are a bit too polished and slick, in that Comden-&-Green way. And the dream ballet is somewhat disappointing, although it does feature an early appearance by the uncredited Carol Haney.But it's all entertaining and diverting enough. Be honest the real problem with the movie is that there isn't enough Ann Miller in it. When the woman starts to sing and dance everyone else-- and the rest of the movie, too-- just disappears and even starts to seem preposterous. You can have all the 'art' movies, and the rest of this one, for a nickel; if you'll just leave me her numbers. Unlike art, that can't be put over or faked. "},{"Title":"Acceptable musical fare","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Initially I thought I'd seen this film before; it's a musical featuring Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra as a couple of sailors on shore leave, indulging in plenty of adventures in a vibrant and bustling city. Then I realised I'd seen the very similar predecessor, ANCHORS AWEIGH, of which this is a virtually identical follow-up.Sad to say I found this resultant film a bit of a letdown, even though Gene Kelly considered it his personal favourite. With no less than seven leading characters here, the genius of Kelly is lost in the mix a bit, and there's no stand-out scene like THAT dance-off with an animated Jerry from ANCHORS AWEIGH.Still, fans of film musicals will no doubt find this fun, if dated. The song and dance routines are as enthusiastic as ever, and Sinatra is always good value for money. But there seemed to be a greater emphasis here on comedy over music, and I confess that I found one of the female characters (Betty Garrett's) extremely irritating, which ruined my enjoyment a little. In addition, Jules Munshin's third sailor seems one too many, and I think this film would have been better off as a whole without him. Vera-Ellen is lovely, though. "},{"Title":"On the Town had potential with its songs and cast, but is ruined by a cringe-worthy story","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I really wanted to like On the Town (1949), I really did. It starred Frank Sinatra, one of the musical idols my whole family looks up to, and Gene Kelly, the main lead of Singin' in the Rain (1952), together. It's written by the screenwriters who would later write Singin' in the Rain and The Band Wagon (1953), two of my favorite musicals of all time. It's got some catchy songs, nice costumes, exceptional dance sequences, and it had all this good stuff going for it. But the story is so painfully awkward, thin, and unintentionally semi-cruel that it utterly ruined the experience for me. In New York City, three sailors (played by Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, and Jules Munshin) begin their shore leave and set out to explore the town. While on a subway, one of them (Kelly) sees an ad for an aspiring actress named Ivy Smith (Vera-Ellen) and decides that he simply must meet her. As they race around the city to find Ivy, they're assisted by two women (Betty Garrett, Ann Miller) whom the other two sailors become romantically involved with. If this plot doesn't sound good to you on paper, then guess what? The story is even worse on film. Don't get me wrong, I don't doubt that there are real-life sailors out there who'd like to meet female celebrities. All I'm saying is that it's simply impractical for a sailor to go to this much trouble for such a woman, especially if it's only for one day. Even putting aside the implausibility, the pure coincidences, and the complete lack of realism that a plot of this sort is certain to have, I still felt it was an awkward story all the way through. The main relationship between Gene Kelly and Vera-Ellen is equivalent to long fingernails on a giant blackboard in terms of its stiffness. It doesn't help that most of the love story is focused more on when they'll see each other again as opposed to them actually sharing a connection with one another. Furthermore, what was the point to having the third sailor (Munshin) around and what contributions did he make to the plot advancement? Not only is this character completely mediocre, but his girlfriend technically contributes more to the plot than he does. What's up with that?! Okay, I should refrain from talking about the story and instead talk about the good aspects of this film. The songs, though they mostly repeat the same rhythm over and over again, are beguiling, namely You're Awful sung by Frank Sinatra and On the Town performed by the six main leads. I particularly admire how the song You're Awful progresses throughout. I like how Sinatra starts out with what sounds like an insult towards his love interest and then it becomes a compliment towards her (You're awful &#x96; awful nice to be with). Given that this is a musical that obviously depends on its music more than anything else, good tunes are the least that this film can provide audiences and it does exactly that. The dance numbers aren't bad either, namely the A Day in New York dance sequence between Kelly and Vera-Ellen. The way they dominate the area they have to dance in is simply fun to watch. It's not like they're just simply dancing on flat ground either, they have to dance in places where they either have to watch their step or hoist up/climb down a big stair. So that scene pays off pretty well. If On the Town had a narrative that was at least tolerable to sit through, maybe it would have had a better chance of working. I give this musical credit for trying to tell a story other than your simple backstage musical plot and whatnot. But based on how much of a mixed bag this film is, it's clear that stories in musicals are still, in the grand scheme of things, a work-in-progress. "},{"Title":"To me, this felt very uneven.","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Three sailors (Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin) arrive in New York and have a day of shore leave. Oddly, they spend the beginning of the movie running wildly about town seeing all the popular sites. Maybe I'm crazy, but I don't think THAT would be the agenda for most sailors! Later, in an odd twist, they meet up with three girls--and mostly (especially in the case of Betty Garrett) they do the pursuing! And what do these frisky sailors want to do now that they've got dates--yes, hang out in night clubs! On the Town is a highly regarded musical. Because of this, I feel a bit odd because I was not particularly impressed by it. The film started very well with the New York, New York sequence and maintained its momentum for some time, but after a while it started to drag and the quality of the musical numbers seemed to flag as well. To me, the low-light was Gene Kelly's LONG dance routine--it just seemed interminably long. The over film wasn't terrible...it just wasn't very good later in the film. Uneven but worth seeing.By the way, nearly every MGM film from the golden era includes several shorts (including a cartoon) to make it feel like an afternoon at the movies in the old days. Well, oddly, On the Town did NOT include this--for shame Turner Entertainment, we want these shorts!! "},{"Title":"The best feel good musical ever!","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This may come as a shock to most people, But I believe that on the town was slightly better than singin in the rain. The overall cast had prodigious talents, and chemistry together. There was no hint of pessimism or violence. This is why I believe musicals are the best genre of movies always.Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly were one of the best combo's in cinema history. Their work together in anchors aweigh, take me out to the ballgame and on the town, is what made these movies so full of exuberance. Jules Munshin facetiousness added a great element to this movie.The female leads were wonderful as well. All had prominent careers because of their manifold talents. Who could forget Ann Miller's dancing in easter parade, or Vera-Ellen in white Christmas? Betty Garrett also achieved acclaim in Take me out to the ballgame, and also on Broadway.Take the time to see this movie, to see how having fun and looking for love, can come together splendidly! "}{"Title":"TRULY BEST MUSICAL 1949","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Everybody covered fine details of this post WWII MGM film. I agree fine acting  by Mr. Blue Eyes, Frank Sinatra as a sailor, was at his best. I just want to add   not much mentioned, or most notoriety is the late Ann Miller passed awayJanuary, 22,2004 as of this review. She was just a classic act in acting andkudos for very best dancing, she really shined until mid-fifties when WWII era  was passing less musicals were made. From director Stanley Donen to bestdancer Gene Kelly in my book,  was great! (aside of Fred Astaire comes closetoo) Kelly is was one of the three sailors on their leave to PAINT THE TOWNRED!! Where else? NEW YORK!  the third main sailor was Jules Munshin, did  well. TRUE DELIGHT  10/10 with Sinatra I agree overall 8.5/10 98 minutesWORTH WATCHING!!! "},{"Title":"so there WAS an official link between Bewitched and The Simpsons after all","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you've read any of my reviews of musicals and Disney movies, you'll know that I watch them for the purpose of heckling them like Mike, Servo and Crow do the crummy movies sent them by Dr. Forrester and TV's Frank on Mystery Science Theater 3000. I had no shortage of riffs for On the Town (most of them unrepeatable here).However, there was a more specific reason why I watched this movie. One was that there was an episode of The Simpsons on which Bart and Milhouse overdose on an entirely syrup-based Squishee and proceed to sing a paean to Springfield. I later learned that their song was a spoof of this movie's ode to New York.When I started the movie, I didn't know that there was another thing about it that was going to catch my eye. Co-starring was Alice Pearce, best known as the first Gladys Kravitz on Bewitched (she died of ovarian cancer during the second season). Having seen that she was a cast member, I shouted Abner! or Stop spying on the Stephenses! every time that her character appeared.Yes, it's hard for me to take these happy-go-lucky movies seriously. My favorite movies from Hollywood's golden age are the horror flicks, gangster flicks, comedies, and Looney Tunes cartoons. Since you probably find this to be one of the most perverted, insane reviews that you've ever read, all that I can say is, we've all got our opinions. "},{"Title":"Sailor Beware","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this film it was already some thirty plus years old; I was a die-hard Sinatra fan and had been reading and listening to the hype for several years. I was bitterly disappointed and the fact that they dropped two of the best ballads - Some Other Time and Lonely Town - and substituted some very pedestrian Roger Edens numbers (then when did he ever do anything that wasn't pedestrian) was only part of it. An aversion to Comden and Green who I've always considered vastly overrated added to my disappointment as did the lacklustre performances - ironic inasmuch as most critics praised the energy/vitality on display. However it fetched up on TV this weekend and I found it better than I remembered though still far short of the acclaim it has enjoyed. "}]