[{"Title":"Colorful Centerpiece of Cavalry Trilogy...","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"84 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is, arguably, the most enduring and appealing of John Ford's 'Cavalry' trilogy. While lacking the dramatic core of a fatally flawed central character (FORT APACHE), or an estranged couple reunited by a headstrong son (RIO GRANDE), the film offers a richly sentimental tale of a crusty yet endearing career soldier (John Wayne)  facing retirement, in a romanticized West where the cavalry stands as the only defense against the combined might of the Indian nations. The combination of Wayne and the cavalry in SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is simply unbeatable!Wayne, at 42, portrays the sixty-ish Capt. Nathan Brittles, and under Ford's sure hand, is magnificent in the role. Whether chastising young lieutenants (Never apologize, mister, it's a sign of weakness), complimenting an enlisted man (Keep it up, and you'll make a fine corporal, in three or four years), or kneeling at the grave of his long-dead wife, to share the news of the day, Wayne's performance shows a subtlety and sensitivity that his critics often claimed he lacked. When his commander, Major Allshard (George O'Brien) refuses his request to rescue Lt. Cohill (John Agar) and two squads who had performed rear guard duty, the anguish Wayne shows is heartbreaking. This is an Oscar-caliber performance, from a vastly underrated actor.The rest of the cast measures up equally well. Victor McLaglen, as irascible as ever, plays Irish Top Sergeant Quincannon, full of blarney and (a bit of) whiskey. His morning scenes with Wayne, denying he'd been drinking, are comic gems. As the young suitors of Joanne Dru (who plays a more traditional role than in Howard Hawks' RED RIVER), Agar and Harry Carey Jr. are also quite good. The real 'find' of the film, however, is Ben Johnson, in only his second major role. As Sgt. Tyree, ex-Confederate captain, and Brittles' best scout, Johnson shows an easy-going charm, a (feigned) lack of respect (when asked his opinion, he'd always begin with That's not my department... then make a dead-on assessment), and astonishing riding skills (not surprising, as Johnson had been a champion rodeo rider). A future Oscar winner, he displays a charisma on-camera that would quickly earn him a place in the 'Ford Family' of actors. The visuals of SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON have been frequently compared to Fredric Remington's classic paintings of cavalrymen and Indians, and the comparison is justified; the film would win an Oscar for it's rich Technicolor photography, and images of 'dirty blue' riders on horseback against the stark blue sky and golden hues of Monument Valley are very reminiscent of the artist's work.SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is the kind of film you can watch again and again, and still find rewarding. It is on my 'short list' of favorite westerns, and if you haven't seen it yet, you're in for a treat! "},{"Title":"Never Apologize","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"61 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There is an ironic point about the production of SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON immediately after FORT APACHE. Most critics agree that Col. Owen Thursday, the martinet commander, is based on General George Armstrong Custer, and that the massacre of his command due to his own pig headedness is the battle of the Little Bighorn. But SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON begins with that moment in the summer of 1876 when the entire frontier was nervous after word came of the destruction of Custer forces. The historic continuity (which is amazingly consistent, despite minor anachronisms) is shown early when Captain Brittles, visiting his wife's grave, mentions to her the death of Captain Miles Keogh at the Little Bighorn. Historically this is correct. Keogh, a hero of the American Civil War, served with Custer's Seventh Cavalry and died with his commander and fellows. In fact, the only survivor of Custer's forces at that disaster was Keogh's horse, Commanche.Captain Brittles has served in the American cavalry for thirty years. He was one of those soldiers who held higher rank in the Civil War with a Brevet, but in the cutbacks in the army following the war (Custer went from brevet major general to Lt. Col. in the regular army)Brittles had to be satisfied with the rank of Captain. His wife and children died (presumably of some epidemic illness at the post - they are buried nearby). His old orderly from the war, Quincannon (Victor McLaglen) is still serving him. But he is facing a crisis. His thirty years means retirement, unless the army decides to promote him to Colonel. Despite the debacle in Montana, it is not too likely that the politically unconnected Brittles will get the promotion his fine abilities deserve.So we are watching an old soldier slowly fade away in this film. Brittles is aware he has days before he is to leave (unless a promotion turns up), and he has to try to keep the hot blooded Indian braves, impressed at what they just saw Crazy Horse and the Lakota forces accomplish, go on the warpath. He also has to keep his two most promising young officers (John Agar and Harry Carey Jr.) concentrating on their careers rather than fighting over Joanne Dru. He is worried too for Sgt. Quincannon, who is likewise going to be leaving the army a few days after Brittles. Will Quincannon's drunken, roistering ways ruin his chances to maintain his pension? And he has to keep an eye on the suspicious behavior of the local fort sutler (Paul Fix) is up to - can he be running guns? Whatever he faces, he faces unflinchingly, and his motto is never to apologize - it's a sign of weakness.For all the anachronisms listed on this thread, such as the 48 star flag (in 1876?), Ford got the time and place perfect in what counts. Note the fascinating relationship of Brittles and Sgt. Tyree (Ben Johnson). 1876 was a crossroad year for the U.S. regarding the results of the Civil War. In the negative, a questionable Presidential election result was solidified when three southern states agreed to support the Republican (Rutherford Hayes) over the Democrat (Samuel Tilden) in return for the Federal troops being pulled out of the south and the official end of Reconstruction policies benefiting southern African-Americans. One can't deny that is still a stain in American history (despite Hayes excellent handling of the Presidency afterwords). But the former foes were finding less and less reason to dislike each other, and more and more to admire the grit both sides had shown. During the Civil War, Tyree was a Confederate Captain - he was Brittles' equal in rank. Once the war ended, after a few years, he joins the American Army and rises to the rank of Sergeant. Technically he is not as high a Sergeant as Quincannon, who is Brittles' aide. But Brittles constantly treats Tyree as a full equal, consulting him again and again on how to move next when going out of the fort to confront the Indian threat. The highpoint of this respect is when one of Tyree's soldiers, Trooper Smith turns out to be a former Confederate cavalry leader named Rome Clay, and dies of wounds in an action against the Indians. Brittles and his men watch silently while Tyree and his fellow southern soldiers bury Clay properly with his flag, the Confederate one.In terms of relations between the whites of the North and South, SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is miles away from the confrontations of, say THE PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND. There John Carridine's northern officer has nothing but fanatical contempt for Dr. Mudd, whom he considers evil for helping John Wilkes Booth. Until the end of that film, Carridine takes a sadistic interest in making Warner Baxter regret his every move. The events of THE PRISONER was from 1865 - 1869 (when Mudd finally returned to Maryland). This is seven years afterwords.There are other little historical pointers. The rivalry of immigrant groups is shown when Quincannon is facing rival Sergeant Hochbauer, who openly dislikes the former as an overbearing Irishman (Hochbauer being a German). There is the civilian clothes that are meant for Brittles (complete with Muller cut-down hat) that Quincannon ends sampling (which leads to his hysterically funny fight with Hochbauer and the other soldiers meant to take him to the guardhouse). Quincannon insists he is not out of uniform (technically he is) but is simply dressed as a retired gentleman should be. Yes, in 1876, that would be the dress of a retired gentleman.I like this film. The characterizations of the all the actors are strong, and Ford had great set pieces in it. Perhaps not as great a film as THE SEARCHERS (which is more meaty and dark), but a top notch Western all the same. "},{"Title":"Exciting, highly enjoyable, and beautiful!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" 'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon' remains for many viewers their favorite Ford film, and it is certainly the most striking visually... Winton C. Hoch won an Oscar for his Technicolor photography... The compositions and photography around Ford's new stamping ground of Monument valley are great to look at as always... The Monument Valley goes from bright sunlight to hail and sleet...There is a melancholy mixed together in those incredible vistas, with a certain sense of dreamlike contemplation... A backdrop so complex but so significant as the human characters...Ford has superbly achieved a huge and composite demonstration of all the legends of the frontier cavalryman... Never have the legendary troops been through the silent 'Indian country' and across the magnificent Western plains so brilliant, vivid, exciting and romantic... Ford has surely done better himself, unquestionably with 'My Darling Clementine,' and 'The Searchers,' yet one has to admit the undisputed merits of 'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon.' Even the usual criticism launched against it-that it is a Western influenced by feeling rather by reason&#151;can be dismissed at the start... Certainly Ford can be sentimental but only when the springs of honest feeling run dry and lose their inspiration, and this never really happens in 'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon.'The story is that of an older cavalry officer (John Wayne) who is six days from retirement at Fort Stark when he's sent out, in a last mission, to escort the Major's wife (Mildred Natwick) and her niece, an attractive single lady (Joanne Dru) out of the danger area... Wayne tries to fulfill his military role protecting his female charges against the uprising of the Sioux, Cheyenne, Kiowa, Comanche and Apaches...Wayne possibly more than any other Western star has re-created and heightened the mythology of the West-one has only to watch again his absolute and ideal image in 'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,' or his avenging Ethan in 'The Searchers,' to be reminded of how irresistible the Duke has been on the cinema screen...'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon' is above all a sentimental movie, with irresistible scenes, full of Ford's best touches- The cavalry engaged in its everyday work... Wayne simply can't picture himself in a world far from the army...- The comic interaction between Wayne and Victor McLaglen, two hardcore professional officers...- The bravery of Sgt. Tyree (Ben Johnson), chased by hostile Indians, who must finish his mission by reporting to the captain what he saw...- The rivalry of two young cavalry lieutenants (John Agar and Harry Carey Jr.) in love with the same woman, each competing to have her wear a yellow ribbon as a token of his love...- The 'beloved brute,' the tough-soft cavalry sergeant sharing his saddle with a little orphan rescued from a devastated stage station...- Ford celebrating McLaglen's lachrymose in self-indulgent fisticuffs in an epic saloon fight... - The last inspection of the C. troops almost bringing tears to Wayne's and the audience's eyes, as he reads the inscription that means so much to him... - Wayne riding into the war camp of the Indians to stop a war...- The U. S. cavalry at full gallop descending upon the encampment, firing wildly and stampeding hundred of Indian ponies... - The evocative use of music, notably the gay and spirited theme song of the yellow ribbon, played countless times...'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon ' is an exciting story with strong characters and sentiment, highly enjoyable, and beautiful... "},{"Title":"...wherever they rode, whatever they fought for, that place became the United States.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The second of John Ford's cavalry trilogy that deals with the life of the professional soldier is the only one that was photographed in color. Lucky are we, the cinema fans two generations away.She Wore A Yellow Ribbon has John Wayne the embodiment of the thirty year army man. The year of the action of the film which is 1876 has Wayne mentioning in passing that he was at the Battle of Chapultepec in the Mexican War which started in 1846. Wayne's Nathan Brittles was by his account a dirty shirt tailed runaway from his father's Ohio farm when he joined the army. And now he's reached mandatory retirement. He's married and has had a family who he's lost for reasons John Ford doesn't explain in the film. But Wayne dutifully, makes his report at their gravesides every night he's at the post.Wayne's seen a lot of military history and a lot of tragedy. With no family left, the United States Cavalry is his home and family. He doesn't like the idea of retiring at all. In a later Ford film, The Long Gray Line, Martin Maher says that all he knows and holds dear is at West Point. Wayne could have said that line himself here.Even though George O'Brien is the commanding officer at Fort Stark, Wayne is the father figure for the whole post. And not like some of the others don't behave like children. The whole romantic rivalry between John Agar and Harry Carey, Jr. over Joanne Dru seems pretty childish. Cute while in the safety of the post, but when out on a mission downright dangerous and Wayne like the good father scolds his kiddies.With some makeup to grey his hair and wrinkle him a might, Wayne turns in one of his finest performances on the screen. Harry Carey, Jr. wrote what is probably the most evenly balanced portrayal of the Duke in his memoirs In the Company of Heroes. They didn't always get along, but Carey says Wayne was an inspiration to him and the other younger cast members. In fact during the scene with the gunrunners Paul Fix and Grant Withers being killed in the Indian camp while Wayne, Carey, and Agar watch on the ridge, the whole idea for the chaw of tobacco bit came from Carey himself, but that Wayne encouraged the improvisation as he was wont to do. Other than the Duke, my favorite portrayal in the film is that of Ben Johnson as Sergeant Tyree. Wayne recognizes in him a younger version of himself. In fact Tyree is a former Confederate Army captain, a fact brought out in the death scene of Trooper Smith another former Confederate who in fact was a general in that army. Ben Johnson was a real cowboy, a horse wrangler who John Ford gave a chance to act. He graced many a film with his presence and won himself an Oscar to cap his career in The Last Picture Show.Like in Fort Apache and Rio Grande, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is the story of the professional soldier and the sacrifices he makes when he gives up his civilian status to serve his country. It's a universal theme, not just confined to the USA. No one embodied that theme better than did John Wayne as Nathan Brittles in She Wore a Yellow Ribbon. "},{"Title":"John Wayne, Cinematography, Both Brilliant","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Anyone who thinks John Wayne can't act should see this movie and eat crow.  A young man then, he played a cavalry officer on the verge of retirement.  Watch his eyes (the sign of a great actor).  It's a wonder he wasn't even nominated for the Academy Award for this role, which few in Hollywood could pull off convincingly.It's also a John Wayne western the woman in your life will probably like.  Wayne talks tenderly at the grave of his wife, and even has a moment of sucking back weeping when his men show their fondness for him.This bittersweet, elegaic film about a retiring officer on his last mission doesn't have lots of action in it (Ford seems to have thrown in a fistfight with McLaglin just because that actor had little to do, and though it's corny, it has a wonderful beginning).  Apart from Wayne, the reason to watch this is the cinematography.  Monument valley, host to myriad westerns, never looked better.  They even captured a marvelous thunderstorm in the background, in these days before special effects (the cinematographer, who did snatch an Oscar, originally protested the work, but Ford made him film the scene and they ended up with one of the most striking natural scenes ever).For years people didn't think Wayne could act.  Some, like me, grew up on his later, post-True Grit movies, when he did tend to walk through his parts, more icon than actor.  He didn't have great finesse with his lines (neither does a fine actor of today, Harrison Ford), but his roles rarely called for the nicety of a Jeremy Irons.  In his better movies, Wayne proves he's more than just a movie star.  This is his finest hour, and may be John Ford's.  "},{"Title":"Never apologize, it's a sign of weakness.","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Like My Darling Clementine, Ford used the name of a song and even more than in Clementine, he deviated from the pattern of a standard western. Although the basic structure is a story of war with Indians, there is more focus on the people, which are the essence of this great film. Joanne Dru is the beautiful niece of the commanding officer and she thrives on her power of seduction. When she wears the yellow ribbon, both John Agar and Harry Carey Jr hope it is for them. John Wayne is a captain who is going to retire, he is the one who knows it all, and his relationship with Ben Johnson, an ex confederate, is a model of human respect. Victor McLaglen is the strong,loyal Irishman who loves to fight and drink. There are some incredibly beautiful shots of Monument Valley in great color.When Joanne Dru at a certain moment feels guilty about all the trouble she caused and says to Wayne she is sorry, he tells her not to apologize for it is a sign of weakness, and considering all the excitement and joy she brought to the cavalry, he is certainly right.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It seems trite to say they don't make them like this anymore. But it's a fact. They don't make them like this anymore. And it seems likely we won't be seeing them making them like this ever again. This is John Ford at the height of his career, at his best, doing what he did best. On location in the Monument Valley, it is more than fair to say the scenery, the colors, even the weather, along with Ford's cinematography, particularly the patient framing of his shots and making full use of the setting and environment in which he filmed, are every bit as much stars of this film as are the featured human stars.None of which is to say the human stars weren't good. John Wayne in the lead turned in a remarkable performance. Wayne was 42-years old when he made this, but he was playing a character much older than that, perhaps as much as 20 years older, and Wayne pulls it off. He looks and seems like a 60-year old man. He showed his acting chops here.Ben Johnson had been around awhile at this point, mainly as a stuntman, but here he makes one of his first forays into real acting, and he does well, which no doubt boosted his career.Perennial John Wayne sidekick Harry Carey, Jr. is here too, at the ripe young age of 28. It occurs to me as I write this in November 2008 that he seems to be the last surviving cast member of this movie.Joanne Dru. What can be said? While this movie was made before I was born, Joanne Dru plays the fetching young woman wearing the yellow ribbon and stirring the male ashes deep inside as well as anybody ever could, and she was quite fetching indeed. Her performance still striking that chord precisely that way almost 60 years later.Ostensibly this is a western, but this movie is actually much more a military movie than just a western. John Ford was a military man himself, who ultimately retired as a Navy Reserve Rear Admiral. He knew what the military was all about, he understood and enjoyed military life, military ways, military customs, and military culture, and he clearly relished making military depictions. So that's what we see here. All that military stuff. Oddly, though, it all seems out of time in a way. This movie was made in 1949, just a few years after WWII. While making a movie about the cavalry fighting the Indian wars in 1876, the military culture Ford depicted seems more apropos of the 1940s than of the 1870s. For instance, I'm just not sold on this version of history where US cavalry men were burdened with and hauled around family members in the wild wild west. Maybe they did, but I'm not so sure. It seems much more likely this was a device added to appeal to 1949 audiences. There are other examples of this. This is the only flaw in an otherwise very good movie. And who knows, maybe it isn't a flaw at all, true or not. It's a good movie. Ford made a movie in which he talked to all those recently mustered out veterans he knew were out there populating his audiences. On that level he succeeds. "},{"Title":"Wayne matures as the theme befits the role.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The second instalment of the acclaimed John Ford cavalry trilogy had a lot to live up to after Fort Apache. So it may not be too controversial to state that Yellow Ribbon doesn't quite achieve the potential promise that Fort Apache's foundation building provided. However, here is still a mighty western of many joys.The lead theme here is the passing of time, of time and love lost, lest we forget indeed. These themes give the film a strong emotional heartbeat to work from, even if there is not much in the way of adrenalin pumping. Accepting it as an affecting character piece is something of a requisite if you want to get the most out of it, and of course the gifted art of film making is very much on the film's side here as well.John Wayne gives a top notch performance in what is obviously one of the first out and out serious roles that Ford gave him. His ageing Captain Nathan Brittles requires him to put in a very fallible human type performance, something that he achieves in spades. He's a believable leader who is ruing the calling of time on his career in the service. Yet even Wayne's affecting turn is trumped by some of the the most gorgeous cinematography you could wish to see from the 1940s. Winton Hoch clashed with Ford on the shoot about various perfections (both parties equally to blame of course), but the final result is incredible. Witness a scene as Brittles visits his dead wife's grave, the backdrop is all purple and red, a storm is imminent, metaphorically and in reality. Has shooting in the desert ever been so colourfully lush?The film leaves an indelible mark on the conscious for its art and performances (Joanne Dru, Ben Johnson, Victor McLaglen & Harry Carey Jr bring their A Game), but as a story it just about gets by because John Ford knows his onions and structures it with precision and a genuine love of the genre and material to hand. 8/10 "},{"Title":"the best of the cavalry trilogy","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The fact that the names of Captain Nathan Brittles and Sgts Tyree and Quincannon have passed, not just into the mythology of the American western, but of movies themselves is testament to the iconic status of Ford's 1949 masterpiece, the second and best of what became known as his cavalry trilogy. That their names are also burned into our collective cinematic consciousness is also testament to the performances of John Wayne, Ben Johnson and Victor McLaglen who are all at their best here and yet are only part of a great ensemble that also includes that very fine and undervalued actress Joanne Dru as well as Mildred Natwick, John Agar, Harry Carey Jr and Arthur Shields.The period is the Indian Wars that followed from the massacre of General Custer and Ford filmed it mostly in his beloved Monument Valley. It is largely devoid of the sentimentality of Rio Grande though it is never as dark nor as serious as Fort Apache, (it straddles the middle-ground magnificently; even the comic fight scene doesn't sit uncomfortably), and while Ford may make the Indians the villains of the piece he nevertheless bestows on them a kind of dignity and some degree of respect. Ford's sentimentality isn't necessarily for the cavalry but for the passing of the 'old' West and the loss of Native American culture "},{"Title":"Tie a yellow ribbon","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Ford, perhaps the greatest film director of the last century, was in love with the pioneering men and women that settled the west. Mr. Ford had an amazing eye for the beauty of the land. This is a film where he pays tribute and his undying admiration to the spirit of adventure of those who dared and had a vision of the majesty of what awaited them as the traveled west.She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, is a beautiful film to look at. The glorious Technicolor utilized for the movie stands on its own as the legacy of the director and his cinematographer Winton Hoch whose photography of Monument Valley will remain the yard stick for which other films will be judged. The atmospheric music of Richard Hagerman adds another layer to the texture of this film. John Wayne, an actor bigger than life, is at the center of the story. He embodies all that meant justice and fairness when things weren't so orderly in the country. Victor McLaglen makes an excellent appearance as Sgt. Quincannon. John Agar and Ben Johnson did good work as the two cavalry officers in love with the same woman. Mildred Natwick was good as Abby Alshard, a no nonsense woman who has seen a lot. Ultimately, Joanne Dru projects such a beautiful image as the young Olivia Dandridge, the woman who wore the yellow ribbon in her hair and conquered the hearts of the men around her.This is a classic film that serves to remind us about those people that came before us, and, in the case of Nathan Brittles, Mr. Ford gives us a decent man who wanted peace above all with the Indians that the white man was displacing from their natural habitat. "}{"Title":"Color Is Magnificent; Story Is So-So","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I got interested in seeing this film not because I like westerns (which I do) but because I read where this was a spectacular visual film.. Well, that it is, with some drop-dead gorgeous color in spots that looks super on VHS or DVD, the latter being better, of course. Director John Ford has some nice shots of his favorite locale, Monument Valley, along with other nice shots.For a western, there isn't much action in this film. However, the beautiful colors and the magnetism of John Wayne, who dominates this film, still make it interesting. Victor McLaghlen adds some humor to the tale with with whiskey- drinking, hard-fighting Irishman role and Ben Johnson is good as the key scout. I couldn't believe how young Johnson looked as I am used to seeing him as a grizzled veteran. In fact, I wouldn't have known it was him but for his distinct voice and accent. At any rate, I thought he was the best character in the film.A good part of the story is about two guys - John Agar and Harry Carey Jr. fighting over Joanne Dru. That gets annoying after awhile and, after three looks at this movie, was a contributing factor in me trading this movie for another.All in all, a decent western that those who don't like a lot of violence might like because there are no villains to hate and a surprising non-violent ending. "},{"Title":"An American classic by John Ford and John Wayne","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film is the second entry in John Ford's cavalry trilogy and may be the best of the three with John Wayne's performance being one of the best of his career. The picture is an ode to the U.S. cavalry in the wake of the Custer debacle with the threat of more Indian uprisings on the frontier. Wayne's escort patrol is the film's focal point which also has an on-going romantic squabble between two young officers and a woman which explains the movie's title. The wonderful lensing captures the natural beauty of Monument Valley, and the scenes of the patrol crossing the wide expanses during a thunderstorm with lightning streaks against the dark clouds are among the picture's best moments. Ben Johnson stands out as an ex-Confederate soldier and point man and other Ford stock regulars such as Harry Carey Jr. and John Agar have supporting roles. "},{"Title":"It is a raw movie but an excellent movie","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I think it one of the best western's John Wayne made-very close to The Searchers. I have had the honor of driving and walking on the Navajo reservation to see this beautiful and powerful landscape. I have watched the sun rise and set at John Ford Point. The land is too beautiful to describe-it is raw and unforgiving. The movie displays the iron and the love of Americans. My Scottish great-grand parents and my native American grandfather's shared the toughness required to survive a tough land-the American west.Think of the movie as video tape looking back in time from a hidden camera. If anyone has the opportunity-go to John Forsd Point and watch the sun rise-you can almost hear the wagons. "},{"Title":"This is my father's favorite film,","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" and he has easily seen it over 200 times. He got me hooked on it when I was a young girl by pointing out all the gentle humor and the repeated comedic bits that separate it from many other westerns. I still love it for those reasons and more.Yellow Ribbon is not John Ford's best movie, but it may be John Wayne's. Capt. Brittles is -- needless to say -- the antithesis of Henry Fonda's Col. Thursday in Fort Apache. When the film opens, it is obvious Capt. Brittles has earned the respect of his troops and won their loyalty, and by the fade-out they have come to love him like devoted sons.For someone who was allegedly so difficult to work with, John Ford put together a truly remarkable stock company of actors and technical personnel. They appeared in his films time and again, and there was more or less a core group of professionals on screen and off that gave all of Ford's westerns color, excitement and realism. But Yellow Ribbon has something less expected warmth. And there's not a thing wrong with that.She Wore A Yellow Ribbon is also arguably the most sentimental movie John Ford ever made, and there's nothing wrong with that, either. "},{"Title":"Why Not?","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Superb cinematography for its time.  Deep, rich color.  Excellent location shooting of the exteriors.  Consistently good pacing and editing.  And the touch of a classic director, not to mention the larger than life figure of John Wayne.In and of itself, sentiment is as good an emotion as any to carry a story forward, as long as it steers clear of sentimentality.  The former is authentic, while the latter is mere pretense.  This film centers itself largely on more or less authentic sentiment within an historical context that has become mythic.  As such, it cannot be judged fairly on the basis of historical accuracy, where -- truth be told -- it fails miserably.Even if such a mass uprising in the wake of Little Big Horn in 1876 had been successful (rather than the episodic skirmishes that actually happened), and even if the story portrayed here were even remotely rooted in historically accurate data, the location and the Indians of the film are wildly all wrong.  It was filmed on the Navajo reservation using local extras, who look only silly wearing Sioux warbonnets.  The chief was played by an Indian from New York State.  And the ease with which the cavalrymen ran circles around the Indians and even penetrated their war camp was ludicrous.  In short, this is an otherwise excellent movie enveloped by a ridiculous and largely mythic rendering born of the writer's imagination.  For that kind of fanciful and purely vicarious fictionalizing you can read Karl May without ever setting foot in the real U.S. West.I could go on, but it would serve no purpose.  The clichés about the real West that began to sustain Hollywood with Emerson Hough's The Covered Wagon in 1923 are so legion by 1949 that not even a later generation of revisionist filmmaking sentimentalizing the plight of the Indians (creating new clichés of its own) can penetrate the smog of wishful thinking.So lean back and enjoy this touching tale of love, honor, duty, and compassion without being too critical of its faults.  Why not? "},{"Title":"You got a breath on you like a hot mince pie.","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" One of the best written westerns and an Oscar winner for cinematography, this John Ford western, some 10 years after Stagecoach, shows a different side of Wayne.It is the middle film in John Ford's (and actor John Wayne's) U.S. Cavalry trilogy, which includes Fort Apache (1948) & Rio Grande (1950. It is the best of the three as we see Wayne, just short of retirement, trying to mature a couple of Lieutenant's to take his place.Comic relief is provided by Victor McLaglen, as Top Sergeant Quincannon, especially where he single-handedly whips eight men between drinks. His presence can certainly light up a movie. "},{"Title":"Very Effective Entertainment; Artistic Masterwork; John Wayne Earns Stardom","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is perhaps the most copied western in the history of Hollywood. Director John Ford repeated his own successes with this story (based on two stories by James Warner Bellah, War Party and The Big Hunt, with screenplay by Frank Nugent and a rewrite by playwright Laurence Stallings). He reused Monument Valley, cavalry settings, John Wayne as his star, and several story devices; others learned from him several tricks including imposing music, epic shots and the use of ironic comedy to offset a well-crafted adventure, relegation of women to historic second place as a sex, and the intelligent development of minor characters, dogs, weather and careful presentation of the Indian point of view plus authentic costumes and objects to create authenticity. Production values thanks to John Ford's artistically-composed shots and use of actors entering or leaving shots of a static or slow-developing nature add to the success of much outdoor shooting here. Richard Hageman's original music is a bit overdone but occasionally most effective, blended as it is with troop songs being delivered along with bugle calls, Indian war drums and sound effects. Winton C. Hoch's cinematography is gorgeous throughout; and Art Director James Basevi has matched, I suggest, Hoch's high quality of image in every case. Ann Peck did the female costumes, Michael Meyers the men's garb, with uncommon skill. Also, Joseph Kish's set decorations are extremely effective. The film's action takes place just after Custer's 7th Cavalary has been defeated and wiped out at the Little Bighorn. The plot of the film tries, manfully, to work in a general uprising of many tribes, named in the film, within an Amerind revolt that would have preceded the real Ghost Dancer wars of a few years later. Narration and events place one man, Captain Nathan Cutting Brittles, in the position of having to try to avert such a general war. The Captain has to wrestle with many problems--a suspicious Indian agent, two women he is ordered to escort to catch a stage out of harm's way, his own impending forced retirement, two young lieutenants in love with the same woman and the very size of the forces of hostiles he faces. To flesh out the cast of a large-scale, fast-moving adventure, producers Merion C. Cooper and Lowell Farrell used a very large number of actors with speaking parts, dozens of whom went uncredited but not unnoted. One caveat about the film I have is that many of the names chosen for characters sound very odd--Brittles, Quayne, Allshard, Hochbauer, Rynders, Rome Clay, Krumrein etc. Among the actors, four do stellar work. besides John Wayne's powerful Brittles Joanne Dru as Olivia Dandridge, the young woman torn between two men and learning western values, is superb; nearly matching her in a youthful role is John Agar; the Fort's Doctor is played by Arthur Shields who does all he can with a smaller part; Victor McGlaglen is wonderfully consistent in his role as a hard-drinking sergeant that borders on being unplayable parody as written. Mention also needs to be made of young Ben Johnson as a drawling effective, and Harry Carey Jr. as Ross Pennell, who grows up during the events. Others seen to advantage in the piece include Chief John Big Tree as Pony That Walks, who has one wonderful scene as a chief too old to stop the uprising, and Mildred Natwick as the commandant's doughty wife. George O'Brien as Major Allshard, her husband, is modestly effective at best. No one else is given much to do; and Ford appears to be doing what was later often copied, in allowing natural types rather than actors to add to the film's verisimilitude. The idea works no better here than it ever did anywhere else, frankly speaking. Also it needs to be noted some of the bits are realistic and some overdone, but both allow the director to milk the business at hand--a bullet's removal, a dying report and commendation of another by a trooper, etc. The Monument Valley exteriors--aside from the fort's being placed under a cliff--add to the beauty of every scene. And the film abounds in memorable passages--the filing of a written protest, Brittles talking to his wife beside her grave as if she were with him, what John Agar as Lt. Flint Cohill says to his rival and to Miss Dandridge, the action during the long patrol, the final scene, etc. In summation, one must regard this as a beautiful story about dangerous cavalry operations, canted toward exampling the characters of the men conducting it and expertly loaded with questionable and effective business both. in my judgment She Wore a Yellow Ribbon works much better than the dishonest The Searchers or either of Ford's other entries in the cavalry trilogy, Fort Apache and Rio Grande. And John Wayne, his voice developing in power, becomes a star here by giving a very satisfying performance central to the film's power throughout. "},{"Title":"Typical Ford classic","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is another of those great John Ford westerns, beautifully filmed with the sweep and majesty of a classic. John Wayne is perfectly cast as a tough but aging U.S. cavalry leader, counting the days to retirement but with some unfinished business. Like all Ford films, there are colorful Irish characters, and here Victor McLaglen fills the bill as a hard-drinking but lovable sergeant. This wasn't just Ford's sentimentality at work -- there were many Irish immigrants in the U.S. cavalry (about half of the ranks were foreign born)-- so the film has an element of historical accuracy. The depiction of the Indians in the picture is mixed; in one scene Wayne's character calls them devils; in another, he shows respect when meeting with an old chief who no longer has authority over his young braves. One unexpected highlight of the film for me is Joanne Dru, who portrays the love interest of two of the young cavalry officers. What a knockout. With her beauty, one wonders why she never made it bigger in  films. "},{"Title":"Value of life","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" *****Minor Spoiler***** I've seen this film many times over the years and only now did it really hit me how John Ford treasured the value of a single life. Other reviewers have already covered well John Wayne's acting and the awesome photography in Monument Valley. But think about the lives lost or wounded in the film. In the first action against the Indian warriors Capt. Brittles orders his men to shoot high and..no warriors are killed or wounded. In later actions one trooper is wounded and much is made of his subsequent operation and good prognosis. One trooper (the ex-Confederate officer) does die from his wounds and again, this is not treated lightly, either by ex-Confederate or ex-Union.Most films of this genre leave countless bodies all over the place. Not so this one and that's what I take away from the film. That Ford felt life was to be treasured, that it was rare and not to be wasted. Perhaps this comes from his wartime service? Even the stampeding of the Indian ponies results in no casualties..on either side. I think Ford wanted his audience to go away thinking there are better ways than war and the wasting of lives. "},{"Title":"No Better Way","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Watching this film most recently, I remembered the song lyric concerning the absence of Joe DiMaggio. Well, whatever that meant about the America that was and that which is, the question for me is where is our John Wayne? Brad Pitt dancing with a bear? No, no a thousand times no. When we are constantly being pounded with the insistence that America apologize for everything, I'll stand with John Wayne and say it loud, say it proud, never apologize for what it took to make us free and try to watch a John Wayne movie with one eye on him and the other scanning the horizon for a contemporary version. I love this film, John Ford, John Wayne and the entire Ford company of players. Hurrah! "}{"Title":"Never apologize&#133;  Don't apologize&#133;  He says it both ways&#133;","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" ... Never apologize&#133; to Lt. Penell and Don't apologize&#133; when he's talking to Quincannon.This is a sentimental favorite of mine. Wayne and McLaglen are flawless together. Among my favorite set-pieces The death scene of Trooper Smith, where you learn Corporal Tyree was a Captain in the Confederate Army, and later at the funeral, when you learn Trooper Smith's actual rank.Quincannon's visit to the sutler's for a drop of the Irish (and his subsequent tumultuous arrest).Cpl. Quayne's, report.Every scene with Mildred Natwick (Old Iron Pants).Every scene McLaglen is in (even when he's in the background).And Wayne getting his silver watch with the sentiment on the back. "},{"Title":"How did the Duke not get an Oscar for this movie????","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I love this film. I agree that there is not much action, but the acting that John Wayne puts into this movie drives it. From the almost comic relief of Capt. Brittles and the old Sarge (especially when they go to arrest him) to when he is talking to his wife over her grave, to the thunderstorm scenes...it is tremendous cinema which is sadly a lost art in this day and age. Strangely, this film is not really a western per se, but more of a character study of the different participants. Wayne is the about to retire Captain Brittles, you have two new lieutenants who are breaking into the army and are completely different in their reasons for being there, you have the obligatory female who is drawing their attention...it is one to definitely watch. "},{"Title":"Second installment to cavalry trilogy , along with Fort Apache and Rio Grande","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This attractive movie scripted by Frank Nugent is the second episode in prestigious cavalry trilogy , united to first , ¨Fort Apache¨ and following , ¨Rio Grande¨ . It deals with an ageing officer named Nathan Brittles (Wayne's greatest role as an Indian fighting Captain) and a sergeant (a sympathetic Victor McLagen) about retirement , attempting to custody the outpost commander's(George O'Brien) wife (top-notch Mildred Natwick) and daughter (gorgeous Joanne Dru) and drive and repel Indians off lands . Meanwhile , she's lured by two suitors (John Agar and Harry Carey Jr) wearing a yellow ribbon .This extraordinary film packs melancholy , good feeling , friendship, comedy and marvelous outdoors . Furthermore, the usual comic relief in charge of Victor McLagen as a drunken sergeant . The movie contains usual Ford's themes , such as unlovable camaraderie , emotionalism with nostalgic longing for old values , as the family and tradition . Besides, there appear notorious secondary actors , Ford's usual , as Ben Johnson , Jack Pennick , Francis Ford , Paul Fix , among others. Winton C Hoch's impressive colour cinematography in stunning Technicolor , which deservedly won an Academy Award , reflecting splendidly the wide open spaces filmed in Monument Valley , Ford's penchant for location work . Winton Hoch assisted by cameraman Charles Boyle shot natural storms with real lightning and thunders while the groups of soldiers go riding . Emotive and patriotic musical score with classics ballads by Richard Hageman . The motion picture was wonderfully directed by the master Ford . Rating  magnificent movie , it is an unforgettable and unchallenged classic movie . "},{"Title":"Great but....","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Great movie but the problem here is there is nothing new.A second rate Fort Apache with less content.This movie then survives as a further treat to true fans of this gere and nothing else.Also,you can tell that Wayne was not yet a master of the acting craft at this stage.He never was yet during the 40's and it showshere as he reles heavily on his incredible charm and grit.The direction and cinematography was very good as well as the actors performances but the problem here was script and screenplay.The story was average.A good western but not a classic in my book.I love the scene with Wayne by his wife's gravesite though.......   "},{"Title":"Soulful Sights and Sounds","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Something inspired John Ford to make a cavalry trilogy in the late 1940's. It started in 1948 with Fort Apache, continued by She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, one year later, and the last of the trilogy Rio Grande (1950). The film in the middle, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, was the only one shot in color and that is one of the things people remember it by. The gorgeous soulful images of the wild west gave Winton C. Hoch an Oscar for Best Cinematography. The reason why Ford decided to make the trilogy is simple; he and his crew took part in WWII which was an experience that changed his career for ever - all of his subsequent films would be about war in one way or another; no matter whether it was a comedy (The Quiet Man) or a ruthless western (The Searchers).An old captain Nathan Brittles is five days away from being retired but the death of 200 hundred soldiers lead him to his last mission. He's not sure what to do after he gets retired because the cavalry is where he belongs. He is in between of past and future, and is unable of talking about his feelings; except the monologues to the grave of his wife which represents direct discussion with history - the only time he feels as his own; the theme of aging was a very common theme for John Ford.She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is a nostalgic western characterized with beautiful images full of sentimentality about the past of a nation, history and presence. It's important to remember that a historic film is always a description of two different ages, intentionally or unintentionally, the age portrayed and the age the film was made in. John Ford's films of the cavalry trilogy are without a doubt allegorical tales of post-war States; meanings and feelings about the war. The trilogy most certainly isn't escapism that someone might easily think it is - the topic is very serious, history isn't the main topic - but the presence.The film is remembered for its soulful imagery, not just because of the beauty in them, but because they defined the film. She Wore a Yellow Ribbon speaks through images and sounds - not through the story. Sentimentality, emotions about yearning and loss, the dignity of recessive men are passed to the audience through sights and sounds - not through textual themes.The visual magnificence of She Wore a Yellow Ribbon really speaks to its viewer. The extraordinary, mythical, colors are like directly from a beautiful mural where small details just start to melt and lose their meaning - personal melancholy clearly exhales from these soulful sights and sounds. "},{"Title":"Never apologize. It's a sign of weakness.","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" After finally seeing 'The Searchers (1956)' a few weeks ago, my first John Ford/John Wayne Western, I was anxious to get my hands on some more, and an opportunity came quickly with the late-night showing of 'She Wore a Yellow Ribbon (1949).' Produced on a budget of $1.6 million, the film was one of cinema's most expensive Westerns at the time, but the radiant Technicolor photography, coupled with Ford's ardently professional direction, resulted in a picture that has dated surprisingly little in the last half-century. The second film in a trilogy that also includes 'Fort Apache (1948)' and 'Rio Grande (1950)' both of which I am yet to see, Ford's Western concerns the travails of the United States Army Cavalry, with John Wayne donning a moustache to play Capt. Nathan Cutting Brittles, the distinguished no-nonsense leader of the Cavalry, who is just days from official retirement. Winton C. Hoch's exemplary Oscar-winning cinematography perfectly captures the might and majesty of Monument Valley, Utah, particularly during an impressive lightning-storm sequence.Following the defeat of General Custer at the Battle of Little Bighorn, the American frontier is in disarray. Tribes of Native Americans &#150; Cheyenne, Comanche, Apache &#150; are forgetting their petty inter-tribal disputes and banding together in opposition to the invading settlers. Capt. Nathan Cutting Brittles, though somewhat reluctant to retire at such as crucial stage of the conflict, embarks on his final objective, though is hampered by the baggage of two women (Joanne Dru, Mildred Natwick) who must be evacuated before winter sets in. The film's storyline is somewhat inconsequential, never threatening to even approach the emotional depth of 'The Searchers,' and some of the film's events are almost incomprehensible to one who is ill-versed in American history and Westerns in general. However, Wayne's profound characterisation of Capt. Brittles forms the picture's core, and he is, indeed, astonishing in the subtle and thoughtful complexity that he brings to his character. The remaining, less-experienced players, such as Harry Carey Jr. and John Agar, aren't particularly memorable, but serve the story adequately and with presumably-sound authenticity.Fortunately, John Ford litters the rather lightweight story with an enjoyable amount of humour, compensating for the relative lack of emotional depth with sheer entertainment. Sgt. Quincannon (Victor McLaglen) provides most of the laughs, particularly during a drunken brawl sequence that sees him fending off seven able-bodied soldiers and still finding time to take another sip of whisky between swings. Also mildly amusing is the friction between lieutenants Flint Cohill and Ross Penell (Agar and Carey, Jr.), both of whom notice that Olivia Dandridge (Joanne Dru) is wearing a yellow ribbon, and hope that it is for them. The story's ending struck me as something of an anti-climax, even though, admittedly, it would have been downright arrogant for Ford to alter history. As the Native Americans congregate in preparation for a direct assault on their enemies, Brittles' stern conversation with Chief Pony That Walks (Chief John Big Tree) promises an incredible climactic battle of epic proportions. However, when John Wayne astutely manages to disrupt the planned attack by scattering the tribes' horses, I couldn't help feeling just a bit disappointed. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Cavalry Western","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film marks the centrepiece of director John Ford's 'Cavalry Trilogy' (following Fort Apache (1948) and followed by Rio Grande (1950)).The film is set in 1876, immediately following Custer's legendary defeat at the Little Big Horn. John Wayne stars as Captain Nathan Brittles, who is only days away from retirement after having spent his entire life in the Army. His last mission is to escort two women on a long journey to a town where they can catch a stagecoach, while the Indian tribes prepare for war.The film is beautifully shot, and makes great use of Ford's beloved Monument Valley locations, frequently shot so that the actors are dwarfed by the magnificent locations. John Wayne turns in a good performance as Brittles a man who is facing up to leaving the only life he has ever known. It also depicts the everyday life and tensions inside the Cavalry, such as the two soldiers fighting over the same woman. The film is overly sentimental at times, and some of the comic relief in particular from Victor McLaglen as the often drunk Irish sergeant is quite heavy-handed (although he does have one of the funniest bar fights I've seen in a movie).There is more than enough to recommend this film, however. "},{"Title":"Don't apologize, it's a sign of weakness.","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" She Wore a Yellow Ribbon may not be the best title that this film could have had; the yellow ribbon stands for a sweetheart, and the movie doesn't dwell on romance, unless it's the symbolic romance of the Old West in the days following Custer's defeat at Little Big Horn. That's where the movie picks up, as Captain Nathan Brittles (John Wayne) facing retirement in just six more days, laments the two hundred and twelve dead at that battle, having known many of the fallen. Brittles' last assignment will be to escort his commanding officer's wife (George O'Brien, Mildred Natwick) and niece (Joanne Dru) to a rendezvous with a stagecoach East at Sudrow Mills. At the same time, the Captain must avert the sale of firearms to hostile Indians who have come to heed Sitting Bull's call for a holy war against the white man.Filmed in color as the middle leg of director John Ford's cavalry Western trilogy, Ribbon is set in Monument Valley, a favored Ford locale. You'll recognize formations from the prior year's Fort Apache, and on them rest the year's Oscar for Best Color Cinematography.Wayne's character plays out admirably against strong performances by a host of young actors. Ben Johnson is Brittles' right hand man, Sergeant Tyree, who offers strong advice for the Captain to consider, even when it's not his department. Lieutenant Flint Cohill (John Agar) and Second Lieutenant Ross Pennell (Harry Carey Jr.) vie for the proverbial yellow ribbon worn by pretty Olivia Dandridge (Dru), and at one point it takes Brittles' intervention to prevent fisticuffs between the two officers, complete with a verbal dressing down as befits their station in the military.You'd be hard pressed to ever see John Wayne cry in a movie, but he comes close here. When presented with a silver watch upon his retirement, his character holds back tears as he battles the sniffles, choking for the words to thank his men.As was his custom, director Ford sprinkles this movie with moments of comic relief, and the best comes near the end of the film. Wishing to protect Top Sergeant Quincannon's (Vicor McLaglen) pension in retirement, only days following Brittles' own, the Captain orders his men to arrest Quincannon for being drunk and out of uniform. Earlier, Brittles encouraged Quincannon to try on a civilian suit to see how he would look dressed as a gentleman. Seven soldiers attempt to bring him in, but halt in their mission long enough for the sergeant to buy them all a round. With a politically incorrect line you probably wouldn't hear in a film made today, one of the soldiers states I'd love to throw that big Mick into the cooler.Ultimately, events conspire against Captain Brittles, as he accepts blame for the failures at Sudrow Mills, and for the Indians acquiring firearms. With the combined might of the Kiowa, Comanche, Arapaho, Cheyenne and Apache putting aside their differences to make war together, Brittles makes a last ditch effort to insure peace by riding into the Indian camp to parley with Chief Pony That Walks. He like Brittles is an old man, and has been overruled by the young chiefs. With the minute hand of his retirement watch showing twelve minutes to midnight, Brittles leads a charge to scatter the Indian horses so they have none to make battle - No Casualties, no Indian war, no court martial.The feel good ending of the movie comes when Brittles, riding off into the sunset, is retrieved by Sergeant Tyree, bringing him news of a civilian assignment to Chief of Scouts from President Grant. The closing words of the narrator puts the sacrifices of the U.S. Cavalry into both human and historical perspective - Wherever they rode, and whatever they fought for, that place became the United States. "},{"Title":"A Classic From The John Ford Apache Sagas","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It has taken me a long time to write a review about this film which I saw as a child and have long since added to my personal film collection. For me the strongest elements of this film as with so many John Ford films are the characterisations. John Wayne, Victor McClaglen, Ben Johnson and the rest. There are better films in this genre and to modern ears the theme tune supposedly sung by the troopers sounds almost embarrassingly naive, but boy what a great movie. It is always the simple things, the mannerisms that enchant and entertain. Others have covered the details of this film far better than I and I will not attempt to repeat that. Simply to add that if you don't mind a bit of sentimentality mixed in with belly laughs and western folklore then you are on a winner with this one. Incidentally the use of colours and shades in filming are exceptional. Monument Valley rarely looked so good. "},{"Title":"First-class calvary western","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is a wonderful, first-class film overall. Because there are so many good things about it, I never felt bored. In regards to the pace, I had no problem with it, same with the length. Also, I actually think in general the scenes with the Indians and the romantic subplot worked, there have been westerns when they haven't, or one of them anyhow, but while they weren't the best parts of the story they didn't distract too much either. In fact my only real problem was Victor McLaglen, the Irish whimsy occasionally got a tad too much.She Wore a Yellow Ribbon has a huge amount to like. There is the beautiful cinematography that perfectly captured the magnificent Monument Valley locations. There is the stirring and quite majestic score, that brings drama, intensity, the like to any scene it appears in. There is John Ford's superb direction, the compelling story and nice dialogue. And there is also John Wayne's marvellous central performance and the fine cast that support him especially Harry Carey Jnr and the lovely Joannna Dru. In conclusion, a great film and a great calvary western. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"A wonderful tribute to the American spirit and glory.","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It may seem outdated and a bit racist for our time, but John Ford's She Wore A Yellow Ribbon as well as his entire Calvary Trilogy can all be seen as a tribute to the American spirit that embodied the patriotic feelings that made this country come to be. John Wayne gives one of his very finest performances as Captain Nathan Brittle, a man on the brink of retirement who finds himself amongst one last incident that involves facing seemingly all the Indian tribes gathered together to defeat the white man.Wayne is so focused with this role; his gait, his speech patterns, his costume all come together to give us the character of a man who has been in the army for so long he knows practically nothing else. He lives for every exciting moment that can happen and he passes this love onto his supporters, Sgt. Tyree (Ben Johnson), and Lt. Cohill (John Agar). These are not only his two most loyal companions but also the two best supporting roles in the movie that complete the action of affection and loyalty needed to convince us that Brittle is a lovable man. Of course, with Ford the visuals enhance and entice us into the picture. Filming once again in Monument Valley, we see the beauty of the American west and why it was so important to discover and pioneer it.Of course, there is a great case that can be made for the mistreatment of Indians, perhaps the only serious blotch on Ford's resume. Still, as an American and history lover, Ford is the Great American Storyteller and here he continues to entertain and astonish with his love and affection for the beauty and toughness of the western frontier and the spirit of the American destiny that pushed us all the way to the Pacific Ocean. "},{"Title":"John Ford's cavalry trilogy continues","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Capt. Nathan Brittles is retiring at Fort Starke.He's given one more patrol.He has to take his troop and deal with a breakout from the reservation by the Cheyenne and Arapaho following the defeat of George Armstrong Custer.The mission gets more complicated when he also has to deliver his commanding officer's wife and niece, Abby Allshard and Olivia Dandridge, to an east-bound stage, and to avoid a new Indian war.She Wore a Yellow Ribbon (1949) by John Ford was the second movie of the cavalry trilogy.It was the only one of them that was made in color.The movie had a big budget.It cost $1.6 millions to make it, and it became a major hit for RKO.John Wayne plays the part of Brittles real well.He brings some depth in his character.The scenes where he meets the wounded soldier Quayne or where he talks the old Indian Chief, those are the kind of scenes Wayne really shines in.Joanne Dru is real swell as Olivia.John Agar is real good as Lt. Flint Cohill.Ben Johnson is great as Sgt. Tyree.Harry Carey Jr. is terrific as 2nd Lt.Ross Pennell.His father-in-law Paul Fix plays Gunrunner.Also this, as were so many other Ford movies, was shot at the Monument Valley in Najavo reservation. "},{"Title":"I'm Entertained Every Time I Watch It","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" While I prefer Fort Apache, I still watch this film every time I see it on cable. I've always felt the best way to judge an actor or director was on the small stuff. Others have made mention of the emotional scene of Captain Brittles saying goodbye to his men. I liked the the added touch when this experienced and strong officer has to take out his glasses to read the inscription on the watch his men presented to him as a retirement gift. A brief pause and uncomfortable look shows how this acknowledgement of age and weakness causes him discomfort. It's obviously something he's rarely done (if ever) in front of his men. However, he'd never insult them by not reading it aloud.The romance, such as it is, is really more humorous than anything else. Brittles certainly sees it as such while it's confined to the safety of the fort. However, I can't really see what Cohill is supposed to see in her. It's a little easier with the less experiences Pennell. She's clearly playing them against each other, despite obviously preferring Cohill. After making her choice, all she has to say to the younger officer is, I guess that's how it is, Ross. He should have smacked her for that. "},{"Title":"Among Ford and Wayne's Best.","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Of course it's corny and it reflects the values of World War II, in which John Ford, the director, had played a considerable part, but that's more than made up for by the capture on celluloid of a living, vibrant community.Wayne's performance is among his best. Maybe better than anything else he's done. He sighs and wheezes like an old man on the brink of retirement. He's embarrassed in front of the troop when he has to sneak his glasses out of his blouse in order to read the sentiment on his brand-new silver watch and chain. To Captain Brittles. From C Troop. Lest We Forget. Sniff.Wayne had given strong performances before but they were always in the same range -- the steadfast guy who would never change his principles. In this character role of Nathan Brittles, about to retire from the Cavalry in 1878, he does some stunning acting. (John Ford, who abused him like a stepchild, got extraordinary things out of Wayne.) I mean, think of it! In the early 1960s, Wayne was reluctant to admit he'd been operated on for lung cancer because it might be considered a sign of weakness by his fans. Here, Ford has him hobbling along, his footsteps those of an old and tired man. Wayne never matched the scenes in which he accepted the brand-new silver watch and chain from C Troop, or the one in which he chewed out Lieutenants Cohill and Pinell for allowing yourselves to be CHIVVIED into a bout at FISTICUFFS while taps still sounds over a brave man's grave. (He interrupts himself to spit out some chawing tobacco.) The plot isn't really important. In the wake of Custer's defeat at the Little Big Horn, the Indians of various tribes get together with the intention of starting a really big war, and Wayne breaks it up. The Cheyenne are the instigators but I don't know why. There were only seven Cheyenne at the Battle of the Little Big Horn and, as an anthropologist, I came to know one or two of their descendants, who remained proud and a little embittered. The sentiment shouldn't be unfamiliar to anyone who feels nostalgic for a lost cause, from the Civil War to Vietnam.That has nothing to do with the movie though. Aside from the brand-new silver watch and chain scene, be sure to catch the bar room brawl with Victor McLaglin. It's done for comic effect, with McLaglin taking a break during the fist fight to reminisce with the bartender, Ahh, Connie, the old days are gone forever. I don't know that the community we see in this movie -- with its ritual dances, it's conversations between the living and the dead, its military protocol -- could have been so effectively conveyed if Ford hadn't actually believed in it.Yet any solidary community has its dark side. Those who do not conform are shunned. (Ask the Old Order Amish.) The next movie Ford made, Rio Grande, Sergeant Tyree, Ben Johnson, a favorite of Ford's, made some innocuous comment to someone else at the dinner table and Ford demanded to know what he'd said -- I'm talking to you, Stupid. Johnson, like most normal people, stood up and told Ford what he could do, then walked out. The next day Ford apologized but Johnson didn't work for Ford for another fifteen years or so. Every solidary community must have must have unquestioned leadership.None of those contretemps affect the movie, which is one of the best Westerns ever made. My God, those vistas. Monument Valley in excelsis. "},{"Title":"Medal of Honor","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is one of my favorite of all John Wayne-John Ford movies. I've always thought The Searchers is one of the best western movies ever made. This one ranks right up there with it, second to it. I especially love the photography with the sunset scene when they bury the old Confederate officer who serves as an enlisted man under Col. Brittles. And the horsemanship of Ben Johnson is unsurpassed. In pointing out a blooper, it was stated that officers were not eligible to be awarded the Medal of Honor until I think they said the 1890's. This is not correct. Tom Custer, the younger brother of George Armstrong Custer, was awarded two (2) Medals of Honor during the Civil War. "},{"Title":"One of the Greates of the Genre!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I once read a commentary about how this movie was a metaphor for the burgeoning cold war. I suppose you could look at it that way, but for me it is simply one of the great Westerns. John Ford does a magnificent job with this movie and it shows the continual evolution of the genre that will be completed in The Searchers. John Wayne is a hero, for sure, but not the stiff, dedicated to the uniform, no questions asked type of hero that Western heroes usually were. There is a past here. There is a hint of the tensions that ex-Confederate soldiers must have experienced once they rejoined the Union army. There is good and evil and a lot of gray in between. For my money, you can't beat this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Duke's best","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Wayne made some great films, especially Stagecoach, Red River, They Were Expendable, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, and The Shootist. He was a fine actor who didn't receive his just desserts until much too late in his career for a good role but not for his best role. Even the highly overrated The Searchers afforded Wayne one of his best acting endeavors. She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is also one of John Wayne's best movies and provides him with one of his best acting roles as an indefatigable commanding officer in the U.S. Cavalry getting ready for retirement. John Ford does a brilliant job defining Wayne's character against the background of the monumental Monument Valley in Utah. The scenery almost steals the show from all concerned. This was one of the first westerns to use color as a complement for the story and its characters. Dodge City was a pioneer in this field. Inhancing the intrinsic worth of She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is the gallery of character actors in Ford's repertoire, in particular Ben Johnson, Victor McLaglen, and Harry Carey Jr. It's pleasing to see B western favorites George O'Brien and Tom Tyler in the cast. Ford wisely used Native Americans Chief John Big Tree and Chief Sky Eagle as chiefs in the film.Victor McLaglen and Mildred Natwick as Old Iron Pants succeed in almost making this film a comedy western along the lines of Destry Rides Again and Support Your Local Sheriff. Even Wayne himself gets in on the fun. He always had a knack for doing humor. One reason he was and is so beloved my many a fan was because he knew when to be serious but he also enjoyed a little laughter along the way, at times even to the point of self-parody. He and Ford were very close in real life as well as in the movies. This always helped make a John Ford, John Wayne outing a treat to watch.Joanne Dru provides the love interest, not for John Wayne, because of the age difference, but for two young lieutenants vying for her hand. Wayne serves as sort of the go-between and the referee. The real love of Capt. Nathan Cutting Brittles' (John Wayne) life is his deceased wife. He visits her grave in some very touching scenes including the final scene. He speaks to her as if she were still alive, telling her his most intimate thoughts the way he surely did when she was alive, the essence of true, eternal love.She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is one in a trilogy by John Ford, starring John Wayne, about the U.S. Cavalry, showing John Wayne's character in varying stages of his life and career. This is the best in the trilogy and one of the best Hollywood westerns ever. "},{"Title":"My favourite Western but...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" SWAYR is one of the very few films I've bothered to keep my video recording of. A rousing intro, a fine performance by Wayne, and some vivid characterisation in the supporting and minor roles. The colour is great. But the trouble with watching a film several times is that its flaws become more evident. The voice-over at the beginning suggests that Custer's Last Stand could lead to 100 years of Indian Wars (really? Up to 1976?), and the excuse for Olivia Dandridge accompanying Captain Brittles' patrol is a bit weak She's not army, explains Major Allshard, who's reluctant to have her holed up over winter in the fort, which nevertheless has a fair number of women residents.(But this contrivance isn't too bad compared with the ways that film-makers arrange for glamorous women to accompany small expeditions into the unknown.) It's a bit of an anticlimax when Captain Brittles' patrol rescues Lt Cohill and his men, left behind to defend a river crossing, and surely other companies in the fort could have gone to Cohill's aid rather than for Captain Brittles' men to rest up overnight and return - with a further delay for the presentation to Brittles. And it's not clear why Quincannon gets his stripes back. Perhaps these are points for the pedant (which I admit I am). And they are certainly overshadowed by memorable scenes, such as the burial of the former Confederate officer, Brittles by his wife's grave, his patrol in the desert after heavy rain. Wayne's performance is one of his finest; his character achieves results without gung-ho shoot-from-the-hip action. Ben Johnson is also impressive. "},{"Title":"The Apache Trilogy part II","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Capt. of Cavalry Nathan Brittles is about to retire, when he is charged with evacuating the women from his army post due to an Indian uprising.Anyone who still doubts that John Wayne is a great actor needs to see this movie. Not only does he successfully play an army captain about twenty years older than he actually is, there's a graveside monologue early in the movie that could have been incredibly corny, but which Wayne nails to perfection. His performance, Fords iconic visual style and dazzling technicolor photography make She Wore a Yellow Ribbon into a great western.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Irresistible technicolored Ford western filmed in Monument Valley...","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Undoubtedly one of the greatest of John Ford westerns catching so completely the flavor of the Old West that it resembles a series of great Western murals come to life. Striking color cinematography is executed with precision under all sorts of circumstances--notably the dramatic trek across the desert under a dark sky full of lightning flashes. The title tune is used as appropriate background music for a warm-hearted story of Captain Nathan Brittles who is looking forward to retirement until he is forced into a situation he cannot control when asked to accompany a pair of women to a stagecoach so they can return east. Joanne Dru is charming as the flirtatious young lady who can't seem to decide whether she's wearing a yellow ribbon for Lt. Cohill (John Agar) or Second Lt. Ross Penell (Harry Carey, Jr.). Victor McLaglen provides some touching comedy relief and his scenes where Wayne tries to sniff his breath are priceless. Ben Johnson delivers a solid performance as Sgt. Tyree, a former Confederate who when asked his opinion on a matter by Capt. Brittles, is likely to say, That ain't my department, sir.But it is John Wayne who is the pivotal, driving force of the film and he acquits himself with the kind of performance that should have had him winning an Oscar nomination. Wayne himself regarded it as one of his most satisfying acting jobs. He is crusty, tender, crafty, scheming and wildly sentimental and always stays completely within character. I think it's the finest acting job he ever did.And the technicolor photography is no letdown. The Monument Valley backdrop is gorgeous to behold in all of the sweeping vistas the camera gives us. The good print of this film being shown on TCM shows that the photography is equal to the color in THREE GODFATHERS or THE SEARCHERS. The Old West never looked so good.Only drawback the overtly sentimental stagebound scenes of the gravesite talks were actually filmed in a studio, not on location, and it shows. "}{"Title":"the second film in John Ford's Cavalry trilogy","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" i was a bit disappointed in this movie.for me,it is not as good as Fort Apache,the first film in John Ford's Cavalry trilogy.i still liked it,but i thought it was a bit slow at times,and it doesn't have a lot of action.plus,i would have preferred if John Wayne's character Captain Nathan Brittles had more of a conflict with another officer,like his character in Fort Apache.there,his character had a conflict with Henry Fonda's character,a superior officer.that sort of added another dimension to the movie.this movie lacked the comic bits of Apache,which disappointed me a bit.it is a much more serious movie,to be sure.still,this isn't a bad movie and it is in colour.my vote for She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"BEAUTIFUL, BUT NOTHING HAPPENS","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I hate hating this film.  Ford is one of the greats, and The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is the greatest Western of all time.  But here, despite gorgeous cinematography and underlying tension, nothing ever comes to anything in the area of action or suspense.  Perhaps Ford wanted to revel in Wayne and his character, but a good story would have done wonders for true character development.  Want to see real Wayne acting under Ford - try The Searchers.  "},{"Title":"Looks great and plays well but I didn't find it as good as I've come to expect from this stable (sorry!)","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A week or so before his retirement, Captain Nathan Brittles is in charge of a fort when it is clear that the Indian tribes are joining to fight their common foe of the cavalry.  Brittles leads his men out to try and stop the impending attack but finds himself hampered by having to also escort the two women who were staying at the fort at the time.I am a fan of Ford/Wayne westerns and will often enjoy them with ease. However I struggled to really get into this one and it did really feel a little light and unstructured.  The overall plot was good but I didn't get any sense of detail or character other than broader brushstrokes.  The action is good and the dialogue is witty and interesting but the film was a bit too light and impersonal to be able to take that broad sweep of history and apply it to this small group.Wayne plays a man 20 years his senior but does it well.  He has his usual tough charm and has some great dialogue to go along with it.  He is given great support by the rest of the cast, some of whom stand out more than others.  The best support he has also risks upstaging him - that of the scenery and the Oscar winning cinematography.  The wide-open spaces feel wonderful and the colours are very generous.Overall I did quite enjoy the film but I didn't really get into the plot. It seemed a little too big to be able to make the smaller things work. For example I didn't really get much from the idea of Brittles retiring where I think I was meant to read it as the changing of the type of men America needed from this period on, a salute to the men of the old west if you will. However this got lost in the battles and Indian wars.  Still worth seeing but by Ford and Wayne standards this could be considered not much above par. "},{"Title":"If you do not count the Re-release trailer . . .","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" . . . or the sketchy Production Notes, there are TWO items to view on the 2002 Warner\Turner DVD release for SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON--the 1949 feature film itself, and something labeled JOHN FORD HOME MOVIES (which does NOT seem to have its own page on this site). Perhaps you've picked up this disc for a quarter at a yard sale, and you're wondering WHICH of these items to watch. I will try to help you out. SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is almost 104 minutes long, but JOHN FORD HOME MOVIES is barely four minutes in duration, so if time's an issue for you, why not save yourself 100 minutes by watching the latter? RIBBON has a plot and HOME doesn't, so HOME might be best if you're too sleepy to follow a long and involved story. HOME has scenes with an airplane and a yacht, while RIBBON features horses and buggies, so if you want something more up-to-date, you cannot go wrong with HOME. I must admit that HOME MOVIES consists mostly of John Ford and John Wayne boozing and smoking, as an overworked (and unheard) mariachi band struggles in the background, which is why it merits a rating of Five at best. "},{"Title":"John Ford documents how one U.S. Cavalry Captain . . .","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" . . . saved America in the late 1870s with his flick SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON. As this movie begins, George Custer and his 211 men are freshly dead. They cannot even be considered as road kill, because America's Interstate Highway System has yet to be built. Native Americans are proving to be sore losers, unhappy with their many Reservations, having already squandered the $24 the Dutch paid them for Manhattan (which, by extension, Escrowed the rest of the U.S., since the Manhattan Project makes sure Wall Street runs everywhere). Buoyed by Custer's demise, RIBBON's narrator recounts, ALL of the Indian tribes have banded together to go on the Warpath. He tells us that one more Native Triumph will delay construction of the Interstate System until 2200 or so. Against this backdrop, Capt. Nathan Brittles has exactly 12 minutes to defeat the Unified Tribes once and for all, while deciding which of his lieutenants should have his fort's only eligible young lady. Though I guess you could say that any of Today's Interstate Highway Signs is a Spoiler as to the outcome of Brittles' Mission, it doesn't hurt drivers on the freeways to be grateful to Nate. "},{"Title":"Many Interesting Details","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Every viewing of this wonderful movie seems to reveal an interesting, purposeful detail, so small and subtle in its message,but unnoticed in previous viewings. For example, in the early scene where John Wayne is kneeling at his wife's grave, right behind him is another grave marker with the name B. DeVoto. Bernard DeVoto was one of our foremost historians of our western settlement. His 1846, The Year of Decision is a classic. I can't help but think John Ford was trying to give DeVoto some recognition (that name is not one you just would not pull out the sky for a grave marker). Well, maybe that was a macabre way do it as DeVoto did not die until 1955, 6 years after the movie.Another interesting detail concerned the indians horseback riding. True western indians rode bareback mostly, but some had makeshift saddles. But none had stirrups. It's extremely hard to gallop a horse without stirrups. In this movie, where you had a direct view of the side of the Indian's horse, you could see that the indians were using stirrups, but they were camouflaged/covered with cloth. A lot of westerns don't go into that much detail. "},{"Title":"One of Mr. Wayne's greatest performances","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A great western with lots of action and drama.  John Wayne is brilliant as Capt. Brittles--a role he should have won an Oscar for.  As good as Wayne is, he can't carry this picture alone--he is surrounded by some of Hollywood's greatest character actors.  This combination makes She Wore A Yellow Ribbon a classic for all time. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This film is one of the duke's finest as he made the character of Nathan Brittles come to life as you watch each sequence.As you can tell by my voting of his several movies Duke can be nothing more than a 10 if that be the highest rating in the scale. thank you mike g. duke-65 "},{"Title":"The army knows no seasons.","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" A few days before his retirement, Captain Nathan Brittles (John Wayne) leads his cavalry patrol as they escort the wife and niece of his commanding officer to safety. In addition to the dangers posed by Indians, there is the romantic drama stirred up by two young officers (John Agar, Harry Carey, Jr.) both vying for the attention of pretty Joanne Dru.John Ford's second film in his classic cavalry trilogy is my favorite of the three. It's a beautiful-looking film with stunning technicolor. Just absolutely jaw-dropping. One of the best-looking westerns I've ever seen. Also one of John Wayne's finest performances. He really should have been nominated for the Oscar for this instead of Sands of Iwo Jima. He's backed up by an extraordinary cast. Ford regulars like Victor McLaglen, Arthur Shields, and Harry Carey, Jr. are all great. John Agar and Joanne Dru are both fun and likable in the obligatory romantic subplot. Ben Johnson has possibly his best role as Sgt. Tyree.At times moving and eloquent but never slow or unexciting. It's an engrossing western made by a master director and a cast that never misses a beat. It is my second favorite Ford western, behind only his (and Wayne's) masterpiece The Searchers. "},{"Title":"Second Cavalry Story.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Wayne plays Capt. Nathan Brittles, whose imminent plans of retirement are interrupted by General Custer's forces being wiped out in his famous last stand. Being stationed near the threatening Native forces, he is ordered to evacuate the wife of the fort's commanding officer, and her niece(played by Joanne Dru) who has caught the romantic attentions of two officers(played by John Agar & Harry Carey Jr.) She has taken to wear a yellow ribbon in her hair, which symbolizes her affection for one of them, but she won't say who, which leads to conflict. Of course, this is nothing compared to the expected Native onslaught that Brittles tries desperately to prevent...Well directed by John Ford, this time in color, with much of his stock company of actors in key roles, and presents a thoughtful story, with a good conclusion(though there is some unfortunate comedy relief with Victor McLaglen!) "}{"Title":"Duke averts a major 'Indian' war in his last hour as a cavalry commander","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Ford finally relented in his preference for B&W film making to give us a long overdue look at the predominantly rusty-colored spectacular Monument Valley backdrops featured in major portions that took place outside of the fort. The sequences when the cavalry is walking their horses, with a thunderstorm or mist in the background, are particularly memorable as a mood setter.Duke Wayne is back from the previous year's Fort Apache, again as second in command, technically. But this time, he pretty much runs the show, with minimal interference from easy-going fort-bound Major MacAllshard, who is very different from Fonda's up-tight dictatorial Colonel Thursday in Fort Apache. Here, Wayne plays a much older man, around 60, who is due to retire in a few days. Very much the father figure for the younger set. John Agar also returns from Fort Apache to play a similar role as the young lieutenant romantic lead. But instead of actual wife Shirley Temple, he has equally luscious-looking Joanne Dru to woo. And, he has stiff competition this time from Harry Carey Jr.. The volatile relationship between these 3 very much brings back memories of a similar sparring between cavalrymen Errol Flynn and Ronny Reagan over Olivia de Havilland, in Santa Fe Trail. Dru's character is even named Olivia. Actually, Olivia seems much more in love with Wayne's mature character than with the sparring young duo. Obviously, Ford was impressed with the acting of Duke and feisty Dru in the previous year's outstanding western Red River. Wayne is back with his older, more authoritarian, persona exhibited in that film, plus a moustache. But, again, the mood of the film is quite different much more relaxed.Ben Johnson, another relatively young buck, is given his most visible film role to that point, as Wayne's chief scout. Likable Ben was a real Oklahoma cowboy and champion horse rider, and would team with Harry Carey Jr. as the laconic male stars in Ford's The Wagon Masters, the following year. Dru would also return as the female star in that film. Ben rode two famous horses in this and the latter films Steel and Bingo. Steel was valued as making riders look especially good, while Bingo was a champion galloper.The abundant music, while repetitive, consists mostly of well-known spirited traditional songs, mostly about sweethearts, often sung by troops through the years, including my Vietnam-era training troop. It certainly adds to the generally relaxed, jovial, tone of the film.Charismatic Victor McLaglen is back from Ft. Apache, serving as the thoroughly Irish, whiskey-fired, top sergeant cut up. He is the star of an extended slapstick brawl. Ford often had at least one fisted brawl in his westerns, which might be serious, slapstick, or a mix of the two. He always included some humor in his films, however subtle, and there is plenty in this one. One type of humor is running gags or lines. Duke's repetitive Never apologize, it's a sign of weakness is an example. The film opens with an attack by Cheyenne Dog Soldiers(a military-oriented brotherhood) on the fort paymaster stage, to obtain money to buy more rifles. 20 years later, the much Vietnam War-influenced cavalry western Soldier Blue would open with a similar Cheyenne attack, again to obtain money to buy rifles. Unlike Ft. Apache and the subsequent Rio Grande, a battle with Apaches is not included in this film. Besides Cheyenne, Arapahoes, Kiowas, and Comanches are mentioned as putting aside their traditional animosities, forming a common military alliance against rapidly encroaching Europeans. As in Ft. Apache, Wayne makes a daring parley visit to the hostile 'Indian' encampment. There are no battles between mounted 'Indians' and cavalry. In several instances, the cavalry merely sees the results of an 'Indian' attack, including the satisfying murder of the gun-running fort sutlers. However, there is the late dramatic stampeding of the 'Indian' warrior's horses through their camp in the dead of night, as Wayne's commission as a soldier expires. The point was to limit the ability of the warriors to fight, with minimal bloodshed on either side. This episode encapsulates the result of the historic Red River War, headed by Colonel MacKenzie, which effectively ended the Indian Wars on the southern plains. Another MacKenzie-lead exploit is the basis of the subsequent Rio Grande.... Wayne thinks his military career is now over, and we see him riding off into the sunset. But, he's in for a surprise!Irishman Ford actually identified with Native Americans as another group, who like the Irish, were commonly persecuted by mainstream Anglo-Saxon society. Thus, he usually tried to portray them in a relatively favorable light, although he knew that most of his audiences expected them to be mostly cast as expendable impediments to western expansion. This favoritism is seen most vividly in his last cavalry western Cheyenne Autumn, especially in the bizarre Dodge City segment. "},{"Title":"1.5 out of 5 action rating","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Skip it &#x96; People associate the words cavalry, Indians, and John Wayne with the word action movie. But where's the action in this one? This is a very disappointing western because it has only two small skirmishes in the entire movie. They are not even long enough to be called battles. Sure, John Wayne is great in his role as an aging cavalry officer mere days away from his retirement. But this is a cavalry fort soap opera, and if you're not careful you'll find yourself nodding off to sleep. This is the second of the John Ford/John Wayne cavalry trilogy of 1948-1950. Wayne's character is different than the one he plays in Fort Apache and Rio Grande. Yet this story has several characters from those other movies played by the same actors (ex. Ben Johnson as Tyree and Victor McLaglen as Quincannon.) FYI, Even though the trilogy has overlapping characters, it is not meant to be watched in any particular sequence. 1.5 action rating "},{"Title":"Best of Cavalry Trilogy?","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This may be a better movie than Fort Apache.Here's what I liked- Undoubtedly one of Wayne's best career performances. At least as good as in Red River. Ironic to see him playing a character 20 years older than himself, since he spent the next 15 years playing characters who were 10 to 20 years younger than himself. - Thematically sound -- duty, aging, changing of the guard.- Colorful Civil War references. Sergeant Tyree (Ben Johnson) is a former high ranking officer in the Confederate army.- Ben Johnson is very good as the savvy scout.- Monument Valley is stunning. Won an Oscar for cinematography.- Fantastic stunt work as usual with the horses and wagons.- Great example of John Ford's colorful, sentimental world of military fetish. - Ford has a tendency to overdo the comic relief. He gets just about the right balance here. Victor McLaglen doing the heavy comic lifting again.Here's what kept it from being better- The plot is skimpy. They ride to the station to relieve a patrol and drop off two women at the stagecoach station. They come back. They run the Indians horses off. The end. - The romantic subplot doesn't work. Joanne Dru looks good, but her character is annoying and gratuitous.- There's virtually no heavy. - The Indians are not well characterized.- That's it. Really enjoyed this movie!! Tough to get eight stars from me! "},{"Title":"John Wayne's Favorite","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In 1876, following Custer's last stand, Cavalry Captain John Wayne (as Nathan Brittles) is about to retire. But, first, Mr. Wayne must fend off encroaching Native Americans. The hostile Indians may be after white women and/or white man's land. Wayne's last assignment is to accompany pretty Joanne Dru (as Olivia Dandridge) and her aunt Mildred Natwick (as Abby Allshard) to a stagecoach east. Along for the trek, younger Lieutenants John Agar (as Flint Cohill) and Harry Carey Jr. (as Ross Pennell) are enamored with the nubile Ms. Dru, who signals she's interested by wearing yellow ribbon in her hair.Photographer Winton Hoch won an Academy Award for his beautiful cinematography, in this typically well-directed John Ford opus. Ford favorites Ben Johnson (as Tyree), Victor McLaglen (as Quincannon), and George O'Brien (as Allshard) are along for the ride. Wayne is outstanding and probably should have been nominated for a Best Actor award for his She Wore a Yellow Ribbon role - instead, Oscar nominated him for Sands of Iwo Jima (also 1949). Both films helped propel Wayne to #1 on the (industry standard) Quigley list of Box Office Stars for 1950. He stayed in the Top Ten list for most years thereafter.******** She Wore a Yellow Ribbon (10/22/49) John Ford ~ John Wayne, Joanne Dru, John Agar, Harry Carey Jr. "},{"Title":"The army knows no seasons","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is the second picture in what is known as John Ford's cavalry trilogy. The three pictures may have been directed by John Ford, but trilogy is a misleading term because it implies intention and authorship. In fact, the stories of the cavalry trilogy were all the work of popular Western writer James Warner Bellah, who wrote many of this kind, but She Wore a Yellow Ribbon especially bears the hallmarks of its screenwriter Frank Nugent.It was Nugent who really pioneered these stories of grizzled old men of the West stepping wearily aside for their younger comrades. John Ford directed most of them, and probably had a love and respect for Nugent's heroes, but he was by no means the originator of them. For comparison, check out the Nugent-scripted The Tall Men, directed by Raoul Walsh. She Wore a Yellow Ribbon shows the level of depth and self-reflection that the genre was acquiring in the hands of writers like Nugent. Unlike the previous year's Fort Apache, which is very much about the Indian wars and full of rousing battles and chases, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is not really much of an action picture. The Indian conflict is kept to the background, and does not follow a strong, cohesive storyline. If you like, it is a MacGuffin, the excuse for the real story arc of Captain Brittles wanting to retire with the taste of glory and the knowledge that the troop will continue in his tradition. In fact a lot of the criticisms of this picture seem to focus on the fact that the action scenes aren't very well thought through. This is a fair enough point &#x96; I don't think Nugent struck as good a balance here as he did in Fort Apache, and the ending in particular is something of an anti-climax.It was a bold move casting 41-year-old John Wayne as the grizzled old man in question. This sort of upward ageing didn't happen a great deal in classic Hollywood, or if it did it was usually for necessity in stories spanning generations such Cimarron or Citizen Kane. Although the Duke isn't made up to look as authentically old as could be achieved today, and his voice does not sound like an older man's, he does successfully act old in his stance and mannerisms. It certainly made more sense to cast him as a 60-year-old than as a Mongolian (see The Conqueror, 1956). Of Ford's co-stars, the standouts are George O'Brien, once a leading man in the silent era, and appropriately enough making his biggest impact here in moments of silence; and a young Ben Johnson, who looked every inch the dopey cowboy but could act and act well. As to the young romantics, I'm afraid to say Joanne Dru is simply huffy and snappy, while John Agar is just dull.She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is shot in glorious Technicolor, at a point where this became more and more the norm for the genre. Here it was probably done for no other reason than that this was the first time the independent Argosy Pictures could afford it. While John Ford's colour compositions were not particularly pleasing to the eye (pink and orange shirts on the Indians!), Oscar-winning cinematographer Winton C. Hoch has done a fine job bringing to life the reds and browns of the landscape. Even in the dusky scenes, those tones are beautifully picked out while all else is shadow.Now, some might think my comment so far has been an unmitigated attack on John Ford. This wasn't intended, but if you feel it was the case, I recommend you read this last paragraph three or four times for the sake of balance. Ford was ideal for these pictures because he really gave a sense of danger to the untamed West. He actually does a better job of this here than in the more action-orientated Fort Apache. The little camp seems particularly empty and lacking in bustle. Its interiors are cramped and Ford emphasises this by never leaving much space between the camera, the actors and the back wall. Coupled with the quiet sound design, this gives the little outpost a real sense of eerie loneliness. On the open plain, the earlier shots are very light and blue skies are our backdrop. However as the situation literally darkens Ford changes his angles to bring more of the ground into the frame. And despite these cavalry pictures being a very distinct sub-genre, Ford still brings the iconic imagery of the time and place &#x96; the timeless buttes of Monument Valley, men on horseback silhouetted against the sky, motionless Indians who seem one with the landscape. Frank Nugent was a great storyteller of the West, but John Ford was its great image-maker. "},{"Title":"She Wore a Yellow Ribbon","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This western from director John Ford (My Darling Clementine, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance) is apparently part of a cavalry trilogy, I just decided to try it, being five stars. Basically, soon to be retiring Capt. Nathan Cutting Brittles (John Wayne) takes a last job to evacuate and escort a cavalry across the valleys, protecting them from any danger, including Indians. Also starring Joanne Dru as Olivia Dandridge, John Agar as Lt. Flint Cohill, Ben Johnson as Sgt. Tyree, Harry Carey Jr. as 2nd Lt. Ross Pennell, Victor McLaglen as Top Sgt. Quincannon, Mildred Natwick as Abby Allshard aka Old Iron Pants, Arthur Shields as Dr. O'Laughlin, Harry Woods as Licensed Suttler Harry Karl Rynders, Chief John Big Tree as Chief Pony That Walks and George O'Brien as Major Mac Allshard, Commanding Officer Fort Starke. To me, the story wasn't that interesting, and Wayne is alright, I think this film should be more admired for the magnificent Monument Valley locations and great music score by Richard Hageman. It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography. John Wayne was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men. Very good! "},{"Title":"Title Lyrics","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I have always loved old movies, especially ones with The Duke in them! This one is no exception. It seems that they had better-developed plot lines and relied on the quality of the acting drive the story. Nowadays, many movies seem to depend on high-tech special effects, profanity or sensationalism to attract an audience and tell the story. Even the title song still has relevance, especially today with so many of our military forces in various combat zones around the world. Does anyone know where I can find a complete copy of the title lyrics for She Wore a Yellow Ribbon? I have tried all the online song lyric sites and have not found a listing anywhere. I thought there'd be a reference to the lyrics at this site, but STILL no luck. If anyone out there could help me, I would really appreciate it! Mahalo & Aloha! "},{"Title":"A movie well worth watching.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  John Ford, John Wayne, and Monument Valley.  I am sure that for many millions of people, that says all they need to know.  Scenery and cinematography are superb.  A good story is very well directed by Ford. The supporting cast members give good performances. And there is something extra special and touching about John Wayne's performance; especially in the farewell scene - that turns out to be premature.  I recall reading somewhere that this was John Wayne's favorite John Wayne movie.  Every time I watch it I feel that I better understand why.  And I find myself liking it a little bit more each time I watch it. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A character driven western,Wayne is excellent as the old trooper,a western with not a lot of fighting but rich in human qualities.Ben Johnson is supberb as Tyree and all the cast make the film come to life.The west as never been more beautifully portrayed the thunder and ligntning scene is a panoramic delight. A  fim  for those who want to see the heart of the west in colour not a lot happens yet its a wonderful film to watch if only modern movies could be so rewarding. "},{"Title":"A highly successful joint effort between the master-John Ford-and the stuedent-John Wayne","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  She Wore A Yellow Ribbon is the only one of Ford's cavalry trilogy films to be released in color, and this enhanced greatly the panoramic views of Monument Valley, where Ford did a lot of his on location work. The audience is taken back to the times of the cavalry's efforts to contain or displace the various Indian tribes of the Southwest, and this film handles that part of history in a well-done manner.The Duke portrays Captain Nathan Brittles, who is within one week of his retirement from the cavalry, but is given one last detail before the end of his career.  Joanne Dru plays the niece of the fort's commander, and she adequately supplies the love triangle stirred up between young lieutenants John Agar and Harry Caray, Jr.  Other cast members include members of the John Ford troup of actors-Victor McLaglen, Ben Johnson, etc.  The film is long on sentimental touches, the troop having to bury a common soldier, who during the Civil War had been a Confederate commander, contact between Wayne and an Indian chief that he has become great friends with and who shares the growing concern over a possible war, and Wayne's visits to the gravesite of his deceased wife and the communications he shares with her.  All these moments combine to make this film a true delight, and should prove to the doubters that John Wayne could deliver a very credible performance, when given the proper script.  This was one of his finer roles. "}{"Title":"The best of the best, the ultimate US cavalry movie","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The on going struggle between age and youth, the march of time, the side references to the American Civil war just make for a perfect time setting. John Ford's relentless use of the beautiful Monument Valley is excellent.John Wayne is at his finest but the movie is almost stolen by Victor McLaglen as Sergeant Quincannon.  What a performance he makes.Ben Johnson as Sergeant Tryee formally a Confederate Captain has some memorial quotes,  My momma didn't raise me to be giving advice to Yankee Captains and Dispatches from the Yankee war department along with the burial of Trooper Smith, former Brigadier General CSA is moving to us Southern boys.I have a used a quote from this movie many times while trying to instill patience in youth, the Lieutenant Pernell----in ten or twelve years, you'll make 1st Lieutenant is priceless. "},{"Title":"great movie-newly restored","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I just watched a recently restored print of this classic. Wayne plays an aging cavalry officer who has one final mission before retirement. The contrast between this and Fort Apache, the first of John Ford's cavalry  trilogy, is striking. Wayne is transformed from a dashing officer to an old man,  and the cinematography from snappy black-and-white to Oscar-winning Technicolor. Any one who has seen only a washed-out print of this film should enjoy therestored version.    Wayne's sympathetic portrayal of a man who has given his entire life to the cavalry  has moments of humor, pathos, and patented Wayne swagger. It has a number ofsweeping shots of the cavalry riding out across the dramatic Monument Valley. It  does not have the tension and vitality of Fort Apache, but it is goodentertainment. The supporting cast seems to be present mainly for comic relief,  but Wayne does not disappoint in yet another western portrait from John Ford. "},{"Title":"Don't apologize; it's a sign of weakness.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie is a poetic meditation on duty, camaraderie, loss, and hope.John Wayne was always a better actor when he played old men.  Here, his Nathan Brittles is a consummate professional at the end of his command career.  His well-earned wisdom is a gift to the young cavalry officers and invaluable in preventing a conflict from escalating into a major war.Excellent supporting actors and atmosphere.A very fine film. "},{"Title":"Enthralling spectacle, but unfortunately not a whole success","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a problematic western, although still very much so enjoyable in parts. In fact, to be fair, for most of the way it is quite an enjoyable film. John Wayne is strong in the lead, and I really liked Ben Johnson's presence here as his buddy side-kick. The love triangle is a bit silly, but amusing enough. The story is slight, but it is an extremely beautiful film, equaling The Searchers in its stunning Technicolor cinematography of Monument Valley. It moves at a good enough pace for the bulk of the running time, and it's a good film to sit back and enjoy the journey the film takes you on. Its story about coming of age between the characters, both passing on responsibility and accepting responsibility, is actually well done and the film is at times pleasantly sentimental.However, it is in the latter stages of the film where I really feel it faulters. Actually, to say it faulters is probably an understatement, as it almost absolutely tanks. First off, there is the horrendous, inexplicable bar brawl. Absolutely no excuse. I can forgive a similar road-block found in The Searchers because there the rest of the film is so strong that it makes up for it, and also the fight scene isn't as terrible as it is here. At this point of the film, there was actually quite an effective melancholy tone to the story, and the bar brawl involving McLaglen just brings the entire film to a screeching halt. It comes completely out of left field, and it is not funny at all -- it is embarrassingly stupid and goes on far too long, destroying tone and pace of the film. Because of this, the movie begins to drag.Secondly, the rest of the ending is questionable to me and makes little to no sense. Brittles last hurrah and redemption is one thing, although the way they miraculously defeat the Indian tribe seemed absurd, if not completely implausible. However, worse is the seemingly tacked on happy ending of Wayne's character literally shown riding out into the sunset, and then literally a moment later with the narrator claiming, But the army wasn't done with him yet, and then showing him riding back in. WHAT??? Good lord, it just feels so cheap. The hokey narration doesn't help any either, and Ford's usual populist sentiments seem to drift into jingoistic ones, which is never a good thing for me.Ford did much better in Fort Apache -- a far more polished and satisfying cavalry film as a whole. This is a lesser movie, but it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The Inspired Work of an Inspired Director","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  It is really difficult to understand why this film only averages a 7.6 in imdb.com's poll.  Yes, Westerns are passe, but the production values that went into this film are equaled by only two other Westerns, Shane and The Searchers. Certainly Yellow Ribbon represents the work of one of America's most gifted directors, John Ford, at high tide.  It is astonishing to think that there was so much more to come, including The Searchers. To begin, the movie was shot in color in Monument Valley (which straddles the Utah/Arizona border).  Ford shot a number of films in Monument Valley (Stagecoach, Fort Apache,), but until now they were in B&W.  This film is breathtakingly beautiful, and I believe it won an Oscar for Best Cinematography.  The historical interpretations, particularly in the Indian village and at the fort, are painstakingly accurate.  Part of the set is still standing, and visitors to Monument Valley may enter the small quarters where Wayne's character lived, and where the opening scene was filmed, at nearby Gouldings.  What really sets this film apart is its unapologetic devotion to honor, to loyalty, to duty, and to country within the context of a wonderfully developed story involving a cavalry officer and his men.  The same traits are assigned to the Indians, who are not without virtue.There is a particularly poignant scene involving the burial of a grizzled cavalryman.  It is pure Ford.  And, the Ford company of stock actors is on hand, which is to say the best character actors working in Hollywood in the late 1940's. The movie has been criticized as being too sentimental.  Considering the times today, that is hardly a flaw.  And, as the years have gone by, the industry has come to realize that Wayne's portrayal of Captain Nathan Brittles was extraordinary in every respect.  Ford and Wayne  There has never been a better combination.  Show this film to your youngsters.     "},{"Title":"Uncountable beauties in one of the best movies ever made","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  She Wore a Yellow Ribbon offers us uncountable legendary images of the western genre. One for all Ben Johnson's frantic gallop in the Monument Valley. How much beauty! The photography of this movie is just insuperable. John Wayne gives a magnificent performance as the tired old captain Nathan Brittles in the very last days of his service, before retirement; recall that he was just forty-two when the film was made. John Ford's fantastic crew of supporting actors works superbly, as always. Let me mention Joanne Dru beautiful, lovely, talented, a true delight for the audience. The story oozes military rhetoric; and we accept it, and we are moved! John Ford is a poet even more than a great director the privilege of the poet is to touch our souls, possibly with means that would be clumsy if used by prosaic people. There is an array of touching, perfectly constructed scenes. For instance, the death (and later the burial) of the old horse soldier, a former general of the Confederate Army this man had chosen to continue to serve, even after the disaster of a lost war, as a private after having been a general, for the sake of his Country, his honor, his duty. All this is not openly stated in the movie Ford makes us understand it in a sober way, with few artistic touches, showing the respect of all soldiers in front of the brave death of the old man. Great stuff! Another important scene is when John Wayne - Nathan Brittles meets an old Indian chief at the Cheyenne camp. The chief deprecates the impending war that will make a nonsensical slaughter of young people, and dreams of going away with his old friend Nathan, to hunt the buffalo. This is a poetic metaphor of Ford's own dream, brotherhood between whites and Indians in the free harmony of nature, something, alas!, which was not possible to get. However, the movie is also full of typical Ford's sense of humor, and of good-natured satire of military life, especially in the duets Wayne - McLaglen. And look at the gigantic McLaglen sharing his saddle with the little orphan rescued from a wasted farm a nice symbol of the hope that we are not alone, that someone strong, good (and ugly, why not?) can help us in our distress. She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is one of the best movies ever made; seeing it for the twentieth time, one always discovers new beauties.   "},{"Title":"No cavalry charge...","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Ford's second celebration of the US cavalry is a beautifully shot, but to my mind over-sentimental and underpowered movie, underpinned largely by a mature John Wayne giving an excellent lead performance as the embattled retiring commander Nathan Brittles.As ever Ford gives us epic panoramic views against his trademark Monument Valley backdrop, in wonderfully contrasting shots from different times of day and re-plays his recurring themes of camaraderie, grace under pressure and dedication to duty. I just felt however that there wasn't much of a story here and the sub-plots involving for one, a three way romance between Joanne Dru, the yellow ribbon wearer herself and her two beaus, Harry Carey Jr and John Agar and secondly the t'be shure drunken ramblings of Victor McLaglen, fail to engage and seem unoriginal and thus uninteresting.Better handled is Wayne's relationship with his men, particularly the grooming of his young successor and also with the women, whom he handles with humour, tact and sternness as appropriate, which coincides with the sensitively drawn scenes displaying the remembrance of his late wife which start and finish the film.What there isn't though is a great deal of action or tension, apart from the cavalry stampeding through the Indian camp to save the day at the end. Best to watch the film then for the quality of the cinematography and Wayne's acting.I suppose I'm a less a fan of this type of Western, with its trademark over-sentimentality, forced humour, over-intrusive orchestration and stylised direction. The soon-come 50's would blossom with a more realistic, leaner and meaner type of Western starting with Gregory Peck's sparse The Gunfighter and continuing with Anthony Mann's more psychologically intense vehicles for James Stewart. When he got away from that uniformity (and he did, brilliantly, on occasion with Fort Apache for one, and also his, in my opinion, masterpiece My Darling Clementine for another) I think Ford made better, more interesting films. Too often though, this particular movie has that production line feel to it, a Model T Ford film if you like, going back to his well-established 30's template. While there's much to enjoy and savour (he's too much of an artist to make a downright bad film), he was capable of better and I would conclude by consigning this effort to run of the mill status in his catalogue. "},{"Title":"A gorgeous and meandering film that just screams QUALITY","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON won an Oscar for Cinematography and this certainly does not come as any surprise, as it is perhaps the most beautifully filmed movie I have ever seen. I really wish I had been able to see it on the big screen because it was just breath-takingly filmed--with very, very intense and vivid colors--both in the skies and the uniforms. I don't know exactly how John Ford managed it, but these outdoor scenes shot on location were just perfect. He was either very, very lucky (and I doubt that) or the film shows that he was a genius at color (and based on his other color films, I can sure believe it). In fact, I think the color system he used in this film was better than the colors we see today. Today's Technicolor might be more realistic, but the print for this film is almost better than real life!! It evokes a certain beauty and nostalgia that make it the real star of this film.Another major standout in this film was John Wayne. While many of his films are just ordinary performances he could do practically in his sleep, this film and the other John Ford cavalry films (FORT APACHE and RIO GRANDE) were wonderful characterizations for Wayne. They provided him MUCH more depth and more than just the tough-guy persona. In this film, he is a much older character--in his mid-50s and about to retire. And, as a result, he's a truly manly character but in a much subtler and sophisticated way. Sure, he's very brave, but he thinks and behaves the way we would really want a man to behave--not blustery and macho, but decent, patient and thinking as well as tough. Again and again throughout this film, Wayne's character COULD have responded by punching or shooting, but chose a wiser and more measured response--totally unlike the stereotypical Wayne character. Heck, this character didn't even drink alcohol!!! Along with Wayne's perfect performance, the film was bolstered by wonderful performances by the usual Ford/Wayne ensemble cast. John Agar (often maligned as just Shirley Temple's first husband) was wonderful in the film, as were Harry Carey, Jr. and the rest. Probably the best of the supporting actors in the film was Ben Johnson, though Mildred Natwick and all the others sure did themselves proud as well.The plot itself was pretty simple--like an episode of life in the West instead of a huge spectacle. And, the way the Indian war was brilliantly averted without massive bloodshed was,....brilliant! But the plot isn't why this movie scores a 9. This film is yet another example of just how wonderful and practically perfect a John Ford and John Wayne film could be. My advice to you is find and watch them all--from THEY WERE EXPENDABLE to THE QUIET MAN to this cavalry trilogy. Wonderful direction, writing, acting and filming--it just doesn't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"Slightly better than average western with Wayne","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  *******SPOILERS********Wonderful color photography is the highlight of Ford's epic western, in which the future of the entire country depends on the outcome of a contrived melodrama involving a tough army sergeant (Wayne) who must pass on control of the base to his subordinate officer (Agar) so he can retire in 6 days.  Of course, the plot takes us down to the wire -- I never knew that a matter of minutes would make the whole history of the West different!The plot carries a wagon train through land infested with angry indians.  The ending reverses the premise of the entire film by having Wayne recalled to fill a special army post.  Over the top sentimentality in a patronizing historical tale, with good action and great photography.  Actors are all well directed, considering many of them are amateurs.  Is Ford trying to create a new stock company here? (I don't see many of his regulars except Wayne). "},{"Title":"There's a reason why John Ford is my favorite director of all time","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Probably the least of the Cavalry Trilogy, at least in my opinion, but there's no shame in that. It's an excellent picture, and quite an entertaining one. Where Fort Apache ended with a mock fall of Custer, Ribbon begins with a voiceover announcing Custer's defeat. The younger generations of several Indian tribes, some once hostile with each other, have taken command from their elders and joined together in a war pact against the U.S. Cavalry. John Wayne plays Capt. Nathan Brittles, who has spent his whole life in the military and is just a few days from retirement. The plot of the film has the Cavalry first trying to deliver two women to an outpost where a stagecoach will pick them up and bring them back east. Unfortunately, the hostile Indians attack the outpost first. The Cavalry then has to deal with their enemy before they can do anything else. I'd rather not give away the climax, as it is quite unexpected, but I like how this installment of the Trilogy eschews the violence that I was so sure was coming. She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is perhaps most notable for having John Wayne actually cry in a beautiful scene where he addresses his troop for the final time. It's very subtle and well acted by Wayne, an actor who almost never gets his due respect nowadays. Perhaps the only scene that really fails is Victor McLaglen's slapstick fight with seven men who are trying to arrest him (Wayne sends them after him as a joke, because he knows that not even seven could take that gorilla down!). Ford often includes such moments of slapstick in his films, and usually I find them humorous, especially when they concern McLaglen. However, this scene just goes on far too long. I think I like Fort Apache and Rio Grande better at least partly because they're in black and white. Of course, I have nothing against color, but the cinematography in this particular film is a little bland. Ford made several movies in color with more brilliant photography, most notably The Searchers. But even 3 Godfathers, from 1948, one year before Yellow Ribbon, has better color cinematography. 9/10. "}{"Title":"It's not a documentary&#x85;","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It doesn't seem possible that a good portion of the understanding of the Old West in general and the Indian Wars in particular for my generation was developed by watching Hollywood westerns of the '30s, '40s, and '50s (as well as TV in the '50s and '60s), but sadly, it was.I just re-watched SWaYR for the first time in a LOOOOONG time, and it reminds me of just how much of that old time religion I'd washed out of my consciousness in the last few decades.Having said that, though, I was entertained.Who can't get goose bumps watching (and listening to) Ben Johnson? To me, he has just about the most recognizable voice in movies. And that horsemanship! Only Yakima Canutt could approach him, in my view.Who can't get weepy as John Wayne surreptitiously reaches for his glasses? Who can have too much of Victor McLaglen in any tavern and/or brawl? (see The Quiet Man for another fine example) But, as has been pointed out, there were lots of errors or inconsistencies.How, for example, does one put in 40 years (not 30 as several have reported--do the math), serve in the Mexican War, the Civil War, and the Indian Wars and not get past Captain, even in those slow promotion, downsizing from wartime years? Brittles had to have had a fairly high brevet rank in the CW, but it's never mentioned.How does Allshard make Major under the same conditions and not have 40 years in? How does Brittles get promoted over him to Lt. Colonel at the end? Is Chief of Scouts not subject to mandatory retirement? And to some other posters, the Medal of Honor was indeed originally intended for enlisted men and non-commissioned officers in its original incarnation. However, only a year or two later (1862), it was expanded to include officers, as well. Still, many didn't get their CW MoHs until decades after the War.Oh, well, I've been told many times to relax, sit back, enjoy the entertainment and not sweat the details. But, damn! A fort under a bluff? The image of hostiles lobbing fireballs onto the parade ground (or wooden roofs) from above just grates on me. "},{"Title":"It's Never not Don't","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The quote is Never apologize mister, it's a sign of weakness, not Don't apologize, it's a sign of weakness.  If you're going to quote, at least get it right!  This is not the only movie that Wayne played in that used this line.  Also, if you ever read anything on John Ford, he was never one to apologize for very much.  A tough bird! "},{"Title":"A good old-fashioned Western!!","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A movie with real good guys and bad guys and John Wayne playing John Wayne.  A formula Western done as only John Ford and his company of players (Wayne, Ben Johnson, Harry Carey, Jr., Victor McLaughlin, et al) can make them. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I've never called a movie perfect before. She Wore A Yellow Ribbon is perfect; I can't begin to count the ways. Watching Ford's Stagecoach, The Informer, and (even though it came after this) The Quiet Man will make a viewer appreciate a lot of the details throughout Ribbon.If called on to sum up what I like most about this film, it's that Ford somehow took the impression of those foggy Dublin streets that he created in The Informer and expanded it here, using nature's clouds this time in Monument Valley. It's there throughout the movie, but Ford capped it with that incredible storm sequence. And the special thing about it all is that none of that overwhelmed the acting or the script. It all works together so well.A question, though there is such a strong reference to Stagecoach in that opening chase scene, I thought the man inside the coach was Donald Meek (though not playing a drummer in this movie, of course). The character isn't listed could it have been Meek? "},{"Title":"Feel good western hopelessly anachronistic","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Battle of Little Big Horn was in June of 1876. The transcontinental railroad was completed in May of 1869. The Pony Express operated from April of 1860 to October of 1861. The American Indian tribes of the western U.S. never organized as allies in war against the U.S. The American Bison roamed the great plains not the southwest desert.All the foregoing facts contribute to make the willing suspension of disbelief a virtual necessity in order to enjoy a plot based on a supposed accurately described chapter in the annals of the U.S. Cavalry.The plot does permit lots of men on horseback, bugling, numerous Yo's, mischievous flirting, manly fellowship, hard drinking and fist fighting, true love for the coquettish JoAnn Dru and John Agar and warm regard and a late promotion for John Wayne rescuing him from an hours old retirement.Great scenery and a chance to rekindle affection for Duke. "},{"Title":"Title Lyrics","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I have always loved old movies, especially ones with The Duke in them! This one is no exception. It seems that they had better-developed plot lines and relied on the quality of the acting to drive the story. Nowadays, many movies seem to depend on high-tech special effects, profanity or sensationalism to attract an audience and tell the story. Even the title song still has relevance, especially today with so many of our military forces in various combat zones around the world. Does anyone know where I can find a complete copy of the title lyrics for She Wore a Yellow Ribbon? I have tried all the online song lyric sites and have not found a listing anywhere. I thought there'd be a reference to the lyrics at this site, but STILL no luck. If anyone out there could help me, I would really appreciate it! Mahalo & Aloha! "},{"Title":"Classic John Ford, and classic American values","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  - Integrity - Loyalty to a cause greater than one's self - Willingness to be 'a stubborn American' - Faith in your fellows - a glimpse into the Army of my Great Grandfather, and as good as his anecdotes it seems- Cinematography - great segue into how badly the white man treated Native Americans "},{"Title":"Decent John Ford tale of cavalry officer","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is a decent John Ford western, but not great. John Wayne plays a retiring cavalry officer going on his last mission. The pacing is a bit slow, and Wayne's character isn't as complex as his characters in other Ford films to really hold up a character study. The result is a bit sentimental. But Ford knows how to make even a standard western, so I rate this a 7. Not as good as Ford's other two cavalry pictures, Rio Grande and Fort Apache. "},{"Title":"Great scenery.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  John Ford strikes a good one here. SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON follows the classic example of a good old fashioned Western. The music is upbeat and gung-ho like. The characters are varied, yet typical of the genre. The scenery is beautiful. YELLOW RIBBON is a nice addition to any Western library.Captain Brittle is close to retirement from the calvary. The Indians don't make an easy way out for our wise hero as the clans band together making war look inevitable.The cinematography is excellent. So is the pace of YELLOW RIBBON though the story relies heavily on John Wayne's character and the last calvary patrol he commands. The calvary life is explored plenty of times and makes some interesting moments, especially for whom Olivia wears the yellow ribbon for. A good Western with some lovely views, occasional sweet humor and all good fun. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  John Wayne and director John Ford team up again in this film that very much differentiated from they're past projects (The Searchers, Stagecoach) because here, it is a lot more dramatic (I think).  Wayne shows his good acting skills in a role that shows him as a calvary man who is about to retire, but not until one last thing.  A little overdosed on climaxes (as in most westerns), but it doesn't matter much with Winton Hoche's brilliant (Oscar winning) color photography, and Ford's skillfull direction.  One of the Duke's better performances.  A "}{"Title":"The finest Western ever filmed","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  IMHO, of course! Wayne was never better. This film has it all great lead performances, outstanding supporting work, action, drama - you name it. This film is near the top of my list of the best ever made. John Ford - how did an Irish immigrant from Maine ever hook up with Wayne so effectively? "},{"Title":"Wayne, McLagen, and Natwick make this movie; as soon as they were out of sight, I was walking to the 'fridge.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Wayne, McLagen, and Natwick make this movie; as soon as they were out of sight, I was walking to the 'fridge.   The story and the characters are juggled well by John Ford, mixing the main plot, cowboys and indians , Brittles retirement and the (yawn) romantic competition of the two young lieutenants. John Wayne/Captain Brittles is the tough S.O.B. military leader that defines the old school of leadership  Don't apologize, it's a sign of weakness.  Anyone who's been in the service, or employed anywhere knows of some manager who tries to emulate the Duke, for better or worse.  Yeah, we know he's no Shakespearean actor, (you'd have to be a real sap if your'e touched by the retirement watch scene) but just watching that guy makes you a little suspect of your own testosterone content. Victor McLagen! I want to drink with that guy!  And I just missed having Mildred Natwick teach my first grade class! Technically, It may have been the quality of the video tape I rented, but there were moments in the outdoor sequences when all you could see were the outlines of the soldier's hats.  "},{"Title":"One of John Wayne's finest films","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This was a different type of role for Wayne, playing a man older than his real age (not as obvious to modern audiences who are used to seeing an older Wayne).  Wayne plays Nathan Battles, a career calvaryman going on his last patrol.  The story is an attempt at a realistic portrayal of the life of a cavalryman.  Wayne was never better, especially at saying one thing (typically offical army jargon) while showing he felt something entirely different.  A classic. "},{"Title":"Monument Valley in all it,s glory!!!!!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Another excellent slice of day to day life at a cavalry post. Cast is excellent,with John Waynes portayal of Captain Brittles worthy of oscar nomination. But it is the scenery that steals the show. Monument valley shown in color for the first time that is simply breathtaking ,as a western one of the finest!! "},{"Title":"Second Best of the Ford Trilogy on the US Calvary","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The underlying conflict between Fonda and Wayne made Fort Apache the best of the Trilogy. This one is almost as good. Perhaps John Wayne best performance. An unusual role for Wayne as an old man at the point of retirement in this stage of his career. He plays a sentimental old officer. John Agar and Joanne Dru handle the romance. He plays very different character than Ethan Edwards in the searchers.  "},{"Title":"The best of John Ford's cavalry trilogy","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I was a boy of ten when this film was first released and I saw it during its first run.  It was immediately one of my favorite films.  I have viewed it at least 30 times since then, and have never tired of it.  The location scenery is fantastic, the casting, plot, acting and direction are all superb.  I tend to group this film with John Ford's Fort Apache and Rio Grande as his cavalry trilogy, all of which are outstanding films, the absolute best of their genre.  In my opinion, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is the best of the three, followed closely by Rio Grande.  Outstanding performances were turned in by John Wayne, Ben Johnson, Victor McLaglen, and Harry Carey, Jr. I highly recommend this film to all who appreciate excellence in all aspects of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" John Wayne gives off one of his strongest performances in this John Ford western, convincingly playing a character who is much older than he was at the time. Ford uses his hues very well in this film, with vibrant colours, especially oranges. Also the realistic weather effects are worth noting. Other than these three areas though, there is not much else to bring the film above average of its type. It is a prototypical western, with dull supporting characters, three of which are involved in a love triangle that feels tacked on, adding very little to key story at hand. The narration does not work too well either, and the violence seems awkward; the film also moves rather slowly due to a lack of real excitement in the storyline and a lack of solid character study for compensation. So, I did not think too much of the film myself, but it is certainly okay overall. If nothing else, the film is worth watching for John Wayne's performance and looking at John Ford's colour and lighting techniques. "},{"Title":"Even better than The Searchers.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I consider this to be John Ford's greatest work - yes, even better than The Searchers. The mixture of great ensemble acting, humour, pathos, action, romance and beautifully crafted narrative is unbeatable. The audience just gets swept along as the story develops. It displays for us all the best - and worst - in human nature. A wonderful 'yarn'.    "},{"Title":"Peanut Brittle(s)","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It doesn't get any easier - me watching John Ford westerns and finding myself unable to genuflect along with a clear majority. A local shop that features used dvds is having a four-for-the-price-of-three month so, eager to give them a chance I bought all three of the 'cavalry' westerns and now have only Rio Grande to watch. I accept that Ford is competent and knows which end of the viewfinder to look through but other than that I find his westerns pedestrian. There seems to be a rough sort of formula; shoot in Monument Valley, inject some crude comedy via Victor McGlaglan, Ward Bond etc, use a favoured group of actors, Duke Wayne, Bond, Harry Carey, Ben Johnson etc and throw in some indians. So sue me. "},{"Title":"Stuttering Heros","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I spend much of my imagination in film. I use it in my life, fabricating worlds and cosmologies, so I'm a prime target for manipulative elements in film. And possibly nothing can be more manipulative than a Ford film intended to define and milk the American hero.But even though I'm a prime candidate (I even cry at Sandra Bullock movies), I see Ford and his puppet Wayne as clunky, thin, ineffective.Yes, the scenery is grand, and I know that it was rare in those days. But jees, having a majestic rock spire as the central element in every single exterior shot? Every one, from cemetery speeches to preventing the war and saving the nation (to the huzzahs of the President)? So, I'm sorry. Every element of this is blunt cinematically. The lines are simply dumb and overly theatrical, alternating between an emotional prancing and cheap comedy. Yes, we have Ford's necessary barfight as an ode to honorable masculinity. Yes, we have the selfish, shallow pretty girl who by the end sees what life and honor are all about. And yes, we even have the soft, pretty intellectual boy who discovers that a real life, the only the real life is army life.The acting is that sort of theatrical posturing that we don't tolerate any more. There isn't anything at all about this movie that recommends it as a movie.Ah, but as a touchstone in the American psyche! Few people appreciate how films define the patriotic impulse. Ford and Wayne were every bit as responsible for Vietnam as McNamara. Indeed, a core symbol of support for the troops (conscripted kids, not professionals in those days) was the display of a yellow ribbon.That's been inherited today. If you don't live in the US this will sound bizarre. Almost exactly half the cars on the road have magnets in the form of yellow ribbons. They denote allegiance less to any political selection than to the values this movie and others like it manufacture.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "}]