[{"Title":"One of the most underrated animated films ever","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Finally Walt Disney Home Video has got their act together and released The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad in its entirety (the two stories have been available in separate forms for quite some time).  I'll admit that the clunky title doesn't inspire much more enthusiasm than it did back in 1949 (the film tanked, from what I've heard), but I hope some people will give this a chance just based on the Disney name. The Wind in the Willows, narrated by Basil Rathbone, is a delightfully comic adaptation of Kenneth Grahame's classic novel, keeping the proper British tone (children may not get some of the UK slang used) while still remaining a lot of fun.  The highlight is the courtroom scene, featuring a bullying prosecutor (voiced by Disney animator/voice artist John McLeish, who also narrated the Goofy How to shorts) going toe-to-toe with a wonderfully insolent Toad (a great performance by Eric Blore). The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, based on a story (not a novel, as the film suggests) by Washington Irving, is even better, making the most of its American colonial setting with some especially interesting layouts and backgrounds.  The humor found in the rivalry between schoolteacher Ichabod Crane and local roughneck Brom Bones for the hand of the manipulative tease (coquette, in the film) Katrina von Tassel is some of Disney's best. The Halloween sequence leading up to the Headless Horseman's appearance is the most skillfully directed piece of animation I have ever seen outside of Fantasia, conveying a magnificent sense of dread through both sound (the chilling echo of whistling and laughter, crickets chanting Ichabod's name, frogs croaking headless horseman over and over) and image (fireflies inside a tree trunk forming the eyes of a shrouded ghost, Ichabod's sweaty, nervous terror, the subtle cloud effect of hands closing over the moon). This is far more frightening than any horror film I have seen. All in all, a smart (listen to the narration and learn some new vocabulary words) film in every way.  One final note I have not seen this film in years (I saw it plenty of times on The Disney Channel during the 1980s), and I noticed the many scenes involving both alcohol and weapons, particularly in The Wind and the Willows segment.  I accepted the scenes back then as a child and had no problem with them now, thanks to the general tone of the picture.  Although the concept of Toad being restrained from blasting a bayonet-wielding weasel with a shotgun and seeing Toad and his friends running from various flying knives, swords, and axes sounds like something to stay away from, it is all harmless fun.  Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Anti-consumerist Taoism?","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Generally underrated, or at least relatively overlooked, The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is a favorite of mine that just keeps getting better with each viewing. I've seen it probably ten times over the years, yet I keep noticing subtle visual jokes and layers of meaning that I previously missed. For just one example, only on this last viewing did I finally notice the weasel sleeping in Toad Hall who is supported by a woman in a painting. My appreciation of the beautiful animation in general also seems to grow with each viewing.The film consists of two halves, the first a Disneyfied version of Kenneth Grahame's Wind in the Willows, the second a Disneyfied version of Washington Irving's The Legend of Sleepy Hollow. While both can be read as light, often surreal, sometimes goofy, and always-funny stories (and hence kids, young and old--time for me to raise my hand--can appreciate them), adults can easily read various deeper meanings into the tales.For example, Mr. Toad's fickle manias and the predicament they lead to could be seen as a criticism of consumerism. The Legend of Sleepy Hollow could be read as an exemplification of the value of Taoist or Zen-Buddhist mindfulness and going with the flow--as well as a warning about letting delusions take hold instead. This isn't to say that these interpretations were intended by Grahame, Irving, or Disney's artists, or that they're the right interpretations, just that they're made possible and plausible by the depth of the material. "},{"Title":"Two Wild - And Very Different - Rides","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" From English and American literature come two fabulous characters who will forever excite readers with THE ADVENTURES OF ICHABOD AND MR. TOAD.This was the last of Disney's compilation or anthology films - a form necessitated by the exigencies of the War years - and is actually a double featurette. Both halves would eventually be spun off into individual short subjects and work very well independently of each other. Their connections are quite tenuous besides featuring 'fabulous characters' each story showcases a celebrated wild ride - one of which would, indeed, provide a long-lasting 'dark show' attraction at Disneyland.First up is THE WIND IN THE WILLOWS, which gives a drastically shortened & much revised view of Kenneth Grahame's classic book, focusing entirely on the chapters dealing with the exploits of the marvelous Mr. Toad and the troubles arising from his fixation with motorcars & speed (although much more time is spent showing him in his canary-coloured gypsy cart). As such, it is a fine introduction to Toad Hall, but one can only wonder what Disney would have done with a feature length animated film that included the bucolic charm of the novel, the glories of the Riverbank & the terrors of the Wild Wood as well as the high jinks. The production values are excellent, with narration by the inimitable Basil Rathbone, and Eric Blore & J. Pat O'Malley obviously have a high time voicing the wanton Toad and his equine pal Cyril Proudbottom, but a true fan of Grahame's original creation can't help longing for a little more...Washington Irving's famous story, THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW, comes alive in the second half of the movie. Bing Crosby's singing narration and the top-notch animation tell a tale of humor and genuine fright. Ichabod Crane, the pedantic pedagogue, is a triumph of the animators' art, while the film's climax - the ride through the Hollow & the appearance of the hideous Hessian - is a celebration of pacing and stylistic understatement. Based on material much shorter than Grahame's, the plot fits into the half hour time slot more easily and still has the luxury of introducing a wholly original & hilarious minor character in the chubby little Tilda, who completely steals the dancing sequence. It is the Horseman, however, who should remain the longest in the viewer's uneasy dreams - the embodiment of every Halloween nightmare. "},{"Title":"Satisfying Disney Animation","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Made at the end of the first age of Disney animation, The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad consists of two separate animated adaptations of classic stories. The Ichabod of the title is Ichabod Crane from The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, and the Mr. Toad is J. Thaddeus Toad from the Wind in the Willows. Each is short, running only about 35 minutes apiece, and is narrated by top of the line actors, Basil Rathbone doing the honors for The Wind in the Willows, and Bing Crosby for The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.  I've not read either story so can't judge the adaptations accuracy, but it doesn't matter. Both stories are highly entertaining, and if you like the old school Disney animation, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Excellent binding of two classic stories","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am a huge Disney fan at 17, and while The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr Toad is not the best of the Disney canon, it is hugely enjoyable and definitely worth seeing. While I would rank both The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow a 9/10, personally if I were to say which was better, the latter but only marginally. Merely because it holds more of a nostalgic value.The Wind in the Willows is a condensed but very faithful 30 minute or so cartoon, based on the Kenneth Graheme literary classic. While it does drag in places, it does very well with what it crams into such a short running time. It is very lovingly animated, with some rich backgrounds and lovely colours. I also liked the music, it was lyrical, rousing and fun, the sort of music you will find in a Silly Symphony. Also the voice acting is very expressive, Basil Rathbone who I know best as Sherlock Holmes(well one of the actors playing the fictional detective) is brilliant as the narrator and Eric Blore is a lot of fun as Toad. Other characters I liked were Badger, who is very firm and gruff and Cyril, the Horse, a character who featured in one of the more memorable scenes from the cartoon, second only to the hilarious Courtroom scene.On the other hand, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a terrifying yet worthwhile classic. One of my favourite moments in anything to do with Disney along with Willie the Operatic Whale. Bing Crosby is sublime as the narrator, never overdoing it, it was just right. The animation has an appropriately dark visual style, and the music is also memorable and fitting. The famous story features a schoolmaster named Ichabod Crane, and his love for Katrina and rivalry between him and Brom Bones, who like Gaston is a handsome tower of strength. Perhaps the most memorable moment of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is the part when Ichabod meets the Headless Horseman, a character that was so scary he gave me nightmares when I was little. The Headless Horseman is the sort of character who is imitated in stuff like Scooby Doo yet never as well, the very look of him here makes the hairs stand up on the back of my neck.Overall, this is an excellent binding of two classic stories. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Makes excellent viewing for Halloween...good mixture of mirth, madness and fright...","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Disney animators were still at the height of their genius when they made this double featurette based on classic American folklore. The clever humor and artful animation brighten both tales, but it's likely to be the Ichabod tale based on The Legend of Sleepy Hollow that you're going to remember...especially for that final confrontation of the frightened Ichabod with the Headless Horseman! And there hasn't been a funnier minor character in a Disney film than the chubby Tilda who finds herself being whirled onto the dance floor by Bram Bones when he seeks revenge on Ichabod. This sequence is one of the funniest ever in a Disney film and is followed by the payoff fright sequence as Ichabod makes his way home after the party.The toad story is a bit ponderous but is also brightened by clever animation and bits of humor with some droll voice overs supplied by Eric Blore and Pat O'Malley. It's pure fantasy with all the Disney magic on hand. And that final encounter with the Headless Horseman makes this ideal for viewing on Halloween!  "},{"Title":"Some of the best Disney work!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Having never seen 'Mr. Toad', I can only comment on the 'Legend of Sleepy Hollow', having seen it many times as a child when 'Disney's Wonderful World' was running on the CBC. This has got to be some of the greatest work of Walt Disney. Washington Irving's original story is closely followed, unlike Tim Burton's 1999 version (still an awesome movie in its own right). The sequence involving Ichabod Crane's terrifying ride through the woods is undoubtedly the best, from the toads croaking 'Ichabod' to the Headless Horseman chasing Ichabod through the woods - it's alternately funny and frightening. It always appeared at Halloween on the Disney show, and I can't remember ever missing it.  "},{"Title":"One of the better Disney features","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Excellent feature comprising of 2 half-hour segments.  The animation is first rate, particularly on Ichabod's journey home through the woods, which is the highlight of the film.  The quality of the direction and storytelling is excellent, and though both are quite short, they are remarkably concise and fully formed, and actually feel like they are both feature length. They are both highly atmospheric, and the characterisations are top-notch. There are some aspects of the film which have dated it somewhat, but you get past that soon enough.  This film is also notable for it's fine use of colour. Anyone with an interest in animation should see this film.  "},{"Title":"J. Thaddeus Toad and Old Icky","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I guess you describe this Walt Disney classic as a cartoon/cartoon. Two separate stories done to fill out one barely over an hour film. After 63 years it still has enough magic to entertain.Why Disney reversed the order of The Adventures Of Ichabod and Mr. Toad I've not figured out since the Mr. Toad story comes first. Basil Rathbone narrates this part and Eric Blore is delightful as that rascally scamp J. Thaddeus Toad who has the finest estate on riverbank. But he's a spendthrift and really needs a keeper. Which his friends the badger, the rabbit and the mole supply.Blore reached back to his own career in interpreting Toad and I think Disney and his staff of animators must have seen him in The Road To Zanzibar and his character of Bates the valet to The Lone Wolf in that series. In Zanzibar Blore has a brief but memorable part as an eccentric millionaire who sells Crosby and Hope and diamond mine, but he's also the family idiot and he has no mines to sell or rights to sell them. And seeing how his Toad character escapes from the law reminds me so much of Bates making fools of the law in helping Warren William outwit them.Washington Irving's Legend Of Sleepy Hollow is the basis for Ichabod and Bing Crosby narrates and sings with Jud Conlon's Rhythmaires backing him up and occasionally providing a voice. Ichabod Crane the new schoolmaster is cutting in on Brom Bones and his wooing of the richest girl in town Katrina Von Tassel. We all know how Brom Bones got Ichabod out of town on a stormy Halloween night, but you have to see the fine animation that Disney did for this film to really appreciate it.Bing gets three songs to sing in this film, Ichabod Crane, Katrina, and The Headless Horseman. The last is really memorable and a great song for kids of all ages on a Halloween night.Remember folks, you can't reason with a headless man. "},{"Title":"Entertaining animated double-header; suffers slightly from a lull during the Sleepy Hollow segment.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Two classic works of children's' literature are presented in this animated double-header from the Disney folks. First up is a splendid adaptation of The Wind In The Willows (by Kenneth Grahame); the second half features a slightly tedious but climactically quite creepy rendition of The Legend Of Sleepy Hollow (by Washington Irving). From the point-of-view of animation, the film is absolutely gorgeous, with richly designed characters and places and seamless movement. From the point-of-view of entertainment, the film is generally charming despite losing its way during the mid-section of the Sleepy Hollow segment.Toad of Toad Hall is an extravagant creature whose obsessive interest in adventurous pursuits threatens to cost him his stately home. His friends Ratty, Mole and Badger try to help him put his affairs in order, but to little avail. When Toad is falsely imprisoned for car theft, Toad Hall falls into the hands of a bunch of unscrupulous weasels and the devious Mr Winky. Reinstating Toad Hall to its rightful owner rests on the heroes snatching a deed that proves Toad's innocence....Ichabod Crane, an odd-looking school master, arrives in the peaceful community of Sleepy Hollow to begin work in the local school. He catches the eye of the village beauty Katrina, but this proves mighty irritating for the local hunk Brom Bones. After trying various schemes to get rid of Ichabod, Brom finally hits upon the idea of scaring him out of town by telling the story of the Headless Horseman that roams the nearby woods. Then one night, poor Ichabod personally comes face to face with the ghostly horseman....Each section is narrated by a big star - the Mr Toad half is brilliantly told by Basil Rathbone, while Bing Crosby uses his soothing, absorbing tone to narrate the Ichabod Crane section. Overall The Wind In The Willows part is the better of the two sections. It has many fabulously funny touches (Cyril, the Yorkshire accented horse, in particular has some great moments) and is vibrantly exciting. The climax, in which the heroes attempt to seize a deed that proves Toad as the rightful owner of Toad Hall, contains moments that are ingeniously funny in the best Disney tradition. The Sleepy Hollow section starts promisingly, but the mid-section becomes repetitive and tedious. Having said that, the finale in which Ichabod flees from the Headless Horseman is absolutely great. The crescendo of dramatic music and the foreboding colours and forest silhouettes make the sequence genuinely hair-raising. On the whole, The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr Toad is an entertaining and pleasing-to-the-eye film with a sufficient variety of pleasures to keep kids and adults alike engrossed. "}{"Title":"A very charming pair of films.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing this compilation feature many times on the Disney Channel. The Wind in the Willows segment is great fun although a great deal of the book is ignored.  The Sleepy Hollow segment, on the other hand, is awesome! The scenes when Ichabod is desperately trying to survive his journey through the Hollow is one of my favorite animated sequences of all time.By the way, I haven't yet seen Tim Burton's take on the story, but it will take a lot to outdo this version! "},{"Title":"You can't reason with a headless man.","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The best of Disney's combination/anthology films of the 1940s. It may be an odd combo of two unconnected stories but they're both so strong you don't really mind much. The first story, about a colorful character named Mr. Toad's crazy obsessions that nearly leads him to ruin, is an adaptation of part of Kenneth Grahame's novel The Wind in the Willows. It's narrated by Basil Rathbone and features fine voice work from Eric Blore and others. The second story, narrated by Bing Crosby, is probably the best screen adaptation of the Washington Irving story The Legend of Sleepy Hollow I've seen. It's light-hearted and humorous for the most part but the sequence with the Headless Horseman near the end is exciting and even frightening (particularly to little ones). Both cartoons are fun with good characters and beautiful animation and music. Bing Crosby sings some songs, as well. I always preferred the Ichabod story growing up but, as I grew older, I began to appreciate Wind in the Willows more. They're both wonderful cartoons made by Disney during the era they produced so many classics. Definitely worth a look for young and old alike. "},{"Title":"Old is Gold","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is a set two unrelated but very enjoyable shorts. The first is an abridged version of Kenneth Grahame's Wind in the Willows. It tells the story of an anthropomorphic toad who is goodhearted but loves to live beyond his means and his animal friends who try to save Toad from himself. Some changes have been made to the novel to make Toad more likable. All the characters are well-developed. The dialog in simple and elicits a few laughs and there is one particularly catchy song. It is narrated by Basil Rathbone, with a gentlemanly air, perfect for this tale set in Victorian London. However, this short is only meant for kids; the human characters treat the animals like equals and it is difficult for adults to take it seriously.The second short adopts the Legend of the Sleepy Hollow onto screen. This short in true to its source material and it has no dialog. The story is told through a narrator (Bing Crosby) and has a few musical numbers. Ichabod Crane moves to a sleepy little village of Dutch- settlers, as the new school master. He finds himself competing with the local roughneck, Brom Bones for the affections of Katerina Von Tassel. One night, to scare Ichabod, Brom tells him about the local myth of a headless horseman, who haunts the woods around the village at night. But could the legend be true?While the first short had clear cut good and bad guys, the line is blurred here. Ichabod is rather opportunistic and covets Katerina for her wealth. Brom is not very pleasant and is shown to go to great lengths to out-rival Ichabod. Katerina herself likes to toy with the affections of both the men and is referred as a coquette. The animation is good in Mr.Toad's story but it is simply wonderful in Ichabod's. The movie makes full use of the creative possibilities it offers to bring Ichabod's thoughts and imaginations to life. There is a song in which Ichabod dreams of the money he could make from Katerina's farm, after marrying her and it has a beautiful sequence that shows a wheat grain in the fields turning into a gold coin as it falls down. Similarly, the final song, where Ichabod is traveling in the woods, shows exactly how one imagines to see and hear specters in the dark when they are scared. The headless horseman, when he finally appears, is every bit as impressive as he has been built up or as our imagination can conjure. I will say it even if I sound clichéd; they don't make it like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Storytime with Disney","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" It seems like the best Disney animated classics opened with a shot of a hardcover storybook, and that's doubly true for this film, which ties together literary classics The Wind in the Willows (narrated by Basil Rathbone) and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow (narrated and sung by Bing Crosby). Each segment runs just over 30 minutes. Both stories are entertaining and fun for all ages, with excellent character animation from Disney's Old Men.Sleepy Hollow has become a Halloween favorite, but I feel that The Wind in the Willows is the stronger short. It's just great, with Eric Blore's enthusiastic Mr. Toad, a Cockney horse, motor mania, devious weasels, a prison escape, and a brilliantly madcap free-for-all at Toad Hall. Sleepy Hollow takes a while building to the famous Headless Horseman climax, and the anachronistic Ken Darby pop tunes don't feel right with the colonial setting. The library framing device ties the two animated segments together nicely, and the celebrity narrators do a commendable job. A great little movie. "},{"Title":"entertaining althrough","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is a 1949 animated feature produced by Walt Disney himself. It comprises of two segments, one of which is based on Kenneth Grahame's 1908 children's book The Wind in the Willows and the other story is based on The Legend of Sleepy Hollow which is a short story by Washington Irving contained in his collection, The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent.The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is the 11th animated feature in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. Disney had shifted from making full length animations and started making short package movies due to the involvement of America in the ongoing World War II at the time. War saw some of his (Walt Disney) animators being drafted to the it and due to the heavy cost of making full length features on a single story, package shorts were released during the period and a total of six were done, and there were Saludos Amigos, The Three Caballeros, Make Mine Music, Fun and Fancy Free, Melody Time and this movie The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is the last.Basil Rathbone (Sherlock Holmes) and Bing Crosby were cast as narrators in order to pull viewers. The movie plot is quite similar to the stories that they were adapted from, with Mr. Toad's story (which is narrated by Basil Rathbone), has the charismatic J. Thaddeus Toad, Esq. who was ready to do anything to fulfill his fun craze for adventure, giving up everything and getting into trouble for purchasing a stolen motor car.The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is also close to its story (narrated by Bing Cosby), it tells the tale of Ichabod Crane and the Headless Horseman. As Ichabod's selfish desire to claim the wealth of Katrina Van Tassel father by marrying his daughter led him to cross fire with the towns bully Brom Bones, who eventually scared Ichabod off with his stories of the headless horseman (which Ichabod later met).Ironically both stories, The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow were initially planed to be full length animations, the work on The Wind in the Willows started in 1941 but was halted during the war and done as a short but kept awaiting a suitable pairing. The production of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow was done in 1946, but when they noticed how short the movie will be, Disney then decided to pair it up with The Wind of Willows and released together under the name The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad.The movie is a critical acclaim, and it is a nice watch for both adult and kids alike. There is no moral in these stories just good old cartoon fun.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"A toad, a rat, a mole, a badger and a Crane all show how much character they really have.","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The last of the cut and shut jobs distributed by Disney in this stage of their development, The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad takes two memorable characters and gives them just about half an hour each for their tale to be told.Mr. Toad is the character we actually meet first, along with his other friends as they try to save Toad Hall, and it's a delightful interpretation of the classic characters, helped enormously by the vocal skills of Basil Rathbone narrating the proceedings (the man has the kind of voice that you would use nowadays on almost every audio book ever recorded). And then we have the tale of Ichabod Crane and his time in Sleepy Hollow, enhanced by the warm timbre of Mr Bing Crosby's golden vocal chords.While it's still not up there with the best that Disney can create, there's something quite delightful about this outing. The choice of characters and the tales told make for a fun start but everything is just elevated somewhat, as is so often the case, by the quality of the animation and the fantastic voice work.Kenneth Grahame and Washington Irving can keep the credit for the original tales but we also get the usual handful of writers on the case while three different directors oversee proceedings. Thankfully, everything comes together to create something that stands up as a near-classic. I loved it. "},{"Title":"One great short, one good short, both presented well.","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is a double feature movie, that features wraparound segments to explain the stories in a library. Story 1 The Wind in the Willows. Mr. Toad, the mayor and owner of Toad Hall, discovers something better than his horse Cyrill to ride...a motorcar. Mr. Toad gets thrown in prison for allegedly stealing a motorcar, and on Christmas day he escapes, hiding from the police at Mr. Rat and Mr. Mole's house. This segment is a true Disney masterpiece. It only has a short running time, but it feels like a feature length Disney classic. The voices for this are perfect, as well as the lush animation and character designs. The music is good, even though only one very catchy song is featured. This is my favorite of the two segments. My rating **** out of ****. 36 mins. Story 2 Sleepy Hollow.Bing Crosby narrates and voices pretty much every character in this dark tale. Ichabod Crane is a mild mannered, goofy schoolteacher who ends up learning about the tale of the headless horseman at a party, and then meeting him. There's really not much story here, and the ending is pretty depressing, but it still works because of the many songs sung by Bing Crosby, and the slapstick humor added in the horror. My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Handsome Disney featurettes could maybe use more humor","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" While standing in-line recently at Disneyland's Mr. Toad's Wild Ride, I overheard a kid say to his mother, What movie is this from?? Well, here's the answer, in part one of a Disney double-bill (shown separately on TV for years). Adaptation of The Wind in the Willows is a bit high-brow, with an appropriately dry wit, muted colors and a delightful narration by Basil Rathbone, but could maybe use some of Walt Disney's patented cute humor (older children might enjoy it); The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is brighter and faster, with Bing Crosby narrating, and features some spectacular, scary animation. A virtually slapstick-free package, but quite a lively one! **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"An iconic tale of horror from Disney","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad comes from a time in Disney's history where it was cheaper to make shorts than feature length films. So that's exactly what they did, and would combine various shorts together, disguised as feature length films for the audience. Here, the stories of The Wind in the Willows and Sleepy Hollow form to make a feature that focuses on fabulous characters from classic literature.The Mr. Toad segment of the film is manic, completely wacky and whimsical. It brings some great character animation and some true squash and stretch that bring a real energy to the story. The characters and their designs are all memorable, even if they seem simple and small compared to the usual grandeur that comes from Disney. The story balances on silly and serious, tackling issues of trust and control while still bringing laughs and moments of cuteness. But as kinetic as Mr. Toad's wild ride is, the true fun begins with the second segment, focusing on the tale of Ichabod Crane.Disney doesn't often delve into the horror genre, and when it does it usually looks like heffalumps and woozles or pink elephants on parade. Here, we are introduced to characters through silly gags and songs that feel very much Disney and very much like the previous segment. But this retelling climaxes in one of Disney's great scares as Ichabod encounters the Headless Horseman.Movies like The Nightmare Before Christmas, Frankenweenie and The Hunchback of Notre Dame may be better examples of Disney's take on horror, but this take on Sleepy Hollow is both hair-raising and iconic. As the mood becomes clearer, the story becomes quiet, aside from the narration, and there is a real sense of isolation, allowing the imagination to begin to play its games. Drastic colors and lighting are on full display here, as well as other elements that would prove frightening to some adults, let alone any child. Again, the animation becomes kinetic and manic and expressive, but this is quite beautiful in a way that Mr. Toad's story was not and leaves a lasting impression on anyone who has the pleasure to view it. This segment has even directly inspired scenes in Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow.Despite not being part of Disney's usual, popular fare, both Ichabod and Mr. Toad's stories are entertaining and bring a sense of excitement in their own right. The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is not a film to treat lightly, with its spectacular character animation, bold sequences and dynamic energy. And all this wrapped up within a narration by Bing Crosby and Basil Rathbone. "},{"Title":"Interesting Stories to Put Together","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad (1949)*** (out of 4)This here is a pretty good Disney film that takes two famous stories and adds that magical touch to them. The first story is based on The Wind and the Willows with the second being based around The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.THE ADVENTURES OF ICHABOD AND MR. TOAD isn't the greatest film to come from Disney but it certainly has enough great animation to make it worth sitting through. It's really strange that the studio would put these two stories together since they're so different and apparently in the years that followed it was the second film that got released on its own. I'd agree that the adaptation of Sleepy Hollow was the better of the two films but at the same time there's some better animation to be found in the first.Again, this is Disney so the animation skills are extremely high and I especially thought that the background work in the first film simply jumped off the screen. This is especially true in the scenes where there's a lot of action moving around in the front. Just take a look at the background and see how much sharp detail is there. The second film also looks beautiful and contains some terrific images and especially the scene where the pumpkin head is thrown towards the camera.Neither short has that much character development and I'd say that the direction of both is rather laid back at times. Still, there's no question that there's some very good vocal work and the animation is top level. "}{"Title":"An Underrated Triumph!","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is one of the anthology films that Disney was putting out around the late forties. These include films like Make Mine Music, Fun & Fancy Free, and Melody Time, among a few others. After having seen The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad, I'm excited to explore some of these Disney anthology films which I have been, surprisingly, unaware of for the longest time!The premise of this film is simple, two classic tales (The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow) are adapted in the animated Disney format, and are shown back to back. They are two really different stories, that also make two very different short films, But, they both have their similarities. They're both dark, while still being very light and funny at times, and they are both GREAT!Although people seem to always give the Sleepy Hollow segment the most credit, The Wind in the Willows adaptation is equally fantastic in my opinion. The humor, characters, and engaging story keep it very entertaining and, simply, amazing! The Legend of Sleepy Hollow may seem to have a much more memorable climax, but, to me, The Wind in the Willows also deserves a lot of credit! It is an excellent piece of animation!Now, this doesn't mean that I think that The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is worse or anything, I think it deserves equal credit and is equally classic! In The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, we get a pretty different format than we did in The Wind in the Willows. The Wind in the Willows is made in a much more conventional way than The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, and this is mainly due to one artistic decision. The Legend of Sleepy Hollow has practically no dialogue! Everything we need to know is narrated and song by Bill Cosby, or is just shown to us visually. This works very well and makes the short a bit more interesting than it already was.Of course, the climax between Ichabod Crane and the Headless Horseman is absolutely classic and has always been the part that everybody remembers. And how couldn't they? It is an amazing scene! It is chaotic, scary, and even includes a bit of visual gags along the way. Even the scene leading up to the climax, as Ichabod is going through the woods with his horse is stunning, and is even creepier than the climax, in a sense. The atmosphere there is so heavy, that I got a really eerie vibe out of it.In the end, these are two very different classic tales put together in a film that couldn't be more perfect! "},{"Title":"Two excellent shorts","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The final of Disney's package films from the 40s, before they returned to full-length feature animations with Cinderella, and pretty much also the best of them. This time we only get two shorts, both of them adaptations of great literary classics. We have The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, both in the same film.First, The Wind in the Willows, tells the story of one Mr. Toad as he's once gain touched with a hint of craziness, this time towards automobiles, as he once again begins the ruin his family's fortunes and glory in pursuit of thrills. The characters are substantially different from the book, which can be a problem if you're die-hard fan of the novel, but they work very well in the boundaries of this particular film, so I have no real complaints. Besides, the original book is a bit... wilder, despite being a children's novel. To summarize, a good segment with flawless animation, great characters, good humour and a plot just long enough for the segment.Our second segment tells the story of Ichabod Crane, a school teacher sent to educate the feeble young minds of one Sleepy Hollow. Crane takes the small village by storm, despite his wimpy frame and general cowardliness, being both educated and well-mannered, rare feats in such a rural settlement. But then the mystical rears its head and Crane is forced to face something beyond even his considerable understanding. A great segment as well, with a magnificent leading man, as well as a villain that's one of the spookiest Disney has ever made.My only real problems with this film is that I kind of wish they had made full-length movies out of the two segments. Sleepy Hollow especially would have been fantastic as a full Disney movie. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's most underrated animated films ever.","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Last night, I watched this film for the first time in a while, and I enjoyed it as much as I did when I first saw it. While this film tanked when it was released back in 1949, I do hope that more people will give this movie another look because it's got the Disney stamp on it.First, we have Wind in the Willows, a truly delightful adaption of Kenneth Grahame's story and narrated by Basil Rathbone, keeps the British tone of the book very well while still being a lot of fun to watch. The character of J. Thaddeus Toad is really enjoyable to watch because of his fixation on anything that's new and the ways he'll try to get it. Mole, McBadger, and Rat are also a lot of fun, but my favorite character is the horse, Cyril Proudbottom. The courtroom scene just cracks me up because of the line Cyril says to the judge. The voice acting is really too, with Eric Blore and Pat O'Malley doing a particularly wonderful job.Next, we have The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, a much more darker story, but still a great one to watch. The great Bing Crosby's narration and top-notch animation tell a story of great humor and gripping horror. The nitpicking schoolmaster, Ichabod Crane, is a piece of animation genius along with some nice layouts and backgrounds to match. Most of the humor in the movie comes from the rivalry between Ichabod and the local town bully, Brom Bones. However, the scene leading up to the appearance of the Headless Horseman are certainly chilling and frightening and the horseman himself is just plan awesome and you get one great chase out of it. Something I never realized about this is that Ichabod is kind of a jerk. All he really cares about is marrying Katrina for her money and fantasizes about her dad being out of the picture and one could argue that Brom Bones is the hero of this film. The songs are also really great with The Headless Horseman and The Merry Song being the best ones in the film.I really love this movie and consider it one of the most underrated Disney animated films ever, right up there with Oliver & Company. For those who haven't seen this film, go see it and if you have kids, show them this; just cover their eyes when the Headless Horseman appears.Just remember, folks, don't try to reason with a guy with no head. "},{"Title":"Two stories that fit nicely together","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think that of the six compilation films that Walt Disney made between 1942 and 1950, The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is probably my favorite, mainly because the focus is on storytelling rather than on experimenting with visual gimmicks.It's kind of an odd film. It tells two stories that have a running theme and are connected by something that I suspect is a haunted library complete with floating books (remind you of anything?) and a pair of narrators that are heard but never seen.The stories are classics, kind of morality tales populated by colorful characters. The first &#x96; in spite of movie's title &#x96; is the tale of Mr. Toad, narrated by Basil Rathbone. It comes from Kenneth Grahame's The Wind in the Willows featuring the speed-loving Mr. Toad who is addicted to new inventions and anything that can satisfy his lust for extreme sports. He's got a lust for life but seems to be blind to the fact that he's a magnet for property damage. This concerns his friends Mr. Rat, Mr. Mole and Angus MacBadger. They try and talk their friend out of his addiction, but it's just at that moment that he has a near-orgasmic moment when he spots his very first motor car.He must have it, and he goes to such lengths as selling his manor Toad Hall to a crooked barkeep named Winkie. When Toad is arrested, Winkie claims that the car was stolen and Toad is sent off to prison. So, his buddies gather together to free their friend and expose Winkie as a fraud.One thing that I notice, first of all, is that Mr. Toad is not really likable. He's an addict, and only really learns his lesson when he neck is on the line. And even THAT doesn't last.I like the clean animation here and the voices aren't you typical cartoon voices. Too often you hear voices of animated characters that are so distracting that your mind fixates on the celebrity behind the microphone rather than the character and their motivation. Here they seem to fit perfectly, especially Rathbone who is quite a good storyteller.I like the characters but the one that stands out is Toad's horse friend Cyril Proudbottom who joins him in his escapades.The second story retells Washington Irving's The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and is narrated by Bing Crosby. The difference here is that the narration tells the story rather than the characters. Here we meet Ichabod Crane, as a man of appetites. Despite his thin frame he's constantly eating and he's constantly has a lust in his heart for money. Actually, this Ichabod is kind of unlikeable. He begins a courtship with the farmer's daughter Katrina but his inner monologue tells us that he's looking forward to inheriting the farm. He constantly one-ups his rival Brom Bones, but as we see, Ichabod is a guy who doesn't know when the quit.I love the animation here. There are a lot of exaggerated motions, especially on Icabod, but of course, the best is saved for last, as Ichabod heads home and becomes the prey of The Headless Horseman. This scene is brilliant especially in the moments before the chase with those clouds closing in on the mood, the cat-tails thumping on the log &#x96; and THEN the headless horsemen, which is a terrifying sight.You wouldn't imagine that these two stories would fit together, but I think what we have are the stories of two guys who live by their appetites, with concern for little else. Both get their comeuppance but it's not really made clear that they learned anything. Personally, I like that approach.Now, when you see these stories on television their usually broken up into separate cartoons &#x96; no, I shouldn't soft-soap it, they're ALWAYS broken up into two stories. I don't think it works as well. Their effective separately but together there's a nice narrative arch between them. It's one of Disney's nice buried treasures. "},{"Title":"Pleasing double bill with a good deal of wit and charm","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is a rather obscure effort from the Disney catalogue, and that's a big shame, because I really do love it.When I was around 5 or 6 I owned a VHS copy of Disney's 1990 The Prince and the Pauper film. I remember watching it quite a bit, but I always stayed behind for the extra short film put on the cassette; it was The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, narrated by Bing Crosby, and I'm pretty sure I thought this bonus short was better than the main feature. It was funny, spooky, and just plain entertaining. And it was later that I found out it was in its own movie.So what we have here is basically a cartoon double feature, with both cartoons being adaptations of classic stories. First we have The Wind in the Willows, narrated by Basil Rathbone. It's the classic story of Mr. Toad, a character who develops a mania for anything new and hot, and would give anything for the latest car model - even, perhaps, his mansion. It's a very well paced adventure with a brilliant voice choice for Toad (Eric Blore, most famous for playing the butler in the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musical series), and some amusing supporting characters (I loved Cyril the Horse). On the whole it's a nicely done adaptation with a good climax and some pleasing animation.Then we have The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, the famous horror tale here narrated by Bing Crosby. While the previous cartoon was going more for charm, this one is edging more towards comedy, despite its story. It tells the tale of the mysterious disappearance of Ichabod Crane, a schoolmaster who attempts to marry a beautiful and rich woman in order to get her money. He's up against the school bully Brom Bones who also wants to marry her. But everything goes dark when Ichabod takes his horse down through the woods of Sleepy Hollow at night-time...The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a macabre tale which manages to be both highly amusing and distinguishably Gothic, with Bing Crosby giving us his effortless charm, holding the story together brilliantly. Perhaps the most memorable moment is the climax, with the nightmarish Headless Horseman chasing the helpless Ichabod through the woods. The build-up of the Horseman is intensely creepy, and the reveal is no disappointment. Sleepy Hollow will give kids a good fright, but it's just about silly and light enough to prevent them from sleeping with the lights on.Really, kids will enjoy both stories. I myself prefer Sleepy Hollow, but only because I didn't watch The Wind in the Willows as a kid. They're both fun and kid-friendly, but there's nothing there to prevent grown- ups from liking them too. Overall it's a fun double bill with some excellent animation and superb voices, with both stories entertainingly told and working well back-to-back. "},{"Title":"Certainly one of the better package features","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" For all those not in the know, Walt Disney relied heavily on European revenue to make his films, and with that market pretty much cut off by the Second World War, wonderful yet lavish films such as Fantasia and Pinocchio did not bring much income and left the studio close to bankruptcy. Needing to bring out feature films yet at that moment unable to make a lavish fully-animated fantasy, Disney turned to the idea of jumbling shorts and featurettes to make feature films. The material in the films consisted of both new projects and things that had been on the drawing board for years. Due to their fragmented nature, the films were subsequently cut up into separate shorts, and they have only been re-released in their original form during the past ten or fifteen years, arguably due to Disney scraping the barrel for films to release as timeless masterpieces.The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr Toad, released in 1949, was the very last of these package features, and it does signal the return to a more classic style that would be found in the studio's next two animated films, Cinderella and Alice in Wonderland. Yet it should be noted that Ichabod and Mr Toad is still a bit uneven. Its segments, respectively based upon The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, are very different in tone, and have not much in common aside from them being literary adaptations (the live-action library bookends seem to give the impression of a post-war Anglo-American friendship, highlighting samples of their own literature and storytelling). It is equally true that the low budget brings about some slightly dull animation compared to the early 40s or the 50s. Regardless, the film is certainly one of the better package features, with perhaps The Three Caballeros only just beating it.Opening in the aforementioned live-action study, we hear Basil Rathbone bizarrely favouring Mr Toad of The Wind in the Willows above the likes of Robin Hood and Sherlock Holmes as the greatest character in English literature, thereby leading into an adaptation of Kenneth Grahame's classic children's novel. This segment is quite good, and had supposedly been in animation since the beginning of the decade. However, it generally seems a bit under-polished and rushed. It is said that this was originally planned as a feature-length film, and it would have certainly benefited from not having its story condensed so much. The backgrounds also seem a bit lacklustre. Had they been given a Pinocchio or Bambi level of detail (impossible as it would have been considering the studio's financial state at the time) or a more stylised look, they would seem more believable and less pasty.The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, narrated and sung by Bing Cosby, works better. Its origins as a short story no doubt seem better for adaptation into something that lasts around half an hour, and the piece as a whole works well within the financial constraints. Mary Blair, who had been the stylist on the South American films and would later help with the visual style of Cinderella, Alice in Wonderland and Peter Pan, creates a relatively simple and folksy style that suits the story and the colonial setting very well (moreover, the stylisation works well within a tight budget). Furthermore, the fact that the story is told with essentially just Bing Cosby's narration and music allows for wonderfully expressive animation. The climax to the film also stands as a pure triumph of colour and of animation.Overall, The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr Toad is worth watching, either as one film or as two shorter subjects. It's certainly not up there with the likes of Pinocchio and Dumbo, but that is not the film's objective anyway; it is a fun, unpretentious way to pass an hour or so. "},{"Title":"two Disney films for the price of one","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Really, what we have here are two charming shorts - one, narrated by Basil Rathbone, is the tale of Mr Toad from 'The Wind in the Willows' by Kenneth Grahame. In true Disney style, it adds extra characters - Cyril the horse (with a George Formby singing voice) being the main one - but otherwise it speeds through Toad's obsession with cars and his friendships with Mole, Rat, and Badger (here renamed MacBadger, probably because he is grouchy and careful with money, a stereotypical Scot!). Toad is voiced by the marvellously fruity Eric Blore (still perhaps best remembered as Bates the valet from 'Top Hat').The other is the story of Ichabod Crane from Washington Irving's 'Sleepy Hollow', narrated and largely sung by Bing Crosby. Sneakily the animators have even made Crane resemble Crosby, with the blue eyes and large ears. This short became a Halloween staple in later years and does remain well-written and fairly scary. Funny as well, this cartoon has a lot to recommend it. "},{"Title":"It's Not An Animated Film, It's A Cartoon","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" It clearly says at the beginning of the film, that The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad is a Disney picture. However, I am convinced that Disney is a major typographical error, and this is really a 68 minute long Looney Tunes episode. There is a fine line between Animated Feature and Cartoon, and The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad crosses over to the Cartoon side.The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad is a two part film. The first part is a story involving Mr. Toad, a crazed amphibian with no respect for the property of others. He is charged of stealing an automobile, though Mr. Toad claims he did not steal it. His friends and he must prove his innocence.The second part is about a man named Ichabod Crane. He's skinny and odd, but despite this, he's a real lady magnet. But when attractive Ms. Katrina comes to town, it's a fight for the lady between Ichabod and town bully, Brom Bones.I don't know why these two stories were combined into one movie. They're completely different from the other. The only thing they have in common, is that they're both exhausting. Mr. Toad's story has some fun to it. Some of Toad's antics are amusing, and there are a couple of good lines. But overall, it's dull, and the slap-stick goes way overboard.I decided to remain optimistic though. I had hopes that the second half with Ichabod would be better. Well, I admit I was wrong. The second half is even worse. There is almost nothing noteworthy in the second half. The songs are dull and rather flat. It boasts an unoriginal story line. Also, somehow, the headless horseman gets worked into the end and it doesn't make even the slightest bit of sense.The one good bit in the Ichabod half of the film, is a dance sequence where Ichabod and Brom are both trying to dance with Katrina. Yes, this kind of thing isn't all that original, but it's easily the best scene in the film (which, admittedly isn't saying much).Ichabod's bit also ends with a chase scene between Ichabod and the Headless Horseman (who's involvement doesn't make even the slightest sense). This is incredibly dull and I can't imagine a worse way to end the film.The animation is mostly bland. But it's kind of silly that the character's lips rarely match what they're actually saying (though this isn't a problem during the second half, where it's mostly narrated).The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad is not a film. It's merely a cartoon disguised as a film (and the veil is relatively thin, at that). Disney rarely makes a bad animated film, but The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad is a major exception. I suppose the reason that Ichabod And Mr. Toad is such a bad film, isn't so much that it's flawed (though it is), it has more to do with it being rather dull and forgettable. It does little to separate itself from the average Saturday morning cartoon. You would be better off watching the Looney Tunes shorts that The Adventures Of Ichabod And Mr. Toad is so obviously trying to imitate. "},{"Title":"extremely boring Disney shorts","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first segment is about the toad from The Wind In The Willows and how he is always getting into trouble because of his fascination with things and his love for adventure. He becomes obsessed with a car and ends up trading his house to the car, only to then get busted for stealing it. The second story is from Washington Irvings The Legend Of Sleepy Hollow and one of its characters, one Ichabod Crane. Ichabod is a school teacher who comes to town and gets obsessed with the prettiest girl in town, and all of the people love her. Soon he comes face to face with the headless horseman and his adventures in this town are soon over.So during the war Disney was lacking funds and did a lot of these mix ups with short stories adding them together to make a full length film out of it. These two stories have been done to death and Disney brought nothing new to the table. It was rather boring and hard to set through for me. In fact I hated it.The animation was okay and the narrators Basil Rathbone and Bing Crosby did okay. There was way too much music that is very dated and I think only a select type of kid could enjoy this film.I liked the headless horseman bit near the end of the film, and it was the only thing worth watching it for, and even that didn't carry the film...someone may enjoy, but not I...1/10 stars "},{"Title":"Closing our 1940s tour here.....","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...with the great, great Disney classic The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad, released in 1949 by Walt Disney. This movie has many things it's fun, it's happy, and it's a little bit spooky (but in a family-friendly way)! Also, this movie has inspired the late, great Disney World favorite Mr. Toad's Wild Ride (now it's a Winnie the Pooh ride, I believe). This movie is also known to have a few shorts, one of the very last to be made by the Disney company.The 1940s sure have been a great age for Disney films. From that point on, all the other animated films will be a single subject only; no compilations. We have seen such great films like Melody Time and Saludos Amigos here in this decade. And this movie is also great too, like what many old school Disney fans say.The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad - have the ride of your life!10/10 "}{"Title":"Great Animation","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me put this way, if you have read the actual Story by Washington Irving then this is the actual animated version of that novel. However if your a hardcore critic, you will realize that Disney added a lot more humor then recommended dosage from the novel. Obviously this is because it's a cartoon. It also great singing Melody that was done by Bing Crosby, really puts up a good tune. Amazingly, Disney did captured Irving way of mood switching between humor and fear. Lets face it, this is the Disney's touch. Very interesting to see if your very picky about comparing the difference between the novel and the cartoon. Don't take my word for it, Watch it and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Who cares about Mr. Toad?","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As a feature film Ichabod and Mr. Toad has been unfairly ignored. The two stories complement each other nicely. The Wind in the Willows is first and is entertaining but sort of descends into silliness. The characters stand out well. But then The Legend of Sleepy Hollow starts and the movie becomes genius. The segment sticks with the laid back, day-to-day living attitude of the Washington Irving story (with the addition of Disney-type humor) and makes Ichabod Crane a sympathetic and endearing character. When Ichabod makes his way back home through the woods at night after hearing the legends of ghosts in Sleepy Hollow, his imagination takes over. Even before the headless horseman appears he has already scared himself half to death. It's delightfully funny and scary at the same time. The audience is with him all the way. When I was a little kid I was always much more distressed over Ichabod's fate than just about any other movie hero. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Half good, half bad","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" They got the title wrong. It should be The Adventures of Mr. Toad and Ichabod as the Wind and the Willows story comes first. And what a great story it is.Set mostly at Christmas, the Mr. Toad story has a wonderful festive feel and really does stand on its own. It's such a shame that the dull, boring Legend of Sleepy Hollow story bogs it down.I wasn't particularly entertained by the Tim Burton film but at least stuff happened in it. More than 25 minutes of this version is dedicated to Ichabod romancing some woman and only 60 seconds from the end to we get to see a headless horseman. Since I bought the DVD after the halloween-ish cover caught my interest I was kinda annoyed that it failed on this promise but delivered a nice Xmas story, if entirely unexpected.This was my first encounter with a Disney Package film and I have to admit that Mr. Toad should have been released independently as a short and Ichabod forgotten about completely. "},{"Title":"Pleasant animated movie, no more or less","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I feel I should confess that I have never read the original book The Wind in the Willows, nor have I read the Sleepy Hollow story. So I can't say how accurate to their source material these two animated adaptations are. But at least I can judge the movie on its own merits.First, I'll get to the negative side of the movie. Each story runs a little more than half an hour, and that seems to be the wrong choice for both stories. With Willows, it's not enough time. The story seems very rushed, and there's little chance for character development. With Hollow, the running time seems to be a little much. There are several instances when the thin story comes to a screeching halt for an extended period.However, despite the flawed storytelling, the movie is fairly enjoyable. Willows has a lot of comedy and action that will please both kids and adults. Hollow takes a little time to get going, but it does finally deliver some effective spooky moments, especially if you watch it on Halloween as I did. Both stories are well animated, and each have some interesting touches by the three credited directors. While the movie is no classic, it does provide enough entertainment and interest for those in an easygoing mood, especially if you also have an interest in animation. "},{"Title":"Politics (and Practicality) Makes For Strange Bed Fellows","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" ONE MAY SEARCH for hours, days or even longer and they will no find such a story anywhere in the annals of the English language. And this would be for good reason; for you see, the title is an invention of convenience and necessity for this Walt Disney Production, NOW, AS WE know, just about all of the great Disney animated features are adaptations from some literary, folk tale or actual historical occurrence. So why this bizarre and otherwise meaningless handle?SIMPLY STATED, THIS title is an incorporation of two names, or at least a portion thereof, of two separate, disparate literary works adapted within the framework of this single movie. The first segment is of Englishman, Kenneth Grahame's THE WIND IN THE WILLOWS; with the second half's being devoted to Yankee author, Washington Irving's, THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW.THE FIRST SEGMENT gives us a look inside the world of eccentric/mad Mr. Toad and his anthropomorphic friends, Mac Badger, Rat and Mole; as they do their best in standing by their obviously slightly insane, upper class friend. Toad's insatiable desire for high times and adventure lead him to carving out a destructive path across the English countryside aided by a cart-pulling horse named Cyril. Eventually Toad is framed for Grand Theft Auto and looses the Deed and clear Title to ancestral home, Toad Hall to a gang of (both literally and figuratively) Weasels.THE SECOND HALF of the picture moves to early 19th Century New York State for our encounter with the gangly schoolmaster with the voracious appetite, one Ichabod Crane. The story relates about how this scarecrow-like appearance caused a great disturbance to the locals in the village of Sleepy Hollow. The kindly man of letters eventually finds himself at odds with roughneck leader, the broad-shouldered Brom Bones, over the affections of the lovely Trina van Tassel.OF COURSE, AS we all know, the highlight of the story is Ichabod's encounter with the legendary Headless Horseman, the local ghost of some hapless British soldier killed in the American Revolutionary War. We can personally testify of just how well done and truly frightening is the sequence where the two meet In the woods at night. (It really and truly scary it was to this writer, then about 7 years old in circa 1954,not original release) ALTHOUGH THIS TWO completely different stories in one film may seem like a new way for presenting us with a Disney Animated feature, the company had done some multi-segmented films previously. One only need to look at MELODY TIME, MAKE MINE MUSIC and even the much praised, even cult status concert feature, FANTASIA, in order to see that the principle had been applied previously.* THE PRODUCTION(S) SPORTED a great cast of actors such as Eric Blore, Claude Allister, J. Par O'Malley and even Pinto Colvig (long time voice of Goofy and Pluto).DOING THE NARRATION for the stories are Basil Rathbone (WIND IN THE WILLOWS) and Bing Crosby, who also sang (for THE LRHEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW).FUNCTIONING AS SORT of an in betweener bridge and opening to the film is a beautifully done sequence in a library. In this way we are introduced to the stories via copies of the books being conveniently on display on the book shelves.NOTE * THE STORIES TOLD by being combined in this manner were most likely combined as more of a pragmatic and cost saving measure. Our guess is that the two stories were sort of middle ground films. That is, they were too short to make as a feature, but too long to be produced as short subject cartoons. "},{"Title":"One of the more interesting Disney package films.","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is Walt Disney's 11th full-length animated feature film, and one of six package films that combines two short stories, The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hallow, into one movie.The animation is top-notch for its time and compliments the two tales of American folklore well. The voice actors also did a good job bringing the animated characters to life, especially the British-accented cast of The Wind in the Willows. That story, however, was somewhat ponderous and didn't have much suspense. Nothing really sticks out as unique in the story and it reminds me of just another cliché cartoon short. The ending, though, is a little funny to watch. The Legend of Sleepy Hallow, on the other hand, is a clever work of uniqueness and charm, where the confident and scuzzy professor Ichabod outwits handsome, scrapping town bully Bram Bones a number of times as the both chase after town beauty Katrina. However, his self-serving attitude might have gotten the best of him as he tangles with the legendary Headless Horseman while on his home through the foreboding woods after a party. This sequence only is fearsome enough to scare the kids, especially on Halloween! ***spoiler ahead*** The downside, though, is that The Legend of Sleepy Hallow left us with a hanging ending. The fate of Ichabod was left ambiguous and the marriage of Katrina and Bram Bones at the end shows Katrina's lack of concern for Ichabod, whom she has courted throughout the story. This revealed her true shallow personality. While I know the ending is more in line with the Irving's story, ending was still a little unsettling and anti-climatic. ***spoiler ends*** It's not too bad of movie to pass the time, but I prefer The Legend of Sleepy Hallow more than The Wind in the Willows for entertainment and suspense.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"My 2 reviews for the short films that make up this movie","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is the 65-year-old Disney approach to the famous tale, which was obviously done long before Tim Burton got his hands on the material. And it is a success, I believe, because several components were competently done and this resulted in a pretty good overall outcome. First of all, the animation is nice and it is a half-hour cartoon which is truly atmospheric. Secondly, Bing Crosby's narration worked from start to finish adding the right mixture of drama and comedy to the scenes we see. And most of all The school teacher. Now, he is a pretty memorable character and it almost makes me sad to see that the other guy got the girl in the end because I felt that the one who wins was so colorless and forgettable really. Some time later this half hour was picked, mixed together with another relative long short film and so they had a feature film out of this. It even won a Golden Globe and that makes up for the short film from 1949 running empty on the awards front. Anyway, that's how it goes I guess. I had a good time watching this and I recommend it. Of course this should not come as a surprise as this half hour was directed by the makers of Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty, Alice in Wonderland, Dumbo, Pinocchio etc. So from that perspective, it's more of a surprise that this did not turn out even better. But let's not be greedy here. Give it a watch.The Wind in the Willows is a Disney animated short film, which runs for slightly over half an hour and was made over 65 years ago. I have to say from that duology I found the Ichabod part more interesting. This one here is basically about the adventures of a toad and it's again made in a way that it's not only for children, but also includes some more serious references here and there although not as many as Ichabod and also no horror references. I personally felt that this film here dragged on several occasions and did not really have too many memorable characters. For Ichabod they got Bing Crosby as the narrator and for this one here they got Basil Rathbone, a two-time Academy Award nominated actor who is today mostly known for his participation in the Robin Hood film and for his Sherlock Holmes performances of course. The rest of the cast here I am not familiar with. All in all, I must say the animation was okay, but the story just did not feel memorable at all to me this time. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Don't lose your head!","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Washington Irving's Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a notable piece of literature outside of this movie, but most people today probably recognize Kenneth Grahame's Wind in the Willows from this adaptation (has anyone even heard of Kenneth Grahame apart from that story?). The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad is the sort of movie that I usually watch so that I can heckle it like Mike and the 'bots do to crummy flicks on Mystery Science Theater 3000. I ended up not heckling this one as much, but I analyzed it as much as possible. Mr. Toad comes across as the typical rich boy who has no impulse control. As for Ichabod, he just proves that slimeballs lurk everywhere. It should go without saying that the Headless Horseman is one freaky character.And then there's the narrators. Basil Rathbone I like, Bing Crosby I consider a perfidious individual due to his nearly cruel strictness with his family. In the end, it's an enjoyable movie. Of course, as someone who wrote a paper analyzing common themes in Stanley Kubrick's movies, I would hardly recommend The Adventures... above all others.Cyril's a neat name for a horse. Anyone whose native language uses the Cyrillic alphabet would have to appreciate it, since it was St. Cyril who invented that alphabet. "},{"Title":"A Very Cute Classic Disney Film","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is two classic stories in one film. Mr. Toad's story is from the classic book The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Grahame. Ichabod's story is from the classic short tale The Legend of Sleepy Hollow by Washington Irving. Both cartoon shorts are good and quite funny. But out of the two of them it is Ichabod's tale that is my favorite (I love ghost stories).I saw this film when I was a kid in the 1970's. They actually brought this film back into the movie houses (big screen) instead of television - so my parents brought me to see the film. I feel in love with it and remembered it all these years later. I recently re-watched this movie -- and yes it is still a fun watch even at my age.This movie is good for the entire family and the kids are sure to love it. It's a good film anytime but really would make a great Halloween/Holiday film.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing sleepy about 'Sleepy Hollow'","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" * - This review is for 'The Legend of Sleepy Hollow' only Though obviously not on the same scale as its better known features, this is made in the classic Disney style of that era golden era. Narrated by Bing Crosby, 'The Legend of Sleepy Hollow' does an excellent job of lulling you into a sense of safety with the humorous Ichabod/Brom/Katrina love triangle, but when Ichabod makes his famous ride home, it genuinely gets tense and more than a little scary. There are also a couple of great musical numbers in here as well.After sixty five years, this still remains the best adaptation of the tale. "}{"Title":"Two Classic Tales","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Two classic tales brought to animated life in this colorful Disney film 'The Wind In The Willows' - Basil Rathbone narrates the Kenneth Grahame story of Mr. J. Thaddeus Toad of Toad Hall, who is obsessed with finding that new invention called the motor car, and his friends Mole, Rat, & Badger try to keep him out of trouble.'The Legend Of Sleepy Hollow' - Bing Crosby narrates this classic Washington Irving tale of how schoolteacher Ichabod Crane, trying to court Katrina Van Tassel, runs afoul of bully Brom Bones and the Headless Horseman in the New England town of Sleepy Hollow. "},{"Title":"Not bad for two stories","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'll admit that the first story was slightly more dry, and even a bit more complicated to me, as I wasn't sure who was the bad guy at times. Of course you may say it's easy to know, and it was. But at times the 'good guy' would change and I'd not know which side to go on. The ending was interesting though, and a bit suspenseful even!The second one was awesome though, because I read a book based on this, and then I now get to see the 'movie version'. It was interpreted a lot differently than how I envisioned, plus I never finished the book, so seeing how the story progressed was not only interesting but was great! I loved the ending! Rated 7/10 "},{"Title":"An underrated Disney classic","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" After when World War II was over, Walt Disney and his studios had to work on Package films because they lost a lot of money during the war. One of their package film's was, The Adventure's of Ichabod and Mr. Toad.The movie is divided into two shorts An adaptation of, The Wind in the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.This was a fun and great package film because it had some nice funny moments and funny characters in The Wind in the Willows segment and the animation was nicely done in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow segment. It also had some good narration from Basil Rathbone and Bing Crosby.The Adventure's of Ichabod and Mr. Toad, is one of Disney's underrated classic's and it's also worth watching. "},{"Title":"Both Featurettes are Worthwhile, Ichabod slightly more so","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" An excellent pair of featurettes, though I saw each one separately. The adaptation of Wind and the Willows is quite charming, though it loses the depth of its source to an annoying degree. The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is outstanding. What's really surprising about it is how much of an influence the animation of its protagonist alone seems to have had on Sylvain Chomet and Richard Williams (just look at frightened faces on him and his horse in the climactic scenes and tell me that isn't reminiscent of Who Framed Roger Rabbit AND The Thief and the Cobbler). The whole production is also a clear influence on The Beauty and the Beast. Even more so, what's impressive is that it manages to be legitimately frightening in all the ways kids love despite its broad slapstick. An old Halloween favorite (I wonder if my old house still has that box of seasonal VHS tapes...). "},{"Title":"An underrated charmer","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This 1949 Disney film was the last of the so-called package features and while none of these films could be considered masterpieces, they do have charm and entertainment value and this one is no exception.The movie is divided into two-parts, telling the story of two fabulous characters from both sides of the Atlantic. The first is a faithful retelling of the classic The Wind in the Willows. This segment is technically well made and has some laughs but it's more cerebral than the slapstick second half of the film. The narration is provided by Basil Rathbone, who does a superb job. All in the all, this one was pretty good.The second half is The Legend of Sleepy Hollow narrated by Bing Crosby (an odd choice, in my view) and with the exception of Crosby, back-up vocalists and a quick cameo by composer Ollie Wallace, there is no dialog in this segment. This results in a stilted sense of pacing and story and unlike Willows this one lacks solidity.The story is redeemed with a fantastic sequence where Old Icabod is chased through the Hollow on a creepy, moonlit night by the cackling horseman. Genuinely tense and well-animated, it redeems the segment as a whole.Although not perfect and certainly no classic, Icabod and Toad should please children and keep adults amused. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's best movies still today","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This has to be one of the greatest Disney features ever made, and that speaks a lot for it being two 30 minute films shown as a double feature, being Disney's last but best package film. The stories are very different but have some subtle similarities such as both characters were prone to disaster and both were from works of literature, but the two main characters of the stories have to connection with one and another. The first of these stories is my personal favorite Disney flick of all time and that's Mr. Toad, the most wild and wonderful character in the Disney library. Based of The Wind in the Willows, the movie is about four friends who are very different and go on wild adventures due to the wacky and wonderful toad. The movie focuses on the second half of the book about Mr. toad and did take some poetic license but I think it made the story better. Although the novel is pretty uneven also, coming from someone who has read it, because half the story is much more calm(not boring just more quite.) and focuses more about Mole being new to the riverbank and being introduced to everyone for the first time. Then the second half of the book focuses more on Mr. Toad's escapades, which was much more fast paced and more entertaining than the first half so I can see why they chose the second half if they only had thirty minutes to do it but it would be cool to see it as a feature length film, or would have been. The characters and acting of the voice talents is what made this movie such a great film and the story was also very entertaining and never felt slow or boring. However, if you have a stick up your.......butt, and are so worried about Disney characters having to act like clueless little kids and I guess you have such stupid kids they can't tell right from wrong and your to much of a lazy parent to tell them not to get all cocky and arrogant (The reason for M.r toad's trouble really, him being arrogant and thinking the world revolved around him.) then don't watch it and complain about it constantly. I always loved this film due and Mr. toad does learn his lesson, although it does end with him flying off on a plane rather recklessly but it would of been a bummer if started acting all cute at the end, and I agree with someone who said he's one of the few Disney characters with any balls or has any real adventures. The Ichabod story is a little bit of a downer, I usually turn off my TV once the M.r Toad is over, it fails to really entertain me. I have read the story The Legend of Sleppy Hollow, and I liked it fine and many people think Disney dumbed it down to make it into musical but Tim Burtons version (which I think this version is better.) took much more of a poetic license then this one. Disney didn't really take any poetic licenses, because mostly the Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a love story and the headless horseman comes in at the end and kills Ichabod, This the only Disney movie where the hero, main character dies in the end which is pretty cool how they didn't dumb down the ending. But when Disney was around they didn't do much of that, it was after his death they got into that It has to be family fondly to a point of stupidity. thing. Ichabod is a musical to a point where it gets annoying at times, but the ending is great and not really scary but eerie which was cool. Even though the Ichabod sequence is mostly known for the headless horseman scene, the character, surprisingly like in the originial story, doesn't come in until the last few minutes or pages of the story. Which I found this pretty odd and kind of out of place because it seems as if the writer of Sleepy Hollow just wanted to think of a creative way to kill off Ichabod Crane so he made up the weird character of the headless horseman, it turned out to be pretty cool but if you were stop and think about it you'd have to admit it's kind of outthere for such a light hearted story for the most part. But all in all Ichabod was pretty good, not near as good as toad, but still good. Although, some liberal parents like to complain it's to scary for young children, try being parent and turn off your TV if it scares them, best advice I can give you. The sad part about this film is that most people have never even heard of it, which is a shame because it really is one of their better movies. Although the Disney Company has sucked ever since the 80's because now they value money over quality which they should at least try to do both but I guess you can't? At least most people use to know Mr. Toad as the wild motorist at the best theme park attraction ever (based of one damn good movie.) but the Esiner jerks took down for the fat.......butt bear. Although, the Ichabod story I think surpassed the toad in popularity because I think it's stood the test of time better because people thought the toad characters, as I said earlier, were made up especially for the ride. I think this one of the few Disney movies everyone can enjoy not just little kids. Mty rating six out of ten and three out of five (Not an eight or a four mostly do to Ichabod.) "},{"Title":"An odd combination, but still well worth watching","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The combination of The Wind and the Willows and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is odd and you can see that both films were originally intended as separate projects. But, since both films were too short to release as features and too long to be short subjects, Disney decided to lump them together into one package.The first story (from The Wind and the Willows) is a small portion of the book and differs in quality from the second story. The animation is a bit better (particularly with the background artwork) and the story more enjoyable--mostly because the characters were so gosh-darn cute. While not especially deep or wonderful, on its own I would rate it an 8.As for The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, it's very good but I was amazed how variable the quality was of the backgrounds. The town looked cheap and flat, but the final portion when Ichabod is attacked by the Headless Horseman, it's quite vivid and artistic. As for the story, it's decent but decidedly less interesting than the first segment. The characters seemed flat and uninteresting. While this is true in the original Washington Irving story, Disney did little to make it more compelling. I would rate this one a 6.Overall, an enjoyable but not especially noteworthy film. Good but not essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Excellent interpretation of the Headless Horseman.","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Usually when a movie is not faithful to the book it's based on it turns out worst.This is not the case with this one.I have a copy of the original story and though it is fairly good,it's no masterpiece.This movie takes the three main characters, focuses on their love triangle, showing us each one has it's  own charms.It then takes us to a Halloween night where the stories told and the animation that matches them are better than most horror films.If you thought this were the highlights you are wrong.The scenes with the Headless Horseman,(his colours black and red)are genuinely scary and impressive.This has been one of my favorite movies(of any length)since I was 7.Along with Tim Burton's movie they are the only movies I know which exceed the book they are based on.A must see for anybody.Ignore Mr.Frog's story its a much less interesting one. "},{"Title":"Bad Disney Adaptation of two classic Novels!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well if the Disney studio couldn't have gotten any worse back then well check out this piece of work! Clearing running out of ideas, Walt Disney clangs two classic novels together and turn them into a brand, new piece of storytelling the Disney way (similar to Fun and Fancy Free's Mickey and the Beanstalk) but this whole movie lacks the heart, movement and the ordeal than all the other Disney adaptations. Like in Sleepy Hollow why do they turn Ichabod Crane into a long-nosed, clueless moron who is frightened of his own shadow? And in The Wind in the Willows how is it that Toad's horse-pulled caravan can easily jump over rivers? ANSWER THAT ONE! The animation is below Disney standard of the time and the voice-overs are so lame that they make you want to vomit but with the expection of Eric Blore who makes a brilliant Toad. Bing Crosby and Basil Rathbone are brilliant narrators. Overall, this Disney movie stinks and I'm not putting it in my favourite movies league in a hurry!1/10 "},{"Title":"Best of the Disney anthology movies!","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here we have two delightful animated stories brought to life on the screen starting with The Wind and The Willows which deals with a rich wild anthropomorphic toad named Mr. Toad who has no time for business as lately he's been getting in wild fads and costing damage to some people in the land-side of England. His two friends Mole and Rat including loyal associate McBadger are trying to help him but when Toad makes a deal with a bar-keeper named Winky and his Weasel goons to have his motor-car and makes a deal to trade Toad-Hall for it. Winky later sets him up leaving Toad to be arrested and in the biggest trial of the UK's history of him charged for car theft wrongfully ending him up in Prison. His good horse pal Cyril however busts him out and he must try to clear his name for good or else he will wound up back in the gutter. Next The legend of Sleepy Hollow is the story of a simple yet very skinny teacher named Ichabod Crane who moves into the town of Sleepy Hollow where he teaches a local school and falls in love with sexy Katrina Cassell who is a very rich girl and a rival musclebound jerk wants to have her badly. But one Halloween night on his way home he encounters the legendary spirit of the Headless Horseman and he must try to survive a night of terror.Excellent underrated Disney animated feature was the best of the anthology movies of that time before Cinderella hit big the following next year for the Disney company. The animation in both stories are old school style yet brilliantly made with guest narrators like Bing Crosby and Basil Rathbourne, Katrina in this movie is quite a dish for a toon i should say.One of my favorite animated movies! "}{"Title":"Ichabod's story is more worth watching","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This animated double feature take on the tales, The Wind In The Willows and The Legend Of Sleepy Hollow suffers from being only mildly interesting. The legendary actor/singer Bing Crosby does a top notch job providing all of the voices for the story of Ichabod Crane and the Headless Horseman (The Legend Of Sleepy Hollow) but that's about the only thing worth recommending here. The story of Mr. Toad (The Wind In The Willows) is a complete bore. "}]