[{"Title":"A nice little noir-type movie","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"44 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I imagine there will be many who dispute the characterization of Impact as film noir, and I can't blame them. It's not photographed in typical noir fashion, to be sure, but its themes are definitely in the noir neighborhood. There is a stark contrast between the murderous doings in San Francisco (and on the road), and the pastoral joys of Larkspur, Idaho--a contrast that is emphasized by the score, which favors harp and flute for Larkspur and dramatic strings, or even complete silence, for the rest of the film.Brian Donlevy turns in a solid performance as the loving husband and successful industrialist who discovers his beloved wife is scheming with a lover to kill him; the scene where he breaks down after realizing this is more than solid, and reveals a depth of emotional understanding that Donlevy rarely showed, or at least got the chance to show. Helen Walker is just tremendous as the scheming wife, whose lightning-fast wit helps her transfer the murder rap from herself to her husband, despite her surprise at his being alive at all.Charles Coburn slips in and out of an Irish brogue as the detective who suspects Walker and supports Donlevy, even at the expense of undercutting the D.A.'s case. Anna May Wong has a small role that emphasizes how the years have worn on her since her beautiful turn in Shanghai Express. Philip Ahn has an even smaller role as Wong's uncle, who responds to Coburn's condescending query, You savvy English? with an urbane Yes. Also French, Italian, and Hebrew (reminiscent of his character years earlier in Something to Sing About).The plot gets a little convoluted, and the triumphant ending may seem like a bit of an anticlimax, but Impact should still be better known than it is. "},{"Title":"Many memorable moments","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Whoever likes movies of the late Forties should not miss this one. It tells a typical film noir story that is coherent and easy to understand. Impact is a quite artful picture, obviously made by first rate professionals. The balance between location shooting (mainly in and around San Francisco) and the extraordinarily stylish sets is in my opinion perfect and well thought out. At the center of the story is the attempted killing of the main character by his wife's lover. The car with the two men drives at night along a sinuous mountain road. It slows down and stops because of a flat tyre. As the viewers already know, this is the spot where the murder should take place. With unbelievable ease the natural surroundings (reminding you of the dramatic climax in Hitchcock's Family Plot) change into an almost expressionistic stage set with artificial fog at the bottom and everything. It is an unforgettable moment. What the film people could achieve in those days!Brian Donlevy has some very good moments. As after a phone call he fully realises that his wife who he naively loved (calling himself Softy in his messages to her) had cheated and betrayed him, he stumbles to a bench on a station platform, stares into the void with dim eyes and then starts crying with rage and frustration. The scene takes almost a minute and proves that Donlevy is a much underrated actor who should be honored more.Apart from the realistic presentation of parts of San Francisco in the late Forties (it complements Welles&#145; impressions in Lady from Shanghai), Impact has some nice pieces of slang (at least to a foreigner whose mother tongue is not English). Grovel a shuteye for taking a nap, that's nice, isn't it?  "},{"Title":"My Personal Choice as Best Film Noir Ever.","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Although there are some flaws in this film, I rate it a 10 for the best ever Film Noir if for no other reason than I've watched it over and over for 55 years. The 2005 smash hit TV show LOST is themed in the concept of renewal, as is IMPACT. Thinking he has a perfect life, Brian Donlevy will soon find out he's standing on a mountain of betrayal. He'll go from being a top level businessman (with an apartment on Nob Hill, at the building across from the Fairmont Hotel, the one with the walled in parking lot out front, where everybody in San Francisco film noirs lived in the 1950's... Never mind!) Anyway, as he recovers from the daze of attempted murder he'll accidentally stumble upon a new and quite different life, one that most any of us could enjoy. Then come the hard choices..... I first saw this movie on a single day booking at the Silver Theatre at age 11. What stuck in my mind after seeing it is that if life ever went sour to the point of contemplating suicide, a wise alternative might be a fake suicide --- followed by a renewed and drastically different second life, as in this movie. There was no suicide, fake or otherwise, in this picture; but I thought that was a healthy idea to place into a young viewer's mind; whether intended or not. Then there's Ella Raines. Hmm! Friends, forget Marilyn Monroe or any of the other 1950's sexpots. Keep Marilyn, do what you like, I don't care. Just introduce me to Ella Raines. Pretty, thin, lithe, smart. Yum! "},{"Title":"Great acting, great movie","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  A good example of a little known film noir, this 1949 film was shot primarily on location in San Francisco.There is good acting all around, from the main stars down to supporting cast, and the plot does tie together nicely.Look for Mae Marsh, a silent film star who plays Ella Raines mother, and also look for a brief cameo appearance by syndicated columnist and radio personality Sheila Graham, playing herself of course.Brian Donlevy, who made similar noir films, among them D.O.A., appears to be right at home in this film, and is wonderful in an understated way.The film, at almost 2 hours in length was a bit long for the time, and might drag a bit, but is worth watching.Anna Mae Wong plays the maid in this film, an old time character actress from the days of silent films, she has a small but all important role in the film, for she holds the key (literally) to how the whole movie ends.  Listen for some degrading Chinese music when Ms. Wong is on the run.Interesting note, Helen Walker who plays the scheming wife in the film, was involved in a major scandal of her own.  On New Years Eve, 1946, she was driving home some hitchhiking soldiers near Redlands, California.  Walker, apparently drunk at the wheel, got into a car accident in which one of the soldiers was killed and the other two badly injured.  Though in the end exonerated of any guilt from the accident, it seemed to plague her for the rest of her life, and she slipped deeper and deeper into depression. "},{"Title":"In this world, you turn the other cheek, and you get hit with a lug wrench.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I am a true believe that the best films that Hollywood ever produced came from the 1940s. Whether it was in the early 40s like the film Gaslight or later like Lean's Great Expectations, I have never seen so many great stories with so much originality, humanity, and creativity. Impact is no different. What transformed this picture from your typical film-noir thriller into a full-fledged murder/mystery is not just the creative story, but also the strong characters, the twisting themes, and the questionable ending. Impact could not have been as fascinating as it was if it were not for the impressive story. From the opening scene, we think that we have this film already pegged as your typical wife cheats on man and he now wants revenge story, but as director Arthur Lubin guides us further down his diabolical path, we learn that there is going to be more surprises than we originally anticipated. These surprises will not only lock your jaw in a shocked position, but it will also provide 111 minutes of pure uncut film-noir.I have read other reviews that claim that Impact does not fall within the typical film-noir genre. I see where they are saying this, but I do not agree. Lubin, I believe, was creating a classy film-noir for his audience, but he tricked us. He not only tricked us from the beginning of the film to the end, but also where the film-noir style should be placed. We assume that the because Brian Donlevy is our centralized character that he has to be the dark and brooding one the entire time, causing the sensation of film-noir. I saw this film in a different light. As Lubin kept Donlevy in the eye of the camera for most of the film, I thought that the true sinister, dark, brooding, spooky, and edgy character was Irene. Helen Walker did a superb job with this role. Not only did she portray the backstabbing wife with such precision and ease, but she also played this very strong character that I was not expecting. That sensation of film-noir with the themes of suspicion, anxiety, and pessimism are all collected well within Walker's portrayal of Irene. It is this character that fully embodies the idea of film-noir, and I couldn't keep my eyes off her the entire film. To see such a powerful female character in such an early age of Hollywood impressed me. I do not see why Impact has not made a bigger impression in the film communities. It is a landmark film that will keep you guessing in a better way than any Shyamalan film will.Even if you cannot agree with me about Lubin's slight of film-noir hands, it is unmistakably true that Impact contains some of the best story coupled with acting that we have seen in quite a long time. Even in today's Hollywood you just do not see this type of intensity, excitement, and curiosity as you found in Impact. I would not be surprised if we eventually saw a remake of this film in the future. It has all the elements that one would desire to be a box-office sensation; an evil wife, a passionate husband, and a dark secret. Who wouldn't love to see this? I personally could not keep my eyes off the story or the actors in this film. Brian Donlevy was beyond normal as the disarmed man facing the truth that his wife is no longer in love with him. This being my first Donlevy film, I cannot wait to see other pieces of his work. I think he was both strong and weak enough to carry the picture. He had to show that he still loved his wife, no matter what she did, and he pulled it off with so much dedication that I nearly wanted to stand up and clap for him in my living room. I have already spoken on Irene, who I believe matched Donlevy straw for straw. Lubin needed a character that was going to counter Donlevy's like-ability, and Helen Walker did just that. As audience members, we wanted to love her and hate her at the same time. Ella Raines was nothing spectacular, but did bring this light pro-feminism theme into this light film-noir thriller. Tony Barrett was the epitome of evil; never breaking character and always making me feel slimy. My personal favorite character was Lt. Tom Quincy. I have seen many parodies when they would use the southern flatfoot, but I had never seen a film that utilized this cliché character. Impact did it and Charles Coburn perfected it. As he attempted to solve the crime, he used the vice of kindness and dedication, making this critic smile with delight. He carried the truth of this film on his back without any struggle at all.Overall, I thought that Impact was yet another great film that I can attribute to the 1940s. I don't know who the brains were during this cinematic time, but I wish I could go back and shake their hands. Their imagination, ability to keep audiences guessing, as well as produce great B level actors giving more than 100% of their abilities to a film is nearly impossible to find today. I would have loved to live during this era and see these films in the smoky auditoriums packed with untouched minds. Impact was nearly flawless. I guess it dragged sometimes, and the ending seemed to be wrapped up a bit too quickly (again, the happy factor wasn't needed at the end), but this film kept my attention throughout. I cannot wait to show this movie to friends and family. To fully see where we get our ideas for our films in the year 2006, we must make sure that we respect the films from the 1940s. Impact should be at the top of every film enthusiast's list! Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Film noir meets Frank Capra.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Although the final third gets in the way and is finally disappointing,it does not keep impact from being absorbing and entertaining.One of the rare film noirs -maybe the only one - which takes a look on the brighter side of the roadsandwiched between two very dark parts,the second one has Capra accentsthe country town is some Shangri-la where time stood still ,with its very nice people ,the girl who owns a garage but of course does not know anything about mechanics(woman's lib supporters will cringe),the young father proud of his new-born son ,the Sunday service,the old lady cooking tasty little dishes.All of this is unusual in a film noir.Some might say that shadow of a doubt(1942) had already that ,but evil could enter this world,as the heroine 's uncle came to town.Here,the evil is elsewhere ,in San Francisco.Only in San Francisco.Or on the dark road where anything can happenfirst part is effective,and shows some Postman always rings twice (1946) influence. "},{"Title":"Great photography, great acting, tight and twisty plot. See it!!","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact (1949)An underrated, understated, nicely stylized, and tightly constructed film noir. The director, Arthur Lubin, is a B-movie figure (with a lot of films to his name), and I'm going to guess just from this one that there are others in the history that are very good. This has been running the noir circuits for a long time, and is especially noteworthy. The photography by Ernst Laszlo is especially helpful, and with some smart editing it makes for a visually terrific movie. But the acting is great, too. Yes, everyone fills some familiar roles for this kind of upper crust murder and cover up, but it's tightly done, convincing throughout. Brian Donlevy is a fabulous (and typically Donlevy) industrialist who has to take on a second identity for part of the film, and it's a great surprise. The two lead women, both the same age (29), and both with short careers, play two very different types of women that the industrialist bounces between. The first, Helen Walker, is the clever, rich wife. The second, Ella Rains, is the homespun girl who wants only for everything to turn out okay. (Rains was a Howard Hawks discovery, and with her classic clean cut looks, even made it on the cover of Life Magazine twice, on February 28, 1944 and August 11, 1947.)One other character whose performance is sterling is Charles Coburn, playing the aging detective. A lesser role, but from a remarkable actress, is the maid, played by Anna May Wong (who got stereotyped in the movies but who is now increasingly appreciated as the first major Chinese-American actress).Yes, this is a great film for film buffs, and a really good story for everyone. Make sure you have a clean DVD transfer to appreciate the photography (see http//www.dvdbeaver.com/film/DVDCompare10/impact_.htm for some info on that kind of thing). "},{"Title":"No, seriously darling, run along and buy your little factories and hurry home.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" It's unfortunate that this film doesn't have more of a reputation. Had it not been for a four movie DVD compilation from Diamond Entertainment, I would never have come across it. The story involves a scheming wife out to murder her husband, a plot that backfires when her lover botches the job and winds up dying himself in a fiery crash. Poetic justice there, but the follow up is where things get interesting, as jilted protagonist Walter Williams (Brian Donlevy) spends his time trying to sort things out while keeping his real identity a secret.Helen Walker turns in a strong performance as the two faced Irene Williams, a character you'll love to hate as the story progresses. She showed she could think on her feet when being tailed by a detective and when her husband unexpectedly shows up after his three month disappearance. It's somewhat of a surprise then when one of the 'keys' to her undoing winds up in her coat pocket.I couldn't quite warm up to the romance between Williams and would be mechanic Marsha Peters (Ella Raines). Even in her garage gear she's an absolute knockout, and to be smitten with Donlevy's character seemed to be a bit of a stretch. Fortunately though, she had the tenacity and energy to team up with Detective Clancy (Charles Coburn, not that one, the other one). Credit Clancy with the suitcase connection that finally unhinged Mrs. Williams' story.Everything about the late 1940's settings works well, from the busy streets of San Francisco to the bucolic trappings of Larkspur, Idaho. My own home town had the same type of fire department signal system used in the story while I was growing up, so that was a neat memory. I'm sure younger viewers will have no idea what the 'Klondike 2' telephone number is all about, and when was the last time your cab ride cost $1.15? Throughout Impact, I couldn't help drawing comparisons with another noir flick from a few years earlier, 1945's Conflict starring Humphrey Bogart and Sydney Greenstreet. In that one, the scheming partner in a murder plot is the husband (Bogey), and the deed is done on top of a winding mountain road. It's got a clever twist that trips up the bad guy without using a trunk full of evidence. Both films suggest that some of the best noir efforts of the '40's and '50's had single word titles. "},{"Title":"Great unknown classic","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Donlevy is a cuckolded husband whose wife and lover plan to kill him.  Things go wrong and it is the wife's lover who dies in a fiery wreck, allowing Donlevy to assume a new identity as the mechanic for a garage owner who looks like a supermodel.  After recovering from his temporary amnesia, he plans to watch his wife get what she deserves by waiting to come out until after she's in jail for murder (whose?  I can't remember!  But it all makes sense in the movie, believe me, it's just very twisted!).  When he finally does come out, all big heart, she accuses HIM of her lover's murder!  Good suspense, character acting, photography, with a lively pace.  It's hard to figure out how talking animal movie specialist Lubin managed to pull this one off so well, but it will send me looking for other movies along this same vein by the director. "},{"Title":"Doing the Right Thing Never Works Out","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" In San Francisco, the successful self-made businessman Walter Williams (Brian Donlevy) has just bought three factories in Denver with the approval of the board of directors. His beloved wife Irene (Helen Walker) tells him that she is not feeling well to travel with him, and asks Walter to give a lift to her cousin Jim Torrance (Tony Barrett). On the highway, Jim, who is actually Irene's lover, tries to kill Walter hitting his head and throwing him in a cliff, and has a fatal accident while escaping driving Walters's car. Walter is considered dead and later his wife is sent to jail accused of plotting his murder. Meanwhile, the wounded Walter sleeps in a moving van and awakes in Larkspur, a small town in Idaho. He is hired as a mechanic in a gas station by the owner, Marsha Peters (Ella Raines). For three months, Walter reads the news, expecting revenge with Irene sentenced to death, and he and Marsha fall in love for each other. When Walter discloses the truth to Marsha, she convinces him to return to San Francisco and save his unfaithful wife. The situation changes when Irene accuses him of plotting to kill her lover Jim, and Walter has to prove his innocence.Impact is a great film-noir, with a melodramatic story full of twists. Helen Walker is perfect in the role of a cynical femme fatale, and Ella Raines is extremely beautiful and efficient in her role. Brian Donlevy performing a character of twenty-five years old is miscast. This is the greatest flaw in the screenplay, since he was a successful man that had worked for ten years as a worker and than reached a supervisory position. How could he be so powerful executive with this age only? Considering Walter Williams a man of forty and something years, the story becomes credible. This excellent unknown movie hooks the attention until the very last scene. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Impacto (Impact) "}{"Title":"Good Film-Noir With Interesting Story & Cast","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The interesting story and cast help to make this a good film-noir, with an involved plot that keeps your attention even through a couple of slower stretches. In the lead role, Brian Donlevy gives a low-key performance that works pretty well.Donlevy plays a talented but rather naive businessman who suddenly finds himself the target of his scheming wife and her calculating boyfriend. The story passes through several different stages, as the whole story gradually comes out. It's structured so that the audience knows much more than any of the characters do, and thus much of the suspense comes from wondering how they will react if and when they figure it all out.As the scheming wife, Helen Walker is solid in conveying her character's deceitfulness. Ella Raines is satisfactory as a resourceful woman who befriends Donlevy's character. Charles Coburn gets a good amount of screen time as a detective, and although much of the time his character serves only to advance the plot, Coburn makes good use of his occasional opportunities to do more. Mae Marsh only gets a handful of scenes, but she has one good speech in a scene with Donlevy. Anna May Wong plays a character who is important to the plot, but unfortunately the role does not give her much of a chance to display her considerable acting ability.Aside from meandering a bit at times, the story works pretty well. The various pieces of the movie fit together most of the time, and it maintains the tension effectively. As a whole, it's somewhat above average, and it should not disappoint most fans of its genre. "},{"Title":"Interesting drama of murder.","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Brian Donlevy is a wealthy business executive who loves his wife, Helen Walker. That's reasonable enough. She's an elegant dish with a voice as mellow as nectar. She's sweet to him too, but behind the smile is deceit, adultery, conspiracy to murder. She has a boyfriend, Tony Barrett, and they intend to murder good guy Donlevy.The plan is this. Donlevy is about to drive out of town on a business trip and Walker asks him if he'd be kind enough to drive her cousin, the ruthless Barrett, with him. The considerate Donlevy does so, but once out of San Francisco, Barrett beans Donlevy with a lug wrench and leaves him for dead in a ditch. Barrett's final words before the wrench drops This is for me and Irene, sucker. Barrett then makes his getaway in Donlevy's neat Packard convertible but smashes at high speed into a gasoline tanker and is burned beyond recognition. The police naturally conclude the remains are those of Donlevy. They inform the grieving widow, who sobs convincingly, and looks forward to a rendezvous with both Barrett, whom she believes to be still around somewhere, and with the immense wealth that Donlevy has supposedly left her.Donlevy comes around and gets hold of a paper informing him that he's dead. His wife has made no mention of her cousin and Donlevy's most bitter suspicions are confirmed.I guess I'll have to make this exposition shorter.Donlevy doesn't go to the police. He wanders into a town in Idaho and gets a job as an auto mechanic at Ella Raines' gas station. It's one of those small Western villages where the blazing sun turns everything pale gold, the poplar leaves flutter when the breeze stirs, a tranquil river flows nearby, everybody knows everybody else, the people are trusting and generous and treat oddballs kindly, and all the men belong to the volunteer fire department. Says Raines' mother to Donlevy When you trust folks, you trust 'em. If you didn't already know it was a fairy tale, the music would tell you. In the dramatic city scenes, the score turns into a dramatic frenzy. In the dreamy little town, a melodic flute cops its style from Peer Gynt, which is apt not only in helping establish the atmosphere but in suggesting Donlevy's embittered solitude. He loves Raines too, but he's no longer capable of making that kind of emotional commitment.Then it gets complicated. Scraps of evidence -- measured in shreds, as in shred of evidence -- keep turning up that implicate the wife and she winds up in jail. Donlevy decides after a few months that he can't let his wife fry for something she didn't do, so he returns to the city and tells his story. Walker, the quick-witted fabulist and an actress of rare talent, twists everything around to make Donlevy appear guilty of murdering Barrett out of jealousy. Donlevy takes Walker's place in jail and a trial follows. You can guess the outcome.One thing that bothered me all the way through after Barrett's attempt to murder Donlevy. Why didn't the victim go immediately to the cops? Wouldn't it have been more sensible than hitch hiking to Idaho? I was finally able to figure it out. If he had gone at once to the police there would have been no movie. That's why the Indians always try to shoot the stagecoach passengers and never the horses. It's why Hamlet doesn't kill Claudius after chatting with the ghost.The acting is all of professional caliber, nothing to be embarrassed about, except maybe Charles Coburns' Irish accent. Ella Raines is pretty enough in a mechanic's jump suit and her hair tucked under her cap, but she's smashing in a bare-shouldered white dress and her lustrous brunette hair loose. Donlevy is a burly presence, more convincing when he's grim than when he's trying to be nice.Everything else is pedestrian. Arthur Lubin, the director, never simply suggests a hidden motive. He gives you a good clear shot of the sneer, the suspicious glance, the glazed look of adoration. But he has one subtle moment. When the District Attorney asks the court that charges be dismissed against Donlevy and that Walker be arrested, Lubin shows us Walker's surprised face. She turns her head to look at the judge, then her gaze drops slowly and the camera follows it down her arm until we see the bailiff's hand move to cover her wrist. "},{"Title":"Good Material -- Mediocre Results","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Too bad the movie's a disappointing crime thriller after a promising start. Brian Donlevy plays a high-powered corporate executive with a lavish apartment and a silken wife (Helen Walker). Trouble is the doe-eyed Walker has teamed up with a low-class lover (Tony Barrett) to plot Donlevy's murder. When that fails, Donlevy finds himself stranded in a small Idaho town where he settles in with new girl friend Ella Raines. However, police are still trying to unravel what happened at failed murder site, so an unresolved cloud hangs over both Donlevy and wife Walker.Strong opening that nicely sets up the melodrama and Donlevy's betrayal. Middle part is unusual for crime drama since it celebrates virtues of small town life. Yet, it does so fairly effectively, such that even a hard-charging executive like Donlevy would find welcome escape from city life and a faithless wife. Last third, however, settles into routine suspenser as Raines seeks evidence to clear Donlevy.Though movie contains noirish elements, particularly spider-woman Walker and destiny-crossed Donlevy, director Lubin films in flat, uninspired fashion that adds nothing to the script. In fact, his approach tends to drain excitement from those parts that should have impact. For example, the business around the doomed car needs a few emotional close-ups to emphasize the cat-and-mouse stalking going on. Instead, Lubin's camera remains at an impersonal distance as if it's a family outing being filmed. The movie's entire texture appears better suited to a police docu-drama than that of a man menaced by unseen forces.Casting too, amounts to a problem. Donlevy's a fine character actor who could bring off authority figures with real conviction. As a high-powered executive, he's excellent; as a romantic figure, he's about 10 years too old and not much good at softer emotions. Then too, having the comely and much younger Ella Raines quickly fall for him is something of a stretch. A bigger problem lies in framing Walker's lover as something of a low-life, without the charm or polish that would naturally attract a high-class woman of her social standing. The script would have been wise to imply that Walker is just using him to get rid of her husband. Just as unpersuasive is the casting of a geriatric (72 year-old) Charles Coburn as a cop, even if he does manage some finesse. All in all, the oddball casting just doesn't work. An exception is Helen Walker who's perfectly suited to her role as the devious woman. Watch her array of expressions as the cops close in. Her career was unfortunately slowed down by a debilitating accident and she died much too early . Though largely forgotten today because of her few credits, once you see her, you don't forget her with her upside down eyes, statuesque bearing, and unforced beauty. She's unforgettable as Tyrone Power's scheming nemesis in Nightmare Alley and could do comedy equally well, as in the hilarious Murder, He Says (1945). In my little book, she could easily qualify as an actress with a cult following.Too bad that an Anthony Mann, Robert Siodmak, or Andre deToth didn't get hold of the material before the pedestrian Lubin. The premise is prime material for noir treatment, and with more astute casting, might have become a classic. "},{"Title":"From Irene and me, sucker!","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Successful businessman Walter Williams (Brian Donlevy) loves his pretty wife Irene (Helen Walker) more than anything. Little does he know she's plotting with her lover to kill him. During the murder attempt, Walter is hit hard on the head but lives. The other guy, however, is killed in a car crash and burned beyond recognition. Believed to have been the man killed in the crash, Walter decides not to come forward. Instead he goes to work as a mechanic in the garage of Marsha Peters (Ella Raines). When Irene is tried for his murder, Walter must decide whether or not to reveal he's still alive.Brian Donlevy is pretty good. He's at his best when his character is angry or edgy. The sappy romantic stuff doesn't fit him well. Helen Walker is a particularly hissable villainess. Lovely Ella Raines is the good girl. There's no meat to the part but she does well with what she's given. Charles Coburn plays the detective out to get to the bottom of things. He's always fun. Arthur Lubin's direction in the first half is great film noir. I loved the scene where the lover tries to kill the husband. The whole thing was brilliantly executed. Then something happens and it's like a separate movie. The second half is much less like noir and more like a standard crime melodrama where a girl has to prove her guy is innocent of murder. If the entire picture had been like the first half, I'd say it was one of film noir's best. But it isn't. It's still an enjoyable movie with some good twists and turns. "},{"Title":"A buried gem...","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Crafty little B-flick has devoted husband Brian Donlevy finding out the hard way that his wife (the inimitable Ella Raines) wants her freedom--she's been conspiring with her lover to have him rubbed out! Intricate plot twists and involving characters, courtesy screenwriters Dorothy Reid and Jay Dratler, make for a highly entertaining mystery, better than many of the more-popular film-noirs which became cornerstones of 1940s cinema. There's a high level of suspense throughout, although the finale is fumbled (it's a bit anti-climactic). Certainly worth-seeing however, and sturdy Donlevy is superb. *** from **** "},{"Title":"high octane noir","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This film noir has three distinct movements. Brian Donlevy proves masterful at playing a high-powered executive, self-satisfied and in control. As in any good drama, his secure world is assaulted and turned upside down The film portrays his characters descent, loss of faith and subsequent redemption. Donlevy handles each of the stages well.Helen Walker is brilliant as Donlevy's wife. Her ability to portray a duplicitous and homicidal spouse is immaculate in it's delivery.I found great pleasure in watching the legal machinations and the ambivalence of the justice system.More then anything, and I've commented on this in other film noir reviews, I enjoyed the street scenes of San Francisco a half century ago. Sometimes I think I'd be just as happy to forgo plot in favor of travelogue Also, Larkspur (whether it is in California or Idaho,) just seems like a fine little town the likes of which we now pine for. The volunteer fire department scene was reflective of my sense of small town values.All in all, an absorbing,nostalgic and thought provoking piece of film art. "},{"Title":"Impact was a smash","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Hi, Everyone, Brian Donlevy is told by Mae Marsh he will think differently at age 50 than he thinks now at 25. She was well past 50 when this was made in 1949. So was Brian Donlevy. He is matched here with two ladies who were under 30 but it is quite believable.The new Packard convertible looks nice. This was a time when an expensive convertible could be parked on the street while you shopped. You would leave the top down on the car. No Club on the wheel.Ella Raines was beautiful. We see her working on the engine of a Kaiser with a hammer. Dumb broads. Brian Donlevy fixes the engine just by listening to it and tightening the mojo or something.Brian's bad girl first wife Helen Walker is beautiful also but she has this silly notion about killing her husband. She has this loser Tony Barrett help her with the job but he is dumber than the girl with the hammer fixing the Kaiser. That's about it...Except for Charles Coburn who could have taken his role as the older detective right into a TV series if it had been about ten years later. He is excellent in this. All the actors do a great job.There is a Bekins moving van that appears to be a product insert. It is a great memory prodding sight. Moving vans used to look like that.Both Brian Donlevy and Ella Raines died of throat cancer, strangely enough. They both left many wonderful films for viewers.Tom Willett "},{"Title":"An excellent and heartfelt Brian Donlevy performance","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" As usual, Brian's deep, smoky voice and impish expressions kept me deeply engaged in anticipation of each unfolding situation. Supported exquisitely by Ella Raines with a very solid performance, the film moves through what could easily have been a thick and sluggish plot at a pleasing pace.I've always enjoyed Brian's brilliant yet simple interpretation of his roles and this one is particularly refreshing and interesting. Charles Coburn's portrayal of a stuffy yet sharp and humorous cop adds a delightful bit of saltiness.Rarely am I left disappointed that a film has come to its conclusion like turning the final page of a really good book; this is one of those films. I was left disappointed to be sure - only in the fact that it was over. Impact is a simply a very good film in nearly every way. "},{"Title":"Poignant and Charming","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Just finished watching this as one of a 50 Classic Thriller Box set-this is a keeper! Thoroughly enjoyable on many levels-it was a real pleasure watching something from days gone by done so well. This has all the elements-murder, deceit, redemption and return to innocence. Oh-and some really great scenery and acting. The gal that played Marcia Peters is quite a looker for any day! Charles Coburn was a treat as the old retiring police detective-this one keeps you focused and moves fast with interest all the way to the end. This movie is really much deeper than it appears on the surface-pay attention to the story behind the story here, it's a tale that one can appreciate given the trials and tribulations of life. "},{"Title":"Good Movie. Gorgeous Car!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The silvery Packard convertible Brian Donlevy drives is one of the most beautiful cars I've ever seen. It's basically all I'd remembered from years ago when a local a cable channel that no longer shows old movies ran a bad print of this from time to time.Donlevy is not an exciting actor but he is fine. He plays an industrialist madly in love with his wife, who is not worthy of his devotion (to say the least.) She is played by Helen Walker, a specialist at cold, intelligent, sleek women. (She's the best part of Nightmare Alley.) We also have Charles Coburn as a detective and Ella Raines as a girl who wants to help cuckolded Donlevy out of a predicament I can't reveal. (But remember This is a film noir.) In her early scenes, Raines smiles too much and looks like an ad for gum. (And speaking of ads, yikes! This has one of the earliest examples of product placement Someone offers Donlevy a Coke and for quite a while, in the foreground, is a Coca-Cola machine!) Also on hand is Mae Marsh as Walker's mother. She looks great and is very good. And Anna May Wong, one of Hollywood's greatest, most poorly used stars, is fourth-billed as Donlevy and Walker's maid.The movie is not exactly suspenseful but it's a solid piece of work. The acting ranges from good to excellent and the plot, though it wanders a bit from time to time, is intriguing. It's also unusually literate The characters speak in impeccable (though never stilted) English. "}{"Title":"Against Type-Donlevy In Low-Key 'Noir'","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a slower-moving film noir/melodrama that has usual tough-guy Brian Donlevy in a role of a super nice guy-victim.He's the victim of his ruthless wife Marsha Peters, played very well by Helen Walker. Much of the story is Walter Williams (Donlevy) finding a whole new wholesome atmosphere in a small Kansas town, after it is presumed he's dead. (His wife and her lover unsuccessfully tried to kill Williams.) Our henpecked hero tries to start life all over, and finds it good in the Midwest. He also discovers a nice woman. That part dragged a bit but there are some nice scenes which gave off good feelings, and some good words of wisdom. All of which really doesn't fit the category of a normal film noir.The problem I had watching this was the VHS tape which was of poor quality. There was a hissing noise throughout. It's a tribute to the story and cast that I stuck with this despite the annoying audio. That cast also included Ella Raines, Charles Coburn, Tony Barrett and Anna May Wong. I'd like to see this on DVD now that it's available on that format. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Murder","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" After scoring big points with his board of directors, wealthy San Francisco businessman Brian Donlevy (as Walter Walt Williams) plans a romantic vacation with his beautiful, well-dressed wife Helen Walker (as Irene). Unbeknownst to Mr. Donlevy, Ms. Walker has scored a big point of her own, low-life lover Tony Barrett (as James Jim Torrence). They've got deadly plans for Donlevy, but things don't always go according to plan. Donlevy finds female companionship with 25-year-old Mobile service station operator Ella Raines (as Marsha Peters) while smart cookie lieutenant Charles Coburn (as Tom Quincy) investigates...The Popkin brothers (Harry and Leo) were great at bringing suspenseful dramas to the screen; in this case, a story by Jay Dratler. This time they should have met with director Arthur Lubin to iron out some details in an otherwise fun film. We get several interesting twists and turns, but are almost derailed, due to some plot problems. There are a couple of implausible events worth mentioning. Just for starters, a character attempts to murder another by simply hitting him on the head; obviously, the victim was not dead. Also, a victim jumps into the back of a parked moving van instead of going up to the driver and asking for help...From the opening board of directors meeting to seeing Robert Warwick as a police captain, Impact employs several former silent screen players. That's not unusual, but there are a few in prominent roles. The chic maid is Anna May Wong, memorable as a sexy young Asian woman in 1920s melodramas. She participates in one of the better story sequences, a chase (photographed by Ernest Laszlo) from Jason Robards' courtroom to her apartment. The landlady who discovers Donlevy's secret is Mae Marsh, one of D.W. Griffith's most acclaimed actresses. Of the four top-billed stars, Walker gets the best out of her role.****** Impact (3/19/49) Arthur Lubin ~ Brian Donlevy, Helen Walker, Ella Raines, Charles Coburn "},{"Title":"Great story. Weak movie","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact suffers from some unfortunate director conceits, a lazy screenplay and too large of budget.For example New Dad runs out of the car to announce the news, goes back to the car for cigars, gives her cigars, goes back to the car and then runs back to take back most of the cigars he just handed out. Now I get that he's an excited new Father, but please, 3x? Does nothing.Plus the pregnant-pause/false ending conceit that run throughout. Do we need that? Not clever and gets old fast. Columbo was a master but it falls flat in Impact.Then the numerous dead-end fillers indicate a lazy, sloppy screenplay. Incredible as it may seem, the Producer may have had too much money. There is a enough of a story, enough meat to be able to get in to the heads of the characters. But they don't. Instead VO is used. Scenes such as the needless volunteer fire dept scene serve no purpose to move the story forward. Hopefully someone had a gun to the editor's head, otherwise why have these at all? They belong on the editing room floor. Again too much money in the budget? Were they having a tough time filling the run time?Last it suffers from to weakest of all screen techniques, Voice Over. Honestly, do we need to see him sitting on the bench, staring into space only to listen to dialog be repeated? Even if it is nicely mixed -and it is- c'mon,even he gets bored enough to pull out another smoke. Oooo he's thinking, putting the pieces together. His actions should indicate where his head is and let the audience's stitch things together. That makes a movie.Those are my gripes.Impact is a cool story. Generally well played and properly casted. As others have stated, the lighting is not Noir yet the storyline is, which is what holds this together. Which may be another indicator the budget was too large. Noir lighting came from low budget constraints. Cat People is the the film often used as where the technique got started and was basically a solution to a budget driven problem. No money to light with? Use shadows and let the viewer's mind infer. If you are familiar with San Francisco its nice to see some shots from yesteryear.Bottom line Give it a new title, tighten up the script and redo the film with a great Director and a solid cast. Then it may have some Impact! "},{"Title":"Raines Shines","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Woman conspires with lover to knock off husband, but the plan backfires. The plot becomes a bit convoluted towards the end, but it's entertaining for the most part. Most of the action takes place in San Francisco, although the best scenes take place in a small Idaho town. Donlevy had neither the looks nor the personality to play lead roles, and this film shows why he rarely got such roles. He's too robotic and dull as the victimized husband. Coburn does his usual scene-stealing as a detective while Walker is uneven as the wife. The best performance is given by Raines, a marvelously natural actress who unfortunately retired from films much too early. "},{"Title":"'Ellava good actress","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Ella Raines shone so brightly in this 1949 film as the all American heroine who believes in her mechanic employee Walter Williams (Brian Donlevy) whom she knows is married but who appears to keep a king size chip on his shoulder.Ella's character, (Marsha Peters) is a WWII widow who lost her husband at Okinawa.Ella looks so fetching not only in her working mechanic's outfit but also glamorous in her 1940s dress.Ella manages to imbue her characterisation of Marsha with sympathy, honesty, friendliness and stubbornness when she is helping the wrongly accused Walter.She is also quite athletic as she follows Walter's Chinese maid Su Lin (Anna May Wong) over San Francisco, in her quest to provide vital evidence for the defence team.I was so struck by Ella's performance that I researched similar roles by her and found her in La Dama Desconocida (also known as the The Phantom Lady) when she provided similar heroic help to her stricken boss.I wondered at times whether Brian Donleavy's character looked a wee bit old to have a romantic attachment with the lovely Miss Raines.The other actors provided very solid support especially Charles Coburn as Lt. Tom Quincy who is on the side of justice, not just turning into the D.A.'s office the man whom his captain says he must prosecute.There was almost a father/daughter relationship on screen between Marsha & Quincy at times which I found rather touching.The only other film I have seen Helen Walker in is playing a socialite The Hon. Betty Cream in Lubitsch's last comedy, Cluny Brown(1946), a satire of the English upper classes of 1938.Helen plays the villainess, Irene Williams.The best line of the film is when Anna May Wong's Chinese father is asked by Quincy whether he understands his words.His responseI also have a knowledge of French, Italian, Yiddish, and English. had me roaring with laughter out loud! "},{"Title":"Impact, when two things collide.","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" San Francisco industrial supremo, Walter Williams, survives an attempt on his life by his two-timing wife's lover, whom ironically is badly burned and killed at the scene himself. As the police think that Williams is the badly burned corpse, his wife is arrested and accused of his murder, with Williams hiding out and plotting revenge in the sleepy back water town of Larkspur, Idaho. But as Williams finds new hope and a re-evaluation in his life, he must go back and reveal all about what happened, something that may well prove to be his undoing!Impact is directed by Arthur Lubin and stars Brian Donlevy, Ella Raines, Charles Coburn and Helen Walker. Its basic plot and story is certainly nothing new, I wont list them, but other film's such as The Postman Always Rings Twice spring to mind immediately upon finishing this smashing and enjoyable film. However, what is definitely in Impact's favour is that it's excellently acted (Donlevy and Raines a delight) and that it manages to bring about its twist without any aura of inevitability hanging over it. Sitting nicely between Noir and Drama, Impact is a film that possibly wouldn't stand up to repeat viewings, but once viewed I personally feel that it leaves a mark that is most definitely favourable, and I'm not just biased because Ella Raines is stunningly gorgeous here!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Some flaws, but worthwhile","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact boasts a labyrinthine plot that will keep you near the edge of your chair. The fascinating cast is a real selling point - Brian Donlevy, Ella Raines, Helen Walker, Charles Coburn, Anna May Wong, and the great silent film actor Mae Marsh, all together in one film. Some truly interesting set pieces also contribute to the mix.The cast is really something to see - a lot of familiar faces turn up here. Helen Walker doesn't quite have the complex femme fatale role of something like Nightmare Alley, but she's very good here. Brian Donlevy turns in a very creditable performance, as does Charles Coburn. I would have liked to see a lot more of Anna May Wong and Mae Marsh, and I was disappointed that Ella Raines' beautiful face and angular features weren't given a better treatment. Raines had true star power, and her character in this film could have had more bite. But, the fact that she's in the film is a big plus. These distinctive names and faces give the film a huge boost.However, Impact is a bit disappointing in two very important areas - direction and cinematography. Arthur Lubin and Ernest Lazslo were both effective, workman-like proponents of their craft, but their handling of this simmering she-done-him-wrong project is often routine and perplexedly uninvolved. The set ups for the character shots and interactions, the pacing of the story, and the use of shadow and light could have been much more compelling at junctures. To Lubin and Lazslo's credit, neither had much experience with the film-noir style, but I'm left wondering what someone like Raoul Walsh, Robert Siodmak, or Edward Dmytryk would have done with this thing.This isn't quite on par with D.O.A., White Heat, The Asphalt Jungle, or The Third Man - other film-noir thrillers made around the same time - but, don't let these comparisons stop you. Impact is an effective, enjoyable film with lots of great faces. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"once Williams returned to s.f. ,","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" the whole film suffered a sudden deterioration and death, and at the same time when his wife was escorted into the cops' room, the whole dialog became so stupid that had become unbearably ridiculous. 'on what charge? asked by Williams was the exact groundless accusation. the screenplay simply became stupider and stupider. grand jury? give me a break. when Williams arrived larkspur, Idaho, the news reporting his death with his photos were on every newspapers, yet nobody seemed to recognize him, there were so many folks in that town holding newspapers yet no one noticed a stranger suddenly showed, this highly unlikely scenario only served the purpose for Williams to hook up with the wonderful widow who ran a gas station and car repair shop. before Williams back to s.f., the police already took his murdering wife into custody, but once he showed up, then the whole screenplay just turned into a stupid farce. what a waste of a good film that had the potential to be great, but then the stupidity simply turned beyond salvage. "},{"Title":"Little impact","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Brian Donlevy (Walter) is duped into taking his wife Helen Walker's (Irene) 'cousin' to another town. They never make it. In the only scene of any kind of impact, a car crash determines the course of this film.The acting in this film is slightly sub-par from everyone except Helen Walker who steals the show in all her scenes. The character of Brian Donlevy hasn't been written very well. We see him as a man totally in control at work who is confident, determined and bullying. For him to be involved in a marriage where he revels in the name Softy is a complete nonsense, unless it was a sarcastic nickname. Experience shows that he would either be a controlling monster in his home life as well, or prone to episodes of sexual humiliation where he can relinquish control. A permanent label of Softy is just ridiculous. His character is slightly limp and frustrating during this film. He is NOT a softy so why does he act like one? Mechanic Ella Raines has been given absolutely no character whatsoever to explore so she comes across as rather dull. Considering that we spend over half the film in the company of these two, not surprisingly, the film drags. Charles Coburn (Lt Tom Quincy) is usually good value in any film, but he falls short by putting on an Irish accent. He can't do it convincingly and he can't maintain it. Why did he bother? Aside from the characters, we have a very unconvincing love story between Donlevy and Raines. Not only does short, chubby Donlevy not have the looks required for a young woman like Ella, but he is from her dad's generation and would not get a look in. We also get a nice piece of Chinese racism with the characters of maid Anna May Wong (Su Lin) and her uncle Philip Ahn (Ah Sing). His name might as well be Ah So and both these characters spout Chinese wisdom at every opportune moment because that's what Chinese people do! The story scores points for an interesting beginning, albeit with an annoying Donlevy leading us through the proceedings, but it then falls flat and I'm afraid we are left with not much of an impact at all. It's watchable but not recommended. "},{"Title":"A devious wife is in for a surprise.","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Very good acting and story line make for a suspenseful drama. A very successful San Francisco business man Walter Williams(Brian Donlevy)is on his way to wrap up some important business in Denver and his devious wife Irene(Helen Walker)backs out of the trip at the last minute; but wants her husband to pickup her cousin(Tony Barrett), who is actually her lover. The plan of rigging the car to crash backfires and Mr. Williams is the survivor, not the victim of the wreck. Helen is stunned, but plays the dutiful widow as Walter decides to remain in hiding with the chance to begin a lower profile life. Police Lt. Tom Quincy(Charles Coburn)believes he can locate the supposedly dead Williams as a surprised Irene is jailed and charged with conspiracy to murder. This is arguably film-noir. Kudos to director Arthur Lubin and Donlevy for one of his best roles. Also in the cast Ella Rains, Art Baker, Anna May Wong and Robert Warwick. "}{"Title":"Film-Noir Wannabee","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The one note style and delivery from the Director turns this Noir wannabee into a rather routine melodrama with an interesting story and characters that are fleshed out and left to wander around with very little impact on the audience.It is all so lightly lit and so lightly handled that it moves smoothly (not like a Film-Noir) from one scene to another and one plot turn to another with very little suspense and even less attachment.It just plays out in a professional manner and it cuts like a butter knife and has about as much impact as a pulled punch. It is so routine in its presentation and so bland in its execution that it becomes a false promise of real suspense and veers from its collision course by simply and nonchalantly turning the wheel.In the end it is a programmer with a paid by the week look and is a quota system product with very little integrity or artistic relevance. On a final note. This is NOT FILM-NOIR and can only be mentioned as maybe a passing vehicle on its way to that destination but detours to safe ground and seems content to be there. "},{"Title":"Showed Promise, Until the Romantic Subplot","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is absolutely NOT film noir. It's filled with romance and monologues on hope and doing the right thing, not the gritty, pessimistic ambiance of the urban jungle. In fact, it's almost after- school-special-like. Just because a movie has a crime as its major plot point does not make it film noir!That said, I was at first mildly impressed with this film. The poetic justice initially visited upon Mrs. Williams was genuinely clever. The venomous defense attorney was a nice touch. The trickery used by the protagonist to outwit his cheating, murderous wife was interesting.Then, all of a sudden, the film (like others in this faux-film-noir genre - see Kansas City Confidential) was ruined by a needless romantic sub-plot. Instead of darkly, cynically punishing his murderous wife, Walter Williams listens to his new belle and has a change of heart. Her speech wasn't even that convincing But that doesn't give you the right to take justice into your own hands.In fact, his wife's attempted murder DOES give him the right to mete poetic justice. That denouement would have made this film interesting. It would have made it dark. It would have made it film noir. Instead, the film's creative potential was sacrificed for a dopey romantic subplot. I'm not impressed. "},{"Title":"Very good mystery-drama with twists","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact is an interesting and entertaining mix of film genres. I won't give away details of the plot and story, but just some generalities to whet the appetite of anyone may be looking for a good movie to watch. It starts with some drama and romance, moves into suspense and skulduggery, then takes an unusual twist, then another unusual twist and another, and ends on romance. This 1949 film is a very nice vehicle for Brian Donlevy who plays the part of Walter Williams. This film came about mid-point in Donlevy's career. At 48, he had already played a number of diverse roles. In 1940, he received an Oscar nomination for supporting actor in 'Beau Geste. He didn't reach the level of stardom of the big names of Hollywood, but he had a respectable portfolio for his film years. Whether he was a crook or a cop, a cowboy or a comic, Donlevy always entertained. He slowed down in his later years and did more work in TV roles than for the silver screen. Ella Raines has a nice role opposite Donlevy, as a war widow who falls for this quiet but kind guy who knows how to fix cars. Raines is best known for her female lead in Hail the Conquering Hero, made in 1944 while WWII was still begin fought. For a short career &#x96; just 29 credits including films and TV appearances, she played opposite some big stars of the time. Among them were John Wayne, Charles Laughton, George Sanders, Broderick Crawford, Randolph Scott, Dan Duryea, Edmond O'Brien, Burt Lancaster and William Powell. She had good roles in films that did well at the box office, but she chose to retire from films in 1956 &#x96; after just 14 years in Hollywood. Impact doesn't have a large cast, but the supporting roles are all very good. Helen Walker plays a very good devious wife, able to cover up her chicanery with sweetness. This is toward the end of Anna May Wong's career, and she is very good. But Charles Coburn delivers the best supporting performance as detective Lt. Tom Quincy. I wonder if other people &#x96; those who have been around a few decades, enjoy seeing scenes of familiar cities and towns, as I do. This one has some nice scenes, with late 1940s automobiles, clothing and other things. While those change over time, the street scenes from that area of San Francisco are probably the same these many decades later. They were when I last visited there a few years ago. And we can count on the fabled cable cars to continue operating for decades to come. They are part of the San Francisco culture &#x96; enjoyed and used by locals as well as tourists. Impact isn't a fast-action film &#x96; not that many were in that time. It develops slowly, and after some crime-related scenes, it moves into a nice story of recovery, honesty, integrity and love. As I said &#x96; quite different than the usual fare of a crime drama film. "},{"Title":"Well Written & Wonderfully Twisted","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This wonderfully twisted tale of the events that take place before and after an attempted murder is both highly entertaining and full of surprises. It was written by Jay Dratler who also co-wrote the screenplays for other film noirs such as Call Northside 777, The Dark Corner and Laura and his skills as a storyteller and a writer of snappy dialogue are both in strong evidence in this movie.Walter Williams (Brian Donlevy) is a wealthy industrialist whose wife Irene (Helen Walker) colludes with her lover, Jim Torrence (Tony Barrett) to murder him. She arranges for the two men to share a car journey to Denver during which they have to stop on a mountain road to change a wheel after a tyre (which Jim had previously damaged) suddenly blows. Jim uses the opportunity to hit Walter over the head with a wrench and leaves him for dead. As Jim prepares to continue his journey, a large van pulls up and the driver offers him assistance which he refuses, but this incident spooks him so much that he drives off in the car at high speed and accidentally crashes head-on into a tanker full of fuel. Walter regains consciousness in time to jump into the back of the van but soon passes out again.When the wreckage of Walter's car is later discovered and the occupant is so badly burned that he's unrecognisable, the presumption is made that Walter is the dead man and further evidence found by the police soon leads them to believe that Irene is culpable.Walter eventually arrives at the small town of Larkspur, Idaho where he's offered a job as a mechanic at a gas station run by an attractive young widow called Marsha Peters (Ella Raines). From a remark that Jim had made when he attacked him, Walter knows that his wife was behind the attempt on his life and so, when he reads in a newspaper about her arrest on suspicion of his murder, the opportunity to take revenge by doing nothing to help, becomes very attractive.Walter and Marsha fall in love and when she learns about what happened to him she persuades Walter to do the honourable thing and return to San Francisco to tell the police his story. Unfortunately, when he does this, further unexpected developments follow and he finds himself charged with the murder of Jim Torrence.Impact is a film in which certain sharp contrasts are made. The city is compared unfavourably with the small town where people are much more friendly and supportive, the difference between the evil Irene and the kind and decent Marsha couldn't be more stark and Walter's conduct in his professional and personal lives are also incredibly different.When Walter first appears , he's seen as an extremely dynamic and forceful businessman but is then later shown as a very caring husband who Irene calls Softy. He's also normally confident and direct in his manner but during his time in Larkspur, he goes through a period of confusion and self-doubt. The fact that Brian Donlevy is able to bring all these aspects of Walter's personality together in a believable way is very commendable and enjoyable to watch.Helen Walker and Ella Raines are both excellent in their roles and Charles Coburn provides the pick of the supporting performances as the veteran detective who's assigned to investigate the case. "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated Film Noir","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Brian Donlevy was at his best in this role as Walter Williams, a businessman victimized by his scheming wife and her lover. I saw this as a little boy, and even then was taken in by Donlevy's performance in scenes right after the accident, where he is so groggy and disoriented, suffering no doubt a concussion, yet trying so hard to literally, focus himself enough to survive.The early scenes do go on a bit long, but they are necessary to the story, and yet with little dialogue, Donlevy carries the scenes very well.Mechanics coveralls never looked so good as on Ella Raines, one of the prettiest to ever grace Hollywood, and the short-lived Helen Walker is wonderful as the nasty wife.A very well done Don't Miss "},{"Title":"Unusual, Very realistic and Well-Acted B Psychological Noir","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact (1949) is a narrative film that relies on psychology to drive its characters actions, purposes and values. It is a moody noir piece not badly acted and adequately directed or better at every moment. Arthur Lubin directed the twists and turns of this intelligent film, from a story by Jay Dratler and script by Dratler and Dorothy Reid. Its story can be told in a single sentence Walter Williams is a man who rose out of nothing against the usual U.S. disdain for individual ability to become the key man at a major corporation; then he loses both his adored wife and his position in life for a time, and has to decide whether to let the wife who tried to have him killed be punished for his murder or to risk going back to take up his life again. Music is by Michel Michelet, with strong cinematography by Ernest Laszlo. The Art Direction was supplied by Rudi Feld, with challenging set decoration by Jacques Mapes and very good costumes by Maria Donovan. The producers were veterans Joseph H. Nadel and Harry M. Popkin and Leo C. Popkin. Brian Donleavy stars in this understated film, and his usual vocal strength and calm demeanor make a lot of his varying situations and moods. As the two women in his life, Helen Walker and Ella Rains bring intelligence and liveliness to taxing parts. Charles Coburn, Mae Marsh and Robert Warwick all do well with unusual roles. Others in the cast worthy of note include Clarence Kolb, Art Baker, Anna May Wong, Philip Ahn, Jason Robards Sr., William Wright, Tony Barrett, Glen Vernon, Thomas Browne Henry, Erskine Sanford and Harry Cheshire. I find this to be an ambitious and generally successful; film, which will stay in the memory a long while. It presents a strong circumstantial murder mystery, but concentrates on the characters, their motivations and reactions. It is, I suggest, unusually realistic and worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"Solid, little-known noir is quite entertaining","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" More noir, with this admirable low-budget effort giving plenty of entertainment even if it does run a good 15 minutes too long. Brian Donlevy stars as weak, yet rich, businessman Walter Softy Williams. His scheming femme fatale wife Irene (Helen Walker)is having an affair with a sleaze named Jim Torrance, and wants our Softy out of the way. So, in true Postman Always Rings Twice style Torrance plans to murder Softy on a dark, lonely highway one night. Only problem is that he screws the murder plan up. Softy cops a whack on the temple, yet is only concussed, and Torrance, making a hasty getaway, thinking he has killed him, drives straight into a truck. Softy escapes to a small Idaho town and finds solace in spunky, kind Marsha Peters (Ella Raines), yet his past eventually catches up with him.It's very noir, despite the majority taking place not in the dark city streets but the well-lit Larkspur, the comforting All-American town of home-baked cherry pie and early morning fire drills. Helen Walker is at her diabolical best (also check her out in Nightmare Alley) parading under her luxury apartment plotting her weak husband's murder, while Ella Raines is pretty, endearing and very modern as the small-town widow and mechanic who collides with Donlevy's life for the better. Donlevy's character is very weak, and the actor portrays this well. Even if Raines does refer to Donleby as boss in the film's happy conclusion, we get a feeling that she will wear the pants in the penthouse. "},{"Title":"Great 1949 Suspense Film","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a great film to view and enjoy great acting by talented actors like Brian Donlevy (Walter Williams); Ella Raines, (Marsha Peters) and Charles Coburn, (Lt. Tom Quincy) In this film Walter Williams is a successful business man in San Francisco, California who is very much in love with his wife, Irene Williams,(Helen Walker) and does everything possible to make her happy and calls himself SOFTY as a nickname. However, poor Walter Williams does not realize that his wife hates him and prefers another man to give her sexual pleasure in bed. To make a long story rather short, Walter Williams winds up in a small town in Iowa and meets up with Marsha Peters (Ella Raines) where he winds up starting a new live as an auto mechanic and grows very close to Marsha Peters, but hides his past. Charles Coburn, (Lt. Tom Quincy) gives a great supporting role as a detective who tries to find out what really went on between this married couple and who is guilty of murder. Don't miss this film, it has a great story and great old scenes of San Francisco. "},{"Title":"Revenge is Sweetest","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is a standard bearer for a lot of movies today. It's about reclaiming the soul after it has been tarnished by revenge. It's always a good movie when a totally guiltless man is thrust into a situation where he must prove himself innocent of false charges. Add to this that the man is willing to let his evil wife rot in jail, or even be executed, and the stakes really go up. Brian Donleavy is the man. A tough executive who escapes his murder through chance. He surfaces in a small town during the trial of his selfish wife. He makes a name for himself in the small town and becomes involved with a young woman who runs a gas station/auto repair shop. What he learns along the way is that revenge doesn't solve anything and to start fresh, you must take some risks. This is a nicely plotted little movie and works. My favorite character is Helen Walker as Irene Williams, the wife. She steals every scene she is in. She is beautiful but contaminated. Donleavy is full of pain and steel. The ending is a little pat but it works. Charles Coburn as the caring detective realizes that justice may not be done and takes some pretty big risks. "},{"Title":"Unconventional... but not in the telling","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" The story leaves you wondering what will happen next for at least the first half. It's already a very good point for a film noir involving a married couple and a lover. Some narrative bits and parts are really subtle and good too, unfortunately the director does a routine job over a structure that gradually unveils its flaws.There's that big Idaho part which brings the movie to a very long halt. Ah, to see the classical noir hero mind-numbed by all his troubles for all those minutes! The numbing atmosphere was too obviously scripted for gals. Not that the setup is wrong, but it's too long and too heavy on the hero's noir headache, which is always a poor stand-in for action.There's still a bit of suspense in the end but the hero is still brooding his way to the conclusion so there's no way we can feel close to him. A noir hero is already someone who can't win over his destiny, but we need him to fight all the same. If all we get is a totally passive character, not even engaging windmills, there's nothing left to root for. "}{"Title":"Good Early Noir","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Brian Donlevy's wife ties to have her lover do him in but things take an odd turn as the lover dies and Donlevy survives.Not as dark and brooding as some of the Noir films that followed in the 1950's, this film still has an edge to it. The plot is a bit overly complicated, which is not a bad thing considering the film runs almost two hours, a twist piles on twist and then has to be unwound in order to make it to a hopefully happy ending. The only real complaint I have is that some of the early going is a bit too slow, so my interest waned until the lover dies. That said I recommend this movie as a good time with a good crime drama.Something that seemed odd to me, in all of the from the front of the car shots of the husband and lover driving through the mountains the mountain is always on the passengers side, however in all the other shots its on the drivers side. I could be wrong, but it didn't seem right to me. "},{"Title":"Rather overlong and melodramatic despite potential in plot (SPOILERS)","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" I was on a noir kick recently and Impact was one of the films that came up as a recommendation that I hadn't already seen. The plot offers a tough promise of revenge, with a man set up by his wife to be killed by her lover &#x96; only for the lover to be killed and the original target to go into hiding while his wife faces suspicion from the police. The plot suggests that there will be a dark edge to the film and a story that sees revenge and justice coming as a result of the attempted murder. In reality though what we get is a dramatic opening quarter, which culminates in the death of the lover, but afterwards the film becomes about Williams settling into a new life and a potential romance for an hour until suddenly someone (presumably a writer) reminds him of the actual plot and he goes back to San Francisco just in time to trigger a courtroom finale and race against time to get to the bottom of it all.This approach wastes the potential in the plot because the darker thriller aspect is crammed into the final 30 minutes or so, even if the opening section leading up to the murder is pretty dramatic and effective. Outside of these sections though we have plenty of padding without any real impact or point; I know that the new life is the narrative trigger to the final confrontation but mostly it doesn't have a flow to it and it goes on far too long for what it is. As a result my interest had waned by the time we got back into the main plot and the courtroom action seemed a little muted, rushed and lacking in real urgency or drama. It is a real shame because the plot summary offered so much more and i'm not sure why it ignored its own strengths for so much of the film.The cast are rather stiff and so-so, although this may be in part due to the material. Donlevy does some good work but mostly he isn't allowed to feel much &#x96; Raines is cute next to him but seems far too young to be in that role. Coburn is only ever calling it in and his character lacks, well, character. Walker is, in her deeds, a cold, manipulative and disloyal woman but yet she has no edge to her at all and she is pretty dull. This is a film where none of the cast really stood out or managed to rise above the material.Overall Impact is a missed goal. It has potential but it misses it by being melodramatic, overlong and really losing its focus in regards the plot around murder and betrayal. Could have been something but wasn't. "},{"Title":"Ella Raines Gets A Break","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Ella Raines is a very good actress who did not get a lot of breaks in her career. She has talent, but it seems that she never really caught the shooting star type of role. This one gets close to it.There is a very good cast here with Donlevy and Coburn. The story is solid. The script is good and Arthur Lubin is here directing. The film noir here is solid. The story is by Jay Dratler .who wrote Laura among some other popular stories on film.It turn out this one is a good movie. It still does not make her a star, but it is a pretty good entry on her resume which has some other good films.The plot twists are enough to keep the viewer on the edge of their seat as in many a film noir, things do not go the way they are supposed too. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable if unmemorable film","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact is the ideal sort of film for a wet Sunday afternoon. It is one of those many enjoyable, if largely unmemorable, crime dramas churned out by Hollywood studios in black and white in the pre-TV era. Walter Williams (Brian Donlevy) is a self-made man. Having started life as a sheet-metal worker, he has worked his way up over a period of ten years to become a successful industrialist who has the board of directors of the company that employs him eating out of his hand. He adores his wife Irene (Helen Walker), whom he sometimes addresses as Softy, and earns enough to keep her in fine style and to buy her expensive jewellery and flowers. However, unbeknown to Walter, his affection is not reciprocated. Irene has grown bored with him and is having an affair with Jim Torrance (Tony Barrett). The two of them hatch a plan to kill Walter in a staged car crash. But their scheme does not work out and Torrance is killed instead. Walter escapes to a small town known as Larkspur, gets a job as a garage mechanic and falls in love with the garage proprietor Marsha Peters (Ella Raines, whose role as a beautiful car mechanic stretches credulity almost to breaking point). At the same time he has begun gradually to piece together the details of his wife's duplicity. Things move on from there.Impact is not intended to be a serious film. It is essentially a pot-boiler whose only purpose is to provide 90 minutes or so of entertainment. On that basis, it is reasonably successful. Yes, elements of the plot are frankly ridiculous and rely far too much on coincidence. The film looks technically prehistoric by today's standards in that many outdoor scenes are clearly filmed in a studio with an appropriate backdrop that, to modern viewers, will simply be unconvincing and amateurish. But that is perhaps an unfair criticism of a film that was made more than 60 years ago. The acting and the direction are competent enough, without standing out in any way. Impact is an enjoyable, if forgettable, film. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Didn't strike me as that good","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This noir would have been better if you couldn't see the plot twists from a mile away.Did anyone believe that Williams could be such a savvy businessman and such a pushover for his manipulative wife? Or that sleazy Torrance wasn't gonna whack Williams as soon as he got him alone on a lonely stretch of that road? Or that the Raines character wasn't gonna snag Williams from the second he saw her toothy grin? The crash scene was a surprise, but just about everything else in this film was way too predictable.It's ironic to me that Helen Walker took a role in a car-crash film -- called Impact, no less -- when she had nearly trashed her career in a vehicle accident a few years earlier. I was also surprised to learn that Anna May Wong, who played the maid, is now viewed as an icon -- she was the first Asian-American female to make it big in Hollywood. (She could have phoned in her performance here, though that was probably the fault of the script.) I'm not sorry I saw this but I don't think I'll remember it. "},{"Title":"Low expectations/ high impact","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" For such an astute tycoon who digs manipulation, Brian Donlevy sure can't read women.  That plot defect aside, this is an interesting film with some surprises.  Now we categorize it as film noir and it probably qualifies although purists might dispute the classification.  After all, Charles Coburn (that's Piggy from A Girl's Best Friend)isn't exactly your hard-boiled flatfoot and the small-town scenes are indeed Capra-esque as other reviewers here point out.  Some good shots  of 1940's life in San Francisco along with an intriguing driving sequence.  But let's not give the plot away.  Brian Donlevy does alright for himself in this one.  By the way, which sharp-eyed viewer can identify where Curly Jo Howard does a non-Stooge turn  in this picture?  Watch carefully or you'll miss it.  "},{"Title":"First half great, Second half not so.","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Impact has a great title and an exciting, engrossing beginning. Oh yeah, this is going to be a sleeper. Brian Donlevy is the unwitting hypotenuse in a triangle with his wife and her boyfriend and is slated for demolition. Sound good so far? Well, it is.But then the tables get turned and the film turns into a soap opera. What a shame, and what a letdown, as he starts a new life under an alias, settles down, meets a girl, etc., etc.I was right, in a sense, because it becomes a sleeper - that is, a picture you can fall asleep watching. This picture had so much promise and bogged down into a run-of-the-mill programmer halfway through. There were some interesting shots of 40's San Francisco and some nice acting turns, especially Helen Walker as the perfidious wife and Charles Coburn as the persistent Detective. What this film needed was a different Director.A good idea gone boring. Was trying for a 7 rating but couldn't do it. "},{"Title":"Superb representation of post-war, 1940's, B flick (film and stars) super-NOIR","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Brian Donlevey and Ella Raines are both quintessential examples of the 1940's film noir, 'B' picture stars. Often, even in this genre, and always in Technicolor presentations, they were second bananas to some more famous star, such as Alan Ladd, Geraldine Fitzgerald, etc, - although Raines got more films positioned nearer the top than did Donlevy.Here, though, they are the leads, and playing characters not exactly the most original. She's the good girl, struggling to make a go of her business, after tragically losing her young husband. He's the big shot, who escapes a potentially tragic demise, but acquires amnesia. An automotive mogul, living in the most expensive area of San Francisco, his amnesiac alter-ego lands in a small town; bereft of memory, and one doesn't need to guess where or with whom..His memory lapse hasn't robbed him of these automotive skills and knowledge. She just happens to be running an automotive repair service, and apparently doesn't even know the difference between a radiator cap and a steering wheel. Who helps her out, and who fall in love with one another? You probably already guessed.Of course, the climax occurs late in the film, when he finally returns to San Francisco, and all sorts of chicanery resume on the part of his duplicitous wife, who orchestrated the circumstances leading to his problems in the first place.I love these old noir films - not just for the stories, and nostalgic showing our country decades ago - but for some of the inevitable scenes which were included. I had to be away from the TV for a few minutes during this recent airing, and I am certain I missed one of my favorite parts - Brian driving in a convertible, top down, hot weather (no air conditioning then), but with tie firmly knotted, fedora on his head speeding down the highway at maximum speed, with nary a flutter on his hat's brim.I remember seeing Edward G. Robinson in an old movie. I don't recall which one, but he was a mobster, on the lam, and hiding out in a remote motor court (there's a term about as common today as buggy whip). Again probably 85 degrees, no a.c., and he's hiding-out in the country, for cripes sake. Yet, in one scene, he goes outside, revolver in his hand, to investigate a suspicious noise. And there stands Edward G., dress slacks high on his pear-shaped mid-section, almost to his armpits; starched white shirt, and tie firmly knotted.Scenes like this, reminiscent of by gone times, add immeasurably to this film genre, almost as much as the performances "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Whoever thought that Brian Donlevy, usually a villain in films, could pull it off with a compelling performance as a faithful, successful husband to an apparent faithless wife who plots his demise with her lover. Of course, things go awry and the lover is killed instead.Donlevy goes into hiding a finds true love in another state at a job way below his capabilities. He does this to gain revenge on the faithless wife who is eventually tried for murder. Changing his mind, he returns only to have the wife turn the tables on him as he accused of killing her lover instead.Charles Coburn is miscast here as the detective who believed Donlevy. "},{"Title":"Storyline is good, acting leaves much to be desired.","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" Yes, I know my review contrasts the majority of the other reviews. However, I love noirs and am used to the high octane, twists and turns of a Hitchcock thriller. Charles Coburn is always a delight to watch on the screen. And Donlevy is acceptable as the lead character but the rest of the characters are stiff, unimaginable, without depth and awfully predictable. The music is too sappy when the protagonist male and female characters are together. It's simply painful to watch. Imagine how fabulous this movie could have been if Hitch had decided to create a real movie out of this! "}{"Title":"This is great Noir!","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This is an exceptional example of Film Noir. While it doesn't have the usual sort of criminal such as mobsters or corrupt cops, it still definitely noir. It stars Brian Donlevy as a very successful man--at least when it comes to business. What he doesn't realize is that loving wife is a cheap tramp--and one who has conspired with her lover to kill Donlevy! One day, his wife asks him to pick up her cousin who has arrived by bus. However, this is actually her lover--and the plan if for him to kill the husband. But, the guy botches the job and is himself killed in a fiery accident involving a fuel truck. His body is so badly burned and he was driving Donlevy's car--so the authorities assume the dead guy was Donlevy. As for Donlevy, he's been bashed over the head and left for dead but managed to struggle to escape. Later, he realizes that the wife was responsible and instead of going home, he sets out to make a new life for himself. He meets a sweet lady and things start to look up for him--especially when he reads in the paper that now the police suspect his wife was responsible for his death! And, the DA has indicted her for murder! Well, Donlevy is quite pleased--the tramp is getting what she deserves. But, of course, things DON'T just end this way. See this exciting film. It is cleverly written, well acted and well worth your time. Plus, having the likes of Charles Coburn and Ella Raines in supporting roles gives the film some nice color. See this one if you love Noir--like I do.By the way, although it didn't change my overall rating, the car crash scene was a bit cheesy--as it was very obvious they were using models. "},{"Title":"A Sleeping Giant","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This classic film noir takes some themes from Fritz Lang's classic Fury and exploits them a little farther.It's not a mob after Spencer Tracy who think they've done him in. Here we have a rich businessman, a bored wife and a young lover who plot to get rid of the husband. But Tony Barrett the lover bungles the job and he gets killed when a train plows into his car.As it turns out husband Brian Donlevy is only knocked unconscious from a hit on the head from a tire iron. But everyone thinks he's dead and dogged police detective Charles Coburn arrested wife Helen Walker and charges with conspiracy to murder Donlevy.Donlevy is now several states away and living simply as a garage mechanic working and falling in love with Ella Raines. Donlevy underplays his role very well, a man numbed by the fact that his wife had actually plotted to murder him.Sounds a whole lot like the issues covered in Fury on a personal level. There are a few more twists and turns in Impact however and they make the film an undiscovered sleeper in the noir genre. Not to be missed if it is ever broadcast. "},{"Title":"what impact?","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" A classic example of a good movie gone bad, with a promising start let down by its disappointing and conventional conclusion. Pity, too, with the talent involved, especially Helen Walker, whose part is the best one in the film. For a film about a cheating wife and a cuckolded husband, it manages to avoid so many juicy possibilities, especially in Donlevy's case, as he never knew what hit him and thus can't portray the tortured jealousy of a man in that position. Putting the plot over the emotions, the film becomes a mere police detective story that ultimately and inevitably gets to the bottom of the case, with a twist or two thrown in for good measure. "},{"Title":"a promising premise, a tremendous letdown","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":"  Impact starts off boldly with a voice-over definition from the dictionary of the word impact; as two lives colliding for good or for evil. While this may seem like a cheesy introduction to the film, I was willing to give it a shot.The first half of the film is feverish, and weaves us into a plot involving a wife who sets up her husband to get murder so she can elope with her lover. The film adequately succeeds in laying the groundwork for a promising and clever finish (after a simple plot twist in the middle of the film).Sadly, any energy or suspense in the first half of the film dissolves into a slow-paced, lethargic love story that distracts greatly from livelier main plot. By the end, the director is left juggling too many themes and I simply became disinterested.Also, there were several nagging questions left to be answered as one watched the film (one of the large ones being how could the police not explore all motives or situations surrounding the murder? how come no one reads newspapers in small towns?).Impact hardly delivers the punch it promises and deflates slowly but surely. "},{"Title":"Imitation Film Noir","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Film-Noir","Review":" This film tries to be Film Noir but just doesn't make it.When I started watching it I could have sworn it was from the late 30's or early 40's, partly due to the poor quality print. When I realized that it was from the late 40's I was shocked.The plot is actually quite good until the end, which was a dreadful anticlimax.There are two main problems with this film, one is the obviously very poor direction, the other is that Brian Donlevy's character is far to mild mannered.Brian Donlevy was a great actor, strong willed and forceful. Check out Beau Geste. In this film, even though he starts out to be a businessman who doesn't take no for an answer, he turns out to be a wimp. Poor writing.A wimp is not what is needed in the second half of this film and wimps do not belong in film noir.Charles Coburn was a fine actor and could be gruff when he needed to be. This role called for a hardened detective, instead he acts like Shirley Temple's kindly grandfather. Poor direction.Ella Raines and Helen Walker did a good job, though I think Ella's character should have gotten stronger and nastier after she found out that her husband was alive and her lover was dead. Again, poor direction.Anna May Wong should have quit when sound came in.I believe Mae Marsh to have been a good sound actress but she never got a chance to prove it. She had all but retired from acting until the stock market crash wiped her out. She doesn't seem to have wanted to be an actress and was relegated to uncredited mother roles when she had to return to make money. Mae did a good job in this role as in the other small parts that I have seen her in. Now back to the biggest problem with this film, the ending.Brian Donlevy's lawyer tells his wife that he can prove that she is guilty. Charges are dropped against him, brought against her, The End.The writer seems to have been late for an engagement and just hammered out a quick end.This could have been a great film with some touching up of the script and a better director. "}]