[{"Title":"An lesser-known and underrated Hitchcock masterpiece!","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"48 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a real shame (and also rather difficult to believe) that this film is so little-known and difficult to view.  Even though it was directed by the famous Alfred Hitchcock (in my opinion, the most brilliant film director who ever lived), it has too often been dismissed as one of his lesser works.  To each his own, I suppose, but _Under Capricorn_ boasts some of the most beautiful photography and eloquent, literate dialogue to be found in any Hitchcock film.  Although the plot and structure of the film are familiar (the quintessential love triangle, ala _Wuthering Heights_), Hitchcock's treatment raises it above the ordinary.  The costumes and sets are actually quite lavish, and pay particular attention to the unique musical score! Hitchcock's experiments with the ten-minute take (with which he experimented in his previous film, _Rope_) also add to the film's interest. The film is not, of course, an artistic triumph for Hitchcock alone. Ingrid Bergman and Joseph Cotten (to name only two) are stars of the caliber that one just doesn't see anymore, and they give worthy performances. Casting Ingrid Bergman as an Irish noblewoman is, of course, rather bizarre casting against type, but this great actress makes it work.  Joseph Cotten possesses the rougher qualities that his part demands, but his performance also elicits sympathy from the viewer (such as the scene where he is going to present his wife with a collar of rubies but then decides to hide his gift when she and Charles Adair comment that it wouldn't go with her gown). The other actors, mostly little-known to American audiences, fill their roles well more than adequately and the very fact that they are unfamiliar makes them easier for the viewer to see as the characters they play rather than as stars. All in all, _Under Capricorn_ is an underrated masterpiece that is surely one of the best costume pictures of the 1940s.  It is not for anyone seeking vicarious thrills or shocks, but for discriminating viewers who demand a coherent storyline, color photography that is aesthetically pleasing, literate dialogue and interesting casting, _Under Capricorn_ will fill the bill.  I recommend it enthusiastically!  "},{"Title":"Watch it and try not to compare...","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If your approach to reviewing this movie is to compare it with Hitchcock's usual style, Under Capricorn will surely not compare. If, however, you can suspend your expectations and view it with an open eye and mind, you might see that, in its own right, it is an excellent film of the type I refer to as the Victorian soap opera. Being an aficionado of this genre, perhaps I'm biased; but I enjoyed immensely the leisurely pace, extended dialog (which unlike other reviewers, I found to be intelligent, graceful, and poetic). I found it to be gently suspenseful, never really being sure who would get the girl in the end, or even who might survive to the end.Joseph Cotton was appealing, even though his character throughout much of the movie seemed to be villainous, and his reasons for being that way were quite apparent by the end of the film. My suspension of disbelief centered around Bergman's casting as an Irish aristocrat once in awhile she managed to say a word that had an Irish flavor, but mostly she just sounded Swedish. However, that did not detract at all from her usual thoughtful performance. Michael Wilding irritated me a little with his foppish ways, yet even he managed to come off as a human being with faults and virtues...just like the rest of us. Leighton was superb and she, like Cotton, seemed to be a treacherous yet sympathetic character. I think it was the portrayals of complicated people with no one being painted as totally good or bad, the nuanced characterizations that I found so artistic yet real.If you approach this movie without preconceptions, you might be drawn into it and appreciate Hitchcock's genius in an entirely different way. "},{"Title":"An Odd Misfire From A Great Director","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" With a great director, a good cast, and a relatively interesting premise, it's surprising that this doesn't work better than it does. The Australian setting has potential, as does Joseph Cotten's character and the tangle of relationships in his household. But, despite some good scenes, it never really comes together, and even when things start to happen, it never feels as if it has hit its stride.There's little fault to be found with the settings, which are convincing enough. Some of the characters never really come to life, but there is still an interesting mix of them. The pace is one area that definitely could have been improved, and the pre-occupation with the long takes certainly doesn't help at all. The technique worked very well in Hitchcock's Rope, because it meshed with the setting and the subject matter. It doesn't fit so well here in Under Capricorn, and it often dilutes the suspense rather than increasing it.By no means is it a total clinker - the story does have some interesting parts, and with a different approach it could have been suspenseful, even memorable. Hitchcock's technical skill is still present in many respects, and even Hitchcock's lesser achievements are still worth seeing.The movie's overly-polished feel is consistent with the approach that was chosen. It's at least one case where the more familiar, less affected Hitchcock style would have resulted in a much better film. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's least interesting film. Not surprising that it was a massive flop.","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"40 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Transatlantic Pictures (Hitchcock's own production company) must've rubbed their hands with glee when they decided to co-produce this film with Warner Bros. For not only did they have the world's leading female actress (Ingrid Bergman) in their film, they also had gifted stars Joseph Cotten, Michael Wilding and Margaret Leighton lending support, and naturally the great Alfred Hitchcock at the helm. If ever a film was sure to be a critical and commercial hit, Under Capricorn was it. Such a shame, then, that Under Capricorn emerged as the worst film of Hitchcock's career. The critics roasted it, the public ignored it, and Transatlantic Pictures went bust.Irish aristocratic lady Henrietta (Bergman) elopes to Australia with her cruel lover Sam Flusky (Cotten). She gradually develops the illness dipsomania, what with her lover controlling her every move with over-bearing authority and their maid Milly (Leighton) plying her with drink. A childhood friend of Henrietta's, Charles Adare (Wilding) turns up and, realising pretty quickly that all is not well, tries to help her regain a sense of stability.The film is a laughably overwrought costume melodrama, totally ill-suited to Hitchcock's playful, suspenseful directing style. A year previously, the director had made the thriller Rope, using experimental ten minute takes, and in this film he still seems to be in the habit of allowing scenes to go on and on (maybe not ten minutes, but some bits last for six or seven minutes without a single cut). Frequently, the film feels tediously unspooled as a result. The actors seem to over-act much of the time, but it's hard to see how they could've avoided this as much of the screenplay requires them to handle some horribly overripe dialogue and reactions. Under Capricorn is undoubtedly the least interesting film that Hitchcock ever made. Those who try to persuade us that it is a misunderstood masterpiece are, I'm sorry to report, well and truly kidding themselves.  "},{"Title":"Underrated and beautifully photographed","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While certainly uncharacteristic of Hitchcock's American films this film still has the Master's unmistakable imprint. Joseph Cotton is excellent in his role as a common man who resents the upper class of which he can never be a part. The rest of the actors do a fine job including Ingrid Bergman's turn as Cotton's drunk half mad wife. Perhaps the best and most interesting aspect of the film is the gorgeous Technicolor cinematography by Jack Cardiff. Cardiff who is probably best known for his work with Powell and Pressburger does a great job bringing the rich color of this period piece to the screen. The camera work is also characteristically Hitchcock with many long traveling shots with wonderfully complex compositions. The pace is slow and lacking suspense, but the characters and the situations are interesting and make the film work despite the pacing problems. Certainly not one of Hitchcock's strongest films, but definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hitchcocks Greatest?","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"39 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Under Capricorn, is along with Notorious, I Confess and Rear Window Hitchcocks greatest film.  Under Capricorn has been greatly under appreciated mainly because it was a commercial failure and because Hitchcock talked the movie down saying that he only made it for Ingrid Bergman.   The truth is that he had been working on getting it made for years, would he really put his production company under pressure on it's second project with a $2.5 million budget if he didn't care for it.  Maybe part of its mixed reputation is because it's not a thriller, being a character driven movie, at just under two hours long its not you're typical Hitchcock movie.  But the story is revealed in a wonderful way, with such a great romantic feeling that I'm amazed that it's not more highly thought off by the general public. If there ever was a more beautifully film movie I've never seen it. Ingrid Bergman is as she always is, brilliant; her 10-minuet scene in which she tells wilding the whole story of what happened is pure magic.  Another great moment is when Bergman has locked herself in her room and wilding comes through her window.  Joseph Cotton is also on top form.  Really all that I've got left to say is if you haven't yet seen this film and you get the chance to don't waste that chance.  I wish it would come out on DVD or video I've nearly worn my copy out. "},{"Title":"Uninspired and dull...","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Soon after this film began, it was obvious why this is one of the least famous of Hitchcock's films of the era. First, there really isn't any mystery or suspense--it's just a costume drama. Second, and I am surprised no one else seemed to pick up on this, but the film looked ugly despite the nice costumes and sets. This is because it looks like everything was shot in a sound stage--even the outdoor shots. In addition, the matte paintings are among the least realistic and ugly I have ever seen. It just too me out of the mood to see sloppy and flat paintings which were supposed to be mansions.The film is set in 1831 in the colony of Australia. Oddly, the film stars an American (Joseph Cotton), a Swede (Ingrid Bergman) and an Englishman who plays an Irishman (Michael Wilding). Wilding is a poor relative of the new Governor and is looking for a way to earn his fortune in this new land. He meets up with the brooding Cotton--who is immensely wealthy and an ex-convict (of course, MOST of Australia was settled by convicts during this period). But, when he goes to dinner at Cotton's home, he sees that he knows the man's wife (Bergman). Sadly, she is an alcoholic--and a pathetic one at that. So, Wilding makes it his job to help rehabilitate her--and obviously falls for her in the process. Standing in the way is the contemptible Milly--the housekeeper who does a great job of keeping house but also seems to enjoy keeping the mistress of the house drunk and ineffectual. She is a viper--and much like the crazed housekeeper in Rebecca. In addition, the husband is a deeply screwed up man--and this becomes obvious the more his wife tries to regain normality. In other words, he and the housekeeper both seem to be working very hard to keep her an emotional invalid.This is a pretty dull and ponderous film from start to finish. While it could have been interesting, oddly it wasn't. Intense music and great twists, signs of Hitchcock, are strangely absent in this slow, slow, slow film. It just lumbers along to its conclusion. Truly a disappointment and indifferently made --and you just can't believe a director as talented as Hitchcock could make such an uninspired film. It's not terrible...just not very good or interesting. "},{"Title":"To be proper.. a bit of a let down, I'd say.","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a lover of Hitchcock I couldn't take 2 viewings of this one.  The story has potential but the  characters are horribly developed.  The acting is fine, since the cast was superb.  However, I  wouldn't have wanted to be an actor in this one.  Without spoiling, there is just too much  anger without explanation.  Too many characters lack character.  The utter blindness of the  leads to the glaring and painful flaws in the antagonists is almost comical.  Finally, the  sudden restoration of everyone's honesty and peace in the last scene is intolerable.  A story  is believable if the characters act like real humans would act.  This film is an attempt to fool  the viewer into thinking that a leopard can change it's spots in the blink of an eye!  It is  interesting to note that, even in a melodramatic story driven piece, Hitch still found a place  for the falsely accused in the plot.  Hitchcock was great, there will never be an equal, but,  even he made a dud.. makes me feel better about myself! "},{"Title":"A Melodramatic Romance by Alfred Hitchcock","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1831, the new Governor (Cecil Parker) arrives in Sydney, Australia, with his noble but broken Irish cousin Charles Adare (Michael Wilding). On the next morning, Charles unsuccessfully goes to the local bank expecting to raise money to start a business and he meets the powerful landowner Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotton), an ex-convict that has raised a fortune in the colony. Sam proposes a business with lands with him and invites Charles to have dinner with him at his farm. Charles learns that Sam is not accepted by the local society but he goes to the dinner party, where he meets Sam's wife Henrietta Flusky (Ingrid Bergman), an old acquaintance of his childhood in Ireland. Sooner Charles discovers that Henrietta is alcoholic and a totally unstable woman controlled by the housekeeper Milly (Margaret Leighton), and Sam was the groom of her family in Ireland. They had fallen in love with each other and Henrietta elopes with Sam. However, her brother hunts them and Sam kills him and is deported to Australia. Charles stays in Sam's farm to help Henrietta and sooner he falls in love with her. Meanwhile Sam is manipulated by Milly and his jealousy gets him into trouble and discloses dark secrets from his past with Henrietta.Under Capricorn is a melodramatic romance by Alfred Hitchcock set in Australia in 1831, in the period of colonization of this great nation by convicts from the United Kingdom. The genre is unusual in the career of the master of suspense, but supported by magnificent cinematography and cast, highlighting Ingrid Bergman, Joseph Cotton, Michael Wilding and Margaret Leighton in a small but very important role. This film is not among my favorite Hitchcock's film and could be shorter. However it is worthwhile watching it to see some aspects to the colonization of Australia. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Sob o Signo de Capricórnio (Under the Capricorn Sign) "},{"Title":"Shockingly awful Hitchcock","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unusual genre change for Hitchcock, a suspense-less western, crossed with romance and costume drama/ stage play, in the Land Down Under.Long and lumbering mess of a movie, with Hitchcock more interested in setting up lengthy tracking shots than anything else. In the previous year's Rope, Hitchcock used the same trick to good effect, but here it seems to have no purpose, no relation to the story. In Rope, the long, unedited takes resembled an unblinking, all seeing eye.Here, it seems like the same unblinking, all-seeing eye refuses to look away, even though it knows it should have looked away long ago.The long, unedited takes look like master shots, or even just raw footage. It becomes somewhat hypnotic, dulling the senses to the dull screen story. It feels like we are just blankly staring into space, completely unaware of what is happening, but too bored to even look away. (Is that what the cinematographer felt?) It's like we are carrying on a dull conversation with someone, and that someone refuses to break eye contact, like they are waiting for us to suddenly become interested in the proceedings. A few close-ups were needed to bring out more detail, in the settings and performances, but as it is, it seems like the filmmakers couldn't even bother to do much editing.The set designs and costumes all look good, but that cannot support the entire movie on its own. The film could have benefited (slightly) from on-location photography, but everything was filmed on soundstages in California.Starts slowly, but then it looks as though it may get going and become interesting, but then it fizzles away, all within its first half hour. It doesn't really even have Hitchcock's usual sense of humour to liven the proceedings. A complete waste. Probably one of the few Hitchcock films that I could not sit through a second time. "}{"Title":"Under Capricorn","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of Hitchcock's very best films.1831 Irishman Charles Adare arrives in Australia to make his fortune, and soon hooks up with Sam Flusky, a wealthy landowner with a shady past and a business proposition. Ignoring the orders of his cousin, a local Governor, Charles continues to associate with Flusky and his alcoholic wife Henrietta, who was a friend of Charles' sister many years ago back in Ireland.The long takes the film is composed of are often masterful. Whereas his previous film Rope felt like a gimmicky experiment (albeit a successful one), here the technique is perfected, and actually serves a purpose. It widens the scope to allow the actors room to deliver fine performances, and to exploit the lavish sets. It also serves to narrow the scope, either to focus attention or withhold crucial information until the last moment (it's especially effective at these two). This focusing/concealing also adds to the sense of Bergman's isolation and entrapment in her environment, and allows for some of the film's best shots.I'm not a fan of Jack Cardiff, but his colour cinematography is considerably less jarring here than in his Powell-Pressburger outings, and although it does take a while to adjust the eyes, it's perfectly suited to the mood and setting.Ingrid Bergman delivers what I consider to be her best performance. Henrietta is frail and very vulnerable - a pathetic creature. Yet the strength and dignity that she once possessed is glimpsed at the outset, and gradually comes to the fore without ever completely displacing that vulnerability.Joseph Cotten likewise does an excellent job. His crippling inferiority complex dictates everything he does, and it's where the film gleans much of its drama. In his own way he's equally as pathetic as Henrietta; trapped in a different kind of mental prison. Sometimes he's unaware of his cruelty, believing himself to be doing the right thing; at others it's as if he can't help himself. He's a man who constantly tries to do good things, yet at every turn he's thwarted either by his own secret past, or his fear of that past. For a man so ostensibly powerful he's easy to knock down, and his reaction to these setbacks just reinforces his own negative perception of himself. This conflict is written on his every gesture and expression.Michael Wilding's performance as Charles is less technically brilliant, but as the carefree, opportunistic cad who sees in Henrietta the chance to do an act of great kindness he's wonderful. There is great humanity in all three leads, but it's most overt and infectious in Wilding. "},{"Title":"If people went to the theater to see a Hitchcock film, they must have thought they were in the wrong theater","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock veered out of his comfort zone several times in his career Mr. and Mrs. Smith, The Trouble with Harry, Topaz, some others, and it could be argued, the sumptuous Rebecca. Under Capricorn was produced by Hitchcock himself, is lovely to look at thanks to Jack Cardiff's cinematography, is well acted, and leaves one empty. It doesn't trade on Hitchcock's strong points.The story concerns a young man, Charles Adare (Michael Wilding) who comes from Ireland to Australia in 1831 and becomes involved with a wealthy landowner, Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotten), who wants to do business with him. Invited to dinner at his home, Charles meets Flusky's wife, Henrietta (Ingrid Bergman) whom he knew in Ireland when he was a child. Henrietta is in bad shape. The house is run by a disagreeable servant, Milly (Margaret Leighton), and Henrietta seems to be a big alcoholic. It's obvious that Sam still loves his wife very much, but he's frustrated as to how to help her. Charles feels that their bond from the old country may be able to help him get to her, and Sam allows him to try. Sam doesn't think ahead, and he is unable to realize how insecure and jealous this is going to make him.You wouldn't think with a cast like this and direction by Hitchcock that this thing could miss, but miss it does. It's pretty slow and boring. I shudder to think what it would have been like without Ingrid Bergman, who has the flashy role and does a beautiful job with it. Joseph Cotten is good, but may be a touch miscast - the role calls for less of a gentleman and more of someone with a tougher edge.One thing I can't understand is the emphasis here on Irish roots. Michael Wilding is as English as they come, and makes no attempt at an Irish brogue; neither does Ingrid Bergman do anything about her Swedish accent.This is a character-driven piece that doesn't have a fabulous script; Hitchcock was very plot-driven as a director. This is a bad fit. A noble experiment that lost a lot of money. "},{"Title":"Extravagant Failure","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Viewers who admire Costume Dramas and Stage Plays are likely to give this Hitchcock Film a pass or maybe even apply accolades. But, in truth, this is really a bore and a chore to get through.It is talky and purposely static in its composition of long takes, for what, who knows. It does pick up somewhat in the final third but by then snoozing Audiences will most likely not notice. It contains stiff performances and has a dull delivery and very slow pacing.Its only appeal is its controversy. Fans of the Director can squabble, and the French gave us their opinion that it is one of the best Films ever made (say what?), and it does have enough curious elements to make it worth one viewing.But be prepared for a long two hours and to top it off, most prints are faded and the glorious Technicolor that some are seeking remains lost in the Forties. So give it a go if you must, but no matter the talent involved it still remains a rather extravagant failure. "},{"Title":"Under Whelming","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1831 Australia, Irish businessman Michael Wilding (as Charles Adare) accepts a dinner invitation from now-wealthy emancipated ex-prisoner Joseph Cotten (as Sam Flusky). Odd things happen when director Alfred Hitchcock maneuvers Mr. Wilding into Mr. Cotten's mansion upon arrival, and all the male guests claim their wives are unable to attend due to various illnesses. Even the dinner hostess is said to be under the weather. However, she shows up unexpectedly in the form of Ingrid Bergman (as Henrietta Hattie Flusky). Drunk or not, Ms. Bergman recognizes Wilding as a childhood friend. He stays on, and the three uncover old secrets. As maid Milly, Margaret Leighton manages to milk something out of her part, but nobody can save this story from terminal dullness.**** Under Capricorn (9/8/49) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Ingrid Bergman, Joseph Cotten, Michael Wilding, Margaret Leighton "},{"Title":"The worst Hitchcock I have ever watched .....","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dear Alfred Hitchcock, My god man! I never thought you could make such tedious melodramatic crap. Ingrid Bergman hams it up as Lady Henrietta Flusky. I have never wished for the quick death of such a beautiful actress. Even a strong cast comprising Joseph Cotten and Michael Wilding cannot save this one. The plot is so convoluted, it should have stayed a play and never been made into a film. This is by far your worst film.If it wasn't for the beautiful and painting like quality of some of the visuals, I would have rated this a 1 on 10. And Joseph Cotten does put in a decent performance.Best Regards, Pimpin. "},{"Title":"An acceptable melodrama but sadly not much more","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is 1831 and Irishman Charles Adare travels to the forming country of Australia with his cousin who is taking up the position of Governor. Seeking his fortune, Adare settles with bad company when he meets the former criminal-made-good, Flusky and accepts an invitation to his home. When Adare meets Flusky's wife he remembers her as a child growing up in Ireland. However it appears that Lady Flusky is disliked an avoided by her peers because she is an alcoholic and her own house is run by maid Milly while she hides in the corners. Adare's attempts to get Henrietta to return to her former self causes tensions and buried secrets to be unearthed.I leave the debate over whether this is Hitchcock's worst film to those that debate such things and try to list everything &#150; comparing apples and potatoes seemingly for the sake of it. As surprising as it may be, I'm not one of those but I can understand why this film has been labelled such by others because it is surprisingly run-of-the-mill for that great director. The story is soapy etc on the surface but it had great dark potential with so many threads and emotions floating around. It is surprising then that none of them are made more of and the film just sticks with the genre by becoming nothing more than an acceptable period melodrama. There is still just about enough about it to make you remember that this was from Hitchcock but I was disappointed by how straight-down-the-line it actually was in the end. The direction is still good though, with nice camera movements and shots, and the sets are colourful enough to fit the genre (if not the spirit of birthing Australia).The cast try hard but nobody can lift the material all by themselves. To his credit, Cotton tries hard with a brooding and dark performance but he can't do it alone. Bergman is good and could have done wonders with a much more complex character, in the end what she has to deliver is nothing special and just melodrama. I didn't care for Wilding; his performance wasn't up to much and I dn't think he eld his own that well alongside Cotton and Bergman. Support from Parker and Leighton is solid but they aren't given that much to do.Overall then this is a serviceable enough melodrama but it is easy to see why fans of Hitchcock would be forgiven for expecting more to have been made of it. The cast is good and the potential is there in the story but, aside from a steady hand and a few interesting touches, this is really just a genre melodrama that could have been more than it was. "},{"Title":"Beautiful to watch but overwrought and dull, one of my least favourite Hitchcocks","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" None of Alfred Hitchcock's films are terrible, even his weakest film(for me) Jamaica Inn. But that is not to say that Hitchcock, my favourite director, hasn't done any disappointing work, Jamaica Inn, The Paradine Case and this were. Under Capricorn is a very beautifully made film, as with all Hitchcock's films with the cinematography being Under Capricorn's best quality and the costumes and sets are very sumptuous. There are times where the score is not as fitting with the mood as it could have been, but much of it did and the score itself is marvellously orchestrated and overall very effective as a score. Ingrid Bergman is very good in a sensitive and magnetic performance, out of this and Spellbound I felt she was a little better here. Michael Wilding doesn't have much to do but gives his all and is very handsome. Margaret Leighton steals the film, wonderfully vicious she is. Under Capricorn does have its failings though. Hitchcock is one of cinema's greatest, but there isn't much in Under Capricorn to allow him to bring his own style to it, to the extent that like Jamaica Inn it didn't feel like a Hitchcock film. Joseph Cotten for me was miscast, too stiff and too much like a gentleman with not enough of the brooding persona that his character should have been, the latter of which he did successfully bring to Shadow of a Doubt so I don't know what happened here. The script has a lot of talk but a lot of it comes across as corny, emotionally cold and overwrought, while the story, the subject matter of which is actually great, is executed in ponderous and overly melodramatic fashion and seems rather thin also. Complex it is, but this is done with not that much depth. With the cast, the characters could have been interesting but suffered from being underwritten and characterless. In conclusion, well made but lacking and disappointing. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Deadly Dull Drama","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" An Irishman engages in land deals in 19th century Australia in this unbelievably dull costume drama. This is not only the worst film Hitchcock made, but among the worst ever made by anybody. It gets off to a talky start and never becomes the least bit interesting. It is hard to fathom what attracted the Master of Suspense to this script, as it is devoid of any suspense, thrills, or drama. Bergman and Cotten, each of whom had successfully worked with Hitchock previously, are wasted here. In fact, this might be Bergman's worst performance. There's only one moment in the film that is noteworthy and it consists of a single shot in Bergman's bedroom. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming Capricorn","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" An oddball in Hitchcock's filmography, Under Capricorn has inspired scoffing detractors and passionate defenders over the years. Even though it's a melodrama about living with guilt rather than a typical Hitchcock suspense thriller, I was prepared to give it the benefit of the doubt. After all, there's nothing inherently foolish about the subject matter, and at least Hitchcock is still exploring guilt, one of his favorite themes. Setting the movie in Australia during the penal-colony era lends a great potential for danger and drama&#151;which it fails to exploit. Instead, Under Capricorn is a sedate, weighty costume piece. Though the acting is good and there are some gorgeous images, these ultimately don't mean much because there isn't enough of a reason to care about the characters and story.The problems start with the character of Charles Adare (Michael Wilding), a young man who comes to Australia to seek his fortune. He's the type of guy who'd make good comic relief but isn't suited to be the protagonist of a movie a lazy, cheery, empty-headed aristocrat. Through Charles, we get introduced to some more interesting people ex-convict Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotten) and his drunken, self-loathing wife Henrietta (Ingrid Bergman). Charles realizes that he knew Henrietta during childhood and tries to rehabilitate her, which causes long-repressed secrets and emotions to come to the surface. But since none of the characters initially engages our sympathy&#151;Sam is brusque, Charles is a lightweight, and Henrietta is a mess&#151;it's difficult to care about any of this.Hitchcock experimented with long takes in this movie, most notably an unbroken 8-minute- long monologue where Henrietta finally divulges her guilty secret. In one sense, this is the high point of the movie a chance to marvel at Bergman's talent as she cycles through her emotional range without the camera ever cutting away. But in another sense, this scene displays everything that's wrong with Under Capricorn. Henrietta's story is full of exciting passion and violence, but none of that emotion shows up during the rest of the movie. And the performers (including Bergman, Cotten, and Margaret Leighton, who plays a sinister maid) are at their best during their long monologues, not when they interact with one another.Under Capricorn is not a horrible movie, just a dull one, so if you're curious about this anomaly in Hitchcock's catalog, there's no harm in spending two hours watching it. But, certainly, this movie would be forgotten today if anyone else had directed it. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  UNDER CAPRICORN has always been dismissed, as Hitchcocks failure nr.1. Its not true (none of his film was failures) Hitchcock made a lot of masterpieces, therefore even a good film by him, would be dismissed. UC is a very strange Hitchcock film, but beautiful and interesting. Ingrid Bergman, who was briliant in NOTORIOUS and SPELLBOUND is not good in the leading role (she was said to be unconfortable under the shooting). Cotten is best, a very underrated actor. Its not one of Hitch masterpieces, but less can do it. 7/10 "}{"Title":"The Master Of Suspense Tries His Hand at Melodrama","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn is not Hitchcock's best film (Rear Window), nor is it his worst film (Topaz). It falls somewhere in the middle. It is, I believe, an experiment. Hitchcock was well established as a master director by 1949. So why would he abandon familiar territory to make an ordinary melodrama. I believe I can sum it up in two words Ingrid Bergman.The film is set in 1831, in Australia. It focuses on Michael Wilding's Charles Adare. He is a sly young Irishman set to make his fortune down under. His relative is the Governor, so he is rather upper class. He has a chance encounter with Joseph Cotten's Sam Flusky. Cotten takes him under his wing, proposing a strange business plan and inviting Wilding to his house for dinner. The Governor disapproves. Flusky is an ex-convict, not someone Wilding should be seen with. Nevertheless Wilding attends the dinner and discovers Cotten's crazy wife is an old friend from the old country. The wife is played by Ingrid Bergman. Wilding strikes up a friendship with Cotten and decides to try and help Bergman.The film itself is nothing special. Bergman overacts, Cotten underacts and Wilding is simply annoying. The direction seems sloppy, especially for Hitchcock. The whole film seems rather unsure. I caught it one afternoon on TCM and the quality was terrible. The color was faded and the sound would pop and crackle. Being a devout Hitchcock fan, I was horribly disappointed. I wondered why it was made, and then I realized. As soon as Bergman is introduced, the film switches gears, and instead of focusing on Wilding, the film is all about Bergman. I believe Hitchcock made the film for Bergman. When you watch Spellbound and Notorious, you can tell that Bergman is generally the focus of the camera, it keeps drifting to her. Sometimes it works, but not in this case.That's not to say the film doesn't have it's good points. Margaret Leighton is very good as Milly, the maid who's madly in love with Cotten, and will do anything to have him. The cinematography is average, but not bad. The sets are very nice, and nicely constructed. Sadly however, that is the extent of the films good points. Bergman is, as always beautiful, but she seems unfocused and distracted. She compensates by overacting. Cotten looks plain silly in his period clothes, and compensates for being bored in the role, by being bored on screen. Wilding's character is boring, and always delivers his lines in the same self-satisfied voice.Overall, it's not bad, it's just not very good. "},{"Title":"Technically interesting but bad movie","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1831, there's a new governor of Australia. His second cousin Charles Adare (Michael Wilding) accompanies him on his new post. He meets powerful landowner and ex-convict Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotten) who worked hard to get where he is now. Charles is eager to make his own fortune and Sam offers him an opportunity to buy some land. Flusky's wife Henrietta (Ingrid Bergman) is an alcoholic bordering on madness in the face of her cold-hearted husband.Director Alfred Hitchcock is doing long uncut scenes again but this time, it lacks the excitement of something interesting. It's definitely not the crowd pleasing thrillers that he's known for. This is more of a costume drama. There are some interesting camera movements but that's all the audience can hold onto. It's not that the camera movements improve the movie. It's just interesting technically. The movie is a bad costume drama reminiscent of old British translations of stage plays. The lack of cuts make it hard to concentrate. In Rope, there was far fewer characters. This is just an unfocused run-on sentence. The best compliment I can make about this movie is that it's a failed experiment. "},{"Title":"Plodding melodramatic disappointment from Hitchcock","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's rare that I don't enjoy an Alfred Hitchcock film, particularly those which were made after 1939. But there were a few I didn't like -- the gimmicky The Birds and To Catch a Thief (despite the presence of my favorite actor, Cary Grant). And now I can add this film. Thank goodness Hitchcock didn't usually make period pieces.It's particularly disappointing considering what a great director Hitchcock typically was; a very good cast including Joseph Cotton, Ingrid Bergman, and Michael Wilding; the setting of prisoner-infested Australia; and a relatively interesting premise. 30 minutes into the film I was still waiting for something interesting to happen. I only stuck with it because of Hitchcock and the cast.The almost constant background music is distracting and annoying. The print that is shown on TCM is in unusually poor condition, almost blurry, rather ruining a viewing (not to mention the faded color). Quite a few Hitchcock movies have cheap looking backdrops, and this was made by Hitchcock's own production company, so the backdrops are even poorer looking than usual.The plot could have been done well, but is executed in a plodding manner until the last 20 minutes when it gets a bit interesting. There are some plot twists at the beginning of that 20 minute period, but even then this is not the most interesting of movies.Frankly, the performances are almost depressing, as well.I can't recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Under Capricorn is Below Sea Level **1/2","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" To think, Joseph Cotten had to be loaned out to play in this rather drab, moody, boring piece.It takes place in 1831 Sydney, Australia. Ingrid Bergman plays Henrietta, a woman who married beneath herself. She wed Cotten, a stable hand. In the process, she killed her vicious brother who was out to get Cotten, and Cotten took the blame for the killing.The two seem to be comfortable now in a lovely home. All is well until the arrival of the new governor along with his cousin, Michael Wilding, rather stilted in this film.It seems that Wilding knew Henrietta in their childhood as his sister was friendly with her. He sees that Henrietta is depressed and rather drunk. He attempts to get her out of her doldrums.As Millie, the faithful head servant, Margaret Leighton steals the film. She is vicious and plants the seeds of jealousy in Cotten's head. Towards the end of the picture, it appears that Bergman is going through somewhat of what occurred in 1944's Gaslight.Bergman seems to over-act in this picture and Cotten doesn't seem to know where he is at. "},{"Title":"An unworthy movie of the suspense master","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the most debated movie made by Alfred Hitchcock, especially in France where it was for a long time regarded as his best movie. As far as I'm concerned, I think that it's a very difficult movie where you don't recognize the signature of a director who was already regarded as the specialist of suspense by the time the movie was launched. Here, you don't find any murder and therefore, no killer, no investigation, no suspense. Without a doubt, it disconcerted the public and the movie was a spectacular commercial failure. Under Capricorn is an impersonal movie too. It means that Alfred Hitchcock made it but it could have been shot by any director. I think about Douglas Sirk.Now concerning the movie, well it's hard to be interested in the story because it's very complex and it's just laboriously solving in the second part of the movie. The movie also drags on and is terribly talkative. Even an outstanding performance from the actors (especially Joseph Cotten) doesn't manage to save the movie from boredom.A dull and boring movie which just goes to show that even a terrific director can make mistakes.  "},{"Title":"A serious miscasting error ruined a potentially great piece","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why do I think this Hitchcock movie does not work? Well, for me, there is one main reason, and that's the terrible miscasting of Joseph Cotten as Sam Flusky. We are supposed to feel great sympathy for this man who apparently loves his woman greatly (e.g. he buys her such a nice ruby pendant, but treats her like trash in front of everybody at the governor's ball), who took responsibility for Henrietta's brother's murder (whom she apparently killed herself), and for whom Henrietta is so much in love and feels so much, despite the fact that we are not shown one atom of a reason why she should be so enamoured of that man. Sam is the epitome of dullness, brutality, roughness and he is a total bore. What the heck is Ingrid Bergman doing with that Neanderthalian equivalent of a husband anyway? Cotten was ideally cast as a cold-blooded killer disguised as a candy uncle in Shadow of a Doubt, but here, he is just plainly miscast and unable to evoke the kind of passion and devotion that she expresses for him even after he throws his rival Charles out of the house and into the dangers of the Australian plain at night like some piece of refuse. He is totally despicable, and poor Ingrid cannot evoke emotions in the viewer no matter how good she is in her role of a poor woman victim of life circumstances and who must rely on Sam the Brute, Sam the Still-Convict for her future, her very survival.And I am even more convinced about my theory that the first choice for filling Sam's role was none other than Burt Lancaster, who had to decline for lack of availability with his schedule (couldn't time travel back to New South Wales, XIXth century -)). Now just picture Burt side by side with Joseph, and tell me for whom would you feel sympathy despite all the misery he causes to his wife by being so totally cold and insensitive and just plain boring as ten nun's diaries ? Burt Lancaster had that aura of good and warmth around him, no matter how much of a villain or bad guy he was supposed to be in his roles. And he would have been ideal in that role ! Take his role in Birdman of Alcatraz as a dangerous criminal convicted for 2 murders (including one of the worst to society, i.e. killing a guard) who finds his redemption in veterinarian ornithology. What a clear demonstration that he would have done extremely well as a Sam Flusky ! I'm sure that Ingrid, who seems to me to have been a very bright woman, would have probably found it easier to make us believe in her pleas for her husband's innocence and well-being.As for me, I simply cannot penetrate through that thick wall of indifference that Cotten has so efficiently built between himself and the rest of the world. Therefore, I just couldn't espouse Ingrid's devotion and love for her iceberg-like husband. Burt was Hitchcock's real choice, and it seems to me that he (and Alma, who loved SOAD a great deal) just thought Joseph did so well in SOAD. He'll do Burt's part very well, I'm sure. And they gave the role to Cotten without perhaps considering some adaptations of the script to accommodate the dramatic difference in the type of character that Lancaster and Cotten evoked on the big screen. I know that changing a script to fit a different actor might not have been Hitchcock's cup of tea (I mean, does anybody talk softly to cattle before sending them to the slaughterhouse ?). But in this case, it might have made the difference between a minor film in Hitch's legacy and one of the caliber of Rope, for instance.Yes, the more I think about it, the more I am convinced that the poor casting choice of Cotten Joe WAS the reason why this whole enterprise ended up being on the verge of a total bore (I gave it a 5/10, so far my worst rating for a Hitchcock's movie, below Topaz and Torn Curtain, which got a 7/10). I even feel bad for Ingrid Bergman every time I see her pleading for her Sam. She tries sooooo hard, but ends up being extremely grating on my nerves because it sounds so totally wrong and beside the point..... Imagine, Ingrid Bergman, an actress who manages to grab my total self simply watching and listening to her in all her other fantastic roles. 'Under Capricorn' is one in which she undermines the great persona that she has managed to build, no matter how striking she always looks. The most beautiful diamond can seem out of place again the wrong background... "},{"Title":"Fatally flawed","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn &#x96; Directed by Alfred HitchcockThe great experiment &#x96; hire the best actors and give them long takes to act on sets, just as they would on stage. Their performances should sell tickets. Hitch couldn't understand that this was neither the time nor the place to make that gamble. To understand why this film seems so stilted compared to other Hitchcock films both before and after, you must understand the two acting styles between theater and film. William Wyler and other directors (including Hitch) were the first to recognize that because of film's intimacy with close up lenses, the use of large gestures, voluminous voices, and heavy emphasis on certain phrases tend to over dramatize when the image is expanded to a hundred foot screen.Stage acting must sustain a performance when the actor is on stage &#x96; all the time the actor is on stage. A film actor isn't on stage or even in front of an audience (though sometimes the crew will behave that way to encourage an actor). Film is an intimate medium and is more a directors and editors medium. A shot can be shortened or cut to a differing length no matter how well an actor has performed at its conclusion. Consecutive shots make up the film process, not continuous performances.The long takes in Under Capricorn serve to undermine the filmmaking process and Hitch would learn this lesson the hard way as this film failed with audiences. The movie is more a staged melodrama and less the kind of suspenseful film that cemented Hitchcock's reputations. After World War II, acting styles had changed radically. New York began to churn out actors from the Actor's Studio versus the Stanislavsky method that actors like Bette Davis employed. Instead of shooting what he needed for the plot, Hitchcock decided to let the actors perform. He never made a film this way again. Film is not theater for so many reasons and forcing it to be one makes for poor cinema. How many filmmakers learn that lesson the hard way?The first day of shooting Wuthering Heights, William Wyler almost fired Lawrence Olivier. I don't care where you've acted or what you've done on stage, this is film and you must give me realism or we'll be here all day. Olivier learned to pull back under Wyler's direction. Hitch may have been the master of suspense, but he was no good when it came to evoking spontaneous performances. Once he went back to his formula way of making pictures, he became successful as evidenced in his next film, Strangers on a train. Under Capricorn was an experiment that failed. Every auteur genius is allowed one or two in their career. Kubrick, Spielberg, Wyler &#x96; they all had them. Hitch had them, too. "},{"Title":"An unusual but fascinating drama from the Master of Suspense","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Under Capricorn (1949)' is a film that will no doubt baffle a large proportion of Hitchcock devotees, if only because it discards almost all notions of creating suspense and commits itself to being a costume drama, set in Australia during the early 1800s. Perhaps the most rewarding way to view the film is from a technical standpoint, with Hitchcock recycling a technique he first employed in his 1948 masterpiece 'Rope,' and shooting each scene in one extended, uninterrupted take. While, in the previous film, this style was basically just an experimental gimmick albeit, a highly effective one, 'Under Capricorn' makes wonderful use of the technique, with his camera gliding gracefully through the prestigious home of ex-convict Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotten), coasting behind characters and rising above staircases; the amount of organisation that must have been required to plan and execute these complex maneuvers is nothing short of astonishing. The title of the film refers to the story's setting, with much of Australia sitting below the Tropic of Capricorn, one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth.The 1830s Australian setting proves very appropriate for the material, with the events unfolding in a newly-formed society with a primitive form of law enforcement, occupied by convicts and ex-convicts alike, where one's past is a dark secret of which nothing may be spoken. When an ambitious Irishman, Charles Adare (Michael Wilding), arrives in the Southern Land, the nephew of the new governor (Cecil Parker), he falls into an awkward friendship with the well-respected Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotton), an ex-convict who has made a name for himself on this new continent. Sam's wife, the beautiful Lady Henrietta Flusky (Ingrid Bergman), has suffered a mental breakdown, and, being an old childhood acquaintance, Charles considers it his duty to help this troubled woman to abandon her alcoholism and regain confidence in herself. Sprinkled about this stuffy Gothic melodrama are minor elements of suspense most notable in the final scene featuring the scheming maid (Margaret Leighton), claustrophobia as in Hitchcock's 'Rebecca (1940),' the old mansion is an character unto itself and murder.Though the story of 'Under Capricorn' isn't particularly interesting, and outstays its welcome by about one reel, the film is a fascinating feature from Alfred Hitchcock, and, if nothing else, exists as a testament to the director's technical ingenuity. The picture was Hitchcock's second in Technicolor, and its disastrous box-office performance led to the closure of the short-lived Transatlantic Pictures, which had been formed by himself and associate Sidney Bernstein after World War Two. The acting in the film is solid all around, without being particularly noteworthy, but the characters have enough twists to their personality to keep us watching. Long held as the forgotten black sheep of Hitchcock's output except by the French, who apparently adored it, 'Under Capricorn' is a worthy addition to the director's filmography, and stands as must-see viewing for all students of cinema. "},{"Title":"Australian Gothic","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock returned to the United Kingdom to make two of his lesser known works, Stage Fright and Under Capricorn. Neither of them score high on the credits of the master of suspense. But Under Capricorn is remembered best as Ingrid Bergman's last Hollywood production because while this was playing in theaters, news of her out of wedlock pregnancy as a result of her affair with Italian director Roberto Rossellini was announced. Hollywood quickly condemned Saint Ingrid as if somehow because she played Joan of Arc and a nun, she was held to some kind of higher moral standard.Under Capricorn is best described as Australian Gothic, it's very similar to Rebecca with a touch of O'Neill's Mourning Becomes Electra and a bit of Wuthering Heights tossed in for effect. The setting is Australia in 1831 where new British King William IV has appointed a new governor, Cecil Parker, for New South Wales. And Parker has a cousin, Michael Wilding, who has accompanied him. Wilding's an independent sort who when told not to associate with rich, but brooding landowner Joseph Cotten, does just the opposite. He remembers why he seems to know Cotten and his wife Ingrid Bergman. Back in Ireland, there was quite a bit of scandal when Bergman of the landed gentry and Cotten a groom on her estate eloped. Her brother came after them and Cotten was put on trial and found guilty of his murder. As it was a manslaughter rap, Cotten got the choice of going to Australia or a prison stretch. Cotten went to Australia and became pretty rich. Ingrid followed, but the happiness they sought eluded them. They're now a pair of miserable people who are shunned by polite society.Like Rebecca, Under Capricorn has a housekeeper from hell in Margaret Leighton who may have gone back from Australia and become Mrs. Danvers great grandmother. Leighton has her eyes on Cotten and she's slowly poisoning Bergman. Leighton has turned the whole manor staff against Bergman when Wilding arrives on the scene.Joseph Cotten is a bit more rough around the edges than we normally see him on film. Still he does deliver a nice performance whose sacrifice for love we eventually learn.Though there are a lot of similarities to Rebecca, Under Capricorn is not nearly as well done. Still even second rate Hitchcock is better than first rate from a lot of people. "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad but not good either","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A costume drama by Alfred Hitchcock (!!!). Henrietta Flusky (Ingrid Bergman) has a cruel husband (Joseph Cotten) and a vicious maid (Margaret Leighton) who verbally tear her apart and make her feel worthless. Handsome Charles Adare (Michael Wilding) is attracted to her but she's married...and might be going crazy...Hitchcock was NOT the right director for this. He didn't know how to do a costume drama and it shows. But I give him credit for trying and it's really not that bad (The Trouble With Harry is his worst film). I was lucky enough to see a vault print in IB Technicolor so that helped. The picture was crystal clear and the colors strong and vibrant. It is (of course) well directed but the acting is all over the place. I've never liked Cotten and this movie doesn't change my mind. He's dreadful-- very stiff and wooden. Wilding is given little to do but stand around looking handsome--which he pulls off. Bergman is very good--but she had done this role before (Anybody remember Gaslight?). And Leighton was just great. Cruel and evil and she has a great scene at the end. She should have at least received an Academy Award nomination for this...but she didn't.So, it's far from great but it's not the disaster everybody says it is. "}{"Title":"romance","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" a meritorious film for its cast. and for its place in Hitchcock filmography, a romance isle in a large ocean of thriller/crime. the story is far to be new and that is its basic virtue , remembering the others stories. the acting is only correct. Ingrid Bergman gives vulnerability nuances to her character who can be another Paula Alquist and Ilsa Lund in same package. Joseph Cotten is the best choice for the outsider and Michael Wilding creates a splendid ingredient for a story with many common ingredients of romantic film. far to be a bad movie, it is only ordinary, stage for its actors to remember the nuances of each of them art. soft, nice, charming. a piece from a very long chain. "},{"Title":"The Big Country","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn, a 1949 costume drama by Alfred Hitchcock, stars Michael Wilding as Charles Adare, a penniless Irishman who arrives in 1830s Australia. Here he fraternises with various noblemen, and mingles with Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotton), an ex-convict who now heads a small business empire. Flusky's wife, Lady Henrietta (Ingrid Bergman), hails from a prestigious family. She's also an alcoholic, chronically poisoned by her maid Milly (Margaret Leighton), a woman who secretly pines for Flusky.Alfred Hitchcock's films often hinge on incredible emotional violence. In Under Capricorn, we see a complex web of love, hate, guilt and class based insecurity. Sam's ashamed of his lowly social position, as is his maid, whilst Charles and Henrietta embody a aristocratic class who sacrifice wealth, land and even romance, for the betterment of those few they love.Slow, overly verbose and repetitive, Under Capricorn was a box-office flop. It would be mauled by critics, though several would hail it as a masterpiece. It's not, but Hitchcock nevertheless sketches a number of interesting moments. Sam's homestead, for example, is portrayed as a Gothic nightmare, complete with vampiric figures, creepy witches and shadowy conspiracies. Hitchcock also utilises a number of incredibly complex long-takes, some of which would require sets to open up and roll away, mid shot. Other sequences required all lighting equipment and cables to be quickly concealed and repositioned mid-shot, as Hitchcock's camera would often spin around and double back on itself. Such camera work is commonplace today, but in Hitchcock's era, an era of massive, bulky cameras, constituted a logistical nightmare. Bizarrely, this preoccupation with elaborate camera-work may be exactly what ruins Under Capricorn; Hitch pays little attention to dialogue, plot, pacing and seems oblivious to his film's unfolding drama.Under Capricorn resembles several other Hitch flicks. It strongly recalls Rebecca and Suspicion, whilst its tale of poisoning resembles a key subplot in Hitchcock's Notorious. Capricorn's domineering housekeepers, and women who degrade themselves for their lovers, are also traits found in a number of other Hitchcock films. Under Capricorn was based on a comedic novel by Helen Simpson. There's no comedy in Hitchcock's film, though, which plays things as a straight, Gothic psychodrama.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"I'm over Capricorn","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I managed to get through this, after two tries. The picture started out well enough but I found it began to lose its grip on me as the guests arrived for the dinner party. Then I realized this was one of those famous long takes. Even though these takes in themselves are technically masterful, they really do slow down the story perceptibly.When Hitchcock worked in a historical setting he seemed to get sidetracked. The story has potential for interest, but it's not worked out in a satisfying way. The Australian setting could have been fascinating, but the director seems to want to ignore its potential as background. The film's design is uninteresting; color adds less than one would hope, and some of the settings are badly depicted through matte work or obvious painted backgrounds. Hitchcock was usually good at making something out of nothing, but he seems all at sea here.You can tell when a director doesn't inherently understand the material; there's a sense of insecurity. Hitchcock clearly doesn't know, or isn't sure, how people dressed, thought, or acted, in this era, or this setting. He doesn't seem at all comfortable with Australia, or the period. He probably wasn't a director who enjoyed immersing himself in historical research, in order to proceed confidently in depicting a past era, or a foreign milieu. He was more interested in using his imagination to tell a story through technique. A modern story probably freed him up, in this regard. The performances of Bergman and Cotten are typically fine (with Cotten surprisingly effective cast against type as a rough character, and Bergman attempting an Irish accent with equally surprising success). "},{"Title":"Sentimental Corn or Emotional Drama?","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn is a largely underrated Hitchcock film with fine taste and superb acting. It may seem like sentimental corn to some, but the quality of the professional cast makes that impossible. Whether or not the script consists of the best lines or not, Ingrid Bergman does an exquisite job of displaying both a troubled drunkard and a beautiful lady of class at the same time while presenting the audience with Lady Henrietta Flusky, an Irish girl who falls in love with her stable boy. Margaret Leighton, who plays Milly the housekeeper, excels in her role as a woman with wicked intentions to harm Henrietta out of love for her Master Flusky (Cotten). The excellent chemistry and intensity between Cotten and Bergman draws you in, while the plot grabs your attention with the usual love angle. Yet Hitchcock, a master of thrillers and suspense, exercises his godly technique even here in this romantic drama. While the film is neither an adventure piece nor particularly in the category of suspense or thriller, the drama is powerful and captivates the audience as a thriller would. The scenes are beautifully choreographed with period costumes of great eye candy quality, and the film is done in the classic Technicolor that is sometimes even more appealing than our color today, if used correctly - which is the case with this film. This is a film very worth taking the time out to see, if only to take in the skillful cinematography and brilliant acting. For those who appreciate the contributions of Hitchcock, this will undoubtedly be a sublime experience wherein you will get a taste of the master's magnificent manipulations. "},{"Title":"A Psychological Drama","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is said that audiences, hoping for the usual Hitchcock fare and misled by the advance marketing for the film, were disappointed with the film. Hitchcock was undoubtedly disappointed with the box office. So why was Hitchcock attracted to the story?He had a fascination with the human mind--its tendencies, its prejudices, and especially its capacity for defect, what is usually termed mental illness. Here was a story that dealt with the degradation of a human mind at the hands of someone dedicated to its destruction.The story involves, principally, four people Henrietta Flusky (Ingrid Bergman), her husband Sam Flusky (Joseph Cotton), Charles Adare (Michael Wilding) and Milly (Margaret Leighton). Living in Australia--a British penal colony--Sam had been convicted of the murder of Henrietta's brother. Milly is the maid who is very protective of Sam and runs the household. Charles, when introduced to the dysfunctional household, takes steps to bring Henrietta out of her alcoholic depression.As Charles unravels the mysteries of the manse, he realizes he must help Henrietta regain her sanity.Not only is the story about psychological torture, it is a film of suspense, as the conventions of society seek to thwart Charles' efforts to aid Henrietta. The film allows Hitchcock to take a swipe at society's views on punishment, proper behavior, the elite, and religion. The demons that possess Henrietta take many forms and Hitchcock mines the possibilities with his excellent camera work.But don't expect a murder mystery. Just let the script peel away the layers of this strange household. "},{"Title":"Sadness or Madness","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen over 30 of Hitchcock's productions and there is plenty for everyone. Even so, most people vision his movies as suspense or thrillers or mysteries. Under Capricorn isn't really one of these. It should be compared to something like Notorious (1946), which also stars the amazing Ingrid Bergman.Reading other reviews shows a wide split on Under Capricorn. My wife chose to do chores less than 15mins into the movie. It's a slow start that builds as it proceeds. I had to wonder about the history involved, a screen play written in the 40's based on a book written in the 30's about a man travelling to New South Wales 100 years earlier.Regardless of opinions about the Irish or the Australians, modern historians continue to describe a very real difference about the Nobility of those days and their belief of being truly better than the serving class. I feel that observation helps when watching a melodrama like this, and being able to enjoy it.By their nature, melodrama are life exaggerations, which often come across sad. This left like one of the saddest movies I've watched recently. The situations feel so out place from our reality. But maybe two centuries have isolated us -- Under Capricorn could be simply multiple examples of disparate people trying to survive the best way they know how.This movie left me wanting in the first several minutes, but I found myself getting drawn in. This may not be a movie for the majority to watch over and over, but I recommend everyone watch it at least once. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie From a Good Story With One Great Performance","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I gave this movie four stars but feel I need to qualify it. Lets start with what's good about this.Ingrid Bergman. When we first meet her, she's drunk and barefoot at a party. She plays drunk with a sad charm that still has a touch of the graceful woman she used to be. Coming down the stairs all dressed up But Ingrid combines a school girl's innocence with her more recent insecurity in a low key but beautiful way. Mainly her character is brought to life by remembering the past. We first see that twinge of remembrance when she realizes at the party that she knows Adare from long ago in Ireland. Her drunken whimsy is halted gently by her thinking about the past. Bergman shines when Adare makes an impromptu mirror to show her that she's still beautiful. When the servants play a cruel trick on her and she runs to her room, I felt truly sorry for her. Her final scene is wonderful. She's riveting, haunted by the past yet low key about it. She is the best thing about this movie.The cinematography. Despite the bad quality of the print, we can see some of the unusual muted tones that mark the technicolor being made in Britain in the late 1940's.The original story is great but the script, which I'll get to later, is not up to what's implied in the story. It's a story of class, and of role reversals. A high class woman like Henrietta (Bergman) becomes a prostitute and outcast in Australia. The well born gentleman Charles Adare (Wilding) finds himself to be useless in this new world. We even find out that the servant Winter was a gentleman back in Britain. Only the hardworking Flusky (Cotton) becomes successful. In an odd twist, his own working class servant Milly sees him not as the stable boy he was, but as the unreachable gentry that he's now becomes. Characters want to rise but can't while others fall socially yet become rich down under. This is all only spoken about. It's not done emotionally.The script - first and foremost the problem is the script. Nothing happens. The action is all told in flashback. Now this sort of work had been done and done well - Jane Eyre, Dragonwick and Hitch's own Rebecca and Suspicion. The difference here is the script and the direction.Low Budget - The costumes are great, and it looks like they spent some money on the set of the house, but that's about all we see in this. We see too much of the house. We see Bergman and Cotton in particular wearing the same clothing day after day.The Long Takes - The long takes limit the impact of the film without adding much to it. It's an unneeded constraint that prevents the use of close ups and dramatic cuts.Cotton and Wilding. Neither are any good. Wilding is stagey fop while Cotton doesn't even try other than to growl and simmer a bit. Neither even tries to seem Irish.Overall a bad movie with one great performance, Bergman. "},{"Title":"A Violent Film About Love and Sacrifice...","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ''Under Capricorn'' is one of Hitchcock's most moving and most beautiful films but which never quite becomes a masterpiece. It goes to show how unscientific a great work of art is. It has one of Ingrid Bergman's greatest performances, beautiful photography and camera-work by Jack Cardiff, great, riveting soundtrack and some of the most interesting sets. Then some scenes are among the best Hitchcock did. The famous scene where Wilding shows Bergman her reflection for the first time in years, then the long tracking shot with Joseph Cotten and Wilding along the street as the pass by the walls. The first half of the film is a masterpiece. Then the scene of Ingrid Bergman's confession is among the most powerful bits of acting.But Joseph Cotten is miscast in the role as is Michael Wilding. And they have most of the screen time. Neither actor is bad but both don't go as far as to suggest the depth inside both characters. Margaret Leighton and Bergman and the other supporting roles are much better. The power of the film comes from really from the way Hitchcock puts his heart into it. Hitchcock regretted both castings a lot and complained about it to Truffaut but the fact is that Hitchcock didn't really change his ideas and concept to fit the castings. So in a way Hitchcock should be blamed. ''Under Capricorn'' could have been among Hitchcock's very best films, as it stands it's one of Hitchcock's most interesting and enigmatic films.However, it's not much of a stretch to say that this film which falls just short of greatness has more to offer, has more moments of beauty and humanity than a great many masterpieces. The film has the saddest and bleakest characters in any Hitchcock film until ''The Wrong Man'' and ''Psycho'; all the central dramatic characters suffer and struggle out of love. A love that fights against a cruel, unjust and unfair society yet is permanently at odds against the frailties of the human soul and the human mind. They are never left alone. They pay for their sins always and can almost never redeem themselves. Yet through it all, love endures. Not the love of passion but the love that makes one struggle to live and fight and endure. "},{"Title":"Under Capricorn is under the best","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never gotten around to renting this one before. Somehow, it has always slipped under my radar. It came up finally under my Netflix queue and voilà! From 1949, Under Capricorn pairs up two of my favorite screen stars so this is another wonder that I had never seen this one yet. An uncharacteristic historical novel set to the screen for director Alfred Hitchcock, it stars Joseph Cotten and Ingrid Bergman as a married couple in 1830s Australia. You know what they say about Australia being populated by nothing but criminals. That is why Cotten was sent there from his home country of Ireland. Bergman followed him, foolishly in love.The story starts with some Irish git gentleman that has not a penny in the world and wants to find his stake. He finds Cotten who is now one of the richest men in New South Wales. When he finally meets Bergman, and small world that it is as she was once his sister's best friend, she is drunker than a skunk and can barely stand.That starts the slight mystery. There is a wicked staff employed by Cotten and some little things to figure out along the way, such as Bergman seeing things that aren't there. I was watching waiting for it to get better.It was worth watching. I was enthralled at the characters. Cotten and Bergman again did supremely excellent jobs, although I thought Bergman overacting a bit during one emotional scene, making it the same acting job as in her movie GASLIGHT. The actor who played Charles the Irish gentleman, Michael Wilding, was okay, I mean, he played the role well, but I think it needed to be someone bigger, with a greater stage presence and rugged good looks. Maybe that is why I did not see the love triangle as anything but forced because he did not seem suave enough. That might just be my tastes there.I just don't see why Hitchcock did this one. I will have to research that. He wasn't under his contract with David Selznick anymore. It had the feeling of a very well done made-for-TV movie. The soap opera elements made it interesting to watch. I had to keep watching just to find out how it would all explode.For the Hitchcock fan, or a Cotten or Bergman fan, it was well worth watching. It is not one of Hitchcock's better movies, but then I am comparing this to some of his really supreme movies out there. Now that I have seen this once, I can check it off my list of Hitchcock movies and leave it at that. I will give it three out of five stars because I was interested in this the first time around, but unlike his other movies, I don't think I will go out of my way to see this one again. "},{"Title":"Perhaps THE most underrated movie of the 20th century!","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A critical and commercial disaster, UNDER CAPRICORN remains burdened with the reputation of being the worst film Hitchcock ever directed. Hitchcock didn't help by publicly dismissing the film in his famous interviews with Truffaut, noting that it was such a failure that the money men repossessed the negative. Even the film's own stars had nothing good to say about it - Joseph Cotten nicknamed it Under Crap-ricorn, while Ingrid Bergman fought with Hitchcock during its production over her character. Furthermore, UC was cursed by bad timing - within days of its premiere, the massive scandal of Ingrid Bergman's relationship with Roberto Rossellini exploded. Bergman was condemned on the floor of the US Congress as an adulteress, and audiences stayed away from her latest release in droves. Even now, most regard UC as a dud - a complete misfire and one of Hitchcock's rare failures. I wish to suggest that the majority opinion on this film is totally wrong! UNDER CAPRICORN is in fact one of Hitchcock's richest, most rewarding films, in my opinion one of his very best works, ever - better than PSYCHO, better than glossy baubles like TO CATCH A THIEF or NORTH BY NORTHWEST, and MUCH better than the bloated and fatuous VERTIGO! It is true that UC is unique in Hitchcock -he had never done anything quite like this before, and would never attempt a straight drama again. If you are expecting a typical Hitchcock picture - this isn't it and you will be badly disappointed. If on the other hand you are ready for a deep emotional experience presented via a cinematic technique so audacious it will take your breath away, then see this film NOW. Set in Australia in the 1830s, the plot revolves around the marriage of former convict Sam Flusky (Cotten) and his wife Lady Henrietta Considine (Bergman). Years earlier, Flusky was a groom on the lavish estate of Lady Henrietta's family. We are told that the pair fell deeply in love and eloped, an action which resulted in Flusky killing Lady Hetty's brother and his subsequent deportation to Australia. Now, Flusky has accumulated a huge fortune, but he cannot find acceptance in local society, not because of his past, but because of his wife. Lady Henrietta is an unstable alcoholic who stays in bed all day and is under the control of her own housekeeper, Milly (Margaret Leighton), a woman with delusions of her own regarding her future with the master of the house, and some very unpleasant intentions towards her mistress...One day, Flusky meets Charles Adare (Michael Wilding), a high-born Irish gentleman and former friend of Lady Henrietta, and enlists his help in curing the suffering woman. With Adare's aid, Lady Henrietta comes out of her depression, but things take a turn for the worse when Adair falls in love with her and triggers Flusky's jealous temper. Yet not all is as it seems in the Flusky house, and Lady Henrietta has a few secrets of her own...Many reviewers complain that this film is talky, and the plot is largely driven by dialogue and conversation, but the script is so well-written and intelligent that it demands a level of attention from the viewer that most are not willing to provide, either in 1949 or today. Cotten's tormented, insecure Sam Flusky is one of the masterpieces of his career, and Bergman is astounding as Lady Henrietta. I have never seen a Hitchcock film which presented character and human motivation with such depth and insight. There are no shallow emotions, no cliché characters - each is present as a fully realized person. I was moved to tears for the entirety of the last 25 minutes of the film, and never before have I seen a Hitchcock film where the characters were so realistically written and portrayed. On another level, the film is also a critique of British colonialism and the class-system. Finally, I would like to say something about the film's technique. UC was the immediate follow-up to 1948's ROPE, in which Hitchcock used very long takes lasting up to 10 minutes to create the illusion of a story taking place in real time. UC continues and develops this experiment, bringing the long take to a peak of development. Long takes have never been fashionable in commercial film-making, and are even less so in our current age, where frenzied MTV editing is the rule. UNDER CAPRICORN offers a very different aesthetic - some shots last for as long as 8 minutes, but Hitchcock constantly moves the camera so that the film never seems static. There are some sequences which will literally make you gasp in awe. Yet the technique is never forced or obtrusive - you might not even notice that some scenes are done entirely in one shot because the camera moves so subtly that you find yourself looking at a new composition without being aware that there has been no cut or editing. The technique gives the actors room to breathe and leaves the audience with a sense of emotional immediacy like nothing else I have ever seen - you don't just watch UNDER CAPRICORN - you LIVE it. I wish I had ignored what everybody else said about this movie and watched it for myself YEARS AGO! Don't listen to the bad reviews here - see UNDER CAPRICORN now and decide for yourself! "}{"Title":"The Unexpected Hitchcock","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn holds an unusual place among the works of Alfred Hitchcock. It is one of his very few costume dramas; the only other one which is at all well known is Jamaica Inn from 1939, although he did make some others during his early British period such as Waltzes from Vienna, about the life of Johann Strauss. And it is one of the very few films he made after his move to Hollywood which is not a suspense thriller. (The comedy Mr and Mrs Smith is another example). This was Hitchcock's second film in Technicolor, after Rope from the previous year. The director again makes use of the ten-minute take technique, although less extensively than he had done in Rope. Unlike that film, the action in Under Capricorn does not take place in real time, nor does Hitchcock observe the unities of place and time.The title has no astrological significance. It relates to the country where the action takes place- Australia, south of the Tropic of Capricorn. The story is set in Sydney in the year 1831. Charles Adare, a young Irish aristocrat and a cousin of the newly-appointed Governor of New South Wales, arrives in the city hoping to make his fortune. He is befriended by Sam Flusky, who arrived in the colony as a transported convict but is now a prosperous landowner, and meets Sam's wife, Lady Henrietta, who was a neighbour of his in Ireland. The marriage has not been a happy one, and Henrietta, who is hiding a guilty secret of her own, has become an alcoholic. She and Charles gradually fall in love. The film was a failure at the box office, partly because this sort of domestic love triangle was not the sort of thing audiences expected from Hitchcock and partly because, in a striking example of life imitating art, its star, Ingrid Bergman, had become involved in a love triangle of her own when she left her husband for Roberto Rossellini. Bergman was far from being the only movie star to have been unfaithful to a spouse or partner, but for some reason the cinema-going public was particularly scandalised by this relationship, and she was not to make another film in Hollywood until 1956. And yet, if one sees Under Capricorn simply as a film, without preconceptions about what a Hitchcock film should be, or without worrying about the sex life of its leading lady, it is not altogether bad. While not in the same class as Bergman's two earlier collaborations with Hitchcock, Spellbound and Notorious, it is certainly far better than Jamaica Inn, one of the director's least distinguished efforts. It has some good acting contributions, something Jamaica Inn, with the wooden Maureen O'Hara and the hammy Charles Laughton, notoriously lacks. Bergman's part here has certain similarities with her role in Anastasia, the first American film she made after returning from her Hollywood exile. In both films her character starts off as an insecure, mentally disturbed young woman and gradually grows in stature throughout the film, ending as someone much more assured and self-confident. One of the weaknesses of Anastasia is the lack of chemistry between Bergman and Yul Brynner, her love interest in that film, but here Joseph Cotten is much better as Sam. One senses that, despite all the tensions in their relationship, there is an underlying sense of loyalty and fidelity between Sam and Henrietta which will enable their marriage to survive. Michael Wilding is a bit lightweight as Charles, but there is another good performance from Margaret Leighton as the hypocritical, scheming housekeeper Milly.On the debit side, the action does tend to drag at times and the colour is not very good. The unreliability of colour film at this period may be a reason why so many films in the forties were still made in black-and- white, even in genres such as costume drama which, in theory, could have benefited from a touch of colour. Nevertheless, Under Capricorn is a relatively good historical drama with a touching love-story at its heart. It is perhaps only the fact that it is so atypical among Hitchcock's other work which prevents it from being better known. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Love this movie - saw it for the first time","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a Hitchcock fan and have never watched this film, as it has been thoroughly panned.I just saw this film for the first time today. It is a new favorite. Joseph Cotten, Ingrid Bergman and Michael Wilding are lovely!!!! A wonderful Gothic romance. I don't care if it's one Hitchcock's most disliked films. No, it is not one of his typical suspense movies but the acting is wonderful and it is a sweet romance with a Gothic twist.The romance between Ingrid Bergman and her husband, played by Joseph Cotten has all the problems of married people who have sacrificed a lot and have lost each other. The new love, with Michael Wilding saves her and yet, she is still tied to her husband. The evil of Millie, played by Margaret Leighton, is quietly sinister and, yet, almost sympathetic. I am so glad I took the time to watch this film. As long as you go into watching this film for what it is, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of Hitchcock's most heavily maligned films, it is certainly below par stuff from him, but it is not without some minor virtues. Most notably, the colour art direction is splendid, as is the general use of colours throughout. Some of the cinematography might also be of interest to those who are fans of extended takes; but in general the film's poor reputation is deserved. Joseph Cotten's acting is wooden, and the rest of the cast is not much better, however the lack of well-developed characters might be what is at fault here, as the cast is full of talent. The bland dialogue is also no help to the performers either, especially as the film is overly talkative as it is, leaving a limited amount of time for atmosphere to be established. With unsuitable music played at all the wrong times though, any attempt to establish atmosphere may have been futile. Most fans of Hitchcock's style will probably be disappointed here, as his best talent was for suspense, which the film lacks, and there are no especially well directed sequences at all. The film has, however, been praised by fans of its stars, and the use of colour in the film is fairly interesting. Personally I found the film to be rather revolting and too slowly paced, but I can see why some would praise the film. It is not very good, but it is neither a complete disaster. "},{"Title":"Actually Good Hitchcock but a Victim of Bad Timing","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" UNDER CAPRICORN is one of the late 1940s Hitchcock films that are pointed at as being second-rate. The general comment is that Hitchcock was bad at historical films. This is not true about UNDER CAPRICORN - it is light-years better than JAMAICA INN was. The actors, led by Joseph Cotten, Ingrid Bergman, Michael Wilding, Margaret Leighton, and Cecil Parker do very nicely in their roles. Bergman's Irish accent comes and goes, but when it comes she has the cadence of the lilt correct (it is just hard to maintain it). That is really the worst to be said about her performance as Lady Henrietta Flusky. It is with Bergman that the real disaster occurred - but not her talent. Hitchcock used her in other films like NOTORIOUS and she worked well with him. But her personal life now destroyed the film's box office appeal. At the time the film was released, the Bergman - Rosellini Scandal had broken out and she had been condemned on the floor of Congress as an adulteress. Many people who though of her as a nice screen personality now thought of her as a hussy. They stayed away from her latest film and it was soon withdrawn from circulation.I suspect had it been made in 1948 it would have been a success, and frequently revived. It shows much influence from other Hitchcock films, and most of this is to the good. Hitch is looking at the peculiar world of early Australia as a penal colony. It is a weird situation where the British class consciousness is now expanded by the fact that most of the population is made of convicts. It is 1831, and Sir Richard (Cecil Parker) the new Governor has arrived. We see from the start what he has to get used to. He is shown in military redcoat and cocked hat upon arrival - and for all the pageantry, it is cut-rate pageantry at best, and Sir Richard is aware of some people in the crowd being rowdy (shouting disrespectful comments). That's one of the problems if you make a population of have-nots they grow stronger in number and confront the haves, which is why Australia has rarely been as loyal to Britain's policies as it's neighboring fellow Commonwealth member New Zealand.Sir Richard's cousin the Hon. Charles Adair (Wilding), is approached by a local banker to see if he can be of assistance to Charles. The next day, by chance, the banker introduces Charles to a local land tycoon, the Hon. Samson Flusky (Cotton). The name is familiar to Charles as his last name is to Flusky. Flusky offers Charles a chance to buy land temporarily, that Flusky can purchase later back from Charles to Charles profit. Although Sir Richard is opposed to Charles getting to know Flusky, Charles attends a dinner at Flusky's home, and finds that none of the male guests (including the colony's Attorney General Corrigan (Dennis O'Dea)) can get their wives to attend the dinner with them. Then he sees Mrs. Flusky, who he recognizes as Lady Henrietta (Bergman) an aristocratic neighbor from Ireland. Now Charles recalls the scandal Flusky was Henrietta's family's groom, and they ran off together to England to marry. When confronted by her brother, Flusky shot and killed him. But the brother was likewise armed, and Flusky was not hung but transported. Lady Henrietta followed and waited for his seven year term to end. Instead when he came out the marriage was strained. It has not recovered, worsened by Henrietta's increasing alcoholism. The household is run by Milly (Margaret Leighton) who keeps it functioning, and apparently keeps Lady Henrietta under control.Charles (by insisting on continuing the business deal with Flusky) loses his contacts with his cousin as a patron. He moves in with the Fluskys, and slowly revives the dead self-reliant woman who was inside Lady Henrietta originally. But Milly is not happy about this, and keeps throwing up various snags to upset the recovery (which Charles begins to notice, but not Sam). The crisis is when Charles wrangles an invitation to a social event for Sam and Henrietta, but Sam chooses not to attend (but allow Charles to go). It seems headed for success, but Milly manages to make Sam become jealous about the entire situation, and make a scene at the ball. This leads to a further set of problems, that legally mess up the Fluskys and Charles.The film holds up well, and actually lacks any real maguffin trick like other classic Hitchcock films. A secret from the past might be the maguffin but it is not centralized in the plot from the start. But other aspects of Hitch's films are there. Milly is a 19th Century variant of Judith Anderson's Mrs. Danvers in REBECCA. The use of camera tricks (noted in other reviews here) shows the influence of ROPE's long takes in several scenes (as well as some long takes on people walking through long hallways). Hitch apparently learned that the audience would only accept about a minute to a minute and a half long take, not the nine minute segments of ROPE. Bergman's long suffering physical decline here is similar to how Claude Rains tries to kill her in NOTORIOUS. I also note that besides Bergman, Cotton and Parker were former Hitchcock alumni (from SHADOW OF A DOUBT and THE LADY VANISHES respectively), and Wilding would return for a second film (STAGESTRUCK). Leighton never did, but she did appear in an episode on Hitchcock's television program.The story maintains one's interest until the end. It also manages to keep an eye on accuracy, such as the walking on eggshells by ex-convicts who are given early release on good behavior. The slightest suggestion of crime or disorderly conduct means a pink slip and a return to prison. It was a wonderful system. And the successes and pitfalls of it are shown in this good film. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock in Australia","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I consider Under Capricorn as one of the finest films ever made. French critics and other European Critics consider Under Capricorn as one of the best films from Hitchcock.Helen Simpson's book Under Capricorn was published a year before Rebecca was published. In the novel, We see the idea of tormented wife, and trouble causing housekeeper just like we see in this film. But this film is very different from the Helen Simpson's Under Capricorn.Alfred Hitchcock made his own adaptation with Hume Cronyn and Screenplay was written by Playwright James Bridie.But the film is much more stronger due to strong script and great performances. The problem is people try to see this film as a thriller. Its not a thriller. Its a drama with some thrilling moments.James Bridie (along with Alfred Hitchcock) wrote the screenplay in such a way where 4 characters (Charles, Sam, Lady Henrietta, Milly) are so alike.Charles Adare and Lady Henrietta belong to the higher class. While Sam and Milly belong to the lower class. The mind of Charles Adare is filled with shameful emptiness. Charles Adare says to Henrietta I spent most of my life warding off boredom. Charles Adare wanting to recreate Hattie as if she were still young Hattie Considine, he desires his own form of second chance, to return to the point in the past where he might start afresh, without the shameful emptiness of his adventures so far. So he is looking for redemption just like Henrietta and Sam. Alcoholism represents the shame of Lady Henrietta.Charles Adare is also like Milly. Charles Adare loves Henrietta. And he tries to take her away from Sam. Milly loves Sam. And she tries to take away Sam from Lady Henrietta. As for Milly and Lady Henrietta, they both love Sam. They are willing to do anything for Sam. Lady Henrietta killed Dermot to save Sam's life. Milly tries to kill Lady Henrietta, because she believes Lady Henrietta is only making Sam's life miserable. Milly doesn't feel any sympathy towards Lady Henrietta just like Lady Henrietta didn't have any feelings towards her brother Dermot.As you all know, Lady Henrietta's request to Sam to let Milly go at the end is an act of forgiveness.Milly makes the audience realize certain things that we aren't aware of. Here is an example. When Lady Henrietta says something like this at the end of the film - what kind of love drives you to make such horrible things to do..., after she finds out that Milly tries to kill her. And Lady Henrietta says when we speak of the love, we don't mean same thing. And she asks Milly Why did you want to kill me? Do you think he could love a murderess? And immediately Milly replies He married one. I think that's when Milly makes Lady Henrietta and us realize something - Lady Henrietta killed her brother Dermot to save Sam from getting killed. Milly requests Sam to stay with her, because Sam will be done for (if he returns to Ireland with Lady Henrietta). To save his life, Milly tried to kill Lady Henrietta. She makes the decision to kill Lady Henrietta only after Sam makes his mind to go to Ireland with Lady Henrietta. So Milly and Lady Henrietta are so alike. Through forgiving Milly, Lady Henrietta gets her redemption. And through forgiving Sam, Charles Adare gets his redemption.Both Sam and Milly are alike, because of their crippling inferiority complex. We see Sam's inferiority complex especially when he finds out that no women came for the dinner feast at his house. Later, when Milly gives Sam the impression that Charles Adare is trying to take away Lady Henrietta from him, the inferiority complex rises again. For Example, Sam angrily says this to Charles at the ball at Government house - I am not good enough to stand beside my wife... This is the same case with Milly. Remember what Milly said to Sam at the end - Oh no, Mr. Flusky. I am not good enough for you. I know that. I am only good enough to work for you and slave for you and look after your drunken.. I wish I could write more. But its already a long post. A Wonderful film from Hitchcock. I rate the film 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A very different work of Hitchcock","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn is quite different movie and is not pretty much popular.In fact its Alfred Hitchcock's movie but its not a suspense movie,instead its a snail-paced love story.Its slow,but pretty enjoyable especially if you like Casablanca fame Ingrid Bergman. Its an Australian movie.Governor's cousin arrive in Australia to make his fortune.There he met his sister's old friend(Ingrid Bergman).He realized she is not altogether fit health wise so he tries to help her to get out of mental sickness.Its an involving story though I am not pretty sure about what actually this movie wants to convey,but I enjoyed every bit of it ,may be because of well written dialogs and descent acting. "},{"Title":"All talk and no action makes a dull and stuffy film...","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know there are some Hitchcock fans who actually claim to like this movie. Ingrid Bergman and Joseph Cotten fans also swear it is a good movie. Anyone with a more objective viewpoint can easily see that this is nothing more than a dull period film full of endless talk, talk, talk. Margaret Leighton has one of the longest speeches in a Hitchcock film while Joseph Cotten simply listens, withdrawn and resentful and probably wishing he was in another film. Plot elements bear a resemblance to REBECCA--but no similarity in style or substance. Leighton manages to give the best performance among the players.As for Ingrid Bergman, this film must be the reason she left Hollywood to have an explosive affair with Roberto Rossellini--the island of Stromboli must have looked good to her after this mess. I understand she was unhappy with Hitchcock's extended ten-minute takes and manner of shooting the film. It was experimental in ROPE and here it's an experiment that doesn't work. Nor does her performance.In summary a rare Hitchcock dud! Proof that even the master can make a mistake once in awhile.He ignores the rule of show don't tell by using too much exposition to explain the characters and the main thrust of the plot. Characters talk in monologues to explain the past and the script itself is a horrid thing beyond patching up. Here is a story that has substance but is completely lacking in the telling. Thumbs vigorously down on this Hitchcock mess. "},{"Title":"Compelling drama","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn is a great drama. There is plenty of suspense but, unlike most Hitchcock films, it is not a thriller. Instead, the suspense is generated by the tensions among the main characters - tensions so strong that a palpable feeling of foreboding permeates the film. In the end, however, the story is not as tragic as it might have been if one or two things had happened differently.The acting is uniformly excellent. Michael Wilding is handsome and dashing, with a generosity of spirit that is uplifting. Ingrid Bergman is wonderful as a fine lady with a tormented soul, who has fallen into alcoholism. And Joseph Cotten shines as her long-suffering, devoted husband.Visually, the film is a little disappointing. It has a washed-out look, and would probably benefit from a thorough restoration. The exterior shots are obviously paintings. But none of this matters very much, compared with the intensity of the emotions on the screen.In one respect, Under Capricorn is the reverse of another Hitchcock film starring Joseph Cotten. In Shadow of a Doubt he plays a guilty man who, at first, is thought to be innocent. In this movie, it is the exact opposite. There is also a similarity to another Hitchcock film starring Ingrid Bergman. In Notorious, Bergman's character is essentially held prisoner by her Nazi husband, played by Claude Rains. She is liberated at the end by Cary Grant. In this film, her character is a virtual prisoner of the housekeeper, who plies her with alcohol so she will remain helpless, and she herself can be in control. This time her rescuer is Michael Wilding. "},{"Title":"odd Hitchcock, strange household","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn is not the most beloved film in the Hitchcock oeuvre. In fact, it has a pretty bad reputation. One of the stars, Joseph Cotten, deemed it under crapricorn, The master of suspense himself wasn't pleased with it. The question is, some sixty years later, is it really all that bad?First of all, the movie stands out as an odd Hitchcock. It is a classic drama, with something of a Wuthering Heights-feel to it, set in 19th-century Australia. A story of the love between a stable-boy (Cotten) and an aristocratic lady (Ingrid Bergman). A young penniless aristocrat gets to know them as a well-to-do married couple with odd manners and a very strange household. The lady of the house lies in bed, delirious and depressed, the man is a gloomy, jumpy character and the maid a manipulative nurse Ratched. The situation is soon turned around, but there are ghost's from the past that complicate matters, and the drama unfolds. It's not a terrific storyline, but it is interesting enough. The cast is pretty great as well, especially Bergmann and Cotten (and how could they not be?). The cinematography is good, but not great. Most of the scenes exist of single shots, which is the way Hitchcock liked to shoot, of course. Very often the camera moves beautifully through the scenes and through the house. But it is not as gripping or convincing as in, say, Vertigo, where the cinematography is breathtaking. It's not really fair to judge this film for not living up to the standards of Hitchcock's best, but it doesn't anyway. In my view, the camera is always something of an extra character in Hitchcock films, adding to the suspense and the human emotions, etc. Under Capricorn lacks that extra little something.Still, most of it is very well done. The decors, the whole setting, are very convincing, even for today's standards, the acting is good, the story is OK. Eventually it is quality that you don't very often get. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Great Except for Screenplay","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Under Capricorn (1949) *** (out of 4) In Australia, 1831, a Irishman (Michael Wilding) goes to the new land to try and make a fortune where he meets an ex-con turned rich man (Joseph Cotten) who happens to be married to a woman (Ingrid Bergman) he once knew. The woman, once full of life, has slipped into a life of alcoholism and it appears she is hiding a dark secret. When you ask most people what Hitchcock's worst film is many will say this one here while others will say they've never even heard of this movie. The movie was a crashing bomb when originally released and it got horrid reviews by everyone except the French, which is a shame because the movie is actually pretty good. The acting is brilliant, the direction great, the cinematography wonderful and there's a blazing music score but what keeps this from being a minor masterpiece is the downright corny and at times horrid story. I think another problem is that people go into this movie expecting a Hitchcock movie and it's certainly not that. This movie isn't about suspense or drama but instead it's about emotions and for the most part I think Hitchcock gets this out of his cast. Bergman is certainly wonderful in her role and she really sells her characters fall and then rise. What makes Bergman's performance so much better is the fact that her character is very poorly written but she's still able to work with it and deliver someone to care about. Wilding is also wonderful in his role and brings a lot of drama to the role as does Margaret Leighton as a dirty maid. Cecil Parker is also very memorable as the Governor. However it's Cotten who steals the film with his incredibly wonderful performance as someone who we think is mad but there's so much more to his character. Cotten doesn't have to say anything but he carries this certain intensity, which really jumps out at the viewer to make us keep our eye on him because we fear that he's capable of doing something very bad. The music score by Richard Addinsell perfectly captures the mood of the characters and the cinematography by Jack Cardiff really makes for a beautiful film. The biggest problem with the film is that the story isn't strong enough to suppose a 117-minute running time and there are way too many corny or unanswered things. The transformation from drunk to princess happens way too fast for Bergman's character and the love triangle at the end just comes off silly and without any real drama. Had a better screenplay been written then we might be calling this one of the director's best films. As it is, this is a very strong movie as long as you don't go in expecting something it isn't. "}{"Title":"Wretched.","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Devoid of the deep reserves of feeling that excused some dubious character action in Rebecca, Under Capricorn forces the viewer to spend two unrewarding hours with several unpleasant people.  In the last 15 minutes everything is revealed and everyone becomes a better person but that doesn't excuse making us endure their company the rest of the time.  Has anyone ever behaved more stupidly (until the last 15 minutes) than Joseph Cotten's character in this movie?  Or been more of a sleaze (ibid.) than the unremarkable guy who played the lead?  Or been more revolting to be around than Milly?  She'd drive me mad too.  No amount of character punishment or redemption can redeem hours spent in unworthwhile and unpleasant company.  And it is understandable why Bergman would be uncomfortable in the movie she doesn't have a character.  None of them do.  It does get special notice for never relating to an audience uninterested in globe demarcation what the title means.  That in and of itself was a less than brilliant marketing ploy if Hitch was putting up his own money.  How about In Australia?  Bottom line who cares about these characters?  In my estimation this is the worst Hitchcock, and the French can go to Belgium and buy Pommes Frites for all I care.  They can dip them in mayonnaise for all I care.  Heck, they can even douse them with vinegar.  Somebody send them a memo to appreciate our good movies some of the time and not just to make people that like the bad ones feel sophisticated.  Really, the sentence the French think it's genius can never be spoken without irony from this moment forth. "}]