[{"Title":"A rare bit of 1950s science-fiction.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"42 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"      Most science-fiction films are actually raw fantasy, with a disregard for reality that commonly borders on pure contempt.  This isn't always a bad thing, since I really like fantasy.  But techno-babble and flashy gadgets are too often only gimmicks favored by dumb producers, ignorant directors, and lazy writers who get themselves into of a jam. Destination Moon is rare and different.  An enormous amount of time and effort were expended to make it as technically accurate as was possible in 1950.  Even Kubrick wasn't this consistent in 2001; he often let gravity appear where it shouldn't be. They never made that mistake in Destination Moon.  So it's unfortunate they didn't spend as much effort on the story and the acting, but both cast and crew were so wrapped up in creating a real moon trip they skimped on these aspects of story telling. The result was surprisingly impressive visuals for the time, but characters who are shallow, trite, and dull, and crises that arise and are solved while leaving us indifferent.   But there is real drama here, the drama of people trying to imagine what was virtually unimaginable back then -- how to actually get people to the Moon and back -- using real physics and engineering.  And if it doesn't measure up to the story of Apollo 13, another technically accurate film about a REAL trip to the Moon, it still stands out as unique among 1950s films and remains almost as unique among all science-FICTION movies ever made. "},{"Title":"A wonderment for a nine year old boy","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when it came out in 1950 along with my cousin - I was carried away with the absolute beauty of the graphics. I was too young to realize the hamming of the script and actors. I must have seen the film 3 or 4 times in 1950. I now have it on DVD - at my 63 years of age it still brings back wonderful feelings as it did in 1950. The scenes of the lunar landscape were incredible (painted by Chesney Bonestell). The actual way of getting there and back would not have been possible - Apollo program showed the way by a lander launched from an orbiter. Destination Moon also was in brilliant Technicolor which was a treat to see in 1950. It also used some real footage of what may have been USA captured German V2 rockets in flight.  "},{"Title":"Story by Heinlein, astronomical art by Bonestell, Pal produced and Woody Woodpecker to boot!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can go for quite a while listing the movie's weaknesses-script, actors, et cetera.  But with an idea by Robert Heinlein, Chesley Bonestell handling the astronomical artwork, George Pal as producer and a special bit of animation by Walter Lantz starring Woody Woodpecker done just for the movie, what else matters?  Anyone who recognizes all those names and appreciates them understands just what I mean.  Since everyone coming here is likely to know Pal and Woody, I won't say any more.  For the rest, gather round my children and attend.  Rober Heinlein was the dean of Science Fiction writers.  He spun off enough ideas as throwaways to do another writer proud for two careers!  As for Chesley Bonestell, quite simply, he was the greatest artist ever when it came to astronomic art.  Paintings he did look so real, you'd swear that they were photographs and so accurate that you'd swear he'd been there.  Not only did he have no equal, he lapped the field two or three times over.  If I ever strike it rich, the first extravagance would be a Bonestell.  Genius strikes rarely.  Greatness with only somewhat more frequency.  This film, flawed in many ways, is shadowed by greatness and touched by at least one genius. "},{"Title":"Writer Rip Van Ronkel was Wide Awake when he wrote this one!!","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 1950 film Destination Moon, based on the Heinlein book, is incredible for it's accuracy of what was to come 19 years later.  To show rocket physics in simple terms a Woody Woodpecker cartoon is used. Unlike some of the sci-fi films of the era (Ed Wood comes to mind), there is very little cheesy about this (unless you believe what they say about the moon).A small group of scientists have decided to get private US companies to finance the building of the rocketship to the moon.  I'm sure they had McCarthy breathing down their necks enough to use this line Whoever gets to the moon first will be able to hit anywhere militarily on Earth and rule the world.  In spite of the meglomaniacal military mentality of this, the rest of the film stays off of this track.It's interesting to compare this with the actual Apollo missions. First they show the weightlessness pretty accurately with decent weightless FXs, and when they walk on the spacecraft and someone drifts away they utilize something the first Galileo spacewalkers didn't even think of; using an oxygen tank as a jet to maneuver (after the first spacewalkers found it too difficult without them the spacewalk jets were later used).  They ate bananas and coffee (as opposed to tang and baby food), and they never showed how they used the bathroom (in Apollo it was with great difficulty).And the idea to land the rocket whole on the moon was the original concept of Apollo until the main designer found it was much easier to create a Lunar Module.  The FX of Earth from space was pretty accurate even if the colors weren't quite right, and most striking was how the moon looked in this film.  Check it against the Apollo footage and you'll know they were accurate.  I mean in 1950 they did have telescopes powerful enough to see the lunar surface up close and they utilized this.  And most impressive is the science, being accurate with the airlocks, 1/6th gravity, and even the crisis where they must lower the payload.And compare the words of what the 2 astronauts who first step onto the lunar surface tell the world via radio First impression is one of utter barrenness and desolation...most intensely brilliant stars anyone ever dreamed of.  Buzz Aldrin said Magnificent desolation.  And I claim possession for the United States for the benefit of all mankind.  Neil Armstrong planted the American flag and said the mankind bit.Remember this was all theoretical and a decade before anyone had even entered space.  The stars I guess is what turns people off here, as they are too bright and looked more like lightbulbs.  I guess the technology wasn't good enough back then to use actual star footage, but even on the Star Trek TOS intro they use fake stars.And considering all the B films about space travel since (the one with James Caan in '68, The Stowaway in '74, Capricorn One '79, Mission to Mars '99), this stands out for it's being dead on in many ways, even using 4 astronauts (opposed to 3).  I'm wondering if the Apollo planners took some cues from this film.No, it's no 2001 Space Odyssey, but it's great for 1950.  And one other point  they even predict the Space Shuttle, as the rocket is designed to glide to a landing.  I'm wondering when mankind will once again venture to the Moon, establish a moonbase, then onto Mars and beyond.  We have the technology now, so let's do it! "},{"Title":"Fine '50s SF, never the like to be made again.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pal, Bonestell, and Heinlein.  If you know those names, you already know this film.  If not, set your Wayback Machine for half-a-century ago and step in you're going to the moon, the way it should have been done.  You'll ride a cigar-shaped rocket, making the whole trip on one engine and one stage.  You'll wear a bubble-headed spacesuit with corrugated arms.  You'll have to lighten your ship to make it home and, oh boy, that's going to be a puzzle!  Spaceflight turned out to be much, much more complex than this movie projected, but this is still a serious attempt (some, who must not have seen Lang's Woman in the Moon, say this is the _first_ serious attempt) at making a movie about a moon landing.  If you're like me and are feeling the pangs of disillusionment, go watch this film and relive the illusion that a trip to the moon could be accomplished with a pipewrench, slide-rule, and honest sweat.  Ignore the last-minute inclusion of a character for comic relief; that seems to have been required in movies of this era.BTW, when I met the venerable Isaac Asimov in 1972, I asked him what he thought of this film.  He lightheartedly scoffed at, ice on the moon.  As you may know, NASA now believes there _is_ ice on the moon.  Maybe this half-forgotten movie has something to teach us yet.  (No offense, Dr. A; you were the great one.) "},{"Title":"Exciting and realistic sci-fi adventure.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was very surprised with how fresh and well made this film was. I grew up seeing the landings on the moon on TV. While these were exciting, they became too commonplace after a while(except for Apollo 13). The film captures the excitement of the trip and the landing and exploration of the moon very well. The best thing they did was to keep it realistic and avoid them meeting mutant monsters along the way. I especially loved the scene when they claim the moon on behalf of and for mankind. What a great moment full of awe and wonder. Throughout, I kept realizing that my reactions to many of the situations they faced would be exactly the same. The end is very tense and although I knew how it would turn out, I was on the edge of my seat. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Balanced, serious sci-fi","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the few sci-fi movies from the 1950's that doesn't have aliens or monsters in it.  It's a straightforward, fairly serious story about some scientists and businessmen who want to get to the moon.  The special effects and accuracy of space life are above average.  Joe Wesson (Sweeney) is included to give the picture some light-hearted humor. Anne Archer's father, John, is the star of the movie and does a good job portraying the boss of the moon project. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I almost did not bother to see this movie that was on AMC yesterday as I expected another 1950's black and white B movie that would just take up another 90 min. of my time.    Boy, was I wrong!   This movie was terriffic. Not only was it in color but it was not a silly movie.  It was very factual and some scenes were actually very thrilling.   It was not an Appollo 13 but for it's time it could have been.   Too bad there weren't more movies of this caliber in the fifties.   If you havn't see it already, you deserve yourself a treat.    "},{"Title":"One of my favorite fifties sci-fi films","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Destination Moon stands out as one of the better sci-fi movies from the fifties, mostly because they approach the idea of travelling to the moon in a very specific and realistic way.  Unlike other films such as When Worlds Collide (another George Pal film) which sends the rocket down a giant ramp, Destination Moon relies on many of the same procedures that NASA later used in its actual launches.  Of course, it still shares some of the fantasy qualities of others in the sci-fi genre as well as some great special effects (for which it earned an Academy Award).  The characters are usual sci-fi fare, and that includes the usual comedic element, in this case Dick Wesson playing a street-wise technician from Brooklyn who talks of dames and baseball.  By the way, this character was humorously parodied in the classic spoof Amazon Women On The Moon.  So if you enjoy cigar shaped rockets, great fifties special effects, and cool retro images, you should check out Destination Moon. "},{"Title":"Considering the first man in space was in 1961...","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure the plot was very straightforward and it was inevitable that the problems that came up would come up but overall, I really liked the film.  When you consider that nobody had even put a satellite in orbit yet and everything they attempt to show of what space is like is based entirely on what they thought they knew, it's amazing how accurate they were.The acting at first seemed bland and I wanted to slap that stupid Brooklyn guy around but as someone stated, the movie needed someone the scientists had to explain everything to.  I guess if they wanted the audience to understand any of it they had to do it this way.  At that year I highly doubt most people knew what space was like at all.  We just take it completely for granted now.Fifty-one years from its release and here I am watching it in DVD format.  It amazes me sometimes.  I gave it an 8. "}{"Title":"Technicolor prophecy of Things to Come!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Science fiction gets the deluxe treatment for the first time in history (except for `Things to Come' and `Metropolis').  This is a big-budget, technicolor production from producer George Pal and director Irving Pichel, with Leith Stevens music (`When Worlds Collide',  `War of the Worlds' ,  others),  Chesley Bonestell matt paintings, and Oscar-winning special effects supervised by Lee Zavitz.  Stop motion animation scenes of the astronauts walking on the hull of the ship were directed by John S. Abbott.  The fine script was penned by Rip Van Ronkel,  James O'Hanlon, and veteran sci-fi author Robert Heinlein.The cast includes John Archer as the millionaire industrialist, Warner Anderson as the designer of the rocket,  Dick Wessson as the wise-cracking radio operator, and Tom Powers as the visionary general.  (Note this is not the same Tom Powers who stars in `Unidentified Flying Objects' in 1956).Although many reviewers connect `Destination Moon' with Heinlein's novel `Rocketship Galileo', the film's story has much more in common with Heinlein's novelette `The Man Who Sold the Moon',  also published in 1950.  The novelette, like the film, spotlights private industry as the sponsor of the Moon trip.  John Archer's industrialist is an eerie parallel to Howard Hughes, whose company actually did build the Apollo space crafts!Heinlein actually published a THIRD Moon-trip story in 1950, a novelette featured in the September issue of `Short Stories Magazine' under the title `Destination Moon'.  This version is so similar to the film, it was probably intended as a promotional piece, but it does include one fascinating story element not in the film.  The explorers find evidence of previous lunar  visitors -- either Russians or aliens,  they aren't sure which!While planning the famous E.V.A . rescue scene (in which an oxygen bottle is used as a makeshift propulsion unit) the film makers considered using a shotgun as the means by which John Archer retrieves Warner Anderson when he drifts away from the rocket in space.  Thankfully they changed their minds; a shotgun seems like an inappropriate piece of equipment to take to a lifeless, airless satellite.  However, the shotgun concept was used in the final film during Woody Woodpecker's cartoon demonstration of rocket propulsion, which is shown to the millionaire industrialists who finance the Moon trip.Chesley Bonestell, famed artist of the celestial realm, provided matt paintings and designed the lunar surface (which had not been photographed up close at that time, so the film makers had to make some guesses).Art director Ernst Fegte added the fractured lava bed feature which resembled a cracked lake bottom.  The cracks diminish in scale as they recede from the camera, creating a forced perspective which enhanced the depth of the set.This blend of technical accuracy and artistic excellence is the key to the success of `Destination Moon'.  No wonder it almost single-handedly started the 1950s sci-fi craze of the 1950s.  The film has a strong flavor of `The Right Stuff' (brave men doing a tough job).  If you appreciated stories which portray heroism and the nobility of the human spirit, `Destination Moon' is your kind of movie. "},{"Title":"The End of the Beginning","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The rocket engineer Dr. Charles Cargraves (Warner Anderson) blows-up a rocket during the tests and loses the government funding. Together with his friends General Thayer (Tom Powers) and Jim Barnes (John Archer), they raise funds from American industrialists to build a rocket using atomic engine in the desert to reach the moon. However the public opinion is against the project afraid of radiation leakage in the spot and they decide to anticipate the launch of the spaceship without tests. The radar and radio operator Joe Sweeney (Dick Wesson) is invited and teams-up with them and the rocket is called Luna. During the descent on the moon, they use too much fuel to safely land. After the exploration of the lunar soil, Charles realizes that they need to reduce the weight of the rocket to launch back to Earth based on the remaining fuel. They remove all the essential equipment but Charles concludes that someone must be left behind. Will they return to Earth?Destination Moon is a surprising good sci-fi from 1950. The story uses technological concepts to explain the situations and is very well developed. The use of the Woody Woodpecker is very funny and the special effects are impressive for a 1950 film. The conclusion This Is the End of the Beginning is visionary. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Not available on Blu-Ray or DVD. "},{"Title":"A Perceptive Look At The Future.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon was our conception in the middle of the last century as to what our first hesitant steps would be towards getting to the Moon. What I was amazed to see was just how accurate they got it in terms of reality.Four men, John Archer, Warner Anderson, Tom Powers and Dick Wesson are the chosen astronauts though that term had not come into usage at the time. When you think of the selection process for astronauts that was to come with the formation of NASA this part of the film seems almost a bit silly. Dick Wesson who provides the comic relief is a communications specialist who gets to go at the last minute because the chosen traveler gets appendicitis. The best part of the film was the space walk, when they have to do some needed repairs to the ship. Robert Heinlein who wrote Destination Moon was very accurate with that and with the dangers of performing that task when needed.As for the very harrowing trip home, the plot was eerily accurate in terms of what happened to some astronauts for real in the early Seventies. I really do marvel at how Robert Heinlein got so much of it right.Without any weird alien monsters, Destination Moon still manages to be thoroughly entertaining and incredibly perceptive. The film won an Oscar for Special Effects no mean achievement since it's only competition was Cecil B. DeMille's big budget Samson and Delilah. It also was nominated for Best Art&Set Direction, but in this case it lost to Samson and Delilah.When you beat out a DeMille film from Paramount with all the money that studio could throw behind a campaign, you know it has to be good. Even now the Special Effects aren't bad by today's standards. "},{"Title":"Almost Too Real to be Entertaining","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" More historical curiosity than entertaining science fiction film, Destination Moon is a must see for those interested in the evolution of the genre and the political climate of the early cold war years. Don't expect any cheap thrills or exploitation elements. There are no aliens, no monsters, and no hot women. Instead it presents a detailed speculation of what they thought it would be like to go to the moon in a rocket-ship. Despite looking like a massive version of a Von Braun rocket from WWII, the speculation about the problems faced by the engineers and crew of such a product are surprisingly accurate and must have been fascinating viewing back in 1950. Both the rocket and the moon are considerably more realistic than the old Flash Gordon stuff.Like another science fiction classic Them, Destination Moon is loaded with political references conveying a not so subtle distrust of the federal government. But the two films convey the same message from polar opposite perspectives. Them placed the blame for its giant mutations on reckless atomic bomb testing and portrayed the federal response to the crisis as clueless until assisted by local law enforcement and an eccentric university scientist. Destination Moon has a hawkish perspective, with unidentified fifth columnists sabotaging America's early space program. Fortunately, selfless patriotic industrialists come to the rescue and finance a successful private enterprise program to claim the moon for the United States.The deliberately low-key documentary style is relieved by the last minute addition of space novice Joe Sweeney (Dick Wesson) to the crew. With a Brooklyn accent (his first view of earth from space elicits a desire to know who is pitching for the Dodgers that day) Sweeney provides both comic relief and an excuse for the expect members of the crew to expound in layman's terms about the details of space travel. I couldn't help thinking of Dark Star's Sgt. Pinback whenever Sweeney began to whine about not belonging on the mission.Another concession to the unsophisticated 1950's audience has the project leaders making their pitch for financing through a special Woody Woodpecker space training film. The skeptical fowl and his two audiences receive their indoctrination at the same time. Destination Moon must have infused the nation with a sense of wonder and faith in what the free enterprise system could achieve because it is actually listed as an event in NASA's chronology of the history of space travel. It is likely that the producers were more successful with this upbeat message than with their attempt to spread fear and promote a space race. Although considerable effort is made to sell the audience on the military value of the moon nothing very convincing is presented in that regard. Ironically, much of the actual space race a few years later would have a military purpose.Destination Moon has two moments of suspense. The first is when Charles Cargraves (played by Warner Anderson) exits the ship in space and drifts away once his magnetic boots lose contact with the ship. Since Cargraves is the ship's designer, it seems rather implausible that he should forget this but no more so than his constructing the ship out of heavy steel. The second is when they botch the landing and must lighten the ship to have enough fuel to return to earth (of course we 21st century viewers knew the thing was too heavy as soon as we learned about the magnetic boot thing).Science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein teamed with producer George Pal to put Destination Moon into production. They soon learned that Kurt Neumann was working to release Rocketship X-M in time to benefit from their publicity campaign. For legal reasons Neumann modified his more sensational film to feature a landing on Mars rather than on the moon. Although Neumann's paid less attention to scientific details, it turned out to be more accurate in the use of a two-stage rocket and not the one-stage monster featured in the Heinlein/Pal version. Both films were subject to staggering naiveté about the complexity of space travel. Although the film's version of the moon surface is hauntingly beautiful (thanks to Chesley Bonestell's backdrop paintings) it looks more like a dried lake-bed than the actual lunar surface.In retrospect, Destination Moon's most unique sci-fi genre feature is the absolute refusal of its producers to show anything that deviated from what they believed at the time to be the truth about space travel. Although today it is a struggle to really appreciate the film, at least as it would have hit viewers in 1950, how many science fiction films have been criticized as being too real to be entertaining.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Understand it for what it is, not for what you want it to be.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Science Fiction master Robert Heinlien had direct influence with only one film during his lifetime. Early in his career, Heinlien made his way to Hollywood, way before he was well known as the author of the 60's cross over best seller, Stranger in a Strange Land. As a former engineer, Heinlien was interested in scientific realism, and he co-wrote the script for this film which was based on one of his early novels. Released in 1950, it wasn't until 1969 that the USA landed men on the Moon, but Heinlien's predictions about how space travel would look like were remarkably accurate. NASA credited this film as being instrumental in the history of the USA space program. Don't expect a modern day science fiction masterpiece, or even a film on the level of Forbidden Planet. However, this often overlooked film had great special effects for the day and launched a series of (better, perhaps) science fiction films issued in the 1950s and 1960's. The realistic approach makes this film a bit slow for some, but it is a classic and should be viewed as such by any SF film buff or aspiring film maker.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous Lunar Landmark","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its a real shame some reviewers put this wonderful movie down for its acting,dialogue, FX or even its predictive accuracy...To me, what makes Destination Moon enduringly fascinating and watchable beyond its evident shortcomings is just how much they got right. You can't watch a film like this without putting it into its cultural and historical context. This was pre-Space Age, before the Cold War race to the Moon, in a time when space travel was still considered -by most- to be pure fantasy. The movie's true power (and testament to George Pal's fantastic special effects) lies in its ability to create a sense of wonder about the journey itself. About the enormous distances and the very real dangers that would be faced later by the real Lunar explorers.George Pal created the first mainstream space-travel classic here. It exists as a time capsule to another age when science fiction was still a fictional place. "},{"Title":"Noble Intent, Dreadful Script","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story centers on efforts to get to the moon. The film's intent seems to be to explain space travel in a realistic, scientifically accurate way that can be understood by ordinary people. That's commendable. But the approach is dreadful. In the first few minutes a group of potential financiers get treated, along with us viewers, to a five minute cartoon ... literally ... with Woody Woodpecker learning how a rocket ship could lift off of Earth, get to the moon, and return safely. Do the film's producers really regard viewers as having no more than a kindergarten mentality?The rationale for the rocket project is just as curious. Deadly serious, a scientist explains to these same financiers the project's necessity. (Among nations), the race is on and we'd better win it ... The first country that can use the moon for the launching of missiles (cue dramatic pause) will control the earth! That, gentlemen, is the most important military fact of this century! Okay, whatever.The rocket's crew consists of some scientists, and one idiot, brought in to replace an ailing pro. This idiot, named Joe, is the ultimate simpleton, reluctant to go along on the mission 'cause, like, he's got a hot date with a good-looking chick. And he has doubts about the rocket's success The thing won't work; it can't; it's crazy. Still, the captain coaxes him into going along, and Joe replies Okay, I'll set up there with you and twiddle the knobs ... hey, you guys are really serious, ain't cha.Most of the film consists of indoor sets and tons of dialogue. There's precious little in the way of interesting visuals until we get into the second half. Here, a desolate moonscape propels the imagination, finally, with a dark background peppered with stars.Background music is dreary. Costumes are consistent with the era's perception of space travel. Space helmets resemble old-fashioned ladies' hair dryers.The film's educational intent is noble. But the script talks down to its audience. There's too much dialogue, most of which is stodgy and lacks subtext. Special effects look cheap. Casting is perfunctory; acting is below average. I find Destination Moon boring, time-bound, and less sci-fi than cultural melodrama. "},{"Title":"A very technically accurate movie.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the special effects are poor by today's standards, the technical aspects are very accurate and were kept that way by Robert Heinlein, the Dean of Science Fiction Writers. "},{"Title":"Dated, but fun","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very dated but very fun film.  While the plot is thin and the acting is fairly bad, this movie is worth the time simply because of the effort taken to make the special effects as technically correct as the art allowed at that time.  Chesley Bonestell's astronomical paintings in the film are incredible and are worth the price of admission by themselves. "},{"Title":"A film much more about realism than about entertainment","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie may bear some historical importance, and it sure seems astonishing how well the facts are together, the setting, the rocket, the space suits, the surface of the moon, all scream a classic - but in the end, the result makes a pretty dull movie for todays eyes, and the 50ies tech scenes you might hope for in a movie like this are by far not enough to reward sitting through all the tacky dialog and predictable plot developments. The characters and plot may reward a scientific sociological analysis, but bear too little entertainment value many times.Much of this movie seems like a good movie for nine-year-olds. The mature themes, the human drama and the violence are kept to a level suitale for children as well.The images of the earth and the moon seen from space may actually be more accurate than the ones in 2001, but so what if their use is dramatically inefficient. Especially 2001 may seem like a stretched out meditation over themes of this movie, and, has Star Wars not somehow modelled it's space-scrolling opening titles on the opening titles of this Film? But then again - the inheritance is marginal.If its a real groundbreaking and mega-influential mature 1950ies Sci-Fi classic you are looking for however, check out Forbidden Planet. "}{"Title":"Interesting look into the future of space travel with a disturbing prediction.","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If NASA has its way, according to this George Pal movie, the United States has the obligation to get to the moon first in order to prevent us from being attacked as well as attack from outer space if necessary. No mention of keeping peace or preventing future world wars. It is as if we learned nothing from recent wars-conquer or be conquered these scientists believe. This is the frame that gets the movie started, but unfortunately, that's the end of that concern as the film progresses and the astronauts make their way into the unknown abyss of our galaxy. What they encounter on the moon is simply to return home, but can they? Fortunately, they do not encounter moon men or other creatures, just the sight of the earth in the distance. This is not a special effects masterpiece; the photography seems more animated than the popular stop motion effects used at the time. As a curiosity, this is worth a view, but will never be among the classic visions of outer-space during the beginning of that genre. "},{"Title":"A Movie Milestone","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1950, Destination Moon was in a battle with Rocketship X-M for the earliest release date. There had been little like them before. You'd probably have to go back to the 30's and Flash Gordon for prior space travel films and a time when rocketships were considered kids' fare because space travel seemed such a far off reality.Moon missed out by a couple months in the release battle, but together with the more fictional Rocketship, helped usher in a whole decade of mainly teenage sci-fi. Actually, Moon is in a different sub-category since it tried to be more reality based, though its concessions to commercial values are all too obvious.Nonetheless, Moon managed to convey basic principles of space travel, including a look at a Technicolor lunar landscape, both within a popular entertainment context. For this 11-year old, the 90-minutes proved genuinely fascinating; at the same time, it introduced me to a whole new arena of movie imagination, and I expect it did the same for thousands of others, both young and old.In that sense, the movie represents a milestone in post-war film fare, and just as importantly, served as a popular introduction to the so-called space race of the 1960's. Note too, the allusions to Cold War competition for space supremacy and its military value, another timely aspect then on the national horizon.Too bad the film has become so obscure. Sure, the effects have dated in the meantime, while much of the byplay with Sweeney (Wesson) now seems a silly concession to commercialism. Nonetheless, the movie remains a milestone in the evolution of modern science-fiction, and for many of us oldsters, a striking introduction to the space age. "},{"Title":"A Really Good, Early Sci-Fi Adventure","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem I have with a lot of the early science fiction stories is that they were more often than not heavy on the fiction and light on the science. I have to give credit, therefore, to Destination Moon. It completely reverses that. It's actually quite heavy on science and the fiction element is pretty light - at least in the sense that it treats the story very seriously. The title sums it up perfectly. A group of scientists and industrialists team up to build a rocket to travel to the moon. As it turned out those who made this movie weren't accurate prognosticators - the method of space travel portrayed (atomic powered engines) turned out not to be what eventually propelled humans to the moon - but the thoughtfulness was there, and I appreciated it. I liked the fact that the effort didn't involve the U.S. Government - in fact, the government wasn't completely supportive. It was all American (and in the context of the very early years of the Cold War the point was made that we have to get there first or else we're in trouble) but still, it was private citizens doing this. I appreciated that. For 1950, I thought most of the effects were pretty good; the movie rarely seemed dated at all. It had a fresh look and feel pretty much the whole way through, with perhaps only the animated scenes (which were long distance views of the astronauts outside the rocket while in flight) looking a bit primitive. Even the Woody Woodpecker cartoon seemed appropriately placed.This isn't especially dramatic. There are a few attempts to introduce drama and excitement, but for the most part I didn't feel any real tension until the very end, when it did seem as though someone was going to have to be left behind on the moon's surface. Aside from that, it was the technical quality and the serious nature of the movie that really appealed to me. The cast (largely unknown, at least to me) was decent enough. Until seeing this, I would probably have dated Forbidden Planet as perhaps the earliest truly serious sci-fi movie made that I had seen. This was made 6 years earlier, though, and so now takes that prize. Well done, indeed! (7/10) "},{"Title":"George Pal Reaches for the Moon","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fearful that a foreign power will launch an attack on the United States from the Moon, a group of American entrepreneurs decide to get their spaceship Luna there within a year. Aeronautics expert John Archer (as Jim Barnes), rocket scientist Warner Anderson (as Charles Cargraves), veteran Tom Powers (as General Thayer), and radio radar expert Dick Wesson (as Joe Sweeney) make the trip. Lamenting that there will be no beer, no babes, no baseball in outer space, Mr. Wesson provides comic relief in Brooklynese.This increasingly bland film was very influential; a quality production that took its subject matter seriously.You can safely bet some combination of future Apollo 11 (1969) astronauts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins as well as future U.S. President John F. Kennedy saw Destination Moon in their local theaters. Since this is a realistic, for the time, depiction of how a real Moon mission might proceed, the men do not find anything resembling Zsa Zsa Gabor on the Moon (she was on Venus). But, you do get a Woody Woodpecker cartoon. The George Pal produced special effects are nicely done.***** Destination Moon (6/27/50) George Pal, Irving Pichel ~ John Archer, Tom Powers, Dick Wesson, Warner Anderson "},{"Title":"No Beer, No Babes, No Baseball!","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every great film genre owes a debt to a handful of seminal films, and for the genre of 1950s sci-fi, one of my personal favorites, one of those films must certainly be considered Destination Moon (1950). The granddaddy of space exploration pictures and the very first sci-fi film of the '50s, this was also the first movie to treat science fiction in an adult, realistic, almost documentary manner. In it, a rocket designer, an aeronautics engineer, a pro-space exploration general, and an average Joe from Brooklyn (a last-minute communications replacement, who also provides the film some cornball humor) blast off for Luna despite government interference. Indeed, the film makes it quite clear that the combined might of American industry can be much more effective than the government when it comes to getting the job done. Anyway, this picture is a good early example of suspenseful, realistic, hard sci-fi, and features no monsters, ancient lunar civilizations or miniskirted moon babes. The excitement in this film, rather, comes from not knowing how or if our heroes will figure out their various dilemmas, such as how to ditch 110 lbs. of cargo weight when the ship has already been stripped to the limit. The Oscar-winning FX look fine even today, particularly the spectacular, panoramic lunar paintings by Chesley Bonestell, who was already popular with sci-fi fans of the time for his cover art for Astounding Science Fiction and other magazines. Indeed, many scenes in this picture resemble the covers of Ace double paperbacks brought magically to life. The Dean of Science Fiction, Robert A. Heinlein, has here adapted his juvenile novel Rocketship Galileo with winning results. And in a sparkling script, the most cogent line about the moon may be this one No beer, no babes, no baseball! "},{"Title":"1950's golden age of sci-fi started here","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Irving Pichel, Novel Robert Heinlein, Script Alford Van Ronkel, James O'Hanlon. Cast John Archer (Jim Barnes), Warner Anderson (Dr. Charles Cargraves), Tom Powers (General Thayer), Dick Wesson (Joe Sweeney).This was really the film that started the sci-fi craze of the 1950's. This film was marketed and produced by George Pal who was one of the biggest names in sci-fi then. This movie was a high budget film with state of the art special effects for the time. At the beginning of the movie, we are shown a rocket being tested in the desert. Well, this test fails because the rocket crashes. Dr. Cargraves is determined to create a ship that can actually make it to the moon. The federal government,NASA and the like, will not finance the project so they turn to the private sector. They try to get millionaire industrialists to finance the project. In order to do this, Dr. Cargraves had to convince them that they can actually create a rocket that can make it to the moon. I get a kick out of the part where a film with Woody Woodpecker is shown to the business men in order to easily explain the physics behind making a rocket.I really enjoy this movie. It has no complicated back story or any romantic fluff that was so prominent in films of this time. Very to the point! You will anticipate what it will be like on the moon as you journey with these gentleman. It almost feels as if you are part of the journey. When they finally make it to the moon, we are introduced to a rather impressive depiction of the moon. While, for the time anyway. This predates the moon landing by 19 years! I guess we have since learned that the moon doesn't quite look like that. Oh well, I am still impressed. Credit goes to Chesney Bonestell for the art work.After they have landed and are ready to return, they discover that they may not have enough fuel to make it back to earth. One of them may have to stay behind. There was another film from the same year called Rocketship X-M that I have not yet seen. Although Destination Moon was the first to be produced, Rocketship was made in a hurry with a much lower budget and made it to theaters first. But it was still Destination Moon that took sc-fi by the storm followed by Gerge Pal's When Worlds Collide which I plan on reviewing next. This film was made in full Technicolor. Sit back,relax and enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"The first  scientific Sci-Fi movie","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon (1950 - 92 minutes), a classic of the 50's Sci-Fi movies, was produced by George Pal and was directed by Irving Pichel from the script of Alford Van Ronkel which was based on a novel of Robert Heinlen. The main actors are John Archer, Warner Anderson and Tom Powers. The plot is the following the North American government develops a project under the command of general Thayer (Powers) to send a nuclear propulsion rocket to the Moon. To materialize this project is necessary the participation of the private initiative. For this, general Thayer contacts Jim Barnes (Archer), owner of the Barnes Aircraft, and asks him to convince other industrials to participate of the enterprise. His main argument is that several other nations are also in this space race and the future of the United States will depend on to be the first ones to arrive at the Moon, therefore Who first arrives in the Moon will control Earth. Based in Rocket Ship Galileo, novel of Heinlein, this film is the first Sci-Fi that gives emphasis to the scientific side of Science Fiction stories. There are no aliens nor lost civilizations on the Moon. The film shows an educational video clip presented by the Woody Woodypeeker that is a special attraction. Robert Heinlein was born in 1907 in Butler, interior of the Missouri State, but lived most part of his childhood in Kansas City, among his seven brothers. In 1925 he went to university and later on to the Naval Academy, graduating in 1929. He served the Navy for five years as a lieutenant on board of a destroyer. He was relieved because he contracted tuberculosis, the first of a series of illnesses that would follow his life. After leaving the Navy he attended a Physics and Mathematics course in UCLA, University of California. During the Second World War he was detached by the Navy (even relieved) to work in an experimental flight laboratory. This laboratory was in Philadelphia and was the same where Isaac Asimov worked. Heinlein was one of the first writers of science fiction that lived exclusively of his work. He is considered one of the three great writers of Sci-Fi (together with Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke) and gained four Hugo Prizes during his career. The Hugo is the most important prize of science fiction literature. "},{"Title":"Gem from the past","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nice models and stiff acting, but the suspense is still there 56 years after it's release. It got me hooked right away with the failed launch of the test rocket.Feelt fresh with the correct science aspect of the movie, haven't seen too many of those, we have Heinlein to thank for that.The actors are indifferent and the story is simple, with some serious flaws but which movie hasn't. The storyMan wants to build spaceship to go the Moon. Builds spaceship. Flies to the Moon. Go back. (Is this a spoiler?)Still I liked the characters, specially how they all fail to be the noble one. (How can you fail at that?)Overall it's a classic in the genre and should be seen with an open mind and a beer at hand. "},{"Title":"America's first serious look into outer space.","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon was the first major Technicolor motion picture dealing with a trip to the moon, and the first serious, big budget science fiction film produced in the United States. Robert A. Heinlein (author of Starship Troopers, The Puppet Masters, Stranger in A Strange Land, and Space Cadet) co-wrote the screenplay very loosely from his 1947 novel Rocketship Galileo, although about all that remains unchanged in the film is the name Dr. Cargraves. In the book there is a veiled threat from unknown enemies that turn out to be Nazis (this was the first thing Heinlein wrote after the war) - in the film there's just a veiled reference to a communist threat. I suspect the film also draws from Heinlein's more sophisticated treatment from the same period, The Man Who Sold The Moon. The film's suspenseful and scientifically accurate plot depicts man's first voyage to and landing on the Moon, and the dangers of outer space travel. A Woody Woodpecker cartoon is included to demonstrate the principles of rocketry.George Pal's first science fiction film (earlier he had done Puppetoons and The Great Rupert), Destination Moon earned an Academy Award for Special Effects. Later Mr. Pal would produce more science fiction classics including When World's Collide, War Of The Worlds, and The Time Machine. Photographed in Technicolor with an original musical score by Leith Stevens and stunning artwork by Chesley Bonestell, Destination Moon is a milestone in special effects and a classic in the science fiction genre.It is said that this film was shown to President Eisenhower to persuade him to support the pre-NASA space programs. On 6 October 1988, after Robert Heinlein's death, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) awarded him the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal In recognition of his meritorious service to the Nation and mankind in advocating and promoting the exploration of space. Through dozens of superbly written novels and essays and his epoch-making movie Destination Moon, he helped inspire the Nation to take its first step into space and onto the Moon. Even after his death, his books live on as testimony to a man of purpose and vision, a man dedicated to encouraging others to dream, explore and achieve. -- James C. Fletcher, Administrator, NASA "},{"Title":"Destination Moon (1950)","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a big Heinlein fan, partially because of his politics... and his conservative viewpoints do factor into the film, although thankfully only in the first act. Like THE WOMAN IN THE MOON, this is a speculative look at what it would be like to travel to our satellite. This is a far more realism-based film than Lang's, however, with the advantage of an additional 20 years of knowledge. And it does seem to get a lot of the science right. Unfortunately, it could use a little more imagination, and ends up pretty dull and too concerned with scientific explanation (including a Woody Woodpecker cartoon illustrating the basics of space flight). There are a couple of intriguing/exciting scenarios but even those are undercut by Dick Wesson, playing a Joe Six Pack character who comes along as a last minute replacement for one of the crew. Wesson's dumb Brooklynese comments are real groaners. This movie ought to have been a lot more fun. "}{"Title":"How I love this movie!!!!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was a kid. It usually came on the Saturday afternoon or night sci-fi movies. I just bought it last week on DVD after not seeing it for about 15 or so years. Man how it brought back the memories! True it is somewhat dated and they didn't get it quite right, but still! Considering the fact that is was 1950!!! Most people of the day didn't realize that you became weightless in space or that it was extremely cold or that the moon had only one sixth the gravity of earth. All of this is explained (usually to the crew member that was an average Joe who came aboard at the last minute)There's even a Woody Woodpecker cartoon that explains rather simplistically how such a trip could happen.There were no Radar Men, monsters or evil space queens that wanted to take over the earth. Instead we a sci-fi drama (with a hint of cold war paranoia) that tried to depict space travel with what they knew at the time. Man how I was disappointed when they finally landed on the moon some 19 years later and it did not look the way it did in the movie! If you're looking for modern day special effects (although some of the effects still hold up today)...forget it! But if you want to have some nostalgic sci fi fun check it out! The blast off and the acceleration scene with the distorted faces is a hoot! Beautiful score and opening title. Classic sci-fi! "},{"Title":"Fun space opus","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is quite underrated. I have seen it at least 3 times on DVD and although it lacks extras(could someone please tell Universal or Image for a SE?)and good print quality, the film is so good that it is still worth having. An unheralded classic! "},{"Title":"Half a century ago man discovered space","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first heard of this film on MTV's The Big Picture. That was years ago, but somehow the film managed to build a nest somewhere in the back of my head. And now I had to chance to finally see it. But you know the story for these kinds of movies when you get to see them, they never can live up to the high hopes you cherished. The second handicap was that I've seen a lot of space expedition movies. You know what to expect. Well... I was wrong. 'Destination Moon' managed to impress me anyhow. Yes, it's true the scenes where they raise the funds should have been a lot shorter, but one should look at one's ceiling more often and if a movie can provide you with a dull moment, then take the time to do so. Admire your ceiling and then go back to the rest of the movie. There is more to come and you will be rewarded for your patience. Only the scene where the scientists present their project to the fund-raisers makes this movie obligatory. And by that time they haven't left the earth yet. What happens in space is nice to watch and (if you remember the movie was made in 1950) fairly accurate. Another treat when they finally get to the Moon, they don't encounter the otherwise obligatory aliens (men in suits telling the astronauts who they already left the Earth millions of years ago). Yes, NO aliens. 'Destination Moon' not part of any litter man already dumped in space. It certainly deserves an eight. "},{"Title":"Will I ever be alive to see a moon landing?","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie 1st in 1950 when I was 10 years old. I said to my host I wonder if I will be alive to see man land on the Moon?. In 1968 I was at Cape Canaveral 10 days before the blast-off of Apollo 8 and saw the launch on TV from L.A. July 1969 I saw Neill Armstrong set foot on the Moon on T.V. in my own office in Melbourne, Autralia. I now have a Video of this movie and just saw it again.  "},{"Title":"This film spoiled me for many thereafter, and led to a pilgrimage","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw it at age 12 or 13 and was new to science fiction movies, being freshly immigrated. It has very few scientific howlers, so I thought that might be a standard. The subsequent glut of 50's so-called science fiction films kept annoying me no end, because all those professional movie makers seemed to know less elementary science than me, an ordinary schoolboy. Incidentally, at the time I vowed that I'd be there when the first rocket to the moon took off - I had no doubt that this would happen in my lifetime. Accordingly I drove to Florida in the heat of July, 1969, camped in a bug-infested campground and on the next morning sat transfixed on the beach, watching the first humans heading for another planet. "},{"Title":"Put on Your Lead Shoes","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When George Pál began to produce features in the 1950s he alternated his successful plain fantasy productions with lowbrow realistic films about space travel or the mechanics of magic. For every «War of the World», «tom thumb» or «The Time Machine», Pál indulged in one or two films dealing with scientific research that have not aged well, as Destination Moon. Many of the seriously-treated facts and scenes today seem funny or verbose. On the other hand, the film tries hard to convince us of the importance of investing in the conquest of space, for nothing more than imperialist purposes, as seen in an undisguised propaganda sequence in which investors watch a Woody Woodpecker cartoon about space travel if you distance yourself a bit from the drama being told, the sequence reveals disturbing cultural features, dealing with competitiveness, an obsession with being first, world control and readiness to resolve many things through dominance and war. Once the moguls are convinced that they have a messianic mission to fulfill and open their checkbooks, a private program to travel to the Moon is launched, free from government interference, although in the end the objective for State or Capital is the same supremacy. I guess one can pass that, waiting for the excitement of the trip ahead. But alas, no, there is nothing exciting about it, and not because the characters do not stop talking, but for the decision to omit many spectacular moments, as the launching seen from the Earth or the Moon. I give it 5 points for the effort, and some illustrations by Chesley Bonestell, but if you want to enjoy a fantasy trip to the Moon (because in the end «Destination Moon» is nothing but a fantasy), switch to George Méliès' «Le voyage dans la Lune» or Fritz Lang's «Frau im Mond», which are far superior. "},{"Title":"Opening Titles","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Interestingly, the opening title sequence looks vaguely familiar, let's see, could it be that George Lucas could have 'borrowed' the receding prologue sequence in Star Wars from Destination Moon? Certainly this is no coincidence and a testament that there is nothing new under the sun...or moon in this case. Though dated, as so many 50's Sci-Fi films are, this one, with Heinlein's influence, attempted to be as factual as it could and showed some very sophisticated special effects for the time. In fact, the film won a Oscar for that category. The film's very striving for authenticity is the very thing that makes this film so genuinely a period piece...the lack of security at the lift site, the footage of the 'computer', the wise cracking radio man, the zero gravity sequences and, my fave...the obligatory rescue scene. All have become stereotypical features in countless films to follow...yet this is, in many ways, ground zero for films of this genre. If you are a fan of 1950's Sci-Fi, this is a must. "},{"Title":"Explorers on the moon","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination moon is a serious movie,made with care,with a small budget compared to today's ones;there is no female part,no love interest ,and it sometimes looks like documentary style .Only the ending is story like ,stealing the drawing sorts trick from Fritz Lang 's 'Frau Im Mond (th woman on the moon).I'M almost sure that Hergé ,who wrote the adventures of Tintin,saw this movie he began his Objectif lune/On A Marché Sur La Lune circa 1950 and there are many similaritiesthe landing of the rocket,the rescue of the man floating in space ,the lack of oxygen,etc.The cover of the reissue is a model of taste,looking like the covers of the old comic books of the time "},{"Title":"For the Benefit of All Mankind","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is difficult to evaluate Destination Moon, not easy to give it a rating of good or bad. It is a gigantic film, a brilliant landmark in the history of sci-fi movies. Destination Moon set the standard, dialed in the setting and launched 50s space sci-fi. Yet, for all that, is it watchable today in the 21st century? Or are modern viewers so distracted by the dated and corny elements that they lose sight of the sheer genius of the film?Bear in mind that Destination Moon was made at a time when everything we knew about the moon came from a telescope. The most advanced rockets in the world were an aging handful of captured German military V-2s, left over from WWII and sparingly launched from the desert of White Sands, New Mexico.Desination Moon set the standard for rocketshps of the 50s. Spaceship Luna introduces the style that would come to dominate the decade. Luna is graceful, sleek, and sexy - a design derived from the famous V-2 (we get to watch a V-2 launch as the film begins). This style of rocket became outdated (sadly) when the actual space program was underway and it was realized that wings on rockets were unnecessary. Destination Moon helped inspire ordinary moviegoers to think seriously about space travel (by mid-decade popular magazines like Collier's would be imagining space vehicles and Disney produced a TV show on the subject). Robert Heinlein is to be congratulated for helping to deliver an excellent story, but even more so for his clear vision of the science and technology needed for actual moon landings. What other movie of this era is so faithful to science? The special effects look great - the depiction of weightlessness, the spacewalk, the gravity boots, the seat cushions compressing with g-forces, the performance of the rocket...I don't know how the special effects could have been better done in 1950. Destination Moon articulated the awesome experience of venturing into space. From the awe of leaving the earth, to the wonder of walking on another world, the Destination Moon writers clearly saw the poetic and emotional impact of space travel. In the film, the astronauts reach the moon (and burn up most of their fuel looking to land, just like the Eagle did on the Apollo 11 mission) and two of them walk around and establish radio contact with earth. They attempt to communicate their feelings (what an amazing artist's conception of the lunar surface!). The things these guys say are eerily similar to statements made by the first men to actually walk on the moon. Almost 20 years after the movie, Americans left a plaque on the moon which read, We came in peace for all mankind. It was one of America's finest moments. Destination Moon helped 50s America prepare for that future moment. "},{"Title":"A Pioneer of Science Fiction...","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon was based on the novel Spaceship Galileo by Robert A. Heinlein. When Heinlein wrote the screenplay for this movie, he was diligent in making the technology and science accurate, based on what was known of space flight and the moon in the late 1940's. This movie is a must-see for anyone interested in the history of film-making as well as the evolution of spaceflight. The technical aspects aside, it was a well-written movie with a wonderful cast that includes an appearance by Woody Woodpecker. Its also a refreshing change from so many of today's movies where the special effects drive story instead of the other way around. Check it out sometime! "}{"Title":"Another classic from George Pal","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon is a very good Sci-Fi film from the 1950s. The acting, direction, sets and music score are all top notch. For a film made in 1950, the special effects are outstanding. Some of the scenes are out-dated (lifting off without pressurized spacesuits and not wearing helmets) but that was probably the knowledge they had regarding space travel at that time. I enjoyed the scenes on the moon-the backdrops and paintings were pretty realistic. The actors have good chemistry together. The Woody Woodpecker cartoon is a nice addition-NASA actually did use him for some educational films leading up to their Apollo missions. A film that shouldn't be missed! "},{"Title":"A must-see for sci-fi fans","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1950, George Pal and the studio made a big deal out of making a film that would accurately portray what it would be like to travel to the moon. However, a rival studio decided to start their own space race and quickly made ROCKETSHIP X-M to beat DESTINATION MOON to the punch. Well, I can't tell you how both did at the box office, but after seeing both one after the other, I can easily say that DESTINATION MOON was a vastly superior film in every way.The biggest difference you'll notice at the beginning is that DESTINATION is in color. While that isn't so important to me, what I did hate about ROCKETSHIP is when they arrived on Mars, the outdoor scenes were all tinted pink and it looked awful. In addition, while the technical aspects of both films are antiquated compared to the actual moon landings, DESTINATION got many more details correct--such as what it would be like in zero gravity and the crew did not have the gratuitous sex object crew member (such as in ROCKETSHIP, CAT-WOMEN OF THE MOON and many other films of the genre from that period). This way instead of focusing on how adorable this crew member looked or debates about whether a real woman lurked beneath her scientific veneer, the film could look beyond these clichés to the actual voyage.While DESTINATION MOON may not seem like the most exciting film ever made when seen today, it still holds up pretty well due to a very literate and intelligent script, decent and straight-forward acting and an interesting and believable climax scene. I loved it for setting a very high standard for the genre and appreciate that the film makers were not just trying to make a buck but actually say something profound. Plus, while odd, I liked how they actually successfully integrated Woody Woodpecker into portion of the film before the space launch. A visual treat and the best space film for at least the next decade. "},{"Title":"Solid 1950s SF Entry.","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A likable and interesting film that pays a lot of attention to details of physics and atmosphere. With the help of venture capitalists, men build a rocket ship and take it to the moon and back. The four crew members are Warner Baxter as the captain, Tom Powers, John Archer, and Dick Wesson as the wise guy from Brooklyn who is recruited as a last-minute replacement. (Gee, I wondah who's pitchin' fuh da Dodgers, he inquires in mid space.) Wesson plays an Irishman named Sweeney. What they really needed was a Jew like Sam Levene or Arnold Stang, a nervous cynic who, during the shuddering take off, could pound his knees and shout, Who NEEDS this! Who NEEDS this! It's not as dramatic as The Right Stuff and not as subtle as 2001 A Space Odyssey, but the former was history and the latter was (and still is) science fiction aimed at a more sophisticated audience -- and surely both were crapulous with funding in a way that this simple introduction to space travel was not.We're introduced to the phenomenon by a Woody Woodpecker cartoon. Weedy fires a shotgun multiple times, its recoil driving him into the air, illustrating one of Newton's laws. A little later, in explaining why the ship doesn't need to fire its engines in space, another of Newton's laws is invoked -- not by name. This is a cartoon, after all, and is being played for an audience in 1950 that had little grasp of these goings on.The technical details are pretty accurate. The earth is shown as a mostly blue sphere clotted with clouds. Light years ahead of the Universal Studios logo at the time. What I mean is that in a less thoughtful movie, the earth would appear simply as blue ocean and finely etched brown continents, as in a grade school geography book. Some of the details turned out historically to be dead ends. The astronauts and cosmonauts don't wear magnetic boots, for instance, but that could easily have been introduced in order for the camera to keep the men on the same plane. The alternative -- one guy up on the ceiling, one on the floor, and two on the walls -- would have been distracting and difficult.If there's little drama, there's a good deal of suspense. The crew do an extra-vehicle walk or whatever it's called, in order to fix a frozen antenna. Baxter foolishly unleashes himself from his safety line and begins slowly drifting away into space. He's rescued by Archer, who uses the valve of an oxygen tank as a propulsion unit. Good for Heinlein and Van Runkel for trusting the audience enough to understand the principle involved.At that, though, the introductory scenes make clear that this is private enterprise at work. The government is uninterested and refuses to fund the project. More than that, it throws obstacles in the way. And when the question is raised of why we would want to go to the moon anyway, the answer is brusque and emphatic. If we don't do it first, somebody else will -- The first nation to reach the moon can launch rocket attacks on earth. None of this baloney about moon rocks. I found the underlying ideology to be a little sour and, though understandable in the light of historical events, apt to leave an unpleasant aftertaste. "},{"Title":"Interesting early sci-fi flick","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Purely of historical value now, Destination Moon is still quite entertaining.It's fun to see that the concept of reaching the moon wasn't seen as a unrealistic goal twenty years before mankind was able to achieve it. The science in the movie must have been as accurate as they could make it almost sixty years ago. I was relieved that the movie mostly keep its feet on the ground in regard to the fantasy element. There are no aliens on the moon. However the most annoying aspect of the movie is the performance of mediocre comic Dick Wesson. He almost spoils the whole movie. The Technicolor and effects are quite nice. Not a great sci-fi but a interesting one "},{"Title":"Seeds of Legend","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A slightly flawed child of the 1950's, this film is notable on a number of levels.First, it represents something of a change in the direction of film making of Producer George Pal. Destination Moon was the first in a line of ground-breaking films which would become iconic in the science fiction genre. War of the Worlds, When Worlds Collide, The Time Machine... Pal's incredible legacy starts with this film.Second, of course, is Bonestell's artwork. His graphic images would determine how a generation thought of space.It's interesting to note how both Bonestell and Pal fell later in their careers. Pal's last film was the forgettable Doc Savage The Man of Bronze, while I believe Bonestell worked on Disney's SF epic The Black Hole. But I'll need to check IMDb to be sure of that! I highly recommend this film. It might help a younger generation understand what their grandparents were thinking about The Final Frontier. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Moon...and the 1950's sci-fi age","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon was a landmark movie as it was the first of very many sci-fi movies of the 1950's. It has been released in the UK on video as part of the Sciene Fiction Gold series, of which I own a copy.A group of four men prepare for an expedition to the Moon, before the Russians beat them to it. After all the preparations, they set off and before they get there, they have to go out of their ship to do a space walk to carry out a repair but one of the men's wires comes loose and he starts floating out into space, but is rescued. After they land on the Moon, they take some rock samples and do some tests on the rocks. They also learn some of the rocks are radioactive. For the return to Earth, the party has to discard a lot of their belongings because if they don't, they won't make it back. Even ship's radio is done away with. They do make it back safe at the end.The movie has great special effects, especially the Moon scenes and we also see a Woody Woodpecker cartoon sequence with Woody telling us about how the rocket will land and take off from the Moon etc.Destination Moon was produced by George Pal, who went on to produce some of the best sci-fi movies of the 1950's and 1960's including The War Of the Worlds, When Worlds Collide and The Time Machine.The cast includes John Archer, Warner Anderson, Tom Powers and Dick Wesson, who play the astronauts.Destination Moon is essential viewing for all science fiction fans. Fantastic.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"younger reviewers of this film cannot possibly appreciate the mind-set of the 50's","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was a true science fiction presentation that tried to show a largely un-scientific audience the basics of spaceflight on a budget that could not support big name actors. Most of the $586 K is on the screen..not in Robert Taylors pocket! The score is a stand alone symphonic rendering comparable to R.Vaughn Williams 4th and 9th symphonies.It moves the film along nicely and imaginatively.Sure,I can pick it apart and add cute derogatory remarks but that would only insult those who saw this film as youngsters and decided to get into the kind of technology and engineering to bring a trip to the moon into the realm of possibility. Much is owed to Mr. Pal and the production staff that gave us a dream..not a nightmare.This is a genuine classic and deserves a place in the history of space travel. "},{"Title":"Hard to believe it all came true","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when I was 7 years old and it left a deep impact on me. I can remember my mum and dad letting me sit through it twice (In those days you could do that) I never thought that in my life time it would actually happen. The trouble is it did and it was twenty years ago. By today's standards it was a pretty poor film but to me it had a certain fascination about it that has never left me. I'd like to see it again today if I had the chance. "},{"Title":"WAY UNDERRATED FOR ITS TIME","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To those who viewed this with unfavourable opinions; I wonder if you really expected it to contain the FX we see in current sci-fi flicks?  To the others; we appreciate the efforts of George Pal and others to create a scene that is out of this world, well before it was factual; we recognize true forward thinking.  This picture should definitely be more accessible, and televised on commercial stations for being serious about what was to come even sooner than most dreamed it would. "},{"Title":"Man On The Moon 20 Years Before Apollo 11","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1950s can be looked back upon as something of a golden age for science fiction films. Both large and low budget films dealt with everything from giant monsters to space exploration, in the latter's case years before it became a fact of life. With that in mind, it is often interesting to go back and look at films from that era to see what they got right as well as what they got wrong. Take this film for instance, released in the summer of 1950 and the brainchild of producer George Pal. Pal in turn drew on top talent such as the science fiction writer Robert Heinlein and artist Chesley Bonestell to help bring this tale of the first manned mission to the Moon to life nearly two decades before NASA's Apollo missions did so. Given that fact, it might be surprising the things the film gets right or predicts. From EVAs (extra-vehicular activities or spacewalks) to the landing itself with last minute corrections, the film has some intriguing pre-echoes of what was to come. There's even moments akin to iconic first words and though the film doesn't go quite as far as having the astronauts plant an American flag, they something not too dissimilar. The film even depicts zero gravity, a rarity for the time, while also making educated guesses about spacesuits and what foods could be eaten in space. Much like Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, the film presented a (for its time) plausible vision of space exploration in the not too distant future and as a result the film holds up pretty well in that regard.The film proved iconic in other ways as well. Take the large silver nuclear powered rocket at the heart of the film, so iconic that its influence can be felt throughout much of 1950s and 60s science fiction. The film's depiction of the Earth from space and the lunar surface, shown via a limited set and the paintings of Chesley Bonestell, show what was expected in the days before Sputnik let alone Apollo or the Space Shuttle. While not always accurate, the way the Moon is shown here can be felt on films throughout the era such as 1964's The First Men In The Moon and arguably even Kubrick's 2001. Not to mention the score by Leith Stevens, which would effectively set the standard by which other films in the genre would have to live up to (Stevens would go on to score Pal's When Worlds Collide and the iconic 1953 film of H.G. Wells' The War Of The Worlds). All of which is shown in glorious Technicolor which looks stunning even now, brought together under George Pal's vision with it being directed by Irving Pichel with the result being a film that stands heads and shoulders above much of what was made in the decades to follow.Yet, like all works of art, the film is very much a product of the time it was created it. The film's special effects, impressive for the time and which appropriately won the Oscar in 1950, are what have perhaps dated the most though they have their moments of effectiveness even sixty odd years later. Where the film is most dated is in it is dialogue and performances, which can be described as at best functional and laughable at worst. The film's semi- documentary tone leaves a lot of room for speeches and exposition but for little else, especially characterization with only Dick Wesson's everyman radio operator Joe Sweeney really having any character. Given the film was released in 1950, Cold War fears are present throughout with the insinuation of the Soviets (unnamed throughout the film's opening third) sabotaging projects and trying to hold back the mission. It's also interesting to note that, given that NASA (a government agency) put men on the moon, the film makes quite a big deal in that same screen-time towards the notion that only private industry could pull off a Moon mission because government doesn't make those kinds of appropriations in peace time, to paraphrase the General Thayer character. For all of its faults, Destination Moon remains watchable even after six decades. Its Technicolor look at the then not too distant future makes for intriguing viewing even with inaccuracies that we know today or the at times lackluster writing that's heavy on exposition. For its effects and presentation, its a classic in its own way. Not on the level of say 2001 but it is a film every bit as important to the science fiction film genre as Kubrick's. For that alone, it's well worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Destination Science Fiction.","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon (1950) Dir Irving Pichel / Cast John Archer, Warner Anderson, Tom Powers, Dick Wesson, Erin O'Brien-Moore Landmark science fiction film where three men decide to trek to the moon despite overbearing odds of them taking off. There is much media coverage as these men prepare for a journey that was deemed unimaginable. They awake from hyper-sleep and from there everything goes wrong. Directed by Irving Pichel who breaks new ground in special effects and production. It also features a few seconds of Woody Woodpecker giving voice during a seminar. This is not to render the film to children, although its content is clearly family oriented. This is adult storytelling with a cast that includes John Archer, Warner Anderson, Tom Powers, and Dick Wesson and they employ complete familiarity without a hint outside stereotypical realms. Despite the stereotypes, the cast are introduced to the opportunity to travel to the moon and despite complications they render a successful landing. It is getting home that becomes a problem. They are under threat of leaving someone behind until they decide to lighten the spacecraft. The cast survive wooden dialogue by aiding the suspense. The special effects and production fare okay for the time of release. The result is a thought-provoking theme of space travel and its impact on science fiction filmmaking. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Matter of Fact Film Virtually Created the Sci-Fi Genre","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Historically Important in the History of Film. Also, NASA, for Obvious Reasons, Loved this Movie and to this Day give it Credit for Influencing the Government and the Public. It was Prescient and did Prognosticate the Space Race and America's Need to get with the Program.For Hollywood it was the First Movie with a Few Odd Exceptions like Metropolis (1927), and Things to Come (1936), to Utilize Science-Fiction as a Theme in a Big-Budget, Production that wasn't a Serial Aimed at the Kids. This was a Gallant Effort and not at all a Safe Venture, both Financially and Artistically.Released in 1950 it Virtually Created the Sci-Fi Genre in Films as we Know it Today. It Strived for Accuracy Foremost and its Imagination was in the Concept more than the Execution. if it wasn't Scientifically Feasible, or at Least Theoretical it wasn't Shown. The Result was a Strain on Entertainment Value, but it made up for it with a Grandiose Vision Firmly Grounded in Political Reality and the Emergence, mostly because of the War, in the Acceleration of Industrial and Scientific Technology. Producer George Pal's Vision, Robert Heinlein's Literary Skills, and Chesley Bonestell's Paintings (influenced by His Sci-Fi Pulp Cover Creations), with Help from a Fine Musical Score and some Hollywood Trickery, make this a Seminal Creation. A Must See for those Interested in Hollywood History along with its Influence on Public Perceptions. Woody Woodpecker Adds some Cartoon Flare along with the Movie's Greatest Shortcoming, the Ever Present Skirt Chaser, Joe Six-Pack. Wow, look at that, can you see Brooklyn?...I wonder who's Pitching. "},{"Title":"This film is still a treat.","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Destination Moon 1950, Private companies pull together to build a spaceship to go to the moon to advance Man's technology and science knowledge.*Special Stars- Jim Archer, Warner Aderson, Tom Powers, Dick Wesson.*Theme- Taking chances with space travel makes for good drama.*Trivia/location/goofs- woody woodpecker cartoon used to explain space travel by rocket, This expensive G. Pal film confused with low budget film, Rocketship X-M released around the same time purposely. Watch for rocket acceleration facial distortion to be accomplished by small flesh colored adhesive strips placed on actors faces attached to clear fishing line and pulled of camera by film crew members. Watch for obvious studio set lights reflected in spacesuit helmet visors, and film crew shadow near open hatch door to help push cast onto the spaceship's outer surface.*Emotion- One of the earliest expensive classic space travel films made on the 50's. become the prototype for film space travel, ships, and knowledge of the public. George Pal's production tastes and films have been the hallmark of good films for decades. This film is not only a classic but is exciting to view no matter how the science of space travel has changed and become more sophisticated. This film is still a treat. "},{"Title":"Destination Moon (1950) Was Another Intelligent, Well Done George Pal Movie","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" DESTINATION MOON (1950) was produced by the legendary George Pal (see his WWW.IMDb.Com biog), and was one of the first great full color 1950's sci-fi outer space thrillers which later included WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE (1951), THE WAR OF THE WORLDS (1953), THIS ISLAND EARTH (1955), and FORBIDDEN PLANET (1956).The movie is intelligent, interesting, dramatic, and highly informative about basic science facts regarding space travel and the difficulties, challenges part of it.By any standard, DESTINATION MOON (1950) is a landmark movie, produced in 1950 which was a high water mark year for world cinema, along with 1939, 1928, and 1956........all years notable for multiple cinema productions of remarkable accomplishment and enduring quality.The story is about a successful first flight to the moon, made by four men who travel in a spacecraft built by a private USA company which must take off unexpectedly early because a court order has been issued and is about to be delivered to the space travelers STOPPING the trip due to the fact that public opinion is fearful of the consequences of any such effort.The four man team learn of the court order and decide to take off early, before govt. officials can serve them and stop their departure.The space ship lands on the moon, and the commander claims the moon for the USA on behalf of all mankind in a statement quite similar to the actual statement the first NASA moon landing astronauts made famous in 1969 (the one small step for man, one giant step for mankind statement).Suddenly, the four moon explorers learn the space ship they need for return to the Earth is too heavily loaded for departure from the moon, and that they need to unload large quantities of equipment and supplies to lighten the ship and make departure possible.They pitch out large quantities of junk including used oxygen tanks, radios, and other large metal objects, but in the end, not enough has been removed....110 pounds remain! All four travelers separately volunteer to remain behind, and one (the comic Joe Sweeny from Brooklyn) actually leaves the ship and refuses to return so his remaining three comrades can leave safely.His sacrifice isn't necessary, however, since the ship commander determines that the remaining radio used for contact with the Earth can also be thrown off the ship, and so can the one space suit held back and worn by Joe Sweeny, once he returns to the ship.Sweeny does return to the ship and all four travelers depart successfully from the spacecraft after the radio and space suit are thrown out, and the needed weight removal is accomplished.The ship returns to the Earth with all four travelers safely aboard. The final end credit appears over the outer space scene showing the space ship returning from the moon to the earth after the very first space voyage to the moon by people from Earth.The final credit for DESTINATION MOON (!950) reads This is THE END..Of The Beginning. DESTINATION MOON (1950) is a landmark science fiction space travel movie, and should be seen by all interested in this genre, and by all interested in high water mark quality cinema movies remarkable for creativity and intelligence.----------------------------- Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Com and choose Tex Allen resume for contact information, movie credits, and biographical information about Tex Allen. He has reviewed more than 42 movies posted on WWW.IMDb.Com (the world's largest movie information database, owned by Amazon.Com) as of January 2011. These include 1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the Loving Couples (1969) 17 January 2011 4. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 5. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 6. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 7. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 8. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 9. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 10. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) 22 September 2010 11. Destination Moon (1950) 17 January 2011 12. Detour (1945) 19 November 2010 13. Die Hard 2 (1990) 23 December 2010 14. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl (1993) 19 November 2010 15. Jack and the Beanstalk (1952) 26 July 2009 16. King Solomon's Mines (1950) 1 December 2010 17. Knute Rockne All American (1940) 2 November 2010 18. Claire's Knee (1970) 15 August 2009 19. Melody Ranch (1940) 10 November 2010 20. Morning Glory (1933) 19 November 2010 21. Mush and Milk (1933) 17 January 2011 22. New Moon (1940) 3 November 2010 23. Pinocchio (1940) 6 November 2010 24. R2PC Road to Park City (2000) 19 November 2010 25. Salt (2010) 24 August 2010 26. Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1960) 21 January 2011 27. Sunset Blvd. (1950) 1 December 2010 28. The Forgotten Village (1941) 21 January 2011 29. The Great Dictator (1940) 1 November 2010 30. The King's Speech (2010) 19 January 2011 31. The Last Emperor (1987) 20 January 2011 32. The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner (1962) 9 January 2011 33. The Man in the White Suit (1951) 5 August 2009 34. The Philadelphia Story (1940) 5 November 2010 35. The Social Network (2010) 19 January 2011 36. The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974) 1 August 2009 37. The Thomas Crown Affair (1999) 14 August 2009 A full list of Tex Allen's movie reviews appearing on WWW.IMDb.Com with links to full texts of reviews is accessible via http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments "},{"Title":"George Pal's first big Sci-Fi effort a landmark Sci-Fi Classic!","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Destination Moon is a cool example & prediction of space travel in the early 50's before man ever even got into a space suit & rocket ship & traveled to the moon. The Woody Woodpecker sequence is neat. It is often said & stated that he appears in every Pal Sci-Fi & Fantasy Film. A small brief appearance Pal was good friend's with the creator of Woody so he does this as a tribute any big Pal fans would know this. His major appearance in Destination Moon is the first in any Pal Sci-Fi or Fantasy Film. I think the colored space suits were cool. This is a Sci-Fi Classic & was up against Rocketship X-M (1950) in Theaters I haven't seen that so I can't say which is better. I haven't gotten that on DVD yet I have plans for the future to get it. I have a feeling it won't be as good as this Pal Classic but good. Anyway u can catch Destination Moon on TCM Jan. 1, 2006 at 330pm they are showing 50's Sci-Fi Classics all day starting early in the morning. I will be recording a good bit of them on my DVD Recorder. I have Destination Moon I downloaded it along with the trailer. I haven't gotten around to watching it yet on my DVD Player. I saw it on an old DVD Player at my Grandma's & some parts were screwed up her player doesn't play DVDR's right anyway I will check it out on my Player if it is screwed up which a lot of the movies I burn on my burner don't always turn out good. No worries with Moon it is coming on TCM so if I have to I will record it again. I am a huge George Pal fan. So I give this a 6. "},{"Title":"from fiction to reality","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wonderful movie. I watched it when I was 6 years old and this film impressed me a lot. Then, I had to wait for 40 years before I could see it again. In the meantime Apollo II had landed on the moon and everybody could see that the film had anticipated reality with great accuracy. The famous comic strip Tintin was greatly influenced by this film  the space-suits, the magnetic shoes, the extra vehicular activity,the propulsion of the rocket etc...are almost copy-pasted from the film At the end of the film, the astronauts have to leave a lot of stuff on the moon because their rocket is too heavy and in the mission Apollo II we can see the real astronauts do the same but this time to minimize the risks of a possible contamination. The end of the film is a bit frustrating as we don't see the astronauts land safely on the earth,but, anyway this film is exceptional and ranks high in my personal movie hit-parade "},{"Title":"Interesting, earnest but flawed serious science fiction","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wonder if America of 1950 had any greater worries than the possibility that Russia could get to the Moon before them? I bet they did, but that didn't stop Destination Moon from handling the subject with the most earnest of touches. Its serious science fiction, researched fact mixed with sober speculation and served up with a dollop of right wing attitude. I can't say as I think this one has aged terribly well in many aspects other than its effects sequences actually, though I found it broadly watchable enough. For starters I wasn't sold on the political attitude. The anti Commie slant is fair enough and not something I would expect to be given serious treatment, but I thought rather less of the idea of free enterprise bypassing the law and then being applauded when they succeeded, indeed I found it rather too simplistic. The film brings up the notion of public opinion being agitated against the idea of an atomic rocket, which is interesting, but never dwelt upon, there is mention of the possibility of a saboteur when an early rocket explodes, this is also never dwelt upon, most importantly in terms of characters little discussion goes into the possibilities of danger for the land around the site should the mission go wrong, other than that it has been evacuated. Now, I don't generally like to get into politics in cinema but here it stands out, as the writing isn't up to much, the acting is mediocre and the events too sparsely exciting. Everything seems more concerned with asserting grandeur and importance of the mission and then putting some scientific accuracy on screen, rather than drawing interesting characters to invest the audience in events or stirring up excitement. Having said this, the emphasis on accuracy is pretty interesting in itself, especially when contrasted with the lunacies of so many fellow science fiction films of the time. Destination Moon is really the result of smart minds doing their best to come up with an absolutely plausible account of man landing on the Moon and its remarkably prescient stuff, from plans of the later Apollo missions to even the first words spoken on the eventual landing in 1969. Everything comes across accurate and the special effects are excellent (they bagged an Oscar) with fun depictions of weightlessness and low gravity, some ace matte painting work and shuttle take off excitement. Cast-wise no one impresses too much and Dick Wesson irritates in a lamely written everyman role, but things just about hold together until the lightly suspenseful end. Altogether I wasn't a big fan of this one, its respectable and probably a worthy watch for the serious science fiction fan but it isn't all that much fun. A fair 5/10 from me then. "},{"Title":"an all time favorite of mine","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie once on television. when I was a kid. but it made such a strong impression I can vividly remember certain scenes in it like the space walk where the astronaut is shown in an X-ray image. well guess what folks, the hard vacuum of space is a real cooker with radiation and solar winds and ion bombardment form all directions !!!do NOT whine about the hammy acting. if you do, feel free to pay close attention to the 'home movie' quality of various conversations with apollo, space shuttle and ISS crews. now THAT is really hammy stuff.addendum July 15 2009 (40th anniversary of you-know-what) let's see what they did get right in this film - effects of weightlessness - nausea experienced by at least one of the astronauts - last minute crew change - crew of 4 actual apollo crew was 3 - launch pad gantry - technical challenges - motivation (cold war concerns) - last minute mission critical glitches (kinda like apollo 13) includingthe frozen antennathe problem of excess weight on lunar launch - down time whilst the craft coasts to lunar orbit - very large booster with large amount of fuel -etcthe film MUST be commended for its pioneering accomplishment; left to a handful of writers and producers with scant in-depth knowledge of the engineering issues of space flight (hint dwelling incessantly on that angle would be as exciting as waiting thru one of those interminably delayed early mercury or gemini launches).the film requires some 'willing suspension of disbelief' especially this long after its release. and for those who adamantly insist the numerous 'misses' from reality invalidate the entertainment value, feel free to tell us PRECISELY what space exploration adventures await in 2027. and how it is accomplished and by whom. otherwise clam up with your petty nitpicking.my opinion on space flight? confined to lunar exploration. long term voyages, ie 2 years +/- to mars, and then another 2 years back again, AIN'T GONNA HAPPEN. the astronauts aren't going to be able to stand up after that long in weightlessness !!! honest !!! google the story of the Russian cosmonaut who spent a record time orbiting earth, which spanned to fall of the soviet union. when he finally got back onto earth, he couldn't stand up !!! also, long term space flight WILL subject the individuals to ghastly levels of exposure to harmful radiation and toxic environments. kinda like Marie Curie and her scientific work gave her cancer from years of exposure to radiation. see what I mean?so for the foreseeable future, space exploration will be confined to the imagination and films like this. "},{"Title":"Destination Moon (1950)","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" That isn't public opinion - it's a job of propaganda!This is the story of how the Americans got to the Moon. It is also the first science-fiction movie that approaches the reality of outer space from a scientific perspective, or so they say. All I can say is that it is flat, stiff and boring, but at least it has pretty colors. And it won an Oscar for special effects.The story is quite simple. The Americans build a space rocket and send it to the Moon. It is nuclear powered, huge and shiny. It is ambitions, it is gonna take the combined effort of the entire might of the United States Industry and it's gonna cost them every bit of blood, sweat and tears they've got, but they'll make it.The propaganda is spread thick all over this ship ... err ... movie. There are all kinds of enemies out there who want the United States to fail and who would stop at nothing to make that happen. Fortunately for them, they don't have to try too hard, because the bad script and the stiff acting kill this mission far more successfully than they ever could. If you feel you're going too fast, some day, just watch this movie. It will slow you down in a jiffy. For example, they have a guy trying on a pair of boots for 5 minutes. Talk about a slow dresser! Obviously they do that only as long as they want to make a point, because after that they walk about with a spring in their heel, just like Fred Astaire on the ceiling. Aside from that, everything is just dandy.This is the first in a series of science-fiction movies produced by George Pal, who is also responsible for classics like When Worlds Collide, The War of the Worlds The Time Machine and Conquest of Space, of which I've seen the first three and intend to watch the fourth. I understand that this movie has sparked the crazy decades of science-fiction movies in the '50s and the '60s and if you decide to watch it then you will also understand why they had to come up with a whole bunch of monsters, alien invaders and 50 foot half naked babes because otherwise they would have been just as boring as this movie is, obviously.Destination Moon. A great piece of history but... not much else. 6.3/10 is just about right, but only for history's sake. "},{"Title":"I was surprised how good this was.","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" DESTINATION MOONThis film is very good... and even though there are some things about it that doesn't make much sense or are realistic, for it's time it is amazing.The movie is about a group of men who believe they have what it takes to travel to the moon and back. The problem is, they realise that when they are up there, they don't have enough fuel to get them back. This film was made in 1950, which is 19 years before Neil Armstrong actually stepped foot on the moon. So back then it was thought near impossible to actually do it.The fact is, because of the age of this film, the effects are terrible. But for it's day I can imagine it being quite impressive.The acting is quite good too... I really liked the characters in this film and hoped they would make the journey. The film stars John Archer, Warner Anderson, Tom Powers & Dick Wesson.There are some funny moments in the film as well as suspense and drama. The whole film is very entertaining.Obviously, because nobody had been to the moon before when this was made, they were guessing what would happen and they got it pretty close... there were a few things that were wrong, but you can';t expect them to get everything right. There were a couple of moments when they were in space when they were not floating, also when one of the astronauts opened a drawer everything stayed in there... they didn't float either.I really liked this film... so I will give it 7 out of 10.A very impressive look into the future and it was amazing how close they got it to real life.For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "}{"Title":"A tribute to American engineering","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Our current government could learn something from one of the lessons of this film if you want something done quickly and efficiently, trust it to the private sector, not the government.A group of industrialists rushes a rocket into production, in order to beat anyone else (Russia of course) from getting to the moon first. Because, you see, whoever controls the moon (and can fire missiles from there) will control the earth.Anti-nuke fears and government meddling almost stall the launch, but the intrepid industrialists decide to do it yourself and blast off right in the faces of those trying to shut them down. Of course, there are problems, including a major one that becomes the key crisis of the film.Heinlein, like Verne, had the ability to envision aspects of space travel that have since come true. And the film uses clever set design and special effects that foreshadow later movies like 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY.However, 60 years have not been kind to DESTINATION MOON, even though it's better than others of its era. It's slow, not terribly exciting, and even silly in some of its assumptions about space travel. Weirdest of all is the producer's assumption that Woody Woodpecker is needed to explain the details of space travel (to us, or to the supposedly intelligent industrialists in the screening room). "},{"Title":"Landmark Film","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this film in a theater on opening day. I'd been waiting for it for months, since the first publicity on it came out. The film was technically accurate and did what it promised -- it took people to the Moon.(Spoilers) The actual purpose of the film, as far as I can see, was a propaganda film to start the exploration of space. The recruitment and briefing of the industrialists was merely a way of selling the American people on space travel. Most of the people in the science-fiction world of that time had friends in the research community. At the beginning of the film, there's an attempt to launch an artificial satellite, foiled by sabotage. After that they get the idea of going to the Moon, using an atomic-powered rocket engine (technically reasonable as the reactor only superheated water as a reaction mass). Outside of the hypothetical rocket, everything else in the film was as precise as 1950s scientific knowledge could make it.The entire lunar voyage is actually presented in the Woody Woodpecker cartoon. But the voyage still took viewers realistically to the Moon. More important, it convinced people that it could be done.Historically influential film. "},{"Title":"Robert Heinlein","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been a big fan of Heinlein since my youth, his earlier works are the best of the best S.F. ever written. I think he went off the deep end toward the end of his career, but I still enjoyed settling down with one of his books for hours of enjoyment.It's a travesty that the Hollywood moguls always had to butcher his novels, Remember Puppet Masters? I can't believe they're into another sequel of Starship Troopers, a movie I can't bring myself to say anything good about,period. Perhaps Peter Jackson should try his hand at adapting one of his novels into a watchable movie, he certainly did a creditable job with the Lord of the Rings,( The greatest story of all time in my opinion ) and won 11 Academy Awards in the process.I would love to see Glory Road,The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, even Farnham's Freehold or Podkayne of Mars made into movies that would honor Heinlein's work. The Man Who Sold the Moon was a collection of short stories, and one in particular stays with me still The Green Hills of Earth comes to mind every time I hear the song the Green ,Green Grass of Home.Maybe I'm sentimental,but there you are, so be it. "},{"Title":"Neither exciting nor realistic, with lame 'comic relief' character","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" They should call it Destination Moron. It would be a much better title.I didn't even watch this whole movie. Now, I like 50's sci-fi movies even when they are wildly inaccurate but this one just annoyed me. For one thing, one member of the crew on the spaceship talks and acts like he might have made it into the tenth grade. He sounds like he ought to be on a bowling league, not a space ship. Out the window of the spaceship the crew is marveling at Earth and this boob says 'Can you see Brooklyn?' and another guy says 'Sure'. And the boob says 'Gee, I wonder who's pitching?' Pardon me a moment, I think my sides are splitting.When they first get up into orbit the boob says 'The moon is just for looking at! Take me back down!' Watching the crew making stretched mouths and screaming from the G-forces of acceleration during takeoff is also not one of the better moments of the film. (Perhaps the film's best moment can be identified by a big THE END on the screen.)We also find out that they can't open the hatch because 'the boob' greased it before they took off. Sure, a space vehicle is going to be 'greased' by a member of the crew, who we later learn has never even had a space suit on before and doesn't know anything about zero gravity. As Baby Huey the overgrown fat cartoon duck once said, That sounds logical! The no-gravity-in-space effects are so bad it's painful to watch. (Everyone knows, in the absence of gravity, everything tends to go UP.)How this movie gets 6.3 stars out of 10, when other vastly superior films don't rate any higher, is a mystery to me. I really do like old sci-fi movies but this one is not realistic, and the lame attempts at character humor by throwing in that boob from a gas station grease pit does not work at all - it just ruins the movie. I think in retrospect it's not the whole movie I hate so much as the fact that 'the boob' is so obviously not someone who would be on a space ship - not even to 'grease the hatch.' OMG. I wonder if he checked the fan belts too. Maybe if they'd left 'the boob' off the trip it might not have been QUITE so excruciating. Even so, it's only average. What everyone else is raving about, I don't know.You want to watch a neat 1950's space movie? 'Rocketship X-M' beats it all to heck. Maybe not so much 'realism' but a more serious story and less goofy characters. Go ahead, check that you didn't find my review helpful. Prove that you have no taste! "},{"Title":"Nit-picking vs. technical accuracy","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, it is easy to nit-pick, but also easy to forgive some ideas. 1) If we are going to get a lecture, cartoon or not, it should be accurate. A satellite 1000 miles will not orbit forever. The atmosphere pressure drops off exponentially (base 2.718) - that I would not expect to see in the lecture - so it goes on forever mathematically, but realistically there are some air molecules until you get really far out. The current ISS must be boosted up several times a year and thousands of pounds of fuel are used.2) Once the spaceship leaves the atmosphere there is no resistance to slow it up. Well, not much air resistance, but the Earth's gravity keeps slowing it down, and then the Moon's gravity is stronger and it pulls it in. But the Moon's gravity also goes out to the Earth (the tides). Gravity falls off like one over the distance squared, and extends forever in theory.3) Once you get away from the gravitational pull of the Earth, you fall wherever you are headed for. This is phrased oddly. A modern version would be that if you have a speed greater than the escape velocity, you... But the Sun is still pulling on you, and the orbital motion around the Sun is still there, so you move not in a straight line but in a curve that gets bigger (and maybe shallower) with time.4) Nice view of the differential calculating machine that had the spinning rods. 5) While the V-2 like ship would be good at taking off, I can't imagine landing with such a tall object. The LEM was squat with 4 legs. The idea of rocket stages maybe was not in the public imagination yet.6) They mention free orbit. What is that?7) They mentioned using titanium to reduce weight but then showed magnetic boots used in the ship, on all the surfaces. So it was loaded with steel. How about aluminum? Who cares if you float in the ship? This movie was similar to Conquest of Space. They both had crew members who had no training and no understanding of the most basic concepts. As for Rocketship X-M, some things were ridiculous. They were giving a news conference 12 minutes before the lift-off, in street clothes. Then they went straight up, say 200 miles, and then made a right turn and continued on that path. You would have zero speed in your orbital direction.How much does the public get its information from movies like these? If I ask today - Why do the astronauts float in the space shuttle? the answer is There is no gravity. What keeps the Moon going around the Earth? Gravity. So they have 2 opposite ideas at the same time. What is really happening? The astronauts are falling, and they miss the Earth. That is what the great speed is for. If there was no gravity, they would wander off somewhere. People also think that the North Star is the brightest star in the sky. I say, no it is average or even dim (magnitude 2) but no one believes me. Follow some of the bright objects, like Sirius, or Venus, and you really will be lost. So people today have a different image in the minds of what space travel should look like, but some details are still misunderstood. Almost no one thought the Moon mountains would be smooth and rounded - the shadows really are jagged. "},{"Title":"OK but nothing special","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's nice that it was pretty accurate but nothing seemed to click.  The part where they had to make a decision of who would live and who would die was good but was pointless because they found a way out of it.  Still good wholesome fun.  But really, if you can't convince an industrialist to help you build a rocket do you really think Woody Woodpecker will? (maybe Bugs Bunny) "},{"Title":"Paranoia Before Area 51","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Destination Moon won 1950's Special Effects Oscar.  In fact the effects were hardly an improvement from the pre-war Flash Gordon serials that had kids (and adults) anxiously awaiting each chapter.  My guess is that politics - that nasty Cold War - played a not insubstantial role in the Oscar vote.  The effects here, in truth, are rather Ed Woodish.A bunch of forgettable actors (see the IMDb home page for this movie) are corporate types who seek to reach the Moon through a technology that a  smart kid would have realized had no basis in any technological reality.  Although not assailed by name, enemies of the United States (Costa Rica? New Zealand? Who knows?) want to get to the Moon first. The stalwart developers of a rocket that can take men to the Moon are faced with bureaucratic stymieing that threatens to derail the project.  With typical American gung-ho disregard for such details as the law (a flustered process server is left waving an injunction as the rocket lifts off) the guys make it.  By the way, it's made very clear that the Military-Industrial, shall we say, Partnership, is essential to the survival of American freedom.The Moon team is a slice of American male society and their misadventures and near mortal peril leave scant room for surprise.   The acting is mediocre at its best but as a capsule of Cold War fears translated into a feature film it's a reminder of a past we don't want repeated.So, in a generous mood, I give the bargain $5.99 DVD release with a fair amount of printed documentation6/10. "},{"Title":"dated, dull, dramatically dopy","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The actors are so bland that it's almost impossible to tell them apart (Pauline Kael said of this movie The actors have names, but they're truly anonymous), and the special effects are really bad. They simulate weightlessness with people hanging on cables and by recycling the trick that let Fred Astaire dance on the ceiling in Royal Wedding (but none of these guys move well enough to make it look convincing). The low point of the movie is when one of the characters, an airplane tycoon, is trying to convince some other giants of industry to come in with him in a moon-rocket consortium, and he shows them a Woody Woodpecker cartoon that explains how a rocket works at a 2nd grade level! (And to think that Robert Heinlein worked on the screenplay...)The only plus is that the production design manages to communicate a sort of Amazing Stories sensibility, and even that is done much better in the producer's (George Pal) subsequent movie When Worlds Collide, which has similar bad acting, but is much more entertaining. However, Pal's best sci-fi movie has to be The Time Machine. "}]