[{"Title":"Excellent, Memorable Little Film","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one I've carried in my memory for years.Without the Technicolor budget of George Pal and Robert Heinlein's Destination Moon, Rocketship X-M succeeds in becoming a far more meaningful and memorable pre-2001 science fiction film.Destination Moon attempts a scientific preview of man's first lunar visit.  Of course, this effort seriously dates the movie (I also smile at the rather whimsical, seat-of-the-pants, outsider endeavors of our heros as they manfully put forth, launching their rocket one-step ahead of the narrow-minded authorities.  Okay, so much for that!).Rocketship X-M had to vie with D.M. for entertainment bucks at the box office.  X-M's b&w budget (with special effects courtesy of White Sands V-2 stock footage and model-making of the string and cardboard variety) didn't allow the producers to throw a lot of science at us, however.  What they did have going for them, however, were a few excellent character actors doing star-turns for a change of career-pace, a script by Dalton Trumbo, music by Ferde Grofe, and excellent -- and evocative -- sound and camera work...etc.Granted The film's overall messages are a bit simplistic -- nuclear war is bad and should be avoided and the human spirit for exploration and discovery cannot be put down by failure and difficulty (I guess they never considered budget shortfalls as a failure of spirit).  These ideas are, at least, given voice here during what was, after all, a dangerous era in American politics.  Remember, Dalton Trumbo was blacklisted!The science?  Okay, it sucks.  Who cares!?  Science fiction, to my liking, is less about science and numbers than it is about people and life.  This has all of that and carries it forward with distinction and class.When I first saw this movie as a kid, I remember being truly frightened by the bleak view of a post-apocalyptic Mars and shivered in disbelief then terror at the onrushing tragedy of the about-to-crash rocket bearing the two doomed lovers and their sole-surviving crew-mate (a young Hugh O'Brien) to a fiery demise over the Ural Mountains.  The producers did a terrific job with what they had and they deserve a great deal of credit. "},{"Title":"Some Science, Some Fiction","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently picked up the DVD of this film for a look. I originally saw it in 1951 when it got to my town on the bottom of a double bill with the western of the day. At that young age, the screaming cave-girl was my most vivid memory, but I liked it. Also saw it maybe 20 years ago on VHS. Still pretty good. Lloyd Bridges was cool, underplayed the whole part. On this last viewing, it's still a good sci-fi flick but from a vastly different point of view. The science as since provided by the real rockets that have been put into space was fairly on the money, especially the two-stage rocket explanation. Since special effects are practically nil, the look is O.K. The fiction, on the other hand was way, way out there. Please note, that all instruments were manual and mechanical and calculations were done with pencil and paper. Not a digital instrument or computer in sight. The idea of doing the Mars locations in Sepia-tone was as brilliant as it was cheap, as well. Lloyd Bridges and Morris Ankrum were head and shoulders the most talented actors in the cast of otherwise good players. Ankrum especially ,always under-rated, could read a grocery list and make it sound important. It also didn't hurt that Kurt Neuman put the whole thing together, either. This film probably inspired in it's own way a lot of young people to explore science and space exploration for real.  "},{"Title":"A worthy effort","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rocketship X-M should be viewed by any serious movie buff for the following reasons1)  It is one the first -- and the few -- movies not to have a happy ending.  Doubtless the effect was more profound in post-World War II America than it would be today, but nonetheless the sad ending adds to the film's message.2)  It is also one of the first movies to deal with space travel in a serious fashion, using space as a valid setting for drama.  The lack of scientific background notwithstanding, the movie stands on its own as dramatic fare.  It's not so much a space drama as it is a drama set in space.3)  The anti-nuclear war message is delivered in a serious manner that is not lost in sfx involving large grasshoppers, men, or animal.  The effect of Martian society from nuclear devastation is starkly and frankly presented.  The fact that the survivors from the expedition crash land and as such are unable to preach the lesson learned on Mars adds another element of sadness to the tragic ending.Sterno says take a ride on Rocketship X-M. "},{"Title":"An early anti-nuclear war film done with imagination and style.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite what we would now consider laughable scientific goofs, this science-fiction film carried itself well as a dramatic film.  The actors were all solid professionals.  The Martian settings were believable.  The sentiments, while a bit pretentious, were sincere and laudable.  It was an early attempt at mature science-fiction and succeeded better than many more polished, but cynical efforts that came later on. "},{"Title":"A pioneering, well-honored science-fiction film.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some films are blessed (though the producers would  argue) by having less money with which to work.   Rocketship X-M (the initials represent eXpedition  Moon) relies therefore upon, ahem, a real Story,  with Acting, rather than flash and effects.  That's  why a half-century later, the well-remembered RX-M  has held up so well.  (An analogy could be drawn  with the co-incidental 1949-1955 television series  Captain Video and His Video Rangers, where the  bulk of budget also went towards quality writers and  cast.)  John Emery is - surprise!- a good guy here.  Osa Massen, one of the screen's most photogenic  stars ever, is radiant.  The whole cast carries  through the forgivable inconsistencies with style.   Ferde Grofé's music takes us from exultant triumph  to eerie mystery and, finally, into bitter  realization of what the RX-M crew discovers, the   utter waste of an entire civilization.  (Remember the real-life face on Mars?)  Grofé  well-illustrates the withering madness in the crew's  panicked escape and return attempt.  And the final  moments aboard the doomed RX-M are of the stuff that  makes for great film.  I saw this in theatrical  release, and you, too, will find Rocketship X-M  one of your most memorable.  Highly recommended to  all.    "},{"Title":"A darker Flight to Mars","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rocketship X-M is a solid film, and is a darker, less optimistic effort than 1951's Flight to Mars. The 50th anniversary DVD edition is amazing, and the Sepiacolor scenes on the martian surface are quite effective.Buffs will notice that the very brief (5 second) image of the ship on the surface is a different image than in the original. The use of Death Valley for the Martian surface (at dusk) is much more effective that in scenes from Flight to Mars, which were probably all shot in a studio. Lloyd Bridges is in love with himself even more than he is with the German girl scientist on board - which is kind of nauseating - but overall, the film is a favorite.Classical music lovers will take note of the music score by Ferde Grofe, better know for his Grand Canyon Suite and other orchestral works.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE MOST ATMOSPHERIC OF THE 50'S SCI-FI'S","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Writer-Producer-Director Kurt Neumann put together an excellent ensemble cast, and accomplished having Lippert Pictures finance this $96,000 venture in 1950.  This is a simple picture that works due to fine direction, players and technical staff.  Karl Struss, one of Hollywood's most admired photographers, lensed the picture.  One of the best known American composers, Ferde Grofe, wrote the musical score, and one reviewer found it more original than John Williams' STAR WARS score.  Although the technical knowledge that exists today dates the picture somewhat, this picture is not campy because it has a serious tone to it, and most audiences key in on that.  The original soundtrack recording of the score received an LP release on the Starlog label during the 70's.  There are now moves underfoot to re-record the entire score for a CD release, possibly in 2001.ROCKETSHIP XM received some updates in the 70s, when some new special effects scenes were shot and released on VHS.  This version is currently available from video sources. "},{"Title":"Low budget sci-fi flick packs a punch","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hot on the heels of George Pal's publicity  blitz for Destination Moon producer Lippert punched this quickie out in an attempt to cash-in at the box office.  Pal threatened to sue if Lippert took his rocket to the moon at Pal's advertising expense;Lippert decided to avoid the court and 'knocked' his rocket off course-hence a trip to Mars ensues.  Or so the legend goes! what remains is a tight sci-fi soap opera featuring a great supporting cast, and an ominous prediction for our future.  By today's standards it is better than Destination, and made for a fraction of the cost. "},{"Title":"Excellent early 50's science fiction","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Rocketship X-M was released about the same time as Destination Moon at the cinemas and was one of the first movies that started the 50's sci fi craze.A rocket blasts off to the Moon, but because of a malfunction, they end up on Mars instead. When on Mars, they explore and discover a ruined city of a past civilization and are attacked by some cavemen type creatures. These are the survivors from that civilization. After exploring, the crew head back to the rocket to return to Earth but it crashlands after running out of fuel, killing all on board.The movie is tinted red for the Mars sequences and the special effects are quite good considering the low budget.The movie stars Lloyd Bridges (Sea Hunt, Around the World under the Sea), Osa Massen as his love interest, Morris Ankrum (Invaders From Mars, Earth vs. the Flying Saucers), John Emery (Kronos), Noah Beery Jr and Hugh O'Brian.I found this movie rather enjoyable and is worth checking out.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for its time","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is great in its predictions of how space travel would take place in the future (remember, it was released in 1950, way before any manned rocket launches). Of course there are some mistakes, but overall I am impressed how accurate they are. The plot is extremely simple, but the ending is in style with the realism it portrays (although not very hollywood-like) Acting is adequate, but stereotype of its age.All in all, an enjoyable movie for SF fans  "}{"Title":"Saw this as a 13 year old - I was very impressed!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Got to remembering this old flick lately and decided to try to find a copy. Imagine my suprise when I found it in a dual pack which included Destination Moon (1950).  Bought them both in a heartbeat!  Although both are primitively produced I personally think they did a good job for what they had to work with.  I would be a gas to see a remake of both using todays technology. "},{"Title":"The easiest 50s sci-fi film to misunderstand","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I low-rated this film for years -- but for all the wrong reasons.  There's one key scene in the film, and if the viewer misses the point of this  scene, the whole story seems ridiculous and badly done. Some sci-fi fans tend to reject stories that have a spiritual element in the plot.  Don't reject this one until you've given it a fair chance.  The story involves a lunar mission which suffers engine failure en route.  After repairing the engines, the ship accelerates too fast, causing the crew to black out.  When they regain consciousness, they discover that the ship is within a few hundred thousand miles of Mars. This is the part that used to bother me.  How the heck could a ship accidentally go to Mars? The odds against this are about the same as the odds against evolution being true (oops, that different soap box.  Continuing...)  But the scientist in charge of the mission specifically states that the only way this could have happened was by the act of a `higher power'.  Most reviews do not mention this important idea.   The rocket did NOT accidentally go to Mars. You'll have to watch the movie to find out why the `higher power' brought  them to Mars.  Suffice it to say, the reason was good enough to have been copied by dozens of later films.  Imitation is the most sincere form of flattery. And while your watching, keep your ears open for the great music by Ferde Grofe, with the very first use of a therimin in sci-fi films. During the 1970s,  the rights to `Rocketship X-M' were bought by Wade Williams  for $2,000 (what a deal!).  He had seen the film as a child and loved it.  Williams shot a series of redone special effects scenes which are now part of the prerecorded tape and DVD.  He even makes an on-screen appearance as one of the characters in a long shot of the ship on the Martian surface.  Consider the irony in this -- Williams saw the movie as  kid,  and LATER he actually appeared in it!  Marty McFly, eat your heart out!  "},{"Title":"The granddaddy of all modern sci-fi films","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Soon to celebrate its 50th anniversary, this landmark film can still hold an audience with its tightly-constructed plot, well-sketched characters, and sense of awed adventure.. .  "},{"Title":"Space ships 50 years ago","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen some scenes from this movie in a documentary about 50's sci fi movies called Watch the skies. Directors such as George Lucas, Spielberg or James Cameron talked in this film about his favorite sci fi films and Rocketship X-M was one of their favorite ones. So, i decided to downloaded it from Edonkey, because i live in Peru, and here is IMPOSSIBLE to find this kind of films. Unfortunately, i saw the film without Spanish subtitles, so, i didn't understand the dialogs well. Despite that, i think the plot is quite understandable. The tragic ending is great and the vision that the producers of this film had, 17 years before the first trip to the moon and even 6 years before Yuri Gagarin was the first man in the space, makes this an essential film. The plot may be not so scientific, but i think is an unforgettable film. I could see this film again in a TV channel or in a cinema. "},{"Title":"The Experimental Engagement of Sci Fi and Drama","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a certain serious and authenticity in this dated sci fi space drama along with a both a rather surrealistic ending. With music that at times seems oddly out of sync with the nature of a number of the scenes (with suggestions of the atmospheric music better consistently found in THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, 1951), this early attempt at serious sci fi appears just that, an experiment and shake down of putting various elements of traditional drama into a sci fi format. The end result is relatively decent and the apparent absence of a big budget or lavish special effects doesn't diminish the overall quality of the movie. It is a slow movie movie that many might find in LOST IN TRANSLATION (2003). The ending scenes are effective and strong. The plot outline simple but audience friendly though FIRST SPACESHIP ON VENUS (1960) was more successful in capturing the alien and fascinating alien impact of discovery and haunting thrill of the strange. Nevertheless, there was a much more chilling undercurrent with ROCKET X-M. "},{"Title":"A great score!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Ferde Grofe, one of America's great composers, was somehow persuaded by Lippert Productions to write the music score for their low budget production of ROCKETSHIP X-M. It is a wonderful operatic score, because RXM, after all, is a space opera. The main title is heroic in nature; the weightless music conveys that feeling perfectly, and there is a lovely tune, begun by a solo violin, that suits Lisa and Floyd's mild flirtations perfectly( very similar to THE HIGH AND THE MIGHTY by Tiomkin, but written two years earlier). When the ship approaches and lands on Mars, the theremin is included in the orchestration for music that truly sounds alien. As the crew faces doom as they attempt to return to earth, the music takes on very dramatic moods. The picture's music ends with an upbeat Hollywood thrust. This is truly one of the outstanding sci-fi scores, and except for an original soundtrack LP album on the Starlog label (released in the 1970s) it has been virtually ignored. This score deserves a new and updated recording. "},{"Title":"1 of the better sci-fi movies of the 50s and of all time","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I´d been dying to see this movie for many years, but never really got to the point of bying it..until now. I feared that it was going to be a bit boring and down on earth to much. But it wasn´t that at all. Instead we got 77mins of highly powerful space stuff. The engines shut down and they drifted off into outer space. And finally they found themselves near Mars instead of the moon that was planned. So they land on Mars and explore a bit. They find buidings of a acient civilization and soon they stumble on....well maybe I shouldnt tell you all the good stuff, you´ll have to see for yourself. Anyway Rocketship X-M is a great sci-fi movie and I give it 8.5 of 10  "},{"Title":"Fantasy Film","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this when it came out in the theater. Though only 13 at the time, I was an avid reader of hard science science fiction stories. The technical gaffes of the film are burned into my memory.Some of the following may have significant spoilers.Even as a youngster, I knew the premise is silly. The rocket takes off for a lunar mission, in a cosmos where there is always a gravitational effect on the crew (though loose objects float as in zero gravity) and because of that, the cabin (the area with the controls, whatever they called it) was gyrostabalized to maintain the correct orientation (so that when they landed, why didn't they land standing on their heads?) and where, at least in near-earth space, the rocket engines had to be running continually -- with propellant combusting away without an oxidizer. When the engines quit, the rocket stopped _dead_ in space, and couldn't start going until a PhD chemist determined it needed at a little oxidizer. This time, the rocket recalled it had momentum, and the next thing our heroes know they're near Mars (even a 13-year-old nerd knew such a minimum-energy trip would take over 200 days).They land, find the air was breathable (though at the time scientific data revealed that the pressure, even if the atmosphere were pure oxygen, would be too low to do any good). They decide to camp outside the ship, and even build a campfire. They come armed, even though they were supposedly going to the Moon, where firearms wouldn't be needed.They get a sight of a collapsed civilization, encounter stray martians who look just like people, develop an anti nuclear war philosophy, and those who survive try to get back to the home planet, and die in the attempt by crashing on the Earth! To do that would require such a long orbital period, they'd have died of starvation long before approaching their destination.The film it preceded, Destination Moon, used real science most effectively (even though their rescue with the Oxygen Tank forgot about the moment arm from the tank's center of gravity to the output nozzle). This film showed woeful ignorance of even the most basic science. Only the most technologically illiterate should think of it as a science fiction film it's on a par with the old Flash Gordon serials where their rocketships took off from their bellies and climbed in spirals, and whose engines were always on.The story on this one I considered banal, and I can recommend this only as a film to be shown to students for them to pick out technical gaffes. "},{"Title":"More reasonable and ecological than Destination Moon","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, the special effects now look incorrect, and the science now looks erroneous, and the men are pigs, but the big point of the movie is still valid.  The hogwash talk of needing an unassailable base on the Moon is also found in Destination Moon (a more-expensive comedy with a cartoon and sidekick), and Lippert's other (silly) Project Moonbase.   But this movie has more to say.   I was startled as a kid seeing this when it came out, and still love the love story (Lloyd B asked the director to excise it, for Heaven's sake), and especially the red-filtered (sepia tone on DVD) sequence of the sandstone-hills marchers.  The DVD is so clear that you can see a Pleasantville city in the matte-painting distance?!  Anyhow, I bought a Geiger Counter and went into Big Science because of this movie.  Destination Moon, on the other hand, kept me from joining the Military! (See October Sky for the other side of the story.) "},{"Title":"XM = Expatriated Missile","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite this picture being produced quickly and cheaply in order to capitalize on the publicity generated by George Pal's big budget 'Destination Moon,' this movie is better than a lot of scifi flicks produced today costing tens of millions of times more and having our 21st century futuristic technology for special effects.It's interesting to note that the film was directed by the German-born Kurt Neumann and features the beautiful Teutonic actress Osa Massen in the female lead. The original version of this film, screened by American audiences 5 years after the surrender of Germany, contains footage of the WW2 German V-2 missile, used in lieu of FX miniature shots of the titular rocketship. The V-2 footage is not from WW2, however. The V-2 film comes from the American rocket program, which in 1950 was still using captured V-2's for testing and development, due to the fact that even 5 years after WW2, the USA still did not have anything that could touch it. These facts are interesting because Germany was hugely important to space exploration movement of the 20th century. It was a clique of German rocket experts in the 1920's who first proposed plausible trips to the moon for humans, and who served as advisors for German director Fritz Lang for the silent 'Frau Im Mond,' the first attempt at a serious cinematic depiction of space travel. The space enthusiasts were co-opted in the 1930's by the Hitler regime, eventually designing the A4, which rained indiscriminate technological death upon England in a manner similar to way US drones rain indiscriminate technological death upon the villages of Pakistan and other Muslim nations.The German rocket experts were all captured by the US and Russians as Germany finally fell to the Allies in 1945, and they were forced to share their expertise with their captors. One German rocket expert, Werner Von Braun, did well for himself in the USA, designing the mighty Saturn V, which eventually took the first humans to the moon.In this film, the lustful American pilot Lloyd Bridges, dressed in military fatigues, spends a lot of screen time trying to put the make on the serious German rocket scientist Osa Massen. It's kind of a metaphor for the USA, ostensibly seducing but perhaps also coercing the German rocket program for it's own uses.There are some long, dull sections of this film in the beginning and middle where Neumann should have compressed things...probably he had orders to make this film over 1 hour so that it might pass for an 'A' picture (in those days, 'B' pictures were frequently just at the one hour length). And there are numerous scientific boners, like a zero gravity environment where a jacket floats but humans don't.At the same time, there are a number of visuals, such as the meteor scene, where you can appreciate the ingenuity of the filmmakers, who created these images with almost no money and almost no time, and none of our futuristic technology. The acting is, overall, pretty good, and there are some very nice uses of language in certain parts of the script. The scenes filmed at the launch center and inside the rocket, are spartan and atmospheric in a way that makes the film seem more realistic than it actually is. (The later Lippert feature, Flight to Mars, which used the same rocket sets, is inferior to this film.) As is often the case, black and white film stock gives this feature an unintended documentary quality, toning down the unrealistic elements. The Martian sequences, filmed at Death Valley, contain some artistic visuals and there is a nice use of the theremin sound, the earliest example I know in scifi films.Many others have noted that this is the first scifi film to discuss the possibility of earth being destroyed by atomic war. It should also be noted that this film touches upon all the other major themes of science fiction films of the 1950's human space flight, alien races, the planet Mars, and atomic mutants.Despite the primitive FX and numerous scientific boners, Neumann and his writers achieved a tone that is adult and dramatic, all the while avoiding the embarrassing emotional excesses of George Pal's later, big budget Mars film, 'Conquest of Space.' Also, the ending of this film is very different than most scifi films of this period, containing a nice bit of poetic dialogue. This film should be on the curricula of any 1950's scifi film buff. "}{"Title":"Twilight Zone Unplugged.","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A perfectly plausible story of five astronauts who take off in a 1950s space ship, make a wrong turn, and land on Mars instead. After that, things get kind of hairy.I understand this was rushed into production while George Pal's far more lavishly budgeted Destination Moon was being shot, with the aim of beating the bigger and more publicized film into theaters. Well, the haste, the lesser budget, and the lesser thought, shows in Rocket Ship X-M. Not that it's a BAD movie. I mean, it's not a Buck Rogers serial. But the difference in quality still shows.The five astronauts are Lloyd Bridges, Osa Massen, John Emery, Noah Beery, Jr., and Hugh O'Brian. All are professionals and pull off their roles without disgracing themselves, though neither can any be outstanding. How could anyone give an outstanding performance while uttering lines like, Reduce speed level two? Lloyd Bridges was evidently lucky enough to have his hair stylist stashed aboard somewhere because his Lenny-Briscoe haircut is never mussed. Noah Beery, Jr., is the requisite ethnic or regional type, in this case the Texan who uses double negatives and brags about the size of his state.The script, written by Kurt Neumann with additional dialog by Orville K. Hampton, at times stretches its arms out towards the literary. Osa Masson gives a colorful description of a Swiss lake under the moon, the water like cold coffee. Somebody had to think about those lines. And Bridges manages a quote from Kipling. Okay -- Kipling -- but the quote is an apt one and someone had to have read the poem before writing the script.What the film has in the way of the odd sparkle in the dialog, it mostly lacks in science. Robert Heinlein was not the technical adviser here, as he was on Destination Moon. When meteorites zip past the errant space ship, they do so with an ear-splitting WHOOSH. The distant earth looks like a map in a high-school geography text, with starkly etched tan continents and primal blue oceans and not a cloud in sight. (Destination Moon got that right.) The astronauts walk around in outer space as if they were in their living rooms, although some objects have a habit of arbitrarily popping up into the zero-gravity air.Osa Masson, an attractive young scientist, gets some occasional needling from the men. There are comments about her icy devotion to science and her feminine intuition. She asks if they think she should have stayed home and baked and raised children. Isn't that enough?, asks Bridges. It's very un-PC, naturally, but Bridges ends up suggesting that it's possible to go too far in the other direction too, a fairly reasonable observation, not exactly anti-feminist.Osa Masson is a tough babe and can take care of herself. What was far more disturbing was Morris Ankrum as the Big Mahoff back on earth, briefing the reporters on why we need to go to the moon. His explanation? To establish unassailable bases so that we can control the peace -- just as we're controlling the peace now, I guess. "},{"Title":"Rocket Ship X-M  was way ahead of its time","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The pioneering 1950 sci-fi film Rocket Ship X-M was way ahead of its time in regards to its message and also in terms of serious dramatic content provided by an outer space movie. Considering the low budget (even for 1950) for this B movie, the cast is solid with Lloyd Bridges, Hugh O'Brien, Noah Beery Jr. and Osa Massen along for the ride. The plot seems simple enough; a spaceship lifts off for a mission to the moon with five astronauts aboard. During their flight, they encounter a severe meteor shower which violently pulls their craft out of its orbit and points them towards Mars instead. Of course, that scenario is slightly scientifically implausible in today's modern physics, but this is 1950 and anything's possible. After landing on the Red Planet, the astronauts discover the remnants of a technically advanced civilization that was far superior to anything ever developed back on Earth. The astronauts soon surmise that somehow the civilization destroyed itself, possibly by a nuclear war. What happens next is the crux of the film and lingers with viewers long after the final reel. There are survivors from Mars' past after all, but now they're nothing more than primitive cavemen. Frightened by these intruders, they attack the astronauts and send them scurrying back to their ship. Dangerously low on fuel because of their long detoured journey to Mars, the astronauts blast off and attempt to return to Earth. But there's no happy ending for Rocket Ship X-M. This movie makes some obvious points about the Cold War atmosphere of the early 1950's and the constant threat of nuclear war. There's no question that the filmmakers wanted the audience to understand exactly how drastic things would change if something like that happened. Living as cavemen wouldn't be too far off the mark. Although this film has certainly dated since its release nearly sixty years ago, its message holds true today just the same as it did back in 1950. It wouldn't take much to send us all back to the Stone Age. So next time you vote for president... "},{"Title":"The Darker Side of Outer Space","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This film beat the more highly publicized Destination Moon into the theatres in 1950 and thus kicked off the tidal wave of science-fiction movies that followed. It may not have been as realistic as the latter, but it was sure as heck a lot more fun. Despite some really hokey dialog and wildly improbable developments (aim for the moon, but hit Mars!), Rocketship does what every good movie should-- it holds interest throughout. The opening scene is especially impressive with its well-stocked news conference and especially the booming countdown to blast-off. Already there's an air of thrills to come. Sure, the characters are a collection of movie stereotypes-- the jet jockey (Bridges), the likable yokel (Beery Jr.), the sexy scientist (Massen), the stern chief (Emery), and the rather unsteady engineer (O' Brien). Nonetheless, each is played with conviction, and in a real casting coup, there's the lordly Morris Ankrum back at command central.Lippert Pictures was a budget-minded company to put it kindly. Thus it's to producer-writer-director Kurt Neumann's credit that he gets so much out of the material. Note the early scene where the crew climbs up to the control compartment. The opening shot of the rocketship interior could have simply placed the crew already in that central compartment and saved some money. But it doesn't. Instead Neumann has the crew climb through the rather impressive guts of the ship, thereby creating a more believable and eye-catching transport. It's touches like this that help compensate for the occasional triteness.Speaking of touches, how well I remember audience reaction to the Martian girl when she opened her eyes to reveal two blanks. The audience let out a collective shriek. Of course, that was 1950, still a long time before today's super-sophisticated special effects. But I doubt if any of today's effects produced a stronger reaction than those two all-white lenses. (Question-- is that lipstick I see on the girl in this 1976 enhanced version?)There's also a subtle subtext in the movie's latter half. 1949 was the year the Soviets first tested an atomic bomb, thus establishing the possibility of the Cold War going nuclear. Note the pointed comments crew members make about the destructive potential of radioactivity once they discover its effects on the Martian civilization. That would appear to be writer Neumann making some timely observations on a menace then beginning to emerge. On a similar note, Ankrum's closing insistence that space exploration must proceed despite an ill-fated first effort is years ahead of its time, and likely the first such declaration in the movies or any other popular medium. Then too, it was rather gutsy to crash the survivors on their way back to Earth. That unhappy ending warned audiences of the human cost that exploration would inevitably take.Setting aside its strictly commercial aspects, the movie does a lot better than would normally be expected of a Lippert production, becoming rather prophetic in its own modest way. I think that's one reason for both the movie's cult status and general durability long after most contemporaries of the 1950's have faded away. Rocketship X-M remains a minor classic to this day. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, nostalgic, romantic and very very daft.","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I like this movie and have watched my copy twice since acquiring it a few weeks ago. But you have to view it in the right context.I haven't checked on the dates, but I bet this movie came out after and certainly around the same time as the Collier and Walt Disney popularisations of the vision of spaceflight being promoted by W.Von Braun. This is reflected in the attempt to seem factually correct and scientific. However, whilst certain ideas are put across ( step boosters, for example ) roughly correctly, other things are hilariously wrong.For example, we are told that a rocket ascends to an altitude and then turns ninety degrees to enter space...like reaching the top of a flight of stairs and turning onto the landing! Then we are told that by turning in the direction of the Earths rotation the total velocity of the ship is increased accordingly.This is an hilarious misunderstanding of what really happens. Most space launch centres are located as near the equator as possible where the Earth and anything on its surface is rotating at roughly a thousand miles per hour, including any rocket departing to space, in an Eastward direction ( the same as the rotation of the planet ). Of course, if the ship turned to travel westwards once in space, its speed in relation to the surface of the Earth would be greater, but it would add nothing to the actual velocity of the vehicle. Decsribed in this movie as air speed! Similarly, we are told that the travellers only feel free-fall, or weightlessness when they reach some thousands of miles from the Earth, outside of the planets gravitational field. Again, comically incorrect. Most crewed spacecraft travel no higher than a couple of hundred miles up, but as long as they ( and, their contents, including crew ) are travelling at an adequate velocity that their momentum in an outward direction balances the pull of gravity inwards, they will orbit in free-fall. Of course, travel far enough from Earth and even a slow object will coast outside the Earths gravity well, but in order to leave Earth orbit, outwards ( towards the Moon for example ) requires the attainment of escape velocity, around twenty one thousand miles per hour. So the vehicle will have already attained orbital velocity ( and weightlessness ) by definition.But the movie has vastly more hilarious stuff than this. Someone decided it would be more fun if they missed the moon due to a technical problem, fell asleep for a few days and then woke up to find they had accidentally gone to Mars! The captain then ruminates to the effect that this must have been divine intervention! At which point, any pretence to being scientific is torn into little pieces like confetti and thrown upon the wind amid the merry dance of an increasingly barmy plot.The strength of a film like this in fact is in illustrating how far we've come. Not least in attitudes to women. The patronising drivel heaped upon the female crew-member is both hilarious and also shocking.To think that such attitudes were so recently normal.As I said at the start, I find this film very entertaining, as a late night, lights out romp through the romance of travel in outer space, from the perspective of the days before it had actually happened. An antidote to the cold routine of spaceflight as it has now become in the Twenty First Century.I won't reveal the ending. It is both brave and shocking for a movie of this vintage and character. "},{"Title":"X-M rides red again!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's good to have the location scenes (filmed in Death Valley and Red Rock Canyon) restored to their original theatrical red tints in the current DVD release. That's certainly a considerable improvement over the washed-out prints circulating on TV in the late 1960s. The black-and-white scenes look great too.One thing, alas, that has not improved is Lloyd Bridges' overweeningly smug, self-satisfied, aren't-I-just-too-heroic performance. Mr Bridges here packs all the charm of a cheap carnival barker. Normally he's a very reliable player and I don't know what possessed him to show off. Director Neumann should have imposed some restraints. Although equally hampered by Mr Hampton's tired, if tried and true, additional dialogue, the other players, even Noah Beery, Jr., seem engagingly realistic, even when the story wanders from the highly unlikely into the utterly impossible.Still, although the movie pretends to offer scientific and astronomical facts, its sole purpose is to entertain and this it does reasonably well. In fact, production values look so impressive overall, it's a wonder to me that the picture came in at a negative cost of only $94,000! Lots of crowd artists pack the benches in the briefing scene, but many of these reporters are actually behind-the-camera personnel who have been suddenly (if briefly) thrust into the limelight. There was no sign of photographer Karl Struss in the crowd, but I think I recognized producers Lerner, Lippert and Neumann. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful, simple little film","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one I've carried in my memory for years.Without the Technicolor budget of George Pal and Robert Heinlein's Destination Moon, Rocketship X-M succeeds in becoming a far more meaningful and memorable pre-2001 science fiction film.Destination Moon attempts a scientific preview of man's first lunar visit. Of course, this effort seriously dates the movie (I also smile at the rather whimsical, seat-of-the-pants, outsider endeavors of our heroes as they manfully put forth, launching their rocket one-step ahead of the narrow-minded authorities. Okay, so much for that!).Rocketship X-M had to vie with D.M. for its box office. X-M's b&w budget (special effects courtesy of U.S. Army White Sands V-2 stock footage and miniatures of the string and cardboard variety) the producers made a last-minute choice to not throw a lot of science at us and to take us deeper into space than the moon. What they had going for them were some excellent character actors doing star-turns for a change of career-pace, a script by Dalton Trumbo, music by Ferde Grofe, and excellent -- and evocative -- sound and camera work...etc.The film's overall messages are simplistic -- nuclear war is bad and should be avoided and the human spirit for exploration and discovery cannot be put down by failure and difficulty (I guess they never considered budget shortfalls as a failure of spirit). These ideas are, at least, given voice here during what was, after all, a dangerous era in American politics. Remember, Dalton Trumbo was blacklisted! The science? Okay, it sucks. Who cares!? Science fiction, to my liking, is less about science and numbers than it is about people and life. This has all of that and carries it forward with distinction and class.When I first saw this movie as a kid, I remember being truly frightened by the bleak view of a post-apocalyptic Mars and shivered in disbelief then terror at the onrushing tragedy of the about-to-crash rocket bearing the two doomed lovers and their sole-surviving crew-mate (a young Hugh O'Brien) to a fiery demise over the Ural Mountains. The producers did a terrific job with what they had and they deserve a great deal of credit. "},{"Title":"Tremendously Effective Film","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is simply one of the best science fiction movies ever filmed. Excellent direction, intelligent script, and superb performances from an outstanding cast make for a masterpiece in the genre. While obviously low budget, the producers make the best of what they have to work with and they do so brilliantly. From start to finish, imaginative sequences are presented with stunning effectiveness. The location shooting in Death Valley mimics perfectly what the Martian landscape would be envisioned as in 1950. This film serves as a cautionary tale as well, with the fate of the civilization on Mars being tied to a nuclear apocalypse. The cast is uniformly excellent and the existential closing scene with the two leads is one of the most shocking and effective ever filmed. The dialog is realistic and profound and certainly unforgettable. It is a sequence, like many in this picture, which will both disturb and uplift. Rocket Ship XM is an underrated motion picture, far ahead of its time, made with passion and imagination. Even with somewhat primitive special effects, this remains on an intellectual par with some of the more thoughtful science fiction ever produced in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Rx-M  (Prescription for Mankind)","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In the early 50s, the idea of rockets carrying mankind into space began to look attainable and practical. Space was not just for fantasy anymore. Some of the best movies to first explore and pioneer the science fiction of space travel were classics like Destination Moon, When Worlds Collide, and of course Rocketship X-M.Genre conventions quickly emerged, which today are enjoyable to watch for as the movie plays. Overarching elements like benevolent governments (or UN), committees, scientists and industrialists are integral to the venture. Experts hold conferences, and if you are really lucky, they will show off a blueprint of the rocketship. The rocketship will usually be a cigar-shaped variant of a German V-2, and will almost always be silver in color. There will also be some semi-solid science mixed in with some really loopy notions about space travel.The crew of the rocketship is usually a blend of scientists, military types, hot-shot alpha males (one or two), and for reasons that probably only made sense in the 50s, a 'regular Joe' kind of character for comic relief (but oh boy is it painful to watch now). Usually an attractive and single woman scientist is present, but no matter what credentials she carries she will be patronized or upstaged by a male at some point, and almost always she will serve coffee to the men (with a smile). Oh yeah, and in the end, one of the alpha males will want to marry her.Other conventions to watch for include the blast-off and its effects on the crew, a few odds and ends become weightless (much to the surprise and delight of the crew), a meteor shower will threaten the ship, and often there will be a space walk along the hull of the ship (with the camera rotated 90 degrees of course).If you enjoy watching for the above elements, congratulations and welcome to the wonderful world of science fiction movies, circa 1950s. I love this stuff.In Rocketship X-M the rocket is based on a 1949 Life magazine moonship design. We get to see the blueprint of the rocket, we learn that it is two stage (as was Life's proposed rocket). Look for bits of V-2 footage on the takeoff and landing of the rocket, but otherwise the special effects look okay. In this movie, great attention is paid to the fuel mixture (from several types of fuel carried on board) and calculations involving that mixture. We learn that these calculations require several hours, and are done by pencil and paper! At one point the crew has to physically alter fuel connections in the fuel bay, which is kind of a cool scene.Rocketship X-M is clearly a classic. As such, it contains many of the genre elements. But in all honesty, the movie drags somewhat because it tries to be so serious and as a 21st century audience member, you just about fall off your chair at the really bizarre and messed up notions of science. But hang in there, it has a great story. The rocket is attempting a flight to the moon, but it goes off course and ends up at Mars (OMG). The crew explores Mars all decked out in obsolete Army surplus gear from WWII (including gas masks), they make an important discovery (Mars looks very cool with the red tone), and attempt to head back to earth to tell the world the crucial lessons they learned to benefit mankind. But do they have enough fuel to get back? Will Lloyd Bridges break down the scientist woman's icy professionalism and get her to fall in love with him? "},{"Title":"Expedition Moon. Sci-Fi forerunner.","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually a nice Sci-Fi feature directed and written by Kurt Neumann. Special effects very good for the time of release. Well acting cast in an interesting story for a low budget flick. The first expedition to the moon is knocked off course and lands on Mars. Lloyd Bridges leads the crew that features Noah Beery Jr., Osa Massen, Hugh O'Brian and John Emery. Pioneering Mars results in ancient ruins being discovered before the crew minus a few members struggles to return to Earth. The footage contains a cool tinted sequence. The early explanation of the workings of the rocketship is interesting. It is strange that the astronauts can settle down in the cockpit in less than ten minutes. But of course, at the time viewers were too excited to question that situation. ROCKET X-M is worth watching, especially for early Sci-Fi fans. "},{"Title":"antinuclear drama was a first","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this as a young teen (early 1950s, on broadcast television), I was immensely moved by the tragic love story, immensely glad to find--finally--some movie out there actually saying what most of us growing up in the shadow of the Bomb were secretly feeling that nuclear war was hardly a help to sacrosanct National Security but, rather, a threat to all life on Earth; just as the explorers in Rocketship XM were to find on Mars, nuclear bombs could indeed destroy a civilization, turn a world to desert. I don't think it was mere teenage romanticism that made the lovers' heroic, passionate, tragic deaths so unforgettable, either; this was a film about the struggle of life against doom. And I am delighted to learn, here on IMDb, that the film was written by Dalton Trumbo, the politically astute author whose novel Brave Cowboy, as the film Lonely Are the Brave, with its anti-Establishment hero riding his horse toward Mexico and shooting down the pursuing police helicopter, ushered in, for some of us in Berkeley, California, in early autumn 1964, the whole Movement era. "}{"Title":"new interpretation of an old classic","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" i've thought about this film on and off over the years since i first saw it on TV as a kid. today i've been googling it and interestingly i realise that i understood the film in a totally different way. i guess it was the wrong way, but it seems to be a better way nevertheless!! my youthful interpretation was that the unexplained problems the ship encountered, the anomalous way it performed under acceleration, the crew's blackout, and the suggestion of a higher power taking over, were due to the ship entering a time/space warp. the crew thought they must've reached mars, but in fact they hadn't even left earth's orbit, they had traveled forward in time, and the planet they presumed was mars was actually a post-nuclear holocaust earth. why else were the martians so human in appearance? why else was the gravity the same as earths? etc. i guess i was a fairly sophisticated reader of sci-fi by the time i saw the movie, must have been in the early 60s sometime, and themes like time travel might have been more common then. the movie retained its appeal for me for a long time because of this perceived ambiguity. "},{"Title":"A very dramatic and memorable film about 1950's space travel","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Rocketship X-M, 1950, During the very early years of the Space Race, an American scientific group designs and crews a spaceship to go to the moon. However during the mission an incident occurs and they are knocked unconscious. The ship overshoots the moon, heading for Mars. They decide to land on Mars. They find evidence of a dead, advanced, and human-like civilization and several hostile Martians. Only a few of the crew survive a martian attack to leave Mars for their trip back to Earth. And the rocket ship crashes back to Earth with no survivors.*Special Stars- Osa Massen, Lloyd Bridges, Noak Beery Jr, Hugh O'Brian, Morris Ankrum, John Emery.*Theme- Hope and progress in scientific matters is the best motivation for success.*Trivia/location/goofs- B & W. This was a low-budget rival for theater tickets when George Pal's expensive film, 'Destination Moon' came out near the same time. The Martian scenes were originally tinted red to add to the viewer's appreciation & drama and this film's Martian location is California's famous other-worldly Red Rock Canyon of HWY 395, outside Ridgecrest CA. With a very early role for Hugh o'Brian, viewers should watch for his 'beefcake' scenes near the movie's end. The film was re-cut in the 1980's to take advantage of better & modern film Efx shots replacing the very dated old V-2 rocket stock footage. Some of the 1980's footage is still in the film and not all removed. in the rocket ship Mar's landing & take-off sequences and Earth landing. There's a longer version of this film with more scenes about the doomed Martian civilization and it's destruction. That version seems to have been lost. These dramatic scenes are in error with science When the first stage is jettisoned, it could not overtake the main powered stage & cause a collision. Also since gravity on Mars is half of the Earth, the martians throwing rocks at the crew would not be so deadly to kill. There is no rain on Mars. There is an inconsistency or screen continuity between spaceship designs in the film from WW2 V-2 and sleek bullet shaped spacecraft substituted in the 1980 film scene re-shoots.*Emotion- A very dramatic and memorable film about 1950's space travel to the moon. An excellent cast of B-Movie lead and character actors support an interesting script well on camera. Unfortunately this film was overshadowed and often confused with George Pal's film that had similar plot but more expensive production elements. While others were focusing on the moon, this film goes one better and deals with Mars. This is a fun and exciting film of a different time in space science. "},{"Title":"Saved By Its Curiosity Value","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently this was marketed as the first ever movie featuring space travel . I don't know about you but I vividly recall seeing a film by George Melies that was produced almost 50 years before that involved a space rocket going to the moon and humans meeting the strange inhabitants living there . Sometimes marketing and the truth are two entirely different things That said this movie does mirror the real life space race going on at the time . George Pal was about to release DESTINATION MOON and this movie beats Pal to the punch . Unfortunately corners are cut and what we have is a very cheap looking film with a very wooden cast so much so there might have been a serious danger that it's so dated to be unwatchable and the only reason for watching is to laugh at it . This may hold true but there is an element of fascination as to how space travel was portrayed in an era when man had not yet travelled in space . The film lacks the cerebral drama and high concept thrills of say THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT and yet remains a film with a completely serious tone . What I found most interesting is that it does try and find a plausible explanation how a space rocket can travel to the Moon - one of using the gravitational pull between the Earth and its satellite to get there . Of course other scientific facts are unknown or ignored which can be distracting . Once the action locates to Mars we have to endure an all too obvious subtext that atomic bombs are bad for civilisation . As it stands the fact ROCKETSHIP XM was produced in an era where the Cold War was heating up and mankind hadn't travelled in to space yet does mean it has a curiosity value "},{"Title":"Bridges as a courteous lover&#x97;boy","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" ROCKETSHIP XM is actually one of the nicer and better '50s American Sci&#x97;Fi low&#x97;budget features, rather restrained as far as goofiness and cheesiness are concerned; it has a Vernian breath. 'XM', as you may suppose already, comes from Expedition Moon. Basically, this registers as suspenseful hard Sci&#x97;Fi.Still, when you see that one of the astronauts is unable to identify Earth's continents as seen from space&#x97;and then most of the crew is taken by surprise by freaky imponderable-things begin to look a bit creepy, or tend to stink. As in other '50s space&#x97;trip flicks, the crew tends to be lousily ignorant, or, to put it mildly, scientifically naive&#x97;anyway, wholly clueless; was it prudent to send in space, as a first mission, guys who didn't know how the Earth's continents look? Why sent on a scientific mission people unable to behave like grown&#x97;ups? And why, since an unexplored planet has atmosphere, should one dread a possible microbial contamination? And when the crew of a scientific expedition lands on a planet, what better things to do than tease the Stone Age inhabitants and start a fight with them? These nerds act as if they were Magellan&#x97;except that Magellan simply wasn't on a damn scientific mission.Anyway, the story ends on a Boris Fradkin note&#x97;anticipating, probably, the similar ending of Boris Fradkin's extraordinary novel &#x85;. "},{"Title":"ROCKETSHIP X-M (Kurt Neumann, 1950) **1/2","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the earliest films to emerge during the heyday of sci-fi cinema, anticipating even DESTINATION MOON (1950) &#150; to which it pretty much was a rival (albeit more modest) production. It already features many of the ingredients that would become genre staples the crew of the spacecraft is virtually a microcosm of post-war America (though two are actually foreigners &#150; including the obligatory intellectual female, Osa Massen, whose icy exterior melts under the dogged attentions of rugged pilot Lloyd Bridges), their mission (whose details are meticulously spelled out during the opening Press Conference) apprehensively observed by Ground Control and, of course, the eventual glitch which jeopardizes the flight and sends our heroes to Mars (inhabited by cave-men, victims of a nuclear fall-out, no less!) instead of the Moon. Needless to say, the film feels quaint at this juncture if still eminently watchable given the low-budget involved, the narrative is mostly restricted to the admittedly stylish shuttle interior &#150; though the climactic exploration of Mars effectively takes place on desert locations and shot in evocative sepia. Incidentally, the last act proves surprisingly downbeat (emphasizing its intent as a cautionary tale &#150; Dalton Trumbo reportedly contributed to the script!) and, yet, it is capped by a determined effort to keep the space race going despite the initial failure (a scene which, again, would soon be turned into a sci-fi cliché see THE QUATERMASS XPERIMENT 1955). "},{"Title":"Lloyd Bridges learns to breath in outer space","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" With Rocketship XM, a trip to the moon is like a trip to the corner grocery. No need for any time consuming pre-flight preparations or complex calculations for a jaunt through thousands of miles of vacuum and titanic gravitational forces. Just review a chalk board drawing of the XM's easy-as-pie layout, joke around with the press, then saunter over to the launch pad with your crew a few minutes before departure. It might be a little chilly in outer space so wear your leather jackets. Unless good ole XM runs into a shower of crackerjacks, its supposed to be air tight, so helmets or other protective gear is optional. What a crazy trip it turned out to be. A twist of the dial here, a pull of the lever there, and a few pencil and paper miscalculations later, the XM makes an unscheduled U-turn to Mars. Space flight can be tricky and full of surprises for the unwary traveler. But what the heck. Since you're there, might as well hop down for a little scientific exploration. Mars ain't so bad after all but the air's a little thin. Better bring along your oxygen mask and a few weapons in case you run into a little trouble with the local natives who have devolved into sickly cavemen after toasting their planet with nukes.On the way back be sure to warn the worried folks back home what can happen if they play around with nukes and ask them to be understanding about the mess you're going to make out of XM because your side trip to Mars used too much fuel. Happy smack down. "},{"Title":"A Wrong Turn in Space","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A good cast of solid professional thespians carries this film along and raises Rocketship X-M to the height of just average mediocrity. They have to do a good job with the cheesy sets and threadbare special effects that so typify a Lippert Picture. Lloyd Bridges, Osa Massen, John Emery, Hugh O'Brian, and Noah Beery, Jr., are the first astronauts making a planned flight to the moon. But a combination of a lot more rocket fuel than needed, a gravitational boost from earth's rotation, and a wrong turn in space and our intrepid crew head to Mars.No more has to be said only that the Martians are decidedly inhospitable and the ending a downbeat one.Science fiction is always a chancy thing in terms of imagination. But this film showed a decided lack of it. Two things got me about Rocketship X-M. First there seem to be no advance in weaponry for this futuristic film. The space travelers face the hostile Martians with nothing more than a rifle and pistol. Secondly it looked like computers or even pocket calculators were never invented as scientists Osa Massen and John Emery are busy figuring out their rocket fuel consumption and space trajectory with pencil and paper. And apparently they weren't math geniuses as you'll see if you watch Rocketship X-M. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not up to the quality of DESTINATION MOON","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently there was a 'space race' that most of us are unaware of, though in 1950 it was fast and furious. It seems that George Pal had announced a new picture (DESTINATION MOON) that would feature a moon landing and it was to be the first of many similar films made in the 1950s. However, when the makers of ROCKETSHIP X-M heard about this, they decided to rush this film into production and beat them to the punch, so to speak. However, the DESTINATION MOON people cried foul and so when ROCKETSHIP X-M was marketed, they were forced to include a proviso that it was not DESTINATION MOON. Well, I don't know how these films fared at the box office, but as far as quality goes Pal and the rest of the DESTINATION MOON people had little to worry about, as ROCKETSHIP X-M, though a decent film, wasn't nearly as well made or entertaining. It seems that although it was technically first, it certainly wasn't best. I can say this because I saw them one after another today--an interesting way to see these two milestone films.The biggest problem is that while ROCKETSHIP X-M wants to be taken as serious sci-fi, there are just too many elements in it that would soon be recognized as clichés. The most obvious was including a female crew member. This set the stage for a million and one sexist and silly remarks and while the film makers might have been trying to say something positive about women's rights, the crew member really came off as just another piece of meat. The second cliché is finding aliens on their mission, though in this case instead of either little green men or horny space babes (such as in QUEEN OF OUTER SPACE or CAT-WOMEN OF THE MOON) they are very primitive and look human. They discover cave men on Mars who apparently like to smash things--including members of the crew. In fact, because the film had so many clichés, when the film was about half-way complete, I predicted to my wife who on the crew would die in what order and I was correct! I'm not THAT smart--the film was just that predictable.In addition to the clichés, the film makers didn't do a very good job of dealing with the scientific aspects of space travel. Part of this might have been ignorance (such as having small objects on the ship float in zero gravity but not bigger ones--as if that mattered) and much of it was probably due to their desire to rush it into production (no pressure suits or other protection when walking on Mars--despite the cold temperatures and pressure difference). This made the film come off as a bit cheap, but at least I was thrilled that inside the space ship it didn't look like a big empty room. It looked a bit more like a real space ship.Overall, the film is entertaining, offers a few mild thrills and abounds with predictability as well as a message that comes off as both preachy AND premature. After only walking about for a few minutes and not even exploring the Martian cities, the scientist among the crew announces that the Martians destroyed themselves with nuclear bombs and the people living like idiot cave people was the result. How did he know this?! And why did everyone just accept this so quickly? For die-hard fans of sci-fi like myself, this is a must-see because of its historical value and it is reasonably entertaining. Others might find it tough going. "},{"Title":"A good Science Fiction Movie for it's time.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember viewing this movie when I was a boy and thought it was the greatest movie I had seen.  But at that time I thought the same thing of all of the Science Fiction movies I attended.  By today's standards it would not compare and I must remember that we have come a long way in making movies in fifty years.   "},{"Title":"Awesome, Mindblasting!","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I never got to see this film as a kid, so when a book about sci-fi films turned up with a synopsis(sans the ending) came into my grasp, I rushed out and bought it on DVD(it was my 1st DVD actually!) All I can say about this incredibly un-Hollywood script, is AWESOME. Sure, there are some treacly sweet moments, and some corny pick up artist lines from Lloyd Bridges(who I had the incredible honor of tour guide/bodyguard/hosting at CW Post University in 1983 when he was filming a soap opera called Loving)BUT the characterizations, the reality of their shared experience, the gently espoused message in it, all combine to make this a true sublime, cerebral, refreshing change from formula Hollywood junk. I will not spoil it for those who have yet to see it, all I will say is once you have seen the ending, you will never forget it nor will you ever willingly accept any garbage space films or sci-fi junk writing again! Oh, 1 spoiler here the rational for what happened to Mars is a great bit of sarcasm and foreshadows a certain 1990's obsession with pyramids, faces, etc. on Mars! All in all, 10/10!!!!! "}{"Title":"Failure To Launch","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been reading some of the reviews here and am bemused by the number of times Destination Moon is mentioned as a rival product. In England the two films were shown as a double bill so by definition there was no rivalry as audiences were not asked to see one at the expense of the other. As to the film itself, seen today it's ludicrous and lacks credibility. The crew of the spaceship wear their ordinary clothes and are firmly anchored to the floor and free to move as they will without 'floating' i.e. no account is taken of the effects of gravity. Also conveniently ignored is how they eat, drink, and go to the toilet. Rather than a computer or even push buttons the ship is manoeuvred by levers that resemble the landing-gear controls of an airplane. Okay, maybe in 1950 audiences were happy to swallow all this but then is then and now is now. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad, and not in the good way","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought Rocketship X-M on DVD in a two-pack with Destination Moon. Now I see why the distributors did that no one who had ever seen this movie would buy it on its own.I cannot fathom what school system turned out the reviewer who claimed that RXM is great in its predictions of how space travel would take place... Launch straight up, and then do a 90-degree right turn and circle faster and faster until you reach escape velocity... I don't think I recall that from the Apollo program. Never mind that the astronauts should be weightless once they shut off the engines, gravity changes directions every time they pass through the hatch to the engine room. Going to the moon, but missed it? No problem, it's just a hop-skip-and-a-jump (with a helping hand from divine providence) and you'll be at Mars! And OK, if you want to put life on Mars, given the state of planetary knowledge in 1950, it was a forgivable convention for the sake of the storytelling, but can you make them look at least a LITTLE alien? These Martians looked like extras from the cast of 10,000 B.C. I can accept some scientific mistakes, but this wouldn't pass muster with an above-average second-grader.And that's aside from the screaming plot holes 12 minutes before launch (as you're reminded of constantly by the nagging P.A. voice saying X minus so many minutes) the astronauts are giving a press conference! I guess the time crunch is why Dr. Eckstrom didn't change out of his coat and tie before launching into space. And how handy that, even though they were planning to go to the moon and had pressure suits for that, they brought hiking gear (and rifles!) just in case they ended up at Mars. They're lucky they landed anywhere, since apparently the method they had developed for landing was to have Dr.E look out the window and tell the pilot (Lloyd Bridges) to tweak down the throttles every now and then. Note to the designers of the XM-2 how about giving the pilot a window seat? Ditto the previous comments on the casual sexism that had eye-candy Dr. Lisa (Osa Massen) doom them all by repeatedly screwing up her fuel calculations, but hey that was the early '50s. She was there to fill her sweater, not a useful function.Rocketship X-M is notable for being one of the first of the first films to say ohmigod we're all going to blow ourselves up with these here A-bombs, but one can note that about it without wasting 77 minutes watching such dreck. By the way, that message might have had a bit more impact had there been some money in the budget for actual sets of the Martian city ruins, rather than just matte paintings.I can appreciate good bad sci-fi, for the unique way the future used to look, and for the inherent (if condescending) humor you can find when when we look back on the naivety of audiences 60 years ago, but this film must have been insulting even then. Rocketship X-M isn't even suitable for an MST3K-style lampooning. Sometimes, bad is just... bad.Anybody want to buy a DVD? Used only once, I swear. "},{"Title":"Missed the Moon,on our way to Mars","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, this was a real stinker. This early sci-fi flick has nothing going for it than pure camp. There's so much scientific mambo-jumbo in the dialog it's laughable. The female character played by Osa Massen is just a plot device for the male characters to serve sexist remarks during the entire length of the film. Watch this one with your girlfriend I guarantee it will make her blood boil.The only good thing is the musical score which expertly build the moods of the film. The special-effects are rather crude but not bad considering the vintage of the movie. With some good B-stars in the lead roles,the acting isn't too bad. But the lines they are given must have given them quite a challenge. The challenge of not laughing their heads off. "},{"Title":"If I ever get home, I'm never leaving Texas again.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Minor spoilersFirst I must say how rare and charming it is to find a movie with such basic messages in it nuclear war will inevitably destroy all of civilization, and women are for making babies. It is absolutely incredible how well formulated the plot is to hit in these two points, as with a golden hammer. Essentially, everything about this movie annoyed me. The casual sexism, the character whose sole trait was coming from Texas, the mysterious choice of dying Mars orange, and of course the flawed science of it all. Then the martian woman screaming as if she had just noticed that she was blind? What was that? However, I will give it credit. The fifties did spit out some sillier things. But not much... "},{"Title":"Pioneering Film is no longer what it was visually","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Although hampered by rushed production and low budget, Rocketship X-M remains a pioneering work that touches on important topics such as the danger of nuclear war. Unfortunately, we can't seen the movie as originally filmed, for its current owner, Wade Williams, decided to add new effects sequences replacing the V-2 footage used for the original release. Fortunately, the new effects do not detract from the story, but make the film more seamless.Also, the handling of the woman (referred to as a girl in the promotional material) dates the movie by mirroring the 50's era when the movie was made. "},{"Title":"Turn left at Venus (one spoiler)","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot-twist that they aim for the Moon and arrive at Mars isn't as bad as I'd expected. The producers do appreciate that they're not right next door, and have the crew spend some time unconscious getting there, pulled by a higher force which isn't otherwise explained (saying Goddidit doesn't explain anything, any more than it does anywhere else). And they do have twice as much fuel as they need. Ah, those were the days.They're not totally ignorant of physics, eg the effect of acceleration on the body, they just keep forgetting.Oddly, what was wrong with the dialogue was often not what they said but what they didn't. Trees on Mars! No reaction. A city on Mars! No reaction. Your spaceship has crashed killing all aboard. No reaction.Rather a lot of running round aimlessly on Mars, and some very telling 1950s sexism (I loved the woman reporter asking the sole spacewoman why they needed a woman in the crew), but you can't blame the film for that nobody would have noticed at the time. "},{"Title":"We're on our way!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it can be VERY tedious at times, this movie is really not all that bad.  The acting is fairly well done, if stereotypical, and the production values are pretty high considering some of the Sci-Fi movies that were to come later in the decade.My biggest problem with this film are some of the very outdated characterizations in it.  There's the guy from Texas, the professional scientist, and worst of all the woman scientist who finally realizes her womanhood.  For a film seeking to make a statement about mankind, it loses some of it's impact by reducing its characters through sexist stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Excellent Fodder for MST3K","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" To call Rocketship X-M a science fiction classic is due more to its release date (1950), its savvy ability to capitalize on the publicity for Destination Moon, and the appearance of actors who would later star in television as Sea Hunt's Mike Nelson, Rockford's dad and Wyatt Earp.The movie itself is bad enough to be good fodder for MST3K and is best viewed with commentary from Joel and the robots. This is the type of movie best suited to added riffing from the MST3K characters; something preachy, slow-paced, poorly scripted, and full of painfully bad acting. While unintentionally funny stuff like Plan 9 From Outer Space don't lend themselves to satirical commentary (because the movie constantly upstages the hosts), really bad and dull movies like Rocketship X-M are ideal. So add some stars to the rating if you are watching the MST3K version.The basic story has the crew taking an unplanned right turn at the moon and ending up on Mars. What they find on that planet are the remnants of a human-like civilization devastated by an atomic war. Only one Martian is shown in close-up, a normal looking woman who is blind or at least has no pupils in her eyes. The men look like the goons in the old Popeye cartoons, they scamper agilely around the cliffs and throw boulders at the crew with amazing accuracy-especially if they are supposed to be blind. Of course none of this is ever explained as doing so would require some sign of logical analysis from the writers of the screenplay.The scenes on Mars are presented in something called Sepia Color to distinguish them from the rest of the B&W movie. If this has you thinking Wizard of Oz you will be disappointed because it is just black and white stuff with a slight brown tint added to the print in post-production.In keeping with the moronic sexism of the movie, the icy female scientist screws up her fuel calculations-both coming and going. Her failure to measure up to the men causes her feminine side to surface and she and Mike Nelson coo sweetly to each other as they face their doom (insert sound of gagging here).The real stars of the movie are the reporters at the command center. So much so that MST3K was inspired to specially salute these unheralded heroes. The intrepid squad of newsies are featured for the first 10 minutes of the movie, then take stations about 12 inches behind the technicians and monitoring equipment in the command center. Later they are called upon to ask the moronic questions needed by the mission director to expound on the movie's already too obvious message.The DVD has an extremely low audio level, is not captioned, and is accompanied by a trailer. Although you will be thankful that it is only 77 minutes, it is still about 60 minutes too long as any 30 minute episode of The Twilight Zone has several times more content than this entire movie.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"I suppose you think that women should only cook and sew and bear children.","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I completely understand the historical significance of Rocketship X-M, but that doesn't make it a good movie. To begin with, the plot (or what there is of it) is dull and lifeless. Five astronauts blast off for the moon &#150; they get knocked off course and end up on Mars (huh?) &#150; cavemen-looking Martians throw rocks at them &#150; they return to Earth and meet a fiery death &#150; The End. Believe it or not, but this pithy plot description makes it sound much more interesting than it really is. To make matters worse, John Emery's character, Dr. Karl Eckstrom, feels it necessary to give long drawn out speeches on everything from the nature of man to the dangers of nuclear weapons. It's just a thrill-a-minute (sarcasm intended).Looking back at Rocketship X-M almost 60 years later, I would call the portrayal of women funny if it weren't all so sad and misguided. There are a number of examples I could cite, but there's one exchange of dialogue just after take-off between the male chauvinist pilot Floyd (played by the irritating, plastic-haired Lloyd Bridges) and Dr. Lisa Van Horn (the only female crewmember and the constant object of Floyd's often creepy attention) that illustrates the film's attitudes toward women quite nicely &#149; Floyd I've been wondering, how did a girl like you get mixed up in a thing like this in the first place. &#149; Dr. Van Horn I suppose you think that women should only cook and sew and bear children. &#149; Floyd Isn't that enough? I think Floyd should have stayed behind with the cavemen! "},{"Title":"Sleep Inducing","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Five astronauts are launched into space heading for the moon. Meteor shower throws them off course. They land on Mars and encounter mutated survivors of atomic war. Everyone dies. Generally cited as the first post war sci-fi movie, Rocketship X-M is dull, talky, and stereotypic of many films of the genre to follow. Probably the only saving grace of this movie is the early on film appearances of a young  Lloyd Bridges (Sea Hunt) and Hugh O'Brien (Wyatt Earp). Also of note is the insertion of a woman (Osa Massen) as Dr. Lisa Van Horn, one of the noted scientists on the mission. Despite her position as a leading chemist in cryogenic propellents , sexist comments still abound. All in all,one time viewing for this uninspired flick. "}{"Title":"Oh Man Is It Baaaaaddddddd......","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm seeing a pattern here. If you see a movie on Mystery Science Theater 3000, chances are if you go to IMDb.com there will be hordes of lovers of the film, yet it was picked to be on that TV show because it was sooo bad. I'm sorry but I read a lot about Rocketship X-M as being some landmark sci fi film that stressed realism. Well if that is the case I could write for several paragraphs about how even with 1950's knowledge this movie is utterly flawed. Gravity might be the first obvious observation, or as MST3K did as a skit selective gravity, also what about when they are plunging to their death and they are just standing there looking out of the window, um would'nt the ship being upside down effect that scene? I would like to think that they started with good intentions and that it ran over budget or something but I think this movie was just plain cheese as in the from under type. Just compare this to When Worlds Collide which was released in 1951 to see the true place where this movie ranks, there's no comparison. The movie gets a 2 or maybe 3 on its own, its not even funny to watch on its own. It gets about a 5 or 6 as a MST3K episode as there is no action or much to make fun of, just bad, bad, bad, oh did I mention, it's bad. "},{"Title":"The Horror!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not quite the best film I was expecting.  It's pretty slow-moving and hasn't satisfied me in the least.Lloyd Bridges couldn't save this horrible piece of garbage.  I'd give it 1 star.  I'm glad I watched the MST3K Version. "},{"Title":"Talk about Wrong way Corrigan!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Planned moon flight (distance about 350,000 miles; trip time less than two weeks) becomes voyage to Mars (distance  about 35,000,000 miles; trip time  one year!), when astronauts are knocked unconsious by initial acceleration.This absurd plot line was purportedly added during production after DESTINATION MOON, a much more expensive (and much better) film was released.Certainly ROCKETSHIP X-M has some stunning visuals (particularly on the Mars surface, which is tinted pinkish-red) and solid acting.  However, the story simply does not survive scrutiny. "},{"Title":"I was hardened by the time this movie came along--I'd already seen The Thing (1951.) (See my review)","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing could touch me. I was a tough and cynical 12 year old.That is, until I had to look deep, deep into the eyes of that Martian-fella. Those eyes were solid yellow!Oops, there's me messing my pants again. "}]