[{"Title":"Magical","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"132 out of 146 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read that James Stewart considered Elwood P. Dowd his most personally significant role.  In a career that spanned decades and included such great works at It's a Wonderful Life and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, choosing Harvey's friend, Elwood, as his personal favorite says something about rather powerful about Mr. Stewart and Mr. Dowd.James Stewart was a down to earth, decent man whose personal life was as honorable as the lives of George Bailey and Jefferson Smith -  but he admired Elwood P. Dowd, an alcoholic dreamer with an invisible giant white rabbit as his best friend.  Not what you would expect of a man who piloted B-17's and led giant raids over Germany in WWII.Elwood's attraction for us is perhaps what attracted him so much to James Stewart.  Elwood is happy with himself and his life and even more importantly, he makes others happy with their lives.  That is the great magic of Elwood and Harvey  they make others happy and they bring peace and a measure of contentment to almost everyone who know them.I have seen another version of Harvey with Art Carney and it was quite good, but lacked the sense of magic that is a benediction in this version of Harvey.  In the Carney version, you can see Harvey - he is a giant white rabbit - and seeing Harvey takes much of the magic away.  When you watch Jimmy Stewart, you never really know if Harvey is real or not.  You know that Elwood thinks he is real and you know that Elwood's family thinks Elwood is crazy.  After watching for a while, you don't really care if Harvey is real.  Elwood is real and it is his belief in Harvey and what Harvey represents to him that endows him with such sweet and gentle charm.  Harvey is his rejection of the harshness and materialism of the world.Harvey is a charming, magical masterpiece of kindness and goodness that somehow never becomes maudlin.  Elwood and Harvey do not feel sorry for themselves and they most certainly do not expect you to feel sorry for them either.  If anything, Elwood feels sorry for the rest of the world and he does not understand how everyone can't see as clearly as he does.  For in his world,  we are all brothers who should love as generously and kindly as Mr. Stewart's Elwood P. Dowd. "},{"Title":"Considered a classic with good reason","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"104 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" For about the first thirty minutes, I was thinking of some way to politely inform those who recommended this film that it wasn't my cup of tea, but the more I stayed, the more captivated I became. Based on a stage play that opened six years earlier, Harvey, the 1950 film directed by Henry Koster, is a delight. If this Jimmy Stewart classic doesn't make you feel good, you must be related to Mr. Henry F. Potter of Bedford Falls. Harvey is a 6' 3'' Pooka who has befriended a certain Mr. Elwood P. Dowd and this causes all sorts of complications for those around him. In case you didn't know, in Celtic mythology a Pooka is a fearsome spirit that usually takes the form of a sleek dark horse that roams the countryside at night, creating harm and mischief. Well, Harvey is not like that at all.In fact, Harvey is a very gentle spirit who is always helping people out and can make everybody around him feel relaxed and in a good mood. Now Dowd needs all the help he can get. He likes to take a nip once in a while and is always talking to that danged rabbit to the chagrin of his sister Veta Louise (Josephine Hull) whose social life takes a nosedive when brother Elwood is around. Elwood's shenanigans also interfere with her plans to marry off her daughter Myrtle Mae (Victoria Home). When Veta decides that she has had enough and tries to commit Elwood to a psychiatric institution, the tables are turned and she ends up being committed in a hilarious case of mistaken identity. When Elwood leaves the hospital after being released, the medical staff in the hospital (a bit eccentric themselves) realize their mistake and all try to find him.The madcap beginning soon turns into a gentle and moving drama. Jimmy Stewart is flawless as the decent man who never loses his temper and always has a smile on his face, giving everyone his card and inviting strangers home for dinner. The supporting cast is top notch as well including the unpleasant Dr. Chumley (Cecil Kellaway), the egotistical psychiatrist Dr. Sanderson (Charles Drake), his love struck assistant Miss Kelley (Peggy Dow) and the overwrought orderly (Jesse White, later known as the Maytag repairman).Eventually some that ridiculed Elwood and his rabbit privately admit that they could see Harvey themselves and by the end we are gradually convinced that the so-called normal people may be stranger than Mr. Dowd. Harvey is considered a classic and with good reason. It works because of its good-natured humor and its gentle slap at those who automatically condemn ideas that are outside socially acceptable norms without thinking for themselves. "},{"Title":"A true classic which will last forever","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"83 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are too many aspects of Harvey to analyse. This is a typical   example of a film being incredibly deceptive. On the outside the film   is a light hearted comedy but when looking at it closely it is very   clearly a serious social commentary of it's time, and indeed of the   present time (for the same prejudices still exist today).    Harvey is a pooka ( a mischievous spirit) that manifests itself as a   six foot white rabbit. Only Elwood P. Dowd can see Harvey and it is   from this that the underlying dark story of an alcoholic's friendship   with an invisible spirit blends itself in to comic fantasy.    The comic side to the film opens up the subject of prejudice and   peoples fear of what is different from themselves. Elwood P Dowd is   seen as insane by his sister, niece and the public and yet he is not a   killer, he is not an angry or violent man. What he is, however, is a   happy, cheerful and exremely pleasant gentleman who takes great   pleasure in trying to make other people happy with the aid of a six   foot white rabbit.    The film's success, in my mind, is entirely on the shoulders of James   Stewart who's portrayal of the eccentric Elwwod P Dowd is exceptionally   moving and fulfilling. He is surrounded by an outstanding supporting   cast and one of the best scripts in movie history.    If this does not sound appealing to you, I urge you to watch Dowd's   comments regarding Harvey outside the bar. This speech never fails to   bring a lump in my throat. Not because it is sad but because it is such   an innocent speech (delivered superbly by Stewart).    To me, Harvey has a hidden message to the audience,    Elwood P. Dowd does not see life as it is, but life as it should be!!    Shoudn't we all see life like this? "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"69 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this movie I didn't think I would like it. I didn't think it was my type of movie. I was wrong. HARVEY will make you laugh and at the same time show you the power of kindness. JAMES STEWART makes you believe someone is there even know his friend is an invisible 6-foot tall rabbit. It is easily one of the best movies ever made! If you don't know what this movie is or haven't seen it for any reason all I have to say is GO SEE IT! Even if you don't like black and white movies, there is something in this movie for everyone. If you like drama, comedy, or just films that make you feel good inside this movie is for you.If ELWOOD P. DOWD is crazy I don't want to be sane. "},{"Title":"Oh, so pleasant.","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"64 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Years ago, my mother used to say to me, she'd say 'In this world, Elwood,' she always used to call me Elwood. 'In this world, Elwood, you must be oh, so smart or oh, so pleasant.' Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. And you can quote me. - Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart)And, though you suspect James Stewart was never anything less than thoroughly pleasant, that quote from this completely bewitching movie, sums up perfectly the career of James Stewart and this movie in particular. It is one of those rare, rare movies that, when one has watched it, makes you want to try harder to be a nicer, better person. I recommend 'pleasant,' also. And I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A moving story of a man and his pooka...","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"52 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To tell you the truth, I had no idea HARVEY would be this good, but it was. It's not an incredibly deep film, just good-natured. I'm not sure if these next comments will throw a lot of people off, but I wonder about the controversial nature of the story as well, particularly for a movie made in the 1950's. I mean, after all, this is a movie that does touch on topics of alcoholism, mental illness, spirits, Celtic mythology, and magic. C'mon, we live in a society where Harry Potter cannot exist without receiving a light pounding. I was also impressed with the development of the Elwood P. Dowd character as portrayed by James Stewart. I just love how the movie shows how he touches the lives of everyone around him. In an age of cinema where supporting characters are immediately cast off after being introduced, I don't think there is a single supporting actor whose character is not developed in this film. I particularly liked the relationship between the doctor and Elwood. I can honestly say that Elwood P. Dowd is one of the most memorable characters I have come across in film along with Molly the Gangster in Charley Varrick and Hal the Computer in 2001 A Space Odyssey. I also think this movie does an excellent job highlighting those who do represent the salt of the earth in our society, even if they do exhibit behavior that is outside social norms. This is a very good film. See it with a pooka!  "},{"Title":"Perfect film, look for lighting","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"51 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A perfect film, overwhelmingly loved. I would like to point out the lighting in the film is wonderful. The best scene to look for is as Mr Dowd is sitting in the alley behind the bar speaking to the Doctor & nurse and the use of shadows and indirect lighting bring a strength to the scene that is usually only noted for Citizen Kane.Stewart is so great in so many films and this is among his best roles.This is screwball comedy that is somehow low key and without slapstick. I cannot think of any film that is similar to this since Peter Sellers did Being There in 1979.They should not remake this film, but if they did the only acceptable actor would be Tom Hanks.  "},{"Title":"I always have a wonderful time, wherever I am, whoever I'm with.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderful comedy-drama starring the immensely talented James Stuart as kind hearted Elwood P. Dowd, a man who has refused to be ruled by life.  The brilliance of this film is the subtlety of the story and the layers of the character.  Under the polite veneer of fifties Hollywood conventions, Harvey has a decidedly dark undercurrent, one that deals with alcoholism, loneliness and rejection.  Not that this should deter you from enjoying the many comic scenarios that Harvey throws at the viewer during the course of the film, as this is definitely a comedy gem.  But the truth and beauty behind what Elwood is saying only make the entire package all the more exquisite, like putting chocolate on a donut.  The most beautiful scene I've seen in any film is the scene in which Elwood explains how Harvey has enriched his life, though the people who are listening to the story doubt Harvey's existence, thus doubting Elwood's sanity, the words of his speech, coupled with the delivery of Stuart's performance are so touching and true that even the most jaded audience will be won over into believing Harvey to be real.  The enjoyment that Elwood now gets from life, the wonderful times he has, wherever he is, whoever he's with, is the kind of enjoyment everyone strives to achiever from life.  This is bygone film-making at it's best; Stuart is such a joy to watch that you'll remember this film for a long time after viewing.  With fine support from all the actors, this is one film that truly deserves its classic status.   "},{"Title":"I recommend pleasant, you may quote me","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" James Stewart became so identified with the role of Elwood P. Dowd in Harvey that few today are aware that he did not introduce the part. It was originally done on Broadway by Frank Fay. Whereas Stewart emphasized the whimsical in Dowd, Fay purportedly leaned towards the alcoholic of which he had enough personal experience.Fay left the play and Stewart was brought in and it literally rejuvenated the play. I'm sure it helped to have a big movie name go on Broadway to help sales, but when word of mouth and the rave reviews of the critics got out, the play turned from a hit to a classic.Only two players from the original Broadway cast made it to the big screen version, Josephine Hull as Elvetia Simmons, Stewart's sister and Jesse White as Wilson the attendant from the mental sanitarium with the 'dynamic personality'. Jesse White was in Hollywood to stay after that and entertained us for decades.Josephine Hull got to do two of her stage roles for the screen, this one and one of the Brewster sisters in Arsenic and Old Lace. Diametrically opposite parts too. She's a crazy Brewster who poisons lonely old men in one film. And in the other she's the normal sister with an eccentric brother who sees and talks to a six foot white rabbit. Is she losing her marbles also? Well she does confess that at times Elwood makes Harvey so real to her that she's seen him herself.But it's a big burden on Ms. Hull having Stewart around. She's a widow with a young daughter. Victoria Horne, who she'd like to get into society and meet some eligible and propertied young men. Not likely to happen if she has a crazy uncle around. It's time to take Elwood off to the Mental Institution for a little reality shock.Of course in his own way and with each of them differently Stewart deceptively works his charm on the staff. He intrigues Cecil Kellaway the head of the institution, he baffles Charles Drake another psychiatrist, and he totally charms Nurse Peggy Dow. After a while you start to wonder just who is the crazy one in this film. But then again that's what author Mary Chase was trying to convey. Stewart even brings Jesse White somewhat around, no easy task as you will find out in viewing the film.Stewart revived Harvey in the early seventies with Helen Hayes playing his sister. The revival was a great success. In the post sixties age of the hippies, Stewart was the original drop out from society. And he did it without any cannabis or other narcotic. Of course it's nice to be somewhat financially secure to be able to do this. We'd all like to though and that is the secret of Harvey's enduring appeal. "},{"Title":"A Little Fantasy Never Hurt Anyone-----Or Did It?","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Another great comedy from Hollywood's Golden Age has James Stewart (Oscar-nominated) going all around town with his imaginary friend Harvey, a six-foot rabbit. Sister Josephine Hull (Oscar-winning) tries to have Stewart committed, but it seems that everyone who tries to reason with Stewart go crazy themselves. Hilarious and intelligent in every way imaginable. A fine piece of entertainment. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Introducing Harvey's fairy tale character Elwood P Dowd","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a delightful film. Jimmy Stewart's Elwood is a timeless character. When we live in a world which is constantly looking forward or backwards, Elwood P Dowd is a character who reminds us how perfect our lives would be if could live in the now, enjoying the singular moment. It is Dowd's ideology as much as his imaginary friend that makes Harvey so captivating.Of course, Elwood Dowd could be far less perfect than we imagine. The back story seems to imply he undertook some sort of personality shift seven years back (he says he took life seriously for thirty five years, he is now forty two as I recall). From the events he describes on his first encounter with Harvey, his recalled dialogue infers this event was after his character transformation. Considering how his big sister, Veta seems to feel their mother should have warned her about Harvey when she moved in, it seems unlikely it was his mother's death that caused any sort of dramatic character alteration.So Dowd's character - for some reason - shifted from normal to unique. His life now is simplistic yet to himself, very busy. He spends a lot of times hanging around in bars meeting people. To him, that's a vocation, and with life itself being such a rich tapestry of character and history, who is one to argue? His approach to each day is structured on much repetition. His dialogue and mannerisms are very uniform and repetitive. His approach to all people remains equal. Elwood does initially give the audience the impression of someone who has had suffered breakdown, as someone who probably isn't quite normal. But as the film reminds us, when normal is actually quite nasty and stressful, would those normal people see being so very nice as a mental deficiency? The film doesn't dwell on the question as to whether or not Dowd suffers from mental illness. It could be character just was hit by some amazing epiphany seven years earlier. Unlike more contemporary offerings, it's not interested in what makes us who we are; it is more interested in what we are at present.While it's clear that Elwood was never always as simple and gracious as he is now. The film doesn't concern itself with any catalyst for this change; in fact, it seems to deliberately avoid talking about it. The beauty in Harvey is that Elwood is as much a fantasy character as the mischievous imaginary Pooka Harvey himself and in my opinion, just as fascinating.The timeless character of Elwood is solidified by the play/films disinterest in creating a resolution for his identity, even if all the unhappy people attempt the contrary. I prefer to see the change in Elwood as being an epiphany rather than a breakdown. It just seems to suit his almost fairy tale perfection. He doesn't see the bad in others. All behaviour has its reasons and all actions can be dealt with positively. Even when confronted with selfish concerns, he sees the lighter side. While the film doesn't leave any doubt to whether Harvey exists or not, it does leave the audience to make up it's mind on Elwood. That to me is the beauty of this film. The actual fairy tale character is definitive, but Elwood isn't. Is he a drunk? Again, personally, I don't feel he is. He never shows any behaviour indicative to a drunk. He goes and has a drink when he meets people as part of a ritualistic pattern, but the alcohol never pertains importance to him beyond that. Again, if we take Elwood's almost fantasy built persona - something we would all want to aspire to - to be able to socially drink very regularly without dependence seems quite fitting. That's my opinion, but really it's up to you to decide.So I think, deep down, we would all want to be Elwood Dowd. Not so much for the Pooka invisible friend, but simply because his existence shows us how life ought to be taken. This is of course, an impossibility given the responsibility of today's lifestyle. Life is too complicated for an existence firmly entrenched in the present and while we have to accept that we can't be like Elwood, it would be nice to think we can try.For me Mary Chase's Harvey presents a dream existence made manifest, and that is very much thanks to Stewart's beautifully performed Elwood Dowd. "},{"Title":"Irresistible Comedy Classic About A Man And His Invisible Rabbit Friend","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd is a gentle, good-natured kind of fellow, whose best friend is a six-foot rabbit called Harvey whom nobody else can see. When his socially-aspiring sister Veta tries to have Elwood committed to a sanitarium, she is locked up by mistake, the mischievous Harvey drives the head shrink batty, and general confusion ensues.This is a classic and much-beloved comedy favourite, with a fantastic premise and featuring one of several masterful performances by Stewart in his Ordinary Joe good guy persona. He manages to make Elwood warm and affable despite his somewhat infuriating character, and his easygoing faith in kindness and pleasant good nature is as appealing a philosophy as anyone ever offered, regardless of how screwy he is. His accomplishment glues the film together but he is ably supported by a good cast, who rattle through the machine-gun dialogue faster than seems possible. I really like the theme of this movie - that it's better to be pleasant and mad as a march hare than be cold-hearted and irredeemably sane - as typified by the line, Well, I wrestled with reality for thirty-five years doctor, and I'm happy to state I finally won out over it.. Based on a Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Mary Chase. And remember, if you can't see the pooka, it's because you're taking life too seriously. "},{"Title":"A true classic in every way","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a sweet, poetic movie which at the same time is hilarious! James Stewart shines as Elwood P. Dowd who is always accompanied by his best friend Harvey, a 6 foot rabbit that is invisible to (almost) everybody else, and Josephine Hull is a scream as his poor, tormented older sister, Veta.The story says a lot about imagination, kindness, miracles, and friendship, while simultaneously making you laugh out loud at the crazy characters inhabiting the town where it all takes place. Favourite scene While everybody else is running around trying to figure out what is going on, Elwood literally stops to smell the flowers. -)Favourite quote I was walking down along the street and I heard this voice saying, 'Good evening, Mr. Dowd'. Well, I turned around, and here was this big 6 foot rabbit leaning up against a lamp post. I thought nothing of that, because when you've lived in a town as long as I've lived in this one, you get used to the fact that everybody knows your name.Don't miss this movie, because it is sure to leave a smile on your face and warmth in your heart -). This is a true classic in every way. "},{"Title":"And how are you today, Mr Wilson?","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Perhaps the sweetest, saddest and kindest of all talkie comedies. Its shameless sentimentality could have been cloying but for the way the gently kooky script squeezes the odd dash of lemon into the cocktail; similarly, its fine balance between naturalism and fantasy allows it to get away with things that would have been embarrassingly maudlin in a more literal-minded film. That's why I always seem to get something stuck in my eye when Elwood P Dowd goes into his Harvey and I have things to do ... speech.Among a great ensemble cast, I'd like to drop down the credits a little to say a word for Harry Hines in the small but delightful role of Mr Miggles, the ageing jailbird whom Elwood invites to dinner. (He's been away for a while, doing some work for the government ... making licence plates.) This was Hines's film debut at the age of 60, and it started him off on a busy and distinctive career in character parts as mildly disreputable but good-hearted old geezers, with hardly a change in costume or make-up from one film to the next. You can see him in the finale of Strangers on a Train as the old carny hand who crawls under the speeding carousel to stop the ride.Here's a wicked little thought to close with I'd love to see a TV channel or repertory cinema show Harvey as the top half of a drinking man's double bill ... with The Lost Weekend as supporting feature.    "},{"Title":"Besides charm and humor, Harvey glows with unconventional wisdom.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Most adults have long since stopped believing in the Easter Bunny.  For better or for worse, they've come to find imaginary rabbits absurd and uncalled for.  In Harvey, however, you will find a very pleasant man who would beg to differ.Elwood P. Dowd is best friends with a pooka named Harvey.  A pooka, by definition, is a `fairy spirit that appears in animal form, always very large.'  In Harvey's case, this means a 6-foot-3.5-inch rabbit.Harvey is also invisible to the general populace, but this does not stop Elwood from talking to him, holding doors for him, and cheerfully introducing him to anyone and everyone they meet.Most other characters who are witnesses to this behavior -- and the viewer as well -- are skeptical at best of Elwood's sanity.  The occasional act of mischief, though, as well as Stewart's unfailing faithfulness, are grounds enough to keep you wondering.The skillful blurring of the line between delusion and reality are testament to the skill of both Mary Chase and those who made her play into a movie.Elwood and Harvey tend to frequent the local bars, where meeting Harvey tends to brighten a person's heavy spirits since, as Elwood puts it, `nobody brings small things into a bar.'  (One will note that Harvey is no exception to this rule.)His sister Veta, however,  becomes determined to have Elwood committed after he and Harvey ruin the social gathering she so diligently arranged.  They take a trip to the Chumley's Rest sanatorium for this purpose, but the particularly analytic psychologist Dr. Sanderson (Charles Drake) decides that it is Veta who's the crazy one and has her admitted instead. Josephine Hull expertly portrays Veta's quirks and anxieties about both her brother's sanity and her own.In one of the one of the movie's memorable scenes, Mr. Wilson, an orderly at the sanitarium, decides to look up what a `pooka' is.  He discovers it is described as a `mischievous creature, very fond of rum-pots, crack-pots, and how are you Mr. Wilson?  That he is irritated rather than mystified only enhances the comedic effect.When the mix-up is revealed, a manhunt for Elwood commences.  He is found at Charlie's (which is just where he'd said he was going) and brought back to the sanitarium, but not before impressing his apprehendors with his incredible good nature and altruistic attitude.Then, when Dr. Chumley, the owner of the sanitarium, informs Elwood about Veta's plans, him he is amazed when Elwood seems untroubled by this revelation.Harvey has many memorable lines, many of which are notable for their ring of candor and elemental wisdom.  Elwood's explanation is one of them, as he tells the doctor, `&#145;In this world, you must be oh-so-smart or oh-so-pleasant.' Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant.'It is, in a large part, this attitude that makes both Elwood and Harvey so endearing.  Such an overwhelming agreeable nature cannot help but infect the hearts and minds of those it touches.Furthermore, the occasional acts of mischief &#150; perhaps the work of Harvey? &#150; are both humorous and intriguing.  Most importantly, the movie does an excellent job of questioning the value of conventional sanity.Inspired by Elwood, who states, `Well, I've wrestled with reality for 35 years, doctor, and I'm happy to state I finally won out over it,' the viewer is almost tempted to check the dictionary for `pooka' by the time the movie's over.  Or, perhaps, to check for an Easter basket.  Just in case.  "},{"Title":"The Most Human Film Ever Made","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A truly significant film, this is. Normally I would just vote for it on the IMDB vote thingy there, but I felt the need to comment on this film because I feel that many people just don't get it. There are minor spoilers ahead, just to warn you. Elwood may be an alcoholic, but that really is just there as a cover. Elwood believes that Harvey is real because Harvey IS real. Everyone else in the plot is just too absorbed in their daily work and self-awareness to notice. Elwood has finally let go of all of his major gripes and pretentions about life, and has simply allowed himself to be pleasant. A few of the other characters learn how to be pleasant, too. Dr. Chumley, Mr. Meagles. Sure, they all seem to be insane, or at least a little off, but isn't this how we always see people who are different from us? Be pleasant. This is a lesson that everyone needs to take to heart. Slow down, enjoy yourself. You just may see that rabbit near the phone pole yourself. "},{"Title":"The Power Of Love Ascendence","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Spoilers AheadTo its many detractors, especially in this generation, I say you are really missing the point of the movie. The core can be seen when Elwood accedes to Harvey remaining behind with the self absorbed Dr. Chumley and his boring dreams of Akron. As Elwood turns away from Harvey watch all the happiness drain from his face. His walk even changes to a depressed shuffle. As he walks morosely away, watch when the gate re-opens behind him. What, well thank you, I prefer you too. His happiness floods back all over him. This is what Harvey means; yes, it is an allegorical fairy tale that can stray a bit into mawkishness but, really, that love makes all the difference between pain and happiness, this is why I love it so. The world takes place outside of the solipsistic bubble of love between Elwood and Harvey. Their love forms an impenetrable shield about Dowd that even when he is being committed by his sister, at the end of her wits with him, he is joyously oblivious. The director waits until about halfway through before showing us that Dowd is not crazy; listen to Wilson read the dictionary definition of Pooka. At the end, he reads,And how are you today Mr. Wilson? Wilson is so startled he starts turning the book every which way but loose trying to see how an inanimate book just spoke to him.By the end of this classic, Dr. Chumley can see him now and doors open by unseen hands or paws, as the case may be. I read so much acid poured over this classic. The first half can tend to be a little slapstick but it grows more serious as it progresses. By the end, it is deathly serious; we hear the fate of other patients who took Dr. Chumley's normal injection from the cab driver. Veda quickly stops Elwood from losing his most endearing feature his universal love for everyone. Since he is loved, he gives only love and acceptance to all about him. I understand young viewers may not pick up on the allegory but, truly, it was never written to be taken literally. The movie's first half has some of the funniest scenes committed to film. How about when Wilson takes Veda to the mental home,Hi there honey, you want to come inside and pick some flowers off the wallpaper? I am very hard, as a reviewer, on movies that glorify ignoring reality or living in a delusion, as you find in most musicals. Here, Elwood's Being There is so utterly alien to everyone around him. Little existential acts like cheerfully accepting the mail, thanking the mailman and then tearing all the letters up without even glancing at them. Yes, detractors, the bar scene with Sanderson and the nurse drags a bit. This is not a perfect movie but it is the best movie Jimmy Stewart ever made. The lesson that Love transforms people beyond their animal passions is not a silly or pedestrian lesson. Also, that being loved makes all the difference I will not bore you with psychological studies but suffice to say it is not inaccurate to distill the differential between the criminal and the social worker to this tiny word Love. He basks in Harvey's love; they walk together oblivious of all about them. Sitting at the bar, trying to give what most humans desire above all things someone to listen to them. This is why it resonates and concomitantly is reviled. Those who detest the movie miss the allegory completely. To them, it is some nut job who has an invisible bunny for a friend. Those who understand its lesson adore the movie.The last shot of them walking into the sunrise together is exactly the ontological point of the consanguinity Into The Light. Yes, it makes me laugh but it has a lesson of what makes the most difference between a good life and a failed one the presence or absence of Love. My friends, to those of you lucky enough to have been given it; you know it without me telling you. A Masterpiece. Q.E.D.Without Love Our Earth Is A Tomb. Robert Browning "},{"Title":"The Pooka and the Dipsomaniac","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The role of Elwood P. Dowd was played by Frank Fay on Broadway and in London - and to universal acclaim. Fay (who had alcohol problems of his own) could bring that aspect to the role (Stewart brushes it when he goes to Mr. Cracker's bar), but Fay also showed (from some of the descriptions I have read) a muscularity of mind that Stewart does not quite show. Fay's Elwood has wondered about the phenomenon of his invisible/invincible friend, and while he accepts it he truly is in awe of the phenomenon. But Stewart has grown to just enjoy his friend's remarkable powers. He accepts them, and never tries to fathom them.As the play continues we see how the harmless Elwood and Harvey distress so many people. His sister Veta and niece Myrtle Mae blame them for isolating them from their social register friends. Judge Gaffney sympathizes with Veta, and her determination to put Elwood into an asylum. Dr. Sanderson and Nurse Kelly see Elwood as a potential patient, as does the dismissive Dr. Chumley. And Wilson has the most experienced (and realistic) view of insanity of anyone - he doesn't trust the inmates (more of that later).The thing that is amazing in HARVEY is that everyone ends up accepting the Pooka - and in the case of Dr. Chumley actively seeking to take Elwood's place. It's because of their disillusionment with the society that they try to placate. Myrtle Mae and Wilson both think Elwood is a nut, but they find they like each other. They both are on different levels of the social scale, but both are lonely, and they click (much to the dismay of Veta, who was briefly manhandled by Wilson as an asylum guard). Gaffney is supportive of Veta's actions towards Elwood (although he always liked Elwood) because he is in love with Veta. But he gets fed up because of Veta's own unwillingness to remain consistent about what to do with Elwood. Sanderson and Kelly get their wires crossed, and Sanderson actually thinks Veta is the mentally ill person (and it is sometimes feasible to believe it). It leads to Chumley briefly firing his assistant, and in the temporary disaster Kelly and Sanderson revealing their deeper feelings about each other. Soon they are just as willing to listen to Elwood's philosophy of life as they are in locating him for giving him the medication that may cure him - but turn him (in the words of the taxi driver) into just another stinker like the rest of us.Chumley is more interesting. He later admits that Harvey is so remarkable that everything that science has discovered is child's play compared to him. He does end up wanting to replace Elwood in Harvey's affections, but it is only for a temporary loan so that he can have an emotional release in some motel in Akron, Ohio with a simple, sympathetic woman and some beer. It's as though the society that has honored him actually chokes Chumley - his dream is a general rejection of respectability for two weeks only, as it is impossible to imagine he can get away with much more. As he is married it is very probable that the two weeks would be about all his need for release and freedom can guarantee him.The people who do accept Elwood and Harvey are not people with responsibility or position. Mr. Cracker and his customers (except one wise guy at the start of the film) see nothing odd at Elwood having an invisible friend. The taxi driver likes people like Elwood - they appreciate the trip to the asylum, and his driving. Mr. Schimmelplusser (Clem Bevans) is usually ignored by the Chumley's of the world who employ him, but he is very proud of the electronic fence and likes Elwood's notice of it. Elwood and Harvey have the support of the little people. As Elwood explains it, he could have been successful or pleasant, and he chose to be pleasant. Most people do want to be pleasant.HARVEY is one of the world's best fantasy plays, and it's success far transcended what was expected in the late 1940s when Mary Chase wrote it. Tragically, the reality of mental illness does not always allow for Elwood's pleasant disposition. Wilson actually has the most realistic moment in the play when he explains to Sanderson and Kelly that he has seen the insane close up - that frequently they are all sweetness until they know that they are not being observed, and then they do really life threatening damage to you. He actually happens to be correct.Although his reactions throughout the play are meant as comic blunderings or such (witness the marvelous moment when he reads the dictionary definition of Pooka), he does show one moment that (to me) makes his roughness understandable and even heroic when Dr. Chumley has disappeared after going off with Elwood, Wilson suddenly shows deep concern for the poor doctor, imagining him lying insensible in a pool of blood. It doesn't happen, but in reality it could happen very easily in the real world. The entire cast, especially Stewart and Josephine Hutchinson (Best Supporting Oscar) were wonderful, but at that moment Jesse White was superb. "},{"Title":"how good it is","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i love this film, it's my favourite.  it's so beautiful, it's the only film that has made me cry in the last two years.  i cried at the end when Harvey comes back to Elwood and Elwood says 'well thank you harvey, i prefer you too'.  lovely. "},{"Title":"The Definition of an Actor","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Hollywood is missing a lot nowadays, but one big thing is actors like Jimmy Stewart. He could literally play ANY type of character and make it his own. Harvey is a brilliant example of that. He plays his part with such elegance and grace. You truly believe that Harvey is right beside him the whole time.One word CLASSIC!Like I have said before, Hollywood doesn't make them like they used to. Don't EVER remake this movie....you've already ruined enough classics. Also, if you have never seen the stage version of this show, you must see it. It really brings another dimension to the story. "}{"Title":"Beyond sweet, beyond merely funyy, and Stewart is amazing","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey (1950)While the idea of a Forrest Gump-like simple man with a big heart is naturally appealing, and while the story is an obvious fable about sincerity and kindness, there is also something truly funny and sharp about many of the scenes in this unique movie. Most of all, James Stewart is beyond the beyond in his acting, not pushing the simpleton aspects of his character, not overdoing the wholesome wisdom hidden in his eccentricities. And playing with nuances in his face, and his famous hesitant deliveries. Really special stuff.You can't avoid seeing some of the cornball humor as canned, or some of the hysterical episodes not completely funny, but just loud or chaotic (which is funny in its own way). And clearly many of the peripheral actors are filling in roles too supportive and not quite satisfying on their own. Luckily the mother of our hero (Josephine Hull) is played with a campy penetration that is perfect for the job (and a reprise of a very similar role, a slightly dotty woman in a crazy family, seen in Arsenic and Old Lace made a few years earlier). The nurse is played by Betty Dow, and she seems trapped by the role but has some genuine edge to her performance (too bad she only had a three year career in Hollywood), which contrasts with her doctor/boyfriend played by Charles Drake, also seeming to have a decent quick talent that never quite saw the light of day in decades of making movies. And such is the secondary cast, for the most part. So it is Stewart and his warm, honest, selfless nature who pulls of this movie, and he is enough. Director Henry Koster (The Bishop's Wife and The Singing Nun, both) deserves credit partly for keeping it tight and letting the story, and Stewart, work their magic. But he also manages some frenetic scenes that are madcap and fun, if not always as hilarious as we might hope. In the end, of course, it's moving and touching more than simply funny and wacky. A good experience. "},{"Title":"Absolutely charming","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There's something about James Stewart that always wins me over. He could probably play an mad villain and I'd probably still find myself rooting for him. He has a sort of charisma about him, perhaps in his easygoing manner or even in his bright pleasant smile that immediately makes you trust him as a good guy. In Harvey, based on the play of the same name, Stewart plays Elwood P. Dowd, a 40-some year old man with a 6 foot tall invisible white rabbit for his best friend. You think a man like that should be locked up in the madhouse? Well, you're onto the plot of the film already.Essentially, the story is a drama about people with problems and how a seemingly guileless man and his giant rabbit friend turn everything around. James Stewart is, as he always is, the everyman of the story that somehow brings a charming effect into the lives of his stressed out sister and niece and the people of the sanitarium that his sister tries to commit him to. That's basically it.The issue of the rabbit is also really neatly played with throughout the course of the film. The acting is all quite well practiced. The screenplay has a little problem with an abundance of exposition early on, so some of the early scenes drag a little, but it all picks up when the information is out. There's a wonderful quiet comedy to the events of the film that I found to be, well, charming.All in all, this is a sweet little film and thoroughly enjoyable. It hits most of the right notes and achieves what it sets out to do, which is entertain and tell you a little story about a man and his giant invisible white rabbit friend, and the people around him. It carries a buoyant sense of hope that's quite refreshing to see in our harsh harsh world. Not an escape, per se, but an understanding that we can still choose to be hopeful and compassionate even amidst the cruelness of the world around us. Good stuff. 8/10. "},{"Title":"There's an awful lot of whimsical nonsense going on...","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Being a practical person, I find comedies like HARVEY a bit of a stretch to swallow--however, I must admit that JAMES STEWART plays Elwood C. Dowd so perfectly that I almost expected to see Harvey myself by the time the film was over.And whether you accept the simple platitudes offered here by screenwriter Mary Chase (as in her play), or not, the gentle fantasy is played for humor by a brilliant cast which makes the whole thin story easy to take. I suspect many will not succumb to the charming portrait of a mild-mannered alcoholic and his 6'3 rabbit friend that JAMES STEWART offers unless they can appreciate that this screwball comedy is really pleading for tolerance and understanding among all of us.The performances make the film, in my opinion, and I can't express anything but admiration for the smooth ensemble work of Stewart, Josephine Hull (priceless in her Oscar-winning role as his scatter-brained sister), Peggy Dow, Charles Drake, Cecil Kellaway, Jesse White and Victoria Horne.It passes the time pleasantly but you have to be in the mood for its quaint charm and whimsical situations. "},{"Title":"Bad taste","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There is no point in trying to explain humour you laugh or you don't. I didn't laugh at Harvey but if you did then nothing I have to say is of any relevance.Harvey is basically a farce, so I know I shouldn't be taking it too seriously. But I find I do take it seriously and it leaves me with a bad taste in my mouth.The premise is dubious where it is not actually odious. It is proposing that it is better to live with childish delusions than to become a responsible adult. Fine, if you are cushioned by a large independent income, like Elwood, but what if you aren't? Even more deplorable is the revelation that forms the climax of the movie the mentally ill are better and happier than sane people. This is not only rubbish; it is offensive to anyone with the slightest acquaintance with mental illnessThen again, how happy is Elwood supposed to be? He is genial and harmless and he grins a lot, but he cannot relate to people and has no real friends. Most people avoid him like the plague and even he acknowledges that most of his casual barroom acquaintances don't come back a second time.He may be living a completely care-free life, but what a life! He is just frittering away his time, drinking in bars. The implication is that he is a happy alcoholic, but this is a blatant cheat, since we never see him really drunk.The part is atrociously written and poorly played. Whatever was intended to be the case, Elwood is clearly a ponderous bore. It is no wonder that sober people can't stand him. Stewart tries to redeem the character with his own natural likability, but his stuttering performance only intensifies the problem. And don't believe those people who claim that Stewart almost convinces them that they can see Harvey for themselves. Stewart's mime is both minimal and unconvincing.The other characters are similarly misconceived. His sister is a shrieking hysteric; his niece is a desperate man-eater who throws herself at the first thing in pants that shows any interest in her; Dr Sanderson is an arrogant blustering bully, etc. etc. They are all supposed to become better people through their encounters with Elwood, but these transformations are declared rather than dramatised. For example, Dr Clumpson's improbable 'volt face' occurs off-screen, in a scene that is inexplicably missing from the movie, probably because even Mary Chase could not find a way to make it work.Whatever faint wisp of plot the movie contains is entirely driven by a series of farcical misconceptions that arise because nobody is able to speak coherently and nobody listens to what anybody else is saying. As a result, people continually leap to unjustified conclusions, over-react and then launch into scarcely-motivated hyper-activity. Most disturbingly, they are constantly being rounded up and bundled in and out of the asylum with scant excuse and no due process.As the movie jumps from one random improbability to another it is hardly worth mentioning that Harvey is seldom even supposed to be present.The movie suggests that there is actually a serious question peeking out from behind the façade of frantic farce 'who is mad and who is sane?' However, it can only make this bogus question seem even faintly pertinent by having everyone act at least as crazily as Elwood. The final intimation that Harvey may actually be real (at least metaphorically) is simply the last straw. The pretence that this movie has an underlying seriousness is just monumental self-deception, fully on a par with Elwood's own delusion.The play apparently won a Pulitzer Prize. This would have left me boggling in disbelief, had I not once read the posthumous Pulitzer Prize-winning novel 'A Confederacy of Dunces'. Its rickety structure and elephantine 'humour' is wholly consistent with this laughter-free travesty.Like another IMDb reviewer, I could undertake a scene-by-scene analysis of why I think this picture is such a monumental failure, but why bother? It would only give me high blood pressure. "},{"Title":"Pure comedic beauty","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I recall first seeing Harvey as a child, I remembered the sweetness of Stewarts' Elwood P. Dowd, the great interactions between him and the invisible 6 foot white rabbit, and of course the great line, 'That is not my mother!' But watching it again as an adult (having foolishly not been interested in something so sweet and kind during my sceptical and sarcastic teenage years), I saw what an incredible ensemble piece this is. Yes, Jimmy Stewart is the star, but there are plenty of scenes without him and even more where he is mostly quiet. Josephine Hull gives one of the greatest comedy performances of all time as Aunt Veta, she delivers a script filled with so many subtle nuances, at such speed and with such effect. Then there is Cecil Kellaway and Jesse White, again with outstanding comic acting. Everyone involved is splendid.I've always thought that Harvey has the sweetness of a Frank Capra film (sweet without ever becoming saccharine) and the golden comic timing and farce of a Billy Wilder comedy. Plus there is James Stewart, one of the greatest actors of all time, in one of his greatest roles. He underplays the lines so well, so they never become too idealistically romantic, and under the surface, there is the tragic character, the subtle references to his alcoholism and his loneliness.Whenever I see Harvey, it inspires me to want to go out and do good in the world, it makes me feel like I should say hello to everyone I pass on the street and stop to help people as I go by. Elwood lives in this utopia, and I suppose the message of the film is, what's so wrong with that? We can call people like Elwood crazy, or silly or foolish, we can laugh at them or feel pity, and we can say he's not living in reality, but Harvey points out that reality is what we make of it, and there's nothing crazy about being nice to each other. I'm reminded of the speech at the end of The Great Dictator, Chaplin's heart-rending plea to humanity asking, why can't we just be good to each other? Perhaps the world would be a better place if we all had a pookah, and how are you today Mr. Wilson? "},{"Title":"Stewart And Hull Elevates Harvey Into A Masterpiece","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is a film based on Mary Chase's play of the same title. It features James Stewart and Josephine Hull. Peggy Dow and Charles Drake co-star to play key supporting roles.The story is about a man whose best friend is a pooka named Harvey which is in the form of a six-foot, three-and-one-half-inch tall invisible rabbit.Elwood P. Dowd is a wealthy tippler whose sunny philosophy and inebriated antics are tolerated by most of the citizenry. That is, until Elwood begins claiming that he sees a pooka or a mischievous Irish spirit, which has taken the form of a man-sized bunny named Harvey. Although everyone is certain that Elwood has finally lost his mind, Harvey's presence begins to have magically positive effects on the townsfolk, with the exception of Elwood's own sister Veta, who, ironically, can also occasionally see Harvey. A snooty socialite, Veta is determined to marry off her daughter, Myrtle, to somebody equally respectable, and Elwood's lunacy is interfering. When Veta attempts to have Elwood committed to an insane asylum, however, the result is that she is accidentally admitted instead of her brother. Then the institution's director, Dr. Chumley, begins seeing Harvey, too. Henry Koster might not have been the right director for this whimsical fantasy, based on the 1944 Pulitzer Prize-winning play, but Jimmy Stewart and especially Josephine Hull are superb.It was great performances lifts this movie above its stilted script and production into a masterpiece.What makes Harvey great is the fact that it's equally enjoyable as a piece of comedic fluff and as slyly intelligent social commentary. "},{"Title":"The greatest of all screwball comedies","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is one of the truly great classics of cinema. If you haven't seen it you are in for a treat. Look for the DVD version with the extra of Jimmy Stewart talking about the film; I think he said it is one of his favorite roles.If you have seen it, see it again; Harvey is one of those rare comedies that holds up to repeat viewings, year after year. Sometimes I think I should watch it every morning to try to emulate Elwood P. Dowd's calm, gentle attitude. You get the feeling that if only you, too, could stop looking at the world so critically, open yourself up and look at the flowers and the beauty of every day, perhaps others around you would calm down, too, and everyone would be a lot happier. Elwood has found the secret of happiness Well, I wrestled with reality for thirty-five years, doctor, and I'm happy to state I finally won out over it. Turn on an all-news channel, and you'll see his is not such a bad idea. CHUMLEY - Good heavens, man! Haven't you any righteous indignation?!ELWOOD - Oh, Doctor, I - I - (STAMMERS) Years ago, my mother used to say to me -- she'd say, 'In this world, Elwood, you must be --' She always called me Elwood. 'In this world, Elwood, you must be oh, so smart or oh, so pleasant.' Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. And you may quote me.There is a calm, Buddha nature (or Christ nature) about Dowd, as though he were an enlightened one, a calm rock while the churning river of life flows around him (a bit like Forrest Gump). And serendipity surrounds his charmed life, attributed to his guardian angel pooka, Harvey, suggesting there is another, greater realityELWOOD - You see, science has overcome time and space. Well, Harvey has overcome, not only time and space - but any objections.CHUMLEY - Flyspecks - flyspecks! I've been spending my life among flyspecks - while miracles have been leaning on lamp posts at Eighteenth and Fairfax!There is a wonderful scene suggesting that Dowd is the truly sane one, as he sits in a chair looking over Dr. Chumley, reclining on a couch as though Dowd is now the doctor, and Chumley the patient, with Elwood dispensing some common sense psychoanalysisELWOOD - For how long would you want this to go on, Doctor?CHUMLEY - Two weeks.ELWOOD - Two weeks?! Uh - wouldn't that get a little monotonous? Just Akron, cold beer and 'poor, poor thing' for two weeks?CHUMLEY - No! It would be wonderful!ELWOOD - Well, I - I - I can't help feeling, Doctor, that you're making a mistake not allowing the woman to talk ... but it's your two weeks.It's difficult to imagine anyone else playing Dowd but Jimmy Stewart. He makes it look so simple, but try reading those lines and make them come alive, as he does. I suppose a modern actor like Tom Hanks might be able to do it, someone who can talk sloooowly. But the rest of the cast is so perfect, too. I love Jesse White as Wilson; the scene of him reading the definition of pooka from the encyclopedia is priceless! And who could ever fill Josephine Hull's shoes? There is such perfection about this movie. I was watching the camera work the last time, seeing how the camera moved in coordination with the actors to set up the shots -- which are relatively long, compared to today's frenetic directing -- especially the Dowd soliloquy in the dark alleyway. It is amusing looking at the IMDb quotations section -- it's practically the entire movie! But don't worry, the script is available online.There are movies that inspire you to ask yourself why you can't be a better person, a happier person, such as Groundhog Day or Field of Dreams (which refers to Harvey in a scene), movies that help lift you out of a rut, or even depression. This is one such. When you feel like things are going wrong in your life, it's time to watch Harvey. It will cheer you up and inspire you.Spoiler alertHarvey may be the ultimate screwball comedy, like Rebecca is to Gothic romance; Wilson and others even throw around the word screwball.Like any good screwball comedy, things get all screwed up Dr. Sanderson is going to be fired, Myrtle Mae is going to be an old maid, Elwood is going to be locked up in the nut house, no one will ever call on Veta again. But don't worry, everyone winds up happy in the end, even if it is not what they had originally thought would make them happy. Sanderson and Kelly fall in love. Myrtle Mae winds up with Wilson -- what a match made in heaven! Veta winds up playing host to Mr. Meegles, the cabbie and assorted loners and riff raff. Dr. Chumley finally solves his problems with a little psychoanalysis from Elwood. Elwood is willing to let go of Harvey. He is more concerned about the happiness of others, Dr. Chumley's and Harvey's, than his ownELWOOD - Well doctor, whatever he wants to do is perfectly all right with me. He knows that. It's up to you. Would you like to stay with the doctor? Hm?Harvey stays with Chumley, but only briefly.ELWOOD - Was anything the matter? No - I - I thought you'd decided to stay with Dr. Chumley. You - you - huh? You - (CHUCKLES) Well thanks, Harvey. I prefer you, too. (CHUCKLES)I guess Harvey didn't, after all, want to go to Akron. Or perhaps guardian angels don't like to be around people who are always miserable, except, perhaps Clarence. "},{"Title":"An ideal life and a touching story","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm probably repeating many sentiments already expressed but I can't just keep quiet about Harvey. To me, Elwood P Dowd is the perfect human, he is simply a 'good' man. There isn't a nasty or vicious bone in his body and James Stewart plays this amazingly well. Harvey is Elwood's way of escaping reality, escaping all the responsiblities that make people miserable.There are a number of quotes in this film that strike me as poeticI have a wonderful time, wherever I am, whomever I'm with - I wish I could say the same. in this life you can be oh-so pleasant or oh-so smart, for years I was smart, I recommend pleasant - that sentiment means so much, people are so often obsessed with showing off their intelligence or bragging but just being pleasant is a wonderful quality.I've struggled with reality for 25 years doctor and I'm happy to say I won out over it - the idea that you just need to beat reality into submission again is a lovely way to look at it. Elwood has created his own reality that works for him.The other characters in the world are wonderfully sucked into Elwood's life and reality and come to realise how beautiful it is. Of course, we can't all live like Elwood otherwise nothing would ever get done but he's found his place and likes it. He is content and very few people are these days, I hope to be someday. "},{"Title":"Taller than Bugs Bunny!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie in years. I can't seem to get it on DVD, but I couldn't let another day go by without adding this to me review list. Easily one of James Stewart's best five films, and all of these are in my top 20, I rate 'Harvey' as his funniest and most charming. There's just something truly wonderful about James Stewart and his pal Harvey, a six-foot rabbit, who may or may not be fictitious! No one else in the history of movies could have done this and if it's ever remade, I'll be the first to criticise it. If anyone out there hasn't seen this timeless classic, then I'd say make sure you do as soon as possible. You don't have to have had a drink or mental problem to appreciate this film, but for those who have, it just makes the whole movie seem stronger. I recently saw 'A Beautiful Mind' and the reference to 'Harvey' therein made me write this review. There are those of us who have sat in bars chatting to an imaginary friend, and what could possibly be nicer than a cuddly, but tall, rabbit like Harvey. 'I've wrestled with reality for years, Doctor, and I'm happy to say that I've finally won out over it.' I'll drink to that, or not as the case may be. Whether he is Mr Smith, George Bailey or Elwood P Dowd, no one, in my humble opinion, will ever be a greater screen actor than Mr James Stewart.  "},{"Title":"No-one ever said anything about Dostoevsky!!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's rare that you can say about a film from Hollywood's golden age - further, a beloved family classic - that you have no idea what it's about. This isn't strictly true, it's just you are afraid that the film's meaning is less progressive that it appears.  The hero of HARVEY, Elwood P. Dowd, is a kind of Holy Fool, a Prince Myshkin from the sticks, a man who forsakes sexual pleasure, was strangely attached to his mother, who doesn't do any conventional work, but spreads radiant joy, helping the marginalised, befriending the lonely, bringing couples together.  It's not too far fetched to see the folksy farce of HARVEY  as some kind of religious allegory.This isn't, of course, a problem - people can make films about what they like, and HARVEY's pieties (if such they be) are inclusive, and full of (often risque) wit and darkness.  It's just that HARVEY's reputation never suggested such Dostoevskian ambitions.  If you feel a bit queasy about being lectured, the film luckily boasts other pleasures.  This is James Stewart's last major performance as a (relatively) uncomplicated good guy from here on in it would be the troubling ambiguities of Hitchcock and Mann.  It is not a dominating star turn; Stewart generously enters into the ensemble spirit of the piece.  Dowd's sheer goodness might be a little wearing, but Stewart subtly suggests the darker, jittery, alcoholic side of the character, whose benevolence masks a life of failure and impotence; and just as much as representing Christian fellowship, he can stand for the marginalised, the imaginative, those who refuse the bourgeois grind, even if this is easy to do when you've inherited a fortune.Although the supporting cast needed some more compelling actors (eg William Demerest), they are amusing enough - Josephine Hull, one of the murderous aunts of ARSENIC AND OLD LACE, has the film's most difficult role, which is strongly reminiscent of Tennessee Williams an elderly widow/spinster matron clinging desperately to respectablity, passed over her rightful inheritance, stuck with an embarrassing brother/son on whom she's dependent, and a spinster daughter she can't marry off, in a social ambition ruined by Dowd's fausses passes.This situation, understandably, brings her teetering to madness, and if her committing Elwood seems monstrous, then so is the burden of a single mother forced to run such a household.  Hull is also a practised farceur, and suffers untold indignities with much hilarity.Other familiar faces from old-school farce include the incompetent judge ogling the wealthy widow; the security guard at the hospital, whose essential decency explodes into crude gangster-like violence, and Dr. Chumley, the wealthy doctor paralysed in a loveless marriage and his own ego, who is offered salvation by Harvey, but misses the point.  Even the straight couple are less icky than most, given some splendidly barbed dialogue to fling at each other.If I overemphasise the acting, it is because HARVEY is based on a play, and this is the film's drawback.  Koster directs with brisk fluidity, but he lacks Hawks' ability to turn dramatic, theatrical dialogue into a formal element of the film's overall design, and so we're left with many grand talky set-pieces.  The resolution is a little rushed, and the whole thing just needs a little air.  But the dramatic framework also has its advantages, such as the expert mechanics of farce that produce some cherishable sequences, including the mix-up over which sibling is going to committed. "}{"Title":"the tale of a pleasant man and a rabbit","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Harvey is one of the great comedy films of all time.  Superb and greatly enhanced by the performance of James Stewart, who is terrific as ever.  Great caricatures of Elwood's sister and the Judge as well, along with the psychiatrist Dr Chumley.  Elwood says there are two routes in life be smart or be pleasant; he recommends pleasant.  Let's all toast to that, and to Mr Stewart, who is greatly missed in the world of movies. "},{"Title":"Peggy's Pooka","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Irish Celtics have a pooka tradition, an understanding of which greatly enhances this story.The pooka only appears in stories, and then as a sort of expandable dramatic troupe. The pooka always appears in the story as a character, with all the other characters in the story but one played by sub-pookas, or other views of the kingpooka. The one non-pooka character is placed in a world between reality and magic, the confusion between which is the point of the story.The normal character here is Nurse Kelly -- note the Irish name.Much more fun to see every character but her as part of a pookatroupe.Nurse Kelly is played by Peggy Dow, one of the most remarkable actresses I've encountered. Possibly the most flat out beautiful woman in a day when that was what mattered most. From Louisiana, educated at Northwestern, she arrived in Hollywood and immediately was put on the starlet track. By one year she was on the cover of Life magazine. By the second year, she had been in nine movies. Then she met her prince (heir to an oil fortune) and left Hollywood. She left abruptly and her place in the next film was haphazardly filled by another beauty, another character named Kelly, Grace Kelly. This first film allowed her to pick up Dow's destiny in a sense.So. In addition to having nearly all the characters in the film be pooka for a character named Kelly, that character then transformed into an actress named Kelly for whom all Hollywood was pooka. It would take Grace five years to find and marry her prince. Interesting, this. Makes you wonder where you stand yourself, doesn't it? "},{"Title":"This is why they have chocolate and vanilla...","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Most people love this movie, my girlfriend included. It's considered a classic. But I saw this for the first time recently, and this film just did not work for me at all. At all. I found the characters unlikable, I found the story and how it played out to be totally ridiculous, I did not find anything even remotely funny or cute. Worst of all, it just seemed to go on and on and on and never go anywhere. When it wrapped up, I heard the music that indicated to me the film was ending, and I laughed harder than I did for any part of the movie because after all that going on and on and going nowhere, it ended with the result of STILL having gone nowhere!This film's considered by some historians to be a turning point for Jimmy Stewart with a bravura performance. I never wanted Jimmy Stewart off my television screen so badly. I wanted him locked up within ten minutes, throw away the key, BAM! Movie over. Instead, we have to suffer through inept doctors, screaming family members, Jesse White somehow sold to us as a romantic lead and a whole LOT of drawn-out scenes with Jimmy telling stories of an imaginary rabbit to people who can't decide from one minute to the next if this guy should be locked up in a nuthouse or deified as the Greatest Man Alive.Just dreadful. I'm sorry, but I don't see how this was a Pulitzer Prize-winning play, much less a movie classic. "},{"Title":"Age has not dimmed this movie's appeal!","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" An ingenious and highly original comedy, so far off the movie's beaten track that only its astounding success on Broadway (1,775 performances at the 48th Street Theater with Frank Fay in the title role) would have induced Hollywood to even consider a movie version. Needless to say, Frank Fay was still regarded as a no-no in Hollywood &#x96; he wouldn't take direction &#x96; so the part of Elwood P. Dowd went to Jimmy Stewart who certainly made hay with what turned out to be the best role of his entire career! His co-star, Josephine Hull, also had her best-ever Hollywood role and was deservedly honored with both of the movie capital's prestigious Best Supporting Actress awards. Mary C. Chase adroitly opened out her stage play for the movie with the inspired assistance of Oscar Brodney. The director was Henry Koster &#x96; and for once, an unobtrusive, journeyman director like Koster was exactly right. Harvey is a delightfully wacky and marvelously amusing essay into a weird world where reality borders miraculously close to fantasy, but never falls into the incredible or the nonsensical. It's a difficult balancing act, yet Harvey manages to appeal to almost every audience, no matter the degree of that audience's sophistication. Available on an excellent Universal DVD. "},{"Title":"So glad that the hype lives up to the legend","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Here, let me give you one of my cards. If you read my reviews you'll know I suddenly found myself with an intense Jimmy Stewart fascination a few years ago and its been downhill ever since (in a good way) as I make my way through his incredible body of work. I specifically was holding off on Harvey because it seems as though many people consider this his masterpiece (including Stewart himself.) I didn't know a lot about the film despite it being a classic but I finally decided to dive right in. I should also mention I am a big fan of live theatre so this came across in all the right ways. Harvey is brilliant. Harvey is a stage play through and through and the film makers were smart enough to not change that feel and make the transition to film seamless. There are many, many scenes that are so clearly designed for stage that you can see it but it doesn't ruin the feel of the film either. The script for Harvey is absolutely brilliant. The character of Elwood P. Dowd is legendary and reminiscent of Forrest Gump in a lot of ways to make a modern day comparison. I think I need to watch this film a dozen more times to even begin to catch all the quirky, eccentric and brilliantly funny dialogue.James Stewart is mesmerizing once again. This character is completely fascination and Stewart is absolutely perfect for it. Dowd is an alcoholic, sweet, soulful, contemplative and just a very sweet, eccentric man that wins people over nearly immediately. Stewart embodies those characteristics and makes him come to life on screen. You will completely believe that he believes his best friend is a six foot pooka named Harvey. Josephine Hull is side-splittingly funny as Stewart's exasperated sister Veta. Hull and Stewart are terrific together but even better in their own right. She apparently also started this role on stage and its clear that she is very comfortable in it. Her character could be in danger of being too irritating but she is just perfectly irritating enough to make you laugh at her absolutely zany antics. The remaining supporting cast are all good but honestly they didn't really stand out for me. They have their moments and good scenes and the film wouldn't have been the same without any of them, there just wasn't any knock-em-out-of-the-park supporting roles. Still Peggy Dow, Charles Drake, Cecil Kellaway and Victoria Horne are worthy of the film and add to it. I particularly enjoyed the comedic style of Jesse White as the piggish, brutish Wilson.Director Henry Koster has a terrific style and he knows that a play CAN work on the big screen if its not changed too much. I think that's one of the biggest issues with current stage to movie transitions. The biggest reason Harvey is so brilliant though is that incredible script. The dialogue is lightning fast and hilarious. I guess I had no idea that Harvey is exactly the type of comedy that I love. Its a comedy of errs, mis-understandings, and a cast of the most zany characters I've ever seen. Harvey is simply fun and I laughed a lot and I could have turned around and watched it again because I think I will find something different about it each and every time. Harvey is a masterpiece. I do wish that perhaps they had stuck with the original idea of showing Harvey and Dowd at the end, arm in arm...but I also understand why they didn't. If you love classic films, Stewart or just in for a very good laugh...please check this out. Its a legendary classic for good reason. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful time travel back to mid-20th century USA","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Possibly, for some, our modern day views of alcoholism may interfere with appreciating this film's narrative. But it's not a reality play, it's farcical it's a fairy-tale, it's an allegory for what's really most important in human relations. And Elwood Dowd isn't an alcoholic--he's the very rare person who has --somehow --found the means (through his magic pooka, Harvey) to be friendly, considerate and compassionate with everyone. Jimmy Stewart plays him perfectly.While it certainly wasn't the original intention for this movie, nevertheless now it also provides us present day, 21st century viewers with a Time Traveling experience -- a look back at our society in the 1940s-50s, immersing us in the norms of that period's gender relations, of styles of women's social relations, of upper-crust, top-of-the-line mental health treatment (although typical MH treatment in that era was punitive, very barbaric), etc. And yet, almost all of its humor still resonates still delightful, still charming, even after all these sixty-some years. "},{"Title":"The epitome of excellence in filmmaking; only carp is that Josephine Hull's abrasive character is too much to handle","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" (Plot) Harvey is a naive middle aged man who takes his imaginary best friend with him everywhere. A giant rabbit named Harvey. Everyone thinks he is seriously crazy for it, and seeks Harvey to get help. But is he really that crazy after all? Harvey is a movie everyone can enjoy. Many, many people had imaginary best friends when they were grown up, and were often ridiculed for it. We found whatever we could to deal with the rigors that sometimes came with childhood, but it was never unbelievable as long as you believed it to be true. It has many moments of wonderful humor and perception as well. My only complaint about this movie is Josephine Hull. Everyone raves about her performance, and I can't understand why! It's overly abrasive, and she is annoyingly hammy with many moments of her over acting. Yes. She does play a pivotal role, but her performance isn't that great in my opinion. James Stewart's performance is legendary. It's a very simple performance. His blasé look at the way of life served this movie extremely well. I also loved his calm demeanor, despite the fact that he every reason not to be. He is the heart & soul of this film. The ending is one of my favorites of all times, and was absolutely necessary as well. Final Thoughts I've seen this a few times and it never fails to make me smile. It proves why James Stewart is such a legendary actor. Highly recommended! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"lovely  wise  lesson","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" an imaginary friend. new dimension of reality. an extraordinary cast. and James Steward. more than a brilliant film, it is a lesson about small things who gives sense to life. a pledge for a form of freedom far to usual cages. and, in same time, a poem about pure joy. mixture between comedy and melancholia, exercise of honesty and drops of magic, beautiful and wise, it is this kind of film who has not age. and the performance of James Steward is absolutely great. it is not a surprise but, in this case, he does more than a good work. it is axis of a world who becomes walls of viewer space. every person has his Harvey. the movie is remember of old moments of childhood. and a little gift for child from us. "},{"Title":"aroused and enlightened the real arts of social manners and customs in this fake-foppish world","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The storyline centered on the friendship between a humble-mannered person, Mr. Dowd and an animal spirit, the invisible bunny 'Harvey'. But people, surrounded with him, did not approve this friendship and treated him ill to admit into a mental clinic. James Stewart, in his role, dazzled the screen with his innocence and simplicity. His modest, mild, meek appearance and cute amity with Harvey just spread the charms throughout the movie. The entire cast also depicted glossy acting; while the script remained too insightful. Stewart's gentle and amiable attitude to all known and unknown people aroused and enlightened the real arts of social manners and customs in this fake-foppish world. In fine, this enigmatic classic should not be missed p "},{"Title":"James Stewart and his imaginary friend in a comedy of the year","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey, based on a play by Mary C. Chase of the same name, is a movie intended for all the fans of classic screwball comedies, and gentle, entertaining whimsy, appealing to the viewer's imagination and moving most intimate emotions. It is an amusing comedy with a fantasy twist to it, looking oh-so-magical in the eyes of a regular passerby.Due to its marvelously fresh screenplay the movie flows so gently and freely, rarely changing locations, which makes it actually looks like a stage play performed in the most vivid and subtle manner. The direction by Henry Koster is very imaginative and thorough, and the acting, particularly by James Stewart and Josephine Hull, shows their great engagement in the roles, thus making the picture much more enjoyable. It should be noted that Stewart once said that he considered playing Elwood P. Dowd as one of his most significant achievements. Even though it presents a heartwarming story about a man, who has an imaginary 6-foot three rabbit as a friend (visible only to unique individuals?), the plot deals with some very controversial topics, considering the times, in which it premiered. There are the notions of habitual drinking, Celtic mythology, mental illness, delusions, paranoia, and magic. After a few embarrassments Elwood P Dowd's family tries to put him in a, so-called, loony bin, just to make sure that he wouldn't scare more people with his illusory tales about a big rabbit companion. However, because of a hilarious turn of events, it happens so that his sister Veta is admitted as one of the patients and Elwood goes away. So the hunt begins for a lunatic on the loose. In what turns out to be a ridiculous affair filled with drinking, romance, compassion, and many laughable situations, Elwood is finally faced with a tough decision &#x96; all of his friends, relatives, and doctors urge him to take a serum and let Harvey go. Yet a deeply upset Veta, who starts banging on the examining room door, abruptly stops what was about to come out of this tricky farce.One of the main reasons to see Harvey is the possibility to observe the wonderfully warm and truly sympathetic presentation of characters. James Stewart is irrefutably amazing as a slightly foolish, yet overly sociable and friendly, boozer and rabbit fancier. Josephine Hull gives an unforgettable performance as the loud, hysteric, and always-worried sister, who through her actions and words would probably fit in at the mental hospital. What's more, all of the supporting characters bring much joy to the overall outlook.To make a long story short, if you are a fan of charming and amusing comedies with a twist from the golden era of Hollywood you should definitely watch Harvey, as it is one of the most lighthearted and timeless shows ever. "}{"Title":"James Stewart, the Legend","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What a charming film, only hindered by a somewhat overrated performance by Josephine Hull. Elwood P. Dowd is possibly the greatest character ever seen on film as James Stewart plays the performance of his already incredible and legendary career. Harvey is filled with great comedic one-liners and situations of well-crafted irony and mockery. But the greatest moment of the entire film is Elwood's touching and incredibly well-written monologue in the alley. I instantly replayed the scene to re-watch Stewart's magical charisma take full swing. It was one of the few moments I can recall in recent time that has really Wowed me. Elwood P. Dowd Harvey and I sit in the bars... have a drink or two... play the juke box. And soon the faces of all the other people they turn toward mine and they smile. And they're saying, We don't know your name, mister, but you're a very nice fella. Harvey and I warm ourselves in all these golden moments. We've entered as strangers - soon we have friends. And they come over... and they sit with us... and they drink with us... and they talk to us. They tell about the big terrible things they've done and the big wonderful things they'll do. Their hopes, and their regrets, and their loves, and their hates. All very large, because nobody ever brings anything small into a bar. And then I introduce them to Harvey... and he's bigger and grander than anything they offer me. And when they leave, they leave impressed. The same people seldom come back; but that's envy, my dear. There's a little bit of envy in the best of us.Overall, highly recommended. Wonderful cast, amazing writing and Stewart shines in all its glory. 10/10 "},{"Title":"If You Go Chasing Rabbits","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Perpetually tipsy James Stewart (as Elwood P. Dowd) seems to be off his rocker; his constant companion is a 6'3.5 tall invisible white rabbit named Harvey. Embarrassed sister Josephine Hull (as Veta Louise Simmons) is at her wits' end; her tall daughter Victoria Horne (as Myrtle Mae) is unable to make friends and meet men, as visitors are disturbed by Mr. Stewart's constant references to his imaginary friend. When Stewart (and Harvey) goes out to a favorite bar, Ms. Hull arranges to have him committed to a sanitarium, but the admission plan backfires on Hull, and nobody's sure who's crazy...Good thing Stewart reads Sense and Sensibility by Jane Austen...This pensive, whimsical comedy classic won a Pulitzer Prize for writer Mary Chase's original play and a couple of Best Supporting Actress awards for Hull - the honors were extremely well-deserved. In addition, director Henry Koster expands the stage enough for the motion picture medium, and Stewart gives a performance that contributed to his public persona. For years, Stewart was very much like the lovable, hesitating, ah shucks Elwood (alcohol and rabbit optional). The origin of Harvey is debatable, as are the related effects of madness and alcohol; best of all, you can never quite catch this rabbit.********* Harvey (10/13/50) Henry Koster ~ James Stewart, Josephine Hull, Peggy Dow, Charles Drake "},{"Title":"Touching and thought-provoking","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Watching this film for the first time in many years, I wondered whether the original writer, Mary Chase, had at least one more layer of meaning in mind than the immediately apparent fairytale. We are in no doubt that Elwood drinks regularly, but we never see him drunk - though Jimmy Stewart's customary slurring of words would make it harder to tell! Chase would have seen the bad effects of hard drinking where she grew-up and she was clearly familiar with the Alcoholics Anonymous movement that was trying to counter them. (The repeated references to Akron, Ohio indicate this.) The story avoids any simple answers and seeks to persuade us to be kinder to one another.It would be interesting to know whether Chase thought that too vigorous a pursuit of sobriety might, in some cases, cause people to lose a sense of magic in pursuit of normality.Most people who care about a recovering alcoholic, i.e. one who doesn't drink any more will, would say the gain is well worth the risk, but it is a good thing for more extreme abstentionists to remember that regaining kindness and good humour is a large part of the point of their programme. I think this is one reason Jimmy Stewart cared such a lot about this story, especially after having played it in theatre. "},{"Title":"Speak softly and walk with a Big Rabbit","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey was a great stage play, and it is still performed in Schools across America after 60 years. So if it is still that well liked, you need to watch this film starring Jimmy Stewart and Josephine Hull. Josephine played in Arsenic and Old Lace with Cary Grant, another great old time black and white film.I watched Harvey as a kid back in the early sixties and I was fascinated by an adult who befriended a Pooka. Jimmy Stewart's performance is so convincing and laid back that I believe that we can all learn from it.Elwood P. Dowd is 42 years old and has decided to retire from life and all of the worries that go with working. Life should be spent meeting and talking with others and just enjoying each other. As Elwood says in the movie I have wrestled with reality for 35 years, Doctor, and I'm happy to state that I have won out over it. I just love that line in the movie.My father was born in 1907. He had the same build as Jimmy Stewart along with his quiet and easy going attitude. I never got the chance to know my father when he was middle aged, so as I watch this film, I imagine Elwood P. Dowd could have been my father. I am sure my father would have liked the comparison. So thank you Jimmy, you and Harvey have made my life simpler every time that I watch you. "},{"Title":"story of a perfect man in the imperfect world........","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Welcome to the world of Eldwood P. Dowd. Mr.Dowd is a very pleasant, good-hearted innocent man who treat everybody with respect and love.I don't think he ever hated anybody in his life he always find good in everybody no matter how bastard you are and how much you disrespect him he will always love you.He is free of envy,jealousy and hatred,He never lie and cheat and never speak ill of others and that makes him happiest human in the world,he is completely satisfied with himself and the world,everyday is a beautiful day for him.He is a kind of guy you always want to be with him and to be his friend,but he has a problem too and the problem is his friend Harvey(who is only visible to him only) a six feet three and a half inch Rabbit,now whenever he introduce this Rabbit with everyone he meet they get scared of him and run away from him.This constant trouble caused by Harvey compelled Mr.Dowd's sweet-and-sore elder sister Veta to send him to sanatorium. Now,the whole things turns upside down from here and thus,movie becomes one of the most funny, wild and touching cinematic experience of my life.The first part of the movie is filled with strangest moments,twists and turns that you won't expect to happen but when they occurs you won't be able to stop the bursts of laugh,the first part of the movie is wild, very fastly but very nicely paced that gives us a very funny and lovely ride.In the second part movie gets into something deeper,serious and mysterious,it touches you,makes you realize something and delivers you the beautiful message without any effort at the ending but also remains very funny all the time.Mr.Elwood P.Dowd is portray by James Stewart and thus it doesn't need any further explanation. But the most memorable thing of the movie was the acting of Josephine Hull as the Veta Louisse Simmons.Even if her character remained funny all the time She really gravitate the whole movie towards her.The performance from every single caste was wonderful.The character of Mr.Dowd is really interesting,either you will find him naive,retard and rubbish or you will love him,it just depends on your mentality.For me he is just a perfect human because he is free of every thing that makes us unhappy,he is untouched by evilness of human mind. So what makes him believe that he has a giant Rabbit as his friend? Because the world,the peoples around him is not what he deserved, he deserved something better,something more innocent and pure that doesn't envy or feel jealous from him or anybody and this he only found in his imaginary friend Harvey.Harvey is a feel-good movie,the kind of movie that put a smile on your face,you feel better after watching such movies.May be i am exaggerating but,If you don't like the idea of movie and find this movie overemotional,unrealistic and pretentious then you really should start worrying about yourself because i can say there is nothing wrong with the movie,there must be something wrong with you.This movie is based on a wonderful idea which is also get proper treatment from its director and writer.Such kind of movies are almost impossible these days and this movie consists of all the reasons why i liked old b&w movies. "},{"Title":"Such a simply, Sweet, and light hearted film.","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After this he'll be a perfectly normal human being. And you know what stinkers they are! I guess what the're trying to say is that if you're crazy, it doesn't mean you're a bad person. In this case on the contrary. Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart) is one of the sweetest characters you can possibly imagine. I always have a wonderful time, wherever I am, whomever I'm with. I'm still unsure if Harvey, the pooka as they call him, is real or not. That's not the point. He's a nice guy and he brings out the best in everyone.I would recommend this film to everyone, it's funny, it's silly, and it has a good story, and a wonderfully played character. In this world, you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant. Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. "},{"Title":"Everyone needs a friend like Harvey","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is much-loved classic with a great leading performance by the always excellent James Stewart. Watching 'Harvey' is a magical experience, it transports your imagination and subverts your view of everyday life like no other film. Enchanting.Stewart is perfect as the mild-mannered Elwood P Dowd who maybe drinks a bit too much. A harmless, lanky fellow, he means no harm on anyone- he is just happy to be with his best buddy Harvey. The only problem is, no one else can see Harvey, who Dowd swears has the unforgettable appearance of a giant 6-foot rabbit. Elwood's middle-aged sister Veta (Josephine Hull, she won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for this)is fed up with his antics and decides to have him shipped off to a sanatorium. After all, he is a constant source of embarrassment to her and Elwood's unattached niece Myrtle. But when Veta goes to Chumley's Rest in order to commit Elwood, she instead finds herself locked up! This is a truly beautiful film. Stewart's ordinary charm make him perfect for the role of Dowd, a true ordinary man who, along with his buddy Harvey, brings magic and belief into the life others. One wishes that they too could have a friend like Harvey.The black-and-white cinematography is used to great effect here, with shadows and lighting tricks contributing to the mood. It is a great acting performance by Stewart, who manages to communicate his indelible warmth and enthusiasm to the audience whilst conversing with an imaginary figure. I love Cecil Kellaway's performance as Dr Chumley, and the little-known Peggy Dow is absolutely beautiful as kind nurse Miss Kelly.Lovely film.9/10. "},{"Title":"Let me give you one of my cards.","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" James Stewart performs one of his best and most well-loved screen roles in Harvey. The character Elwood P. Dowd is so easily associated with Stewart's drawling, fumbling, slightly baffled persona that is one of his on-screen trademarks. In fact, Elwood is arguably the most likable and pleasant character ever played by Stewart; not once in the entire picture does Elwood become angry, disagreeable, or unpleasant. Rather, he always manages to keep his absentminded gentleness about him while surrounded by all kinds of noisy confusion. Elwood has quite an unusual companion by his side a six-foot-eight-inch white rabbit that is visible only to Elwood, presumably because of his alcoholism. This is enough to convince Elwood's sister Veta (brilliantly played by Josephine Hull) to have him committed to a mental institution. But in the end, Veta learns that Elwood and his invisible rabbit friend Harvey could hardly be considered bad company.Here are some of my favorite moments from this charming movie. Its funniest scene involves a bit character named Mr. Minninger (Sam Wolfe), who slips on a bar of soap, falls on the floor, slides down a hallway, and bangs his head on a door. Elwood's finest and most heartwarming moment occurs in a dark alley outside of a tavern, where he calmly and quietly describes to Dr. Sanderson (Charles Drake) and Miss Kelly (Peggy Dow) his first meeting with Harvey. And even though the audience never sees Harvey (imagination can be a powerful tool), the camera leaves space for him whenever he shares a scene with Elwood.James Stewart portrayed Elwood P. Dowd not only on screen but also on stage numerous times in the 1940s and the 1970s. As a result of Stewart being so easily identified with Elwood, people often asked Stewart, Is Harvey with you? Stewart realized that these folks were not joking with him, and if he replied, No, Harvey has a cold and decided to stay home, he would be asked to extend their best wishes to the rabbit. "},{"Title":"Harvey simply is.","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've read so many of these reviews and agree with most of them. I read the negative ones with bewilderment. It seems that so many people read too many things, or expect more than this movie is, into this movie.Harvey simply is. Some people call this a screw-ball movie. I don't believe that it is. I don't really think that this movie CAN fit into a certain label. Harvey is unique unto itself.Veta Louise, Elwood's sister, IS very shrill in this movie. It's because her daughter, who is well past marriage age, has no marriage prospects because the rest of their society is afraid that Elwood's craziness in inheritable. Part of Veta Louise's shrillness is that she AND her Mother both see Harvey, although not as much as Elwood does. She knows that Harvey is real. She even mentions that her Mother didn't tell her about Harvey before she died. Veta Louise, herself, saw Harvey in the bathtub one day.I get the feeling, from Elwood, that I wouldn't have liked him very much before he met Harvey. From little pieces of information uttered by Veta Louise and Elwood, we find out that most of the current money came from Elwood, before he met Harvey, adding to what family money they had. After meeting Harvey, he decided to be pleasant instead of smart, and did an about face character-wise. Apparently, even Veta Louise prefers him this way, but she is frustrated by Harvey being around. Her attempt to commit her brother is to get rid of Harvey, not Elwood. Veta Louise's daughter, Myrtle May, has not seen Harvey, and doesn't know that her Mother has seen Harvey.I don't think that Elwood is an alcoholic at all. Just because somebody socializes at a bar, does not make them an alcoholic. From what the others in the film say, Elwood doesn't get drunk, although he may sit and nurse a drink. What he DOES is socialize.I love this movie and have loved it since the first time I saw it. I highly recommend it, even if only for Jimmy Stewart's performance. "},{"Title":"This movie is pure joy.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is a pookha who has befriended Elwood P. Dowd. Now according to legend, Pookhas are legendary celtic creatures. Yes, it can be found spelled differently. Not as well known as the miserly leprechaun..but,of more generous and mischievous of heart. Jimmy Stewart's tall white hare friend in this movie was a pookha (spelled in the movie poohka) Poohkas are nearer to the Brownie or Hobgoblin. Pooka have a reputation for tomfoolery and hijinks. Their playful natures make them both beloved and hated among the other fae. Somewhat childlike throughout their lives, the pooka never outgrow their penchant for pranks. However, despite the outward playfulness of the pooka, they hide a lingering sadness deep within. The clown of the changelings, pooka laugh on the outside to hide their suffering on the inside. At times, pooka fall into wrenching periods of depression that last for weeks on end. Whenever this happens, they tend to disappear, returning once their spirits have lifted.Most other changelings do not understand this dual nature of the pooka, and few ever take them seriously. This stems perhaps from the fact that every pooka has an animal affinity that effects his looks as well as his personality. Most pooka tend toward the terminally cute, with fuzzy ears and big eyes. Most have tails similar to those of their animal cousins.Elwood takes you throughout the movie, on this wonderful roller-coaster ride of sanity and insanity. Is Elwood insane, or is his Poohka real? Well, at the end of the movie, you see (finally) what Elwood sees. His Poohka has had a slip of the veil, and you realize that Elwood is not just an insane little spreader of joy who was pixilated by a fairy, but the harbinger of a greater entity; that of the Poohka.Lovely, sweet, and melancholy story, and one of my 2 favorite Jimmy Stewart movies. This is also the last in which he played simple benign parts. After this his roles become much more complicated and dark. In case you are interested, my other favorite movie of his is Bell, Book and Candle.It rates a 9/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Just thinking about this movie makes me happy","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is excellent for so many reasons. But the main reason comes down to something intangible just thinking about this movie makes me happy. Countless others feel the same way.I recently read a review in Enterainment Weekly that bashed Harvey for promoting alcoholism. Well let me say that they are missing the point. Jimmy Stewert's character, despite the fact that he is simplistic, despite the fact that he might be a little crazy, despite the fact that he has a drinking problem, is a truly good person. He is someone who is able to look at everyone else with such a blatant, child-like optimism that people are changed because of it. I want to be that person. And this movie will inspire you, too, to be this person.If you want to hear about more than the intangibles, if you want to hear about the dialogue and the acting, let me say that it is all first-rate. The dialogue is funny when it needs to be, but can also, without warning, speak to something deep and poignant. Jimmy Stewart portrays the character with such ease and so masterfully that every line, every plot twist, works to perfection.This movie gets 10 stars. If you haven't seen it, or if your afraid to watch older movies because they are in black or white, take a chance and rent this one. You won't be disappointed.    "},{"Title":"Soft Lights, Old Houses, A Twilight Mood","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Mary Chase's enormously popular play, Harvey, can be viewed in a variety of ways. To the extent that it has a message, it is maybe the best assault on puritanism in the American theatre. Unlike A Streetcar Named Desire, Picnic and other postwar plays of the anti-puritan bent, Harvey is not about sex. It is about living; or rather how to live. The main character, Elwood P. Dowd, is a middle-aged bachelor who lives with his older sister in a large, comfortable suburban home. Elwood likes to drink. He is not an alcoholic, but he does frequent bars. And he is a friendly man, given to passing out cards with his name and address on them. So far as we can discern he has no job. He is not exactly wealthy but he is comfortable enough and dresses nicely. What makes him peculiar is that he has an invisible friend, a six foot-plus rabbit named Harvey. Aside from that, he's merely midly eccentric. Harvey is a pooka, a creature of Celtic origin (like Elwood himself), who is visible to Elwood and no one else. The two of them engage in conversations now and then. Before going any further it is worth pointing out that Harvey is a comedy.What makes the play, and the beautiful movie adapted from it, so noteworthy, is how gentle it is. Neither voices nor major political and social issues are raised. It is a polite play, gentle at the core, and remains so to the end. As such, it is like a one person assault on the grasping, pushy materialism of American life. It doesn't come out and say so, but the criticism in there, in the person of amiable Elwood Dowd and his magical, invisible (to all but him) rabbit.The film, directed by Henry Koster in 1950, is wonderfully designed; as the house, tavern and sanitarium,--where Elwood's sister wants him to be committed, till Harvey intervenes,--are perfectly realized; as comfortable to look at and visually inhabit as Elwood is to be with. Like the play, the movie doesn't push any one thing too much, and is indeed a perfect adaptation of it. That the story is both slight and at the same time very profound is not emphasized so much as making our experience of it an enjoyable one.James Stewart is the ideal Elwood P. Dowd. He is a bit younger than the character is supposed to be, but his relative youth makes Elwood an offbeat leading man, an anti-hero even, rather than merely an aging oddball. As his fluttery, nervous, status-mad  sister, Josephine Hull is nothing short of magnificent dowdy, refined, kind, obtuse, moody, yet at all times, however angry she gets with her brother, always deeply loving. Miss Hull conveys all this, with or without dialogue; one can read her character in her face, in the way she speaks. In smaller roles, Jesse White and Victoria Horne work wonders; while in larger ones, Cecil Kellaway, Charles Drake and Peggy Dow are outstanding. Wallace Ford makes the most of his part as the cab-driver. And Koster maintains a mood of empathy throughout. There are no mean people in the film, merely the imaginative (Elwood) and the unaimaginative (everyone else). In this regard the story isn't realistic, though it aims for a higher realism, and I believe achieves it, by leapfrogging over the nastier aspects of life to get the heart of the matter, which is that most people are way too busy working and hustling to fully enjoy their lives, and that we could all use a gentle, moral teacher like Elwood P. Dowd, and least now and then, in order to give the wild animals of our imaginmations, whether rabbits, horses or dogs, their full due.   "},{"Title":"We all need a 6'6 white rabbit","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those rare perfect movies in a kinder, gentler genre all but unknown these days the screwball comedy with heart. The possibly invisible Harvey (playing himself), bosom buddy of Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart), sees what we mere mortals can't his small-eared drinking chum is a man for all seasons. Elwood's mother once told him, Elwood--she always called him Elwood--in this world, Elwood, you must be oh, so smart, or oh, so pleasant. For years I was smart, says Elwood now. I recommend pleasant. Today and forever, he lives out his preference. I recommend this movie to all pleasant people and to all those who ought to be. "},{"Title":"The painting","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love all of this film (the DVD is one of my treasured items) but the scenes around the painting make me cry with laughter. The whole film is surreal - yet beautifully real - but the premise of an artist painting Elwood P Dowd (brilliantly played by James Stewart), probably for hours on end, with Harvey stood behind him with his paw on his shoulder, makes me laugh out loud whenever I think about it. I just keep imagining how Elwood went about commissioning the painting and if the artist just went along with it..after all..it's paid work, or did he see Harvey as well ? If that isn't funny enough when he puts the painting in front of the family portrait in the lounge, so proudly, and his sister does the double-take..it's priceless, absolutely priceless, cinematic magic. "},{"Title":"They just don't come this simple now-a-days","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" They just don't come this simple now-a-days.I have been dying to see this film for sometime now and today I finally did. I first heard about it (actually) when I watched Zoe Kazan's Ruby Sparks, when they mention this James Stewart movie for a brief second. That was my que to IMDb that shyt and check it out. -- For a 1950s comedy, I do not think anything at the time compared to Henry Koster's HARVEY.Our story follows an upbeat middle-aged man, Elwood (Stewart), who is best friends with a 6'3(1/2) rabbit. Problem is that he is the only one that can see him, and it is his sister, Veta, and her daughter, Myrtle Mae, who have to undergo the stress of his humility of his actions. -- One evening they decide to have guests over so that Veta can find a suitable mate for her daughter. This is the perfect time, because Elwood is out on the town; at his favorite bar, where he and Harvey are regulars at.Once gossip gets around, Elwood finds it rude of himself not to be attending his own sisters party. Sure enough, he drops by unexpectedly; ruining the party by introducing his invisible friend to Veta's Guests. // This triggers the old bag to finally put her foot down and check her brother into a mental institution.I really enjoyed James Stewarts character (as much as his acting in general). The things he says make so much sense and has so much HEART, even though they might seem out of the wack. MY FAVORITE SCENE is towards the end when the hospital workers, Dr. Sanderson and Miss Kelly (Peggy Dow <3), try to get information out of Stewart to find out where their boss, Dr. Chumley's whereabouts are. Miss Kelly asks Elwood if he has anything more to add to the subject. To which, he replies* Well, for you I'd do anything. I'd almost be willing to live my life over again. Almost. But I've told it all. I'm quite sure, but ask me again anyway, wont you? I liked that warm tone you had in your voice just then.*This is just one of the bright, whimsical phrases to come out of his mouth. Everything else is still so delightful to hear; I would crack up laughing at some parts. ALSO, I couldn't help but notice how beautiful Peggy Dow (Miss Kelly) is. The eyes on that woman can slay me any day.***In a way, I sort of wanted to see Harvey. I didn't know if it was going to be one for those films where they show them, only no one else sees then, but it was not, unfortunately. But, anyway, it is better off. The simplicity of this film turns me on more than you will ever know. And I believe it's story can go on (in its unique way) forever.I give this film an ALMOST PERFECT SCORE of 9 out of 10 on IMDb. There was something missing that I cannot figure out. // I think it might be the fact that there was rarely any romanticism in it. The relationships that carry (love interests) are between the hospital workers // and Veta's daughter with the SECURITY guard at the hospital; was not really sensual at all, but it still held itself well, I guess.-- Michael Mendez "},{"Title":"A Stab at Who Harvey Is","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" No need to recap the plot. This artful fantasy amounts to one of Stewart's signature roles. And what an outstanding actor he is. Hard to believe the flinty-eyed hard case from Anthony Mann westerns could be so utterly engaging as he is here. His constant geniality comes across as so unforced, it transforms the darker undercurrent into a charming gem. Note, however, that Dowd's only a drinker by innuendo; at the same time, he's not really shown either drinking or being drunk. Of course, real inebriation would have put a different complexion on things. A fantasy character like the 6-foot rabbit invites some kind of speculation on what his presence in the film might mean. Here briefly is mine. I take Harvey to be the spectre of our better nature that we usually shove aside in favor of the hardening demands of the practical world. For example, curing Dowd of Harvey would make him more normal by everyday standards, which is the mission of the sanitarium. But Dowd's cooperative, friendly manner would be erased in the process. His mother almost realizes this too late. For practical purposes, we might not want everyone to see a Harvey as Dowd does. After all, how could the extremely altruistic Dowd or anyone hold down a hierarchical job in a competitive world. Yet Harvey may also point the way to a better world; that is, if we can bring the real world and our better nature into greater harmony. Maybe that's what Dr. Chumley experiences once he begins to see Harvey. After all, the 6-foot rabbit may be imposing, but being a rabbit, he's not threatening. As a result, he's always present but never coercive. Thus, in order to be seen, our better nature has to be embraced, even if it seems a delusion to the practical world. However, I assume drinking is not a part of that nature. But just how that fits into my little picture, I'm not sure. Perhaps you have a conjecture.Anyway, the movie can certainly be enjoyed apart from any conjectures. And thanks to a sterling central performance, an outstanding supporting cast, and smooth direction, it remains an amusing gem, without necessarily being food for thought. "},{"Title":"A unique role for James Stewart. A role he made all his own.","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So here we are in 2015 looking back at an Oscar winning little gem from 1950. A film I remember watching on TV in the early 60's. A re-mastered version on Blu-ray no less. Released to mark the 100th anniversary of Universal Pictures. Do not be put off by any of the trailers you might have seen on YouTube, or anywhere else for that matter, where the picture is very blurred. Whoever is responsible for the re-mastering of this up-to-date version has done a very good job, especially when you take into consideration that it is now 65 years since it was first released on old film stock.If you happen to have a multi-media Blu-ray drive in your PC, you will be pleasantly surprised, as I was, at the sharpness of the picture. Watching it on a HD TV the picture quality does drop slightly, but that is to be expected, especially when you are further away from the screen. There is no hint of any scratches or anything else untoward throughout the entire film. So all in all, a well deserved bonus to the rating is provided just for that. The sound has also been given the treatment and has been upgraded to DTS master audio/mono, but frankly that is personally not as important to me as the picture quality.As to the film itself. We have James 'Jimmy' Stewart in the role of Elwood P. Dowd, that he stated he enjoyed playing on stage (from all accounts there was a 6 month run in London), before taking it to the silver screen. He also stated that it was his personal all time favourite film that he was involved with. It was certainly a unique role for Jimmy. A role that he made all his own and I for one cannot see anyone else filling his shoes in any kind of unjustified remake. A light hearted comedy of errors with a romantic twist to sit back and enjoy on a rainy Saturday or Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"I struggled with reality for 35 years, but I'm happy to say I finally won out over it","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Be kind &#x96; a moral so biblically simple it would take a brave film indeed to not cave to easy cynical fatalism (playing the realism card), or oversell it to cloying excess. And yet, 1950 saw a film, hopping along, which gently but firmly turned all such pretenses on their head. Buoyed by the rare boast of being the Pulitzer Prize winning story about an imaginary friend, Harvey is the textbook definition of a feel good film in the basest and least condescending sense, not only immersing the viewer in an elating sense of peace, but digging to the heart of how and why living life whimsically and optimistically is of such tantamount mutual benefit. It's about as close to a utopian vision liable to prompt the viewer to attempt to become a better person as post WWII-Classical Hollywood ever saw, and a genuine, timeless classic to boot. Director Henry Koster wisely remains stylistically unobtrusive, letting the airtight script by the playwright Mary Chase speak for itself. And speak it does, addressing issues as varied as class superstructures, conformity and homogeneity, sexism in the workplace and the clinical and cultural mistreatment (but also, in many cases, touching acceptance) of mental illness, all slotted into ferociously quotable dialogue that still feels natural and unshowy, despite its theatrical origins. Despite this hefty subtext, Harvey is the gentlest, most forgiving of satires, just as its plot, despite having enough reversals, dramatic irony and banter, retains all of the wit of the screwball period without the exhaustingly zany pace (there's even a cross-town chase that feels like a sly wink at the Keystone Kops era). Pleasant is indeed the operative word here, albeit in the most enriching sense.If anything, the film's boldest creative choice is, rather than vying for the Calvin and Hobbes is-he-or-isn't-he-real-it-doesn't-matter sleight of hand, firmly committing to the existence of the mysterious titular Palooka, conjured up by teasing twinkles of Frank Skinner's compelling musical score. In many ways, Harvey could have been played as an excellent ghost story &#x96; the film flirts with this in a sequence where stuffy psychologist Dr. Chumley (the delightfully blustery Cecil Kellaway) scampers through his sanatorium, fearfully coming to terms with the existence of the six-foot rabbit previously discounted as a delusion. Instead, Koster and Chase have crafted such an amicable atmosphere that Harvey's existence is easy to take in stride as part of the film's whimsy &#x96; an even further testament to the infectious power of imagination and positivity. It's self-evident that the film is anchored by the magnetic charisma of James Stewart, embodying his most beloved character outside of George Bailey. Stewart's performance is worth scrutinizing, however, as there is more nuance on display in his Dowd, Elwood P. than simply charm and sweetness (though there's plenty of those) &#x96; watch for his stray, sly winks, connoting a deeper level of awareness, the glimmers where his face falls in between interactions with characters, or his stray, cryptic comments benignly hinting at a darker past. If anything, this only serves to strengthen the allure of the character, suggesting Dowd's congeniality to be a consciously constructed persona rather than a drunken simpleton, and making Stewart's work one of the most serenely rewarding performances ever committed to celluloid. The rest of the cast equally turn in universally excellent performances Oscar- winner Josephine Hull is a treat as Dowd's flamboyantly flustered sister, while Jesse White (perfectly abrasive), Victoria Horne (deliciously dislikeable), and Peggy Dow (luminous and snappy) all steal scenes at their appropriate moments. It's not all sunshine and rainbows, of course &#x96; some of the film's third act reconciliations and romantic unions feel somewhat forced and problematic, and the restrictions of the Hays Code lead to an unsettling downplaying of Dowd's alcoholism &#x96; but Dowd's endlessly accommodating nature is contagious, and such quibbles are hard to dwell on. Harvey remains a simply beautiful film, an ode to imagination fearlessly tackling 'big issues' such as worldview and emotional wellbeing with a refreshingly Occam's razor approach. Don't be surprised if, like Dr. Chumley, you find Harvey has begun to curiously follow you after you've finished watching his film &#x96; you'll find this 'elephant' only serves to improve up the room he's in.-9.5/10 "},{"Title":"a weird-light comedy about a pleasant-crazy man","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The interesting thing about Elwood Dowd, aside of course from the 6-foot-8-inch 'Pooka', the tall rabbit that he seems to only see and no one else doesn't (or can't?), is that he always has cards to give out to people with his information. This is a significant character trait for Elwood, especially given the fact that he doesn't seem to work or have steady employment. He's in actuality the nicest man you may ever see in a motion picture (not Mr. Smith or George Bailey I should say)... and yet Elwood is also a drunk, though in keeping with his personality he's a pleasant, happy drunk it would seem as well. One wonders what would happen if he didn't have the booze - and one never sees what happens to that second martini he always orders, now do we - or all of those faces at the bar looking at him and his friend Harvey. Will anyone else see this pesky wabbit? Perhaps...Harvey is a charming, weird movie. It's weird because of how the movie takes on its premise, and actually treats it as a kind of serious comedy, or a very light-hearted drama. The factor I think is the mental hospital, where-in his sister wants to commit him (played by Oscar-winning Josephine Hull, mostly in a performance where she has to cry a good deal and be in hysterics). But, needless to say, due to a misunderstanding he commits *her* instead (and maybe latent sexism perhaps, that this male doctor doesn't trust this woman, but I digress), and Elwood walks out. Now the doctors and everyone gave to get him back. But will it be such a struggle to get him there? Stewart is the reason to see this movie, as is the case with all of his major performances and this is certainly one of them. As Dowd he commands the screen and yet is so genial and friendly to all of the characters. The movie is ultimately a comedy of manners as much (if not more) than about some crazy person. The writing, based on a play, takes the time to understand this man, and by proxy Stewart fully understands him, and really admires him it seems like. We kind of want to believe this rabbit exists (maybe, and this isn't a spoiler so much as a hint, maybe it does?) by how Elwood makes it seem... alright, somehow. What do you do with someone who isn't seeing things as 'normal', but has the sort of good manners and respect for others, even those who may not deserve it, that would give regal families a run for their money? Stewart gives Elwood charm and humility and, at one point, kind of a tragedy when he tells about what it is he does to the doctor and his assistant in the alley (that may be the best scene in the film).It may not be a perfect movie; the supporting performances are a mixed bag for me, or it may also be in the writing. As the characters scramble and get into misunderstandings and even a possible romance (!) blooms between one of the orderlies and Elwood's niece, it's a lot of like comic stuff that only adds so much to the narrative. And yet it's hard to begrudge these creations - and Hull, though sort of one note, gives Veta Simmons her all - because Elwood strips down their devices through so much kindness and warmth. If anything Harvey is so strange because it isn't afraid to be so genuine in spirit, and it's disarming at first (and the laughs are bigger, and sporadically it's a very funny time) and then one comes to see it's just how the movie is. And of course it's the right move to make the rabbit an invisible thing; the moment it's actually *there* on screen, the magic is lost. "},{"Title":"Harvey, an invisible rabbit...","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is a drama movie in which we watch man who always says that he has an invisible six foot rabbit for a best friend. With his insistence his family think that he is insane but after some situations that change the insane man maybe is more clever and more wiser than his family.I liked this movie very much because the plot was remarkable and original for the time that produced and that was something that made this movie unique. I also have to say that the interpretation of James Stewart who played as Elwood P. Dowd in this movie was simply outstanding and I believe that it was also one of his best interpretations. I also liked the interpretation of Josephine Hull who played as Veta Louise Simmons and she was also very good at her part (won the Oscar of the Best Actress in a Supporting Role). In addition to this I believe that Henry Koster did a great job in the direction of this movie.Finally I have to say that Harvey is a must see movie which shows us many interesting facts about life that we could not even notice and I believe that are the same and common most of them in all the lives of people. I strongly recommend it because I am sure that after you watch this movie you will change the way you think for many things and especially life. "}{"Title":"Jimmy at His Best","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Apparently, Jimmy Stewart considered this his favorite role. This from a man who was a staple for Alfred Hitchcock and Frank Capra. In this movies he plays a charming man who loves and cares about his fellow man. The problem is that he converses with an invisible six foot rabbit. He seems to be part of a time when the unconventional, lovable nut is under assault from the harsh world (the same world that attacked Santa Claus in Miracle on 34th Street). Stewart's bewilderment over the forces that attack him work so well. He was one in a million and this vehicle earned him an Academy Award nomination and an actual award for his co-star. Of course, it is no secret that while the bad guys work to have him destroyed, he is unflappable. If you are feeling bad and want to be uplifted, rent this or watch it on TCM. These are the kinds of movies that never lose their appeal. "},{"Title":"Such a charming movie","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart) is a mild-mannered 42 year old man whose best friend is an imaginary invisible 6'3.5 tall rabbit named Harvey. Some people are leery of him. He lives with his sister Veta and niece Myrtle Mae who have had enough of him. They just want a cultured party without Elwood. He spends his time drinking at the local bar. Then he returns to crash the party to the embarrassment of Veta and Myrtle Mae. Exasperated, Veta tries to have Elwood committed. The overly emotional Veta convinces the new psychiatrist Dr. Lyman Sanderson (Charles Drake) to admit her while releasing Elwood. According to Elwood, Harvey is a Pooka or a Celtic mythological mischievous fairy spirit in animal form. After head of the sanatorium Dr. Chumley sorts it out, they release Veta while brutish orderly Marvin Wilson tries to catch Elwood.Stewart is the heart and soul of this movie. He is one of the most charming personalities and is perfect for the amiable Elwood. It's a great performance. Stewart is so nice and easy that everybody's manic craziness comes off as hilarity. He also makes a nice turn as cupid. "},{"Title":"Making room for Harvey.","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I loved the way this film makes the viewer sympathetic to it's main character.Seemingly,Jimmy Stewart's Elwood P. Dowd has a friend in the form of an over 6'0 tall rabbit named Harvey.To his friends and family,and to us the viewer,there is nothing there,but the camera makes allowances for him anyway by including him in nearly every shot that Dowd is in.The camera believes he is there,thereby making you believe he is,too.I like that.The only possible flaw I can see here in this film is it's now rather outdated approach to mental illness,but you overlook such things because you realize that times were different then.Jimmy Stweart shines as always,here,and the supporting cast is perfect.In particular,Josephine Hull was a delight I had never experienced before with her classic comic timing and reactions.Great film. "},{"Title":"Still Relevant","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart) is a pleasant-natured, gentleman of means. He has an invisible giants rabbit for best-friend. His sister and niece, who live with him, think he is out of his mind but Elwood and his pall show that in a world full of hypocrisy and selfishness, a little bit of kindness can bring joy. The setting, the characters and pretty much everything else are old- fashioned, but the theme of the movie (showing consideration to others, weather family or perfect strangers) is more relevant today than ever before. The story line is simple. It is well cast and well directed.If you like this kind of premise, it a must watch. If not, it is still a good movie, you can give it a try. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is a nearly perfect film, both in terms of performance - the cast is excellent without exception - and tone - a sweet, sincere film without an ounce of cynicism in it. This film draws one in, and Harvey the Pooka becomes a very real member of the cast, thanks to Stewart's sincere portrayal of the hapless but always delightful Elwood P. Dowd. It would be impossible to make this film today. The world has grown too cynical, and the laughs would come in all the wrong places. However, watching this film, made over 60 years ago, inspires me to be more kind and gentle with my fellow man. This, in addition to the fine direction and the outstanding performances, is what makes this not just a good film, but a great one. 9 out of 10, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"In this world, Elwood, you must watch this movie or watch this movie.","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In my project of watching IMDb's Top 250 list (of August 9 2013) I have come to number 244, which is Harvey from 1950. I had never heard about the movie, so before I saw it I didn't know what to expect. However, I had a good feeling about it, mainly because of the fact that it stars James Stewart (one of my favorite actors) in the lead role as the amiable and delusional Elwood P. Dowd, whose best friend is the invisible rabbit named Harvey. But despite his delusions, Elwood is a very friendly and glad soul, who wants to become friends with everybody. He always invites strangers to have a drink at the local inn or to dinner in his home. But his sister and niece are, however, becoming distraught over the consequences of his delusions. They feel it destroys their social life and that they've got to do something about it.I really liked this movie! It's generally interesting to follow Elwood's daily life and I love the fact that everybody just seem to accept the existence of Harvey. It isn't hard to love Elwood and Stewart's portrayal of him. He really does a good job, and you feel that the character just made for him. Jimmy simply is Elwood P. Dowd! The other actors also does a good job overall, but they do, however, fall in the shadow of Stewart's performance. The movie is also visually beautiful &#x96; especially the backyard scene. So overall I loved the movie and I believe it should be placed on a way higher spot on the list. Stewarts performance alone is way better than many movies on this list. And I of course give it a 10 out of 10 stars! Go see it now! "},{"Title":"Warped intimacy and simple commotion","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey does not have an epic feel to it, but then it is not supposed to. It's a very intimate story about a man whose warped view of intimacy becomes the subject of serious analysis.It is based on a stage play, and indeed, there is much evidence in this filmed version that dialogue crafted for the theatre can seem stilted on screen. More than a few cumbersome speeches are delivered, leading to a somewhat overwhelming bombardment of words, words and more words. This production is best when we see those moments where James Stewart walks around and interacts with the scenery. It also works when we see Josephine Hull, as the overly concerned older sister, reacting to him. In short, it is most effective when the 'absent' title character causes simple commotion. Don't miss the barroom scene. "},{"Title":"Psychologically, Psychically, Psychoanalytically and Comically Involving","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I still have imaginary friends who I talk to in my head (Lee Ryan).From the opening sequence of the movie, which the New York Times reviewer Bosley Crowther labeled as charmingly fanciful farce, the word imagination seems to evoke as the key aspect of Mary Chase. However, we, as the viewers of the 21st century find it really hard to absorb that imagination in the pure form of its initial motives. Do we see the real only? Do we even bother with some products of our minds? Has technology made us a more 'down to earth' practical children of modern times? Can we genuinely smile at the protagonist who crosses the borderline of 'normal behaviour'? Or, in his case, do we rather seek some psychological attempts, some sophisticated stuff that would put the character within a drawer with effort to psychoanalyze him. Lee Ryan's quotation I have entailed at the beginning of this review might prompt certain answers to some of the questions.The strength of Henry Koster's movie (and his 'vivid and droll direction' as Bosley Crowther memorably points out) lies in this 'unreal' aspect of the story. James Stewart, interviewed in March 1990, recalled that this was one of those movies of his that he had a soft spot for. A truly versatile actor recalled this very role as unique in its seriousness and wit alike. It is him, apart from some wonderful co-stars, who makes this movie unforgettable. Let me focus on his performance for a while.JAMES STEWART beautifully combines the serious and humorous aspects of his character. The seriousness lies in the whole creation of his inner world, his pal - a big rabbit called Harvey - who, at times, truly may infect our vision and make us all (like his sister) visualize a character who somehow stands at his side. This desire of someone's presence that may ease the pain of loneliness is an excellent inspiration for some psychoanalytical notions. At the same time, humour helps us all resist the temptation of falling into tense stuff that would result in some scientific approach. Humour is superior in most of the scenes and James Stewart delivers it, inspires it and creates it skillfully. This wonderfully warm and sympathetic presentation of a character mentioned by Bosley Crowther and its wistfully sweet appreciation of the innocence of a benevolent lush are revealed in Stewart's performance. Other co-stars.JOSEPHINE HULL with the theatrical aspect in her acting and the tremendous impact upon the emotional resonance of the people who 'live with' the protagonist leave a lasting impression in every viewer. From the absorbing moments of wit to some touches of (today we might say) overacting perfectly work in creating a captivating character who, by the way, is easily scandalized and yet influenced by 'an imaginary friend.' THE SUPPORTING CAST deliver some memorable moments, includingA nice film absolutely worth seeing, A story that will make you think a bit, wait a bit, sympathize a bit and, foremost, amuse yourself at its pleasant handling of the story. "},{"Title":"Nice Man, Clever Rabbit.","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jimmy Stewart plays Elwood P. Dowd, a middle-aged man(thought to be an alcoholic) who lives with his sister Veta(Josephine Hull) and has for a best friend a six foot, eight inch invisible rabbit named Harvey... This is a constant source of embarrassment for Veta, especially when she plans dinner parties and such. She eventually contacts Dr. Chumley(played by Cecil Kellaway) from the local asylum to have Elwood committed, but things don't go according to plan, as Elwood seems to live a charmed life...Wonderful comedy is quite funny and original, with superb performances, especially Stewart, portraying Elwood as the most likable, inoffensive man imaginable, and Hull, who is also very funny, as is Jessie White as an aggressive attendant. A classic comedy. "},{"Title":"Last summer at war camp . . . ","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  . . . I told all the fellers about my imaginary friend--make that invisible buddy, you see; there he is NOW, big as life, eight-foot rabbit about a head taller than me . . .  What many young viewers of HARVEY today may not realize is that during the time this movie was made, its main human star--James Stewart--was on the rise to the rank of a brigadier general in the U.S. Air Force reserve. This was no secret. So at a time when our high altitude spy planes were flying over the Soviet Union and China, with folks back in the White House often letting their fingers linger over the red button to launch an all-out nuclear preemptive strike, the enemy pilots could sit back and kick up their feet during their down time and watch one of America's leaders of the air war against Hitler in WWII play around on the silver screen with his imaginary friend. During the 1950s, hazing in the military had not been eliminated, so it would have been kind of interesting to be a fly on the wall in the officers' club the summer after HARVEY was released and James Stewart arrived. "}{"Title":"Stewart hams it up again!","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What can I say about Harvey that has not already been said? It is a sweet film based on a Pulitzer Prize winning play, but it is a dreadfully boring movie. The play does not carry over well to the big screen as it were, so you feel like you are watching a play, which is fine. Jimmy Stewart hams his way through the hour and 30 minutes worth of running time as he pretends to actually be corresponding with a giant, invisible white rabbit where the actual giant, white rabbit in the room that no one actually sees is the fact that this movie is fun for 40 minutes and dies tragically in the last half. Josephine Hull won an Oscar for her role, a freaking Oscar. Did the Academy pull an all night booze fest and teetotal their way into this vote?There are a few interesting notes of dialog, but this movie is one of those James Stewart classics that is not very good. Mr. Stewart had the acting range of a wet boot, and his voice is so grading that listening to him deliver his folksy, whimsical advice makes me want to punch him square in the mouth. That is coming from someone who likes a few of his films.The movie suffers from its scenes being disconnected and from too much acting that is representative of sophomores in high school trying to work their way through a one act play. Only here the one act is Stewart and his rabbit, one that should have been pulled out of the hat early on so that the magician could take a bow. Believe me when I say that Stewart is quite the wizard as he has put the entire film industry in a trance with his hokey films.I leave you with the line that sums up the film bestWilson Is he alone?Mr. Cracker the Bartender Well, there's two schools of thought, sir.My school of thought is that he is not alone because multiple people would have us believe that Harvey is a real, tangible treat to encounter. I do not. "},{"Title":"A sad comedy","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw Harvey being a child and I didn't like it. Now I've seen it again...and I don't like it either. As when I was a child the main reason is I do not find Elwood character nor Harvey really nice maybe it is because of the menacing look of the rabbit appearing in the picture Elwood (James Stewart) hangs on the wall but Harvey has always seemed to me a manipulative and selfish creature more than a good friend trying to make Elwood life happier. And Elwood doesn't appear to me a happy character but a very sad one who, at one point of his life and due to some facts we are not allowed to know, decides (in the film it is firmly stated that it was a voluntary decision) to quit reality to live in an alternative world of his own, although he is not happy in it, only less sad. Maybe the play describes characters in a different way and show us a kind and full of bondage Elwood who only wants to live in a better, more human world with people helping each other and taking interest in other people. This is a nice and beautiful idea and I'd love the film would have shown it! but what this film shows is not this at all Elwood new world is a world where apparently everybody is kind and friendly, a world where apparently peoples' best feelings emerge to reveal better personalities. But that's what this new world is about apparency. The supposed kind and friendly people are not really so, as Elwood himself reveals when speaking to Dr. Sanderson (Charles Drake). He says he meet lots of people in the bar, friendly people but that they do not show again. And the supposed people best feelings are not seen in Elwood himself towards his own family either whilst he is more than charming to people he meets at the bar or in the mental institution, he does not have the same consideration towards his poor sister, who lives in the edge of a nervous breakdown due to his way of doing, not only by Elwood's rabbit hallucination but also having to stand with unknown people Elwood constantly invites to their home or making impossible for her to have a social life. Furthermore, allegedly absent-minded Elwood is not really so, as although he is apparently always doing what sister Veta (Josephine Hull) says he is in fact getting other people do what he (and alter ego Harvey) wants. So what is presented to us here is a man running away from his life who ends up living in a self-made rabbit cage. I don't see it is a happy comedy at all, although it has its funny moments (i.e. when Veta asks her daughter to find out who is the stranger in the bathroom after speaking with Elwood). And by quitting reality in search of a better life and a better mankind understanding he does not mind or realize hurting his own family in the process. In the end he does not seem to reach that happy status he is searching for at all, but a less painful state of mind. In fact author instruct us to just believe in Harvey's great beneficials instead of letting us to know it by first-hand by sparing us all the dialogue scene between Elwood, Harvey and Dr. Chumley (Cecil Kellaway) at the bar. Maybe Mrs. Chase didn't know how to make such chat work, but this takes off a lot of credibility to Her pretended premise. Furthermore, it is difficult to understand why Dr. Chumley runs away from Harvey once he has discovered rabbit's extraordinary beneficial power shouldn't he be happy to have Harvey around? Why else he asks Elwood to leave Harvey with him in the end? *Spoiler* And as a final punch, even in the end of the film family is not allowed to get free from Harvey (wouldn't it have been a much better ending and according to the extending bondage the play is supposed to transmitt that Harvey finally would stay with Dr. Chumley and allowed other people to enjoy him? Or, in case Elwood didn't want to leave Harvey, that both of them decided to stay in the mental institution where both Dr. Chumley and Elwood -and maybe other patients- could enjoy Harvey too and where Veta and her daughter could visit them without suffering Harvey? Or that thanks to his new friendship with nurse Kelly (Peggy Dow) and Dr. Sanderson, etc. he feels motivated to go back to reality applying the new way of doing Harvey has taught him to real life instead of surrender?) and a sad vision of the future is presented Elwood will keep on eluding eality although this does not bring him the desired happiness he searches for and deserves an unhappy panorama to his sister and niece. I must mention apart the superb acting work of Josephine Hull, who deservedly won an Oscar for her role. "},{"Title":"Favorite comedy ever!","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I really don't know what to say... this movie makes me smile, the thought of this movie makes me smile, never felt better after watching a movie, feel better just thinking of it. A movie that literally made me feel all warm and fuzzy. It is wild and somewhat ridiculous and yet brilliant and perfect all at the same time. If you don't like it, you are asking for too much. Mary Chase, who wrote the play and the adapted screen-play, looked at a widowed neighbor who recently lost her son in WWII and wondered if she could write anything that would make the woman laugh again. Harvey was the result and a better effort couldn't have been put forth. This isn't the movie you scrutinize every scene, it is designed to be whimsical and feel good. I have to say it is down right infectious. Jimmy Stewart couldn't be more charming as Elwood P. Dowd and Joesphine Hull is stellar as his neurotic sister. Another reviewer said this is the most human movie ever made and I have to agree. The story has a great moral and I think everyone could do with being a little more like Elwood. "},{"Title":"Still One Of The Greatest","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is still one of the best movies ever made in my opinion. I am and always have been (and always will be!) a big fan of James Stewart and this role seems to have been tailor made for him, I would say probably his best role except for maybe the other Jimmy Stewart classic, a little Christmas movie that we all see every year during the holidays with Clarence earning his wings if you even need a hint. I had no idea this was based on a play on Broadway but that doesn't surprise me at all because it's not very visual or explosive it is just a wonderful story about a man that is both very touching emotionally and also very very funny. "},{"Title":"One of the most gratifying films ever made.","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I say that the film is gratifying I mean that for me it fulfills all that you might expect from a movie of this genre. It checks all the boxes. It's witty, clever, charming and acted with moments of pure genius. It's timeless; a film for today with no anachronistic aspects. It's probably the one film that I am content to see again and again with friends anytime. Warm and wonderful, I cannot recommend it highly enough. James Stewart excels himself as Elwood P. Dowd, with an understated delivery of every quip and joke. I recently recommended this film (in English) to one of my Spanish students and she was totally enthralled with its charm. It gave us a good talking point in the next lesson and when I quoted one of Dowd's famous lines (... I recommend pleasant) she was able to remember and quote the line too. This movie is stuffed full of such quotable quotes and if we lived by the credo of Elwood P. Down, I have no doubt the world would be a better place. "},{"Title":"What a coincidence. My name happens to be Harvey","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Last night, I completely fell in love with Elwood P. Dowd. Though he may not be the most intelligent man about town, he is certainly the most pleasant, a gentle soul who is sympathetic and polite towards everybody he meets, despite their often-questionable intentions towards him. He is a man with no greater plans for his life; nothing could make him happier than to sit in the company of many different people, to hear their stories; to know their hopes, their regrets, their loves, and their hates. Though most of the acquaintances in his life come and go, never to be seen again, there is one friend who has stood by Elwood's side for many a year his name is Harvey, and he is a six-foot tall white rabbit. Though 'Harvey (1950)' is not the greatest of family comedies produced in its era, there is absolutely no doubt that James Stewart's portrayal of a simple, pleasant man is one of the most remarkable and lovable performances I have ever seen, yet another grand achievement from my all-time favourite actor.'Harvey' was adapted from Mary Chase's play of the same name which won the 1945 Pulitzer Prize for Drama, and directed by Henry Koster. Elwood P. Dowd (Stewart) has lived for years in the delightful presence of Harvey the rabbit, whom only he can see, and much to the shock and embarrassment of his elder sister, Veta Louise Simmons (Oscar-winning Josephine Hull), who finds it impossible to entertain guests when Elwood is in the house. Frustrated with all his madness, Veta eventually tries to have her brother committed to a sanatorium, only to be mistakenly locked-up by the egotistical psychiatrist, Dr. Sanderson (Charles Drake). After the farcical mix-up has been sorted out, the employees of the asylum, including head psychiatrist Dr. Chumley (Cecil Kellaway), uncouth orderly Mr. Wilson (Jesse White) and beautiful nurse Miss Kelly (Peggy Dow), fan out across the small town in search of Elwood once again. Needless to say, throughout the course of the night, each of these people will learn a thing or two about Elwood, about themselves and about life itself.What gives 'Harvey' the bulk of its enjoyment is that, despite us never being shown a white rabbit, we can almost &#150; just *almost* &#150; see him right there on the screen. Stewart's lovely performance, always being sure to hold the door for his friend, and occasionally darting him an affectionate sideways glance, is what truly makes Harvey come alive, to become a character in his own right. Behind the camera, director Henry Koster and cinematographer William H. Daniels always frame Elwood to the side of the frame, leaving a blank space or an empty chair in which we can visualise a great white rabbit sitting patiently. Josephine Hull is also one of the film's top players, giving an enjoyably exasperated and neurotic performance, suggesting that, through the years of living with her brother, even she has come to view Harvey as a real entity, despite her unwillingness to admit the fact.Perhaps the one complaint that I have about this film is that it basically showed us, in no uncertain terms, that Harvey was, indeed, a real-life pooka a mischievous creature of Celtic folklore, who could apparently manipulate his surroundings. There are times in cinema when a little bit of mystery and uncertainty really comes in handy in this case, I think it would have been better to leave it to the audience's imagination; to let us decide whether or not Harvey was real. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, funny, touching and magical, everything a fantasy film should be","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I wasn't expecting to like Harvey, but when I saw it I was blown away. It is a wonderful film, with everything that a fantasy film should be. The cinematography, scenery, costumes and sets are beautiful, not dated at all, if it was dated if anything it added to Harvey's charm. The music by Frank Skinner is jaunty and very sweet, it really gives the meaning to the term feel-good. The script is excellent, it is witty, fresh and quite touching. And I was also very taken with the story, it may seem strange at first but it was a lovingly-told story and was actually quite intelligent if you think about it. The film moves quickly and is beautifully directed by Henry Koster, while the acting is great. James Stewart is back with his Mr Nice Guy persona, Elwood isn't the most complex of his characters but this character didn't require complexity as such, the character was likable enough just by Stewart playing him wonderfully, which he indeed did. The supporting cast ably support him, especially Josephine Hull who is simply delightful here as Veta Louise. Overall, beautiful and immensely engaging film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"James Stewart and a Giant Rabbit... Joy!","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart) is a middle-aged and somewhat eccentric individual whose best friend is an invisible 6'3.5 tall rabbit named Harvey. As described by Dowd, Harvey is a pooka, a benign but mischievous creature from Celtic mythology who is especially fond of social outcasts (like Elwood). Elwood has driven his sister and niece (who live with him and crave normality) to distraction by introducing everyone he meets to his friend, Harvey.Let's just say everything James Stewart does is gold. There are some lines of dialogue I wish had been cut (he introduces himself and hands out his card a bit too often), but all in all you can never have too much Jimmy Stewart and his voice is one of those voices you long to hear (right up there with Morgan Freeman). Credit must also be given to the actress who played Nurse Kelly, Peggy Dow (an actress from 1949-1951, who then retired when she was married to Walter Helmerich). Dow could have had a bright future in film, but turned it down... though, by all accounts, she did go on to become a successful advocate for a variety of worthy causes in Tulsa, Oklahoma.The big question Is Harvey real? As bartender Mr. Cracker points out, there are two schools of thought. Either Elwood is talking to himself, or he's not. The truth may be revealed by the end of the film, and maybe it won't. There is some level of interpretation involved. You can accept the obvious if you'd like. But the mystery's part of the fun delusion or pooka? Elwood also at one point philosophizes that people must choose between being oh so smart and oh so pleasant, and says that after trying the former, he's settled on the latter. Indeed, his intelligence is debatable, but one cannot deny he's pleasant (even winning over a nurse that should be committing him). Is he right that one must be one or the other? Could one be both or neither? I'm not going to touch on that, but it's worthy of discussion.Harvey is a must-see. It was a Pulitzer Prize-winning play, it was a successful film, and has been remade numerous times (once more even featuring Stewart). Assuming you're not going to see the play, this is as close to the original as it comes. And as Henry Koster's most widely-known film, the least you can do is give him a chance. "},{"Title":"This movie makes me smile!","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I finally got a chance to see this after hearing about it for years. I came in with great expectations due to all the buzz I've heard over the years. I'm also a big James Stewart fan, so I looked forward to seeing him in another of his prized roles.I'll have to say, it didn't quite blow me away like I expected, but I did enjoy seeing it. Stewart is perfect in his role. But its not a far stretch from his usual aw shucks type good guy facing some type of adversity.But the story is quite unique and kudos goes to the original author of the story.I think what I like best about the whole thing is the spirit of optimism and kindness that exudes from Elwood P. Dowd. I wish there were more people like that in the world. I think friendliness is almost a lost art in our world today. I guess the best thing I can say about this movie is that it makes me smile! ) "},{"Title":"James Stewart and His Giant Bunny Are Absolutely Charming","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" James Stewart plays gentle soul Elwood P. Dowd in this charming, benevolent comedy spiced with hints of fantasy.Elwood is an eccentric man who consorts with an invisible 6 foot tall (or 6' 3 1/2 tall, to be exact) rabbit named Harvey, much to the dismay of his sister and niece. They spend much of the film trying to have him committed to an institution so that he'll stop being an embarrassment to them, but their plans don't work, mostly because everyone with whom Elwood comes in contact is utterly beguiled by him. Elwood isn't normal like all of the other characters in the movie, meaning he's not uptight, cruel and worried about what others think of him. The movie asks its audience would you rather be like Elwood or would you rather be normal? Give me a giant invisible rabbit any day over the fussy characters with whom Elwood has to contend.It would be easy to dismiss Stewart's performance as too easy for him, as many critics did at the time of the film's release. But not just anyone could have played this character and made it work. Whether or not Stewart is acting the part well or is just being Jimmy Stewart in a well-matched role doesn't really matter, as the result is the same. He has a tremendous screen presence and carries the film, even though he's off-screen for much of it.Harvey is a sweet movie with a distinct strain of melancholia running through it. It's more about the way one wishes the world could be rather than the way it actually is.Grade A "}{"Title":"The gentler side of humanity","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The title role in 1950's Harvey is never seen by anyone but the star of the film, James Stewart, so we only have his description of a tall white rabbit to go by. Elwood himself is a pleasant alcoholic, and Harvey is his constant companion. Harvey, based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Mary Chase, who also wrote the screenplay, is about a sweet man and the havoc he causes around him because of his positive view of life and his conversations with Harvey.Elwood's sister Veta Louise (Josephine Hull) wants to marry off her daughter Myrtle Mae (Victoria Home) but is having trouble holding social events because usually Elwood and Harvey show up. She finally decides to have her brother institutionalized. It's easier said than done - she's committed and Elwood goes free. Once the mistake is realized, everyone goes searching for him.My favorite part about the character of Elwood is that he assumes everyone is as sincere as he is. He is always giving out his card and asking people over to dinner. Well, some of them can't make it that night, to which Elwood always asks, WHEN? When can you come? In a plethora of classic performances, this is one of Jimmy Stewart's best, and it's his favorite film. Elwood's monologue about meeting Harvey is one of the most precious on film I heard this voice saying, 'Good evening, Mr. Dowd.' Well, I turned around and here was this big six-foot rabbit leaning up against a lamp-post. Well, I thought nothing of that because when you've lived in a town as long as I've lived in this one, you get used to the fact that everybody knows your name...I said, 'You have the advantage on me. You know my name and I don't know yours.' ... He said, 'What name do you like?' ... So I said 'Harvey.' ... He said, What a coincidence. My name happens to be Harvey.' His other monologue about the effect he and Harvey have on people is even better and never fails to bring tears to my eyes. Elwood is such a simple, happy person - it's no wonder everybody thinks he's nuts.Stewart is ably supported by a terrific cast including Cecil Kellaway, Charles Drake, Jesse White, Peggy Dow and of course, Hull, who repeats her Broadway role, as does White. Stewart took over the role on Broadway toward the end of its four-year run; he was preceded by Frank Fay, Joe E. Brown and Jack Buchanan. Stewart repeated Elwood in a limited engagement of Harvey in 1970 with Helen Hayes as Veta Louise.Don't miss this beautiful fantasy about a happy man and his invisible friend. I envy him. "},{"Title":"You can be smart or you can be pleasant.  I used to be smart... now I'm pleasant.","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's really nice, upon occasion, to watch a movie that's nice and heartwarming without being sentimental and kitsch. The word used most often in Harvey is pleasant. Pleasant works. And, like most of the characters decide, sometimes choosing to be pleasant is better than choosing to be regular, or choosing to be smart. Lucky for this movie, it's both pleasant and smart.Now, if you haven't seen this movie yourself, you've probably seen clips of it on other movies, such as Field of Dreams. But really, seeing this movie would be something you should get around to doing. James Stewart plays the warm small-town friendly neighbor with aplomb, even when in socially awkward situations involving disbelief of his pooka. Everyone else plays the anxious ones... people running around getting into fits because of things they only half understand. But as the story goes on, Stewart's Elwood P. Dowd becomes the calm center of gravity that everyone eventually leans on to take a breath of air and let their imagination go.What we get is a re-affirmation of imagination and faith, much like the feeling to be gotten from Miracle on 34th Street. However, Harvey can be watched year round! And best of all, it shows how to be a good person beyond simply catering to beliefs, but truly following a smile and an ear for listening. Seems like it'd be a little dull, you should let her do the talking, Dowd tells the psychologist (!) who confesses his escapist dream to sit under a tree, drink beer, and talk to a woman for two weeks. Dowd is both wise and happy, and the movie makes no point of trying to give him difficulties... it's everyone else's problem if they don't want to believe in 6'3 1/2 rabbits...--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"One thing that doesn't add up","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey's height seems to be somewhat unclear.While initially Harvey was described as a 6 foot rabbit, because Jimmy Stewart was taller than that, he had to change the height of the when describing Harvey, so He states that Harvey is 6 ft. 3 inches tall. However,since that is Jimmy Stewart's height, that doesn't quite work, since Elwood P. Dowd looks up to Harvey, Harvey must be taller than that.I am also 6 ft. 3 inches tall, and have to look up a bit to Harvey it seems to me that he is really 6 ft. 6 and 3/4 inches tall. So far, Harvey hasn't disagreed with me on this point, but he is always so pleasant about these things, I'm sure his exact height is of little consequence to him "},{"Title":"Like Rabbits? Then You'll Really Like the Pooka...","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...Harvey (1950). Did you ever watch this movie and note how facial expressions are used? Everyone involved in the cast had the ability to show strong exaggerated facial emotions of all types. The only one who stayed the same throughout the movie was Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart). Josephine Hull as Veta Louise and Victoria Horne as Myrtle Mae Simmons show wonderful attitudes of embarrassment, horror and, finally, love in spite of Elwood's antics. Grace Mills as Aunt Ethel Chauvenet is so wonderfully happy to see Elwood...until she is introduced to Harvey.Then there are so many lines from Elwood that speak common sense even if it comes from a character who imbibes. For example, quoting Elwood P. Dowd Well, I've wrestled with reality for 35 years, Doctor, and I'm happy to state I finally won out over it. This movie is wonderful fun for anyone who loved James Stewart and Josephine Hull. Cecil Kellaway and Charles Drake as the doctors. Cecil as Dr. Chumley wanted Harvey for his own. Peggy Dow and Jessie White were Miss Kelly and Wilson. She, the hospital nurse and he, the strong arm (uh, Orderly). Wallace Ford was the taxi driver who pointed out that Elwood was going to be normal and what that would bring. Want to know more? Get it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have never seen a more funny, touching, lovely and heartwarming film in my life. Harvey is absolutely brilliant, a lovely storyline with a few touching twists, great acting, and just a brilliant atmosphere all around. The one thing that I've always been most afraid of is losing my mind, but by the time I'd seen the first hour of Harvey it completely changed the way I thought about it, and I started considering the possibilities of actually freeing my mind (I'd just watched a documentary on the Fox Network before hand which really made me want to free my mind from the horrible, horrible world we live in!). It made me realise why I look forward to going to sleep and dreaming, and why I dabble in hallucinogenics. Because if you have a brilliant experience that makes you happy, whether its real or not, it's an experience worth having that can be really hugely positive! That aside, I just can't really sum up how... just how nice Harvey is. Elroy, the main character, is the most likable character I've ever seen, and all the tossers and horrible blokes he meets along his way are converted into good blokes just by the pure personality, likability, good spirit and faith in everything that this man presents. Truly brilliant. "},{"Title":"Everybody now. Ahhhhhhhh!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful! Just thinking of this lovely film makes me smile. Watch this if you have any sense. You will feel great afterwards.PleaseWatch this FILM! "},{"Title":"One of the most perfect comedies ever made.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  James Stewart at his dissembling, stammering best. Stewart plays a harmless and disarming man with an invisible friend, Harvey, a six-foot white rabbit. While he frightens the townsfolk, and worries his family, he leads a happy, if martini-soaked life. After humiliating his sister and niece at a party, they attempt to hospitalize him at last. The attempt is doomed, of course, but what a ride it is along the way!A great story about (a favorite theme of mine) the importance and necessity of imagination and the limitations of the ordinary, real world. Harvey, it turns out, is a pooka, a faerie from Celtic mythology. Pookas are known to be benign but mischievous (watch for a trace of Harvey when a nurse looks up Pooka in the dictionary). In this case, Harvey ruptures the grip of reality so tenuously held by everyone in the film except Elwood P. Dowd (Stewart).Harvey has many magical powers, but shows restraint with them. Dowd is kind and sweet. At one point he says (approximately) My mother told me once that in this world you have to be either oh so smart or oh so kind. I tried smart for thirty three years. Personally, I recommend kind. This movie also features another line I hold dear. I have wrestled with reality for thirty five years and I am happy to state, doctor, that I finally won out over it.And so he ambles around town and around his sister, inviting ex-convicts to dinner, arranging romances between emotionally clueless psychologists and their nurses, and thoroughly rattling the psychiatric expert. To his credit, the psychiatrist, and head of the hospital, meets Harvey and embraces this new view on reality, even if he cannot understand it. The saddest thing about this movie is it can make us realize that Harvey is a better friend to Dowd than most of us can ever hope to have. I count myself lucky that I have two such friends. "},{"Title":"That damn 6ft  3 rabbit is as charming as ever.","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd is a charming harmless fella, he takes a drink or two for sure, but he's a delightful human being regardless. So why then does his sister want to have him committed to a home for the insane? Ah well you see, Elwood has an invisible friend who happens to be a six-foot-three rabbit!Faithfully adapted by Mary Chase from her hit Broadway play, Harvey remains to this day a wonderful fantasy comedy that delights all members of the family. It's the kind of film that leaves a warm glow once the credits role, it's basic premise is one of fantastical whimsy as Elwood drives all around him to distraction with his discourse with the invisible Harvey. It's here that the film has a rather naughty streak because Elwood actually appears to be the only sane person on show, all around him is chaos, but he remains calm and completely at peace with his lot.Starring as Elwood is James Stewart academy award nominated, and it's a very special memorable performance as he carries off with ease the eccentric nature of the character. Stealing the show as Elwood's sister Veta, is Josephine Hull academy award winner best supporting actress, completely flustered and effervescent with comic timing precision. Solid support comes from Peggy Dow why didn't she do more movies?, Charles Drake and the always watchable Cecil Kellaway. The direction from Henry Koster I personally find uneven, at times too hectic when the magic moment has passed, it's as if he was caught between making a screwball comedy or just a basic fantastical one. I often wonder what Frank Capra could of done with this particular adaptation? Still, the film remains much beloved by many, and i'm certainly counting myself amongst that number.Bless the pooka indeed. 8/10 "},{"Title":"one of the, if not THE best film ever.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When i casted my vote for this film(which was a 10) i noticed that 1.7% of the people who voted,gave this film a 1 star rating.  Now i am all for everyone having an opinion but how can someone give this timeless master piece, one of the great cinematic films of all time a rating equal to police acadamay 4???This is definetly one of the best films ever made, the cast is top notch as are their performances. This is in my opinion James Stewart's best role that he ever played in, and I believe that there would only be a handful of actors that could have portrayed the character of Elwood P Dowd to such a likeable effect. If only all drunks were as approachable as Elwood and there were bars like Charlie's with people like Elwood to chat to, the world would be a better place.Watch this film to make you feel good,  in fact just watch this film because its a masterpiece.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"JIMMY STEWART IN HIS BEST COMEDY STYLE!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Harvey (1950) during a classic film revival at the Virginia Theater in Champaign, Illinois.  This is the same 1,500-seat big screen Italian Renaissance theater that plays host each year to Roger Ebert's Overlooked Film Festival.There is nothing like seeing a movie on a real theater screen, especially one the size of the Virginia!Harvey is a zany-screw-ball comedy where the 42 year old Stewart plays a nutty bachelor guy, Elwood P. Dowd, residing with his younger widowed sister Veta Louise Simmons (Josephine Hull was 64 years old when the film was released) and spinster-niece Myrtle Mae Simmons (Victoria Horne who was 30 years old). Elwood has a 6 foot 3 inch imaginary white rabbit named Harvey for his friend and companion.  Almost all the people in Charlie's Bar know about Harvey.  Elwood meets many strangers and befriends them and brings them home for dinner.  He puts a great strain on his sister's home for her society friends all think that Elwood is crazy and they quickly depart the home when Elwood tries to introduce his imaginary rabbit friend.  Myrtle Mae is distressed because she can't get any nice young man to be interested in her for purposes of matrimony.  Veta Louise is close to having a nervous breakdown over it all.A fiasco of almost slapstick proportions filled with misunderstandings takes place when Veta Louise finally can't take it any longer and seeks to have brother Elwood committed to an asylum where the good doctors and nurses confuse Veta Louise to be the one needing commitment! Elwood is a nice, likeable person and although he tries to introduce his rabbit friend to 33-year old Charles Drake (Dr. Lyman Sanderson) and 22-year old Peggy Dow (Nurse Kelly) they keep thinking that Veta Louise is the sick one.  Finally, head Dr. Willie Chumley (60-year old Cecil Kellaway) comes to believe that Harvey the pooka is real and that Elwood is telling the truth.  Much funny dialog and and many goofy situations happen during the interim!That venerable funny man Jesse White was 43-years old at the time.  He played the nut house's man in the white jacket and eventually takes a shine towards spinster Myrtle Mae.  And, she to him! Of course, we all remember Mr. White whom for 21 years was the symbolic Maytag Washer Repair Man on television commercials.  Mr. White died in 1997 at age 80 years.All other supporting cast fit there roles well.  This film is done remarkably well in black and white.  If it were in color, it would lose it's magical quality.  Black and white serves to focus one's attention on the story and not the pretty scenery of Veta Louise's old-style turn of the century house and the sanitarium where most of the scenes take place.Yes, they don't make movies like that anymore. Families brought their youngsters who seemed to be laughing at the comedy and understanding it.  Harvey needed no special effects that are rampant in today's motion pictures.  We all knew that Harvey was there because of the way Mr. Stewart interacted with this invisible cast member!You can make movies the old-fashioned way and they will still be good 52 years later!  It's certainly a 10 on anybody's film ratings checklist.  How many stars and thumbs up?  The MAX!  See it in a movie house where they show revivals or at least view it on a TV screen larger than 35 inches!     "}{"Title":"A really great film.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This might be my favorite movie.  Jimmy Stewart was fantastic.  It managed to handle sadness and humor very well.  And Jimmy Stewart has never been better (that is there twice for emphasis).  It might not appeal to everyone, but I would suggest that everyone at least try it, because if you don't, you are missing a truly great film.   "},{"Title":"Why don't they make comedies like this anymore?","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I see a film like Harvey, I weep for the modern comic film.OK, so films like American Pie are amusing. Hell, I laughed, and I laughed hard. But they don't have the quality (either of acting or scriptwriting) that Harvey has. Well, to be fair, they couldn't have the same quality of scriptwriting as Harvey - it's based on a Pulitzer award winning play! How often does a comedy win the Pulitzer?Jimmy Stewart is brilliant, as ever. Just look at the difference between his roles in Harvey and in Vertigo! In Harvey, he's the most pleasant, happy man you could hope to meet. I would love nothing more than to go drinking with him all day in Charlies (hey, I'm Irish). Then in Vertigo, you have a man who begin by pitying, and end up fearing - he's just so disturbingly intense by the end of the movie that it's really uncomfortable.The cast of characters are INCREDIBLY two dimensional, except for Elwood and Harvey (who has no dimensions at all), but that was just the style of satirical plays at the time. Once you get over the fact that the characters are not particularly meant to represent people, but lifestyles, then you realise how great an indictment of the strictures of society this is.Watch it. Then go for a drink. You'll feel a WHOLE lot better. "},{"Title":"how atmospheric","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I think this film has really two parts. The first sixty minutes is a verbose noisy stage comedy; the last forty minutes is a rather ponderous, atmospheric drama. The turning point is, of course, Charlie's bar scene.I particularly like Jimmy Stewart's pensive face when Miss Kelly and Dr. Sanderson have gone out to dance. This is a rare occasion he is alone (even without the rabbit). We don't know what he is thinking. But we could feel Something poignant is there.Following the ally behind the bar scene is one of the greatest moments in the film history. Magical lighting is so impressive that when I think of the film Harvey, I always recall the picture of that scene, rather than memorable quotes. "},{"Title":"May contain nuts","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The lovable James Stewart made his name in several early Frank Capra movies. Harvey, directed by the undistinguished Henry Koster and based on a play by Mary Chase, is attempting to recall these films. It stars Stewart as Elwood P. Dowd, an amiable drunk whose constant companion is giant invisible rabbit called Harvey. Koster's shooting style is such that his camera behaves as though the invisible rabbit is really present in frame, the director placing the invisible creature in two-shots and granting it its own close-ups, tracking-shots and medium-shots. Dowd may be deluded, but the film nevertheless convinces us that there really is an invisible rabbit on screen.A classic upon release, Harvey plays like a small-scale version of Don Quixote, Being There, Benny and Joon or Forrest Gump. Like the central male characters in these tales, Dowd finds bliss, happiness and comfort in his own ignorance, naivety and delusions. The film hints that something traumatic, maybe even simple loneliness, is the cause of Dowd's delusions (after a life of being smart, Dowd essentially says, he's made the choice to now be happy, even if this requires him building an elaborate fantasy), but its larger aim is to celebrate Dowd's naivety, his childishness, his innocence and his incorruptibility. Like the characters in Being There or Forrest Gump, mental illness, the dumb and the ostracised are thus portrayed as being sweet and innocent, presumably because such characters exist in some idealised, pre-adult stasis. In contrast, adulthood is the realm of disappointment. Evil even.When it's not fawning over its invisible rabbit, Harvey works fairly well as a farce or comedy of manners. Josephine Hull, who plays Stewart's sister in the film, won as Oscar for her role. Audience members irked by the words charming, sweet, whimsical and joyous, or even those who perceive the film as an advocation of stupidity, may rightfully find Harvey vomit-inducing.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Rabbit Tales","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd is pleasant but somewhat eccentric he hangs out with a six-foot rabbit that is visible only to him. Stewart is well cast as Elwood, a fellow who is an embarrassment to his sister (Hull in an Oscar winning role), who tries to have him institutionalized, and his niece, an aspiring society woman. Based on a Pulitzer Prize winning play, it's a fun comedy of errors that does not overstay its welcome. The main source of humor is Stewart matter-of-factly introducing his rabbit friend to everyone, oblivious to their reactions. There are good performances from Kellaway, Drake, and Dow, a pretty and talented young actress who retired from films a year after making this film at age 23. "},{"Title":"Won out over reality","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd is a lonely man, although his older sister and her daughter live in his house. He is rich, so he has not to work. His only occupations are drinking in different bars and making friends with every Tom, Dick and Harry. He is elegantly clothed, and his manners show that he is from a good family. In his loneliness, he met (or started to imagine) a companionship with an over 6 feet tall, white hare, Harvey. Harvey accompanies Elwood everywhere, they even sit together at a place for two persons in the bar, and when Elwood has to travel, he buys two tickets. The problem is only, then nobody can see Harvey, since he is a puka, a Celtic ghost with magical power.However, whenever Elwood's sister invites friends of her, she has to look that Elwood in not at home, because whenever Elwood introduces the guests to Harvey, they suddenly flee the set. After Elwood has unintentionally ruined another soirée, his sister plans to bring him into an asylum. There, she is first thought to be the mentally sick one and not her brother, because with his exceptional politeness, he is soon a friend of the younger physician and his assistant. In and around the clinic, Elwood invites the doorman, the physician, his assistant, the two nurses and even the very rude white slaver into his home and or for having a few drinks in the bars of downtown.After his sister is released from tube-bad-therapy and other atrocities, because one started to realize that the sick person is the brother, the whole clinic staff starts to look for Elwood. This one, however, has convinced the chief-physician about the existence of Harvey, which leads to many funny confusions. When the younger physician later says to Elwood We all have to deal with reality, Elwood answers Well, I rustled with reality for thirty-five years, doctor, and I am happy to state I finally won out over it. But Elwood P. Dowd is not a Don Quixote, who, convinced about his knowledge that transcends the knowledge of the others, goes and tries to conquest the world. Elwood says In this world, you must be either smart or pleasant. I was smart. I recommend pleasant. This is exactly the opposite of Donquixotism superiority by letting everybody else pass, giving in to any rudeness, calling someone a nice man who just hit you in the face. This attitude gives you some aura of super-human. Let's call it Elwoodism. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey (1950) *** 1/2 (out of 4) One of the all-time great feel-good films, the movie stars James Stewart as a kind, easy go lucky guy who just happens to have an invisible friend, Harvey, who is a six-foot, three and a half inch rabbit. After embarrassing his sister (Josephine Hull) one time too many, she goes to put Stewart away but the doctors have a hard time getting him (and Harvey). This is a very strange and surreal film that slowly works itself on you and by the end you can't help to feel as if you've just stepped out of the shower. If there was ever a film out there that you could watch and feel better afterwards than this one is it. I'm really not sure what magic this film has going for it but it leaks out during every single scene. I honestly believe that had any other actor in the world played the main role then the film would have been a complete disaster. Stewart gives another terrific performance and his brilliance of an actor is all over the place here. I think the most important thing he brings to the role is the fact that he can make the viewer overlook that we can't see Harvey and Stewart really pushes his charm and sweetness to the point where we just go along with him and accept it as a fact that a big rabbit is standing next to him. Oscar winner Hull is hilarious from start to finish as is the supporting cast, which includes Cecil Kellaway, Charles Drake and Peggy Dow. The movie has one hilarious scene after another but I think the best moment is the scene where Hull tries to have Stewart committed but things go terribly wrong. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully brilliant!","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I must say this is a perfect movie. It's entertaining, makes you laugh (even though it's 50 or more years old), it's unpretentious, honest and very well done. Of course, it has James Stewart and an invisible rabbit as main characters! What else can you ask for? Stewart gives a great performance as a happy man that never gets tired of being so. It's just a model to follow and really learn from. if all of us would be a little like Elwood P. Dowd, definitely the world would be a better one.I don't like to spoil the movies unless they are bad, otherwise I let people read my comment and go directly to watch them. So that's all I'll say.Go watch it immediately and you'll end up happier than you were before.Guaranteed! "},{"Title":"Elwood, a gentleman who is eccentric, befriends a six-foot white rabbit, causing family embarrassment.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched it for umpteenth time last night on the tube (God forbid). I became entranced as the movie wended its way on. I couldn't help but fall in love with Elwood, or rather, become envious of him. He took everything so lightly and nothing seemed to upset him.At the end of the film, the MC noted that Stewart wanted to make Elwood a little more crusty around the edges. He did so in a TV movie version 20 years later, the MC said, but I have never seen it. Actually, I like Elwood just the way that Jimmy portrayed him. That is the way I want to think of and remember Elwood. And, of course, who wouldn't want to have Harvey as a friend? "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is heartbreaking,  heart-warming, delightful and charming.  I adore this movie.  The dialog is intelligent and witty.  The movie flows beautifully.  I wish more people would see this movie...i cannot keep from awwww ing throughout this movie.  It is my very favorite film.  Jimmy Stewart is perfection in his film. "}{"Title":"Wonderful feel-good movie","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Harvey is one of those movies that no matter how many times you watch it, you can keep watching it over and over again. We've all felt like Elwood sometime in our lives, and the thought of having a Pooka spirit makes problems seem so much easier to get through. When I first read about Harvey, I was wondering to myself whether I would like it or not. If you haven't seen it and are wondering the same thing, I will give you some very good advice. Go straight out, buy it, run home and watch it. Then rewind the tape and watch it again. And again. It really is that good. The best line Why do you call him Harvey? Well, that's his name. Did you ever know anyone with that name? No, I guess that's why I had such high hopes for it. This is the line that sums up Elwood's life completely. You can tell how many disappointments he has had in his life in one line from the film. Definitely one of the best movies ever made, if only for the simplicity and sweetness of the story. It really deserves five stars and a place in everyones hearts. "},{"Title":"Stewart's warmest performance...","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       Harvey contains James Stewart's warmest, and finest performance of his career.  Harvey is one of my favorite films of all time, in fact it ties with two others in the number one spot on my top ten list.  Based on the play by Mary Chase, this film is warm, funny, and to some just plain weird.  To me it is ingenious.      Aside from giving Josephine Hull a Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, this film showcases the unique talent of Jimmy Stewart co-staring an invisible 6'2 rabbit.  Stewart was so convincing that people came up and actually asked to talk to Harvey.The plot consists of Elwood P. Dowd (Stewart), a benevolent drunk, and his imaginary rabbit.  Yes, Elwood may be inebriated most of the time, but I'll be darned if he isn't just the nicest guy, and the rabbit isn't so bad either.      Since Elwood is obviously not harvesting a full crop, his sister lives in great fear of being disgraced.  The Dowd's are a rich family, and Veta (Hull) does not wish to scar the family name.  After a particular amusing interruption at a party she tried to have in his absence she decides it is finally time to commit him.      That's all I can say without giving away too much.  The film remains my favorite simply because of Stewart's performance.  As Veta said once in the film, Every now and again I see, Harvey.        The whole cast is brilliant.  Elwood's pleasant smile, and quiet way are a refreshing sight to see in today's cynical world.  Besides he the one of the first people to actually have a card, The name is Dowd, Elwood P.  If you should ever need to call me, call this number down her, that top one is the old number.  "},{"Title":"This is one of the cinemas great fantasy comedies.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One is hesitant to write comments on such a long-standing classic as Harvey, but after recently reviewing it, I just must do so!  It is definitely one of Jimmy Stewart's best movies, which is saying much. Harvey says a lot which is timeless  About reality vs. fantasy, and how the zone between the two rather shifts around a lot.   Elwood Dodd, the character played by Stewart, has a friend--a Pooka named Harvey. Harvey is a giant rabbit--stands well over 6 feet.  Harvey hangs with Elwood, and they enjoy each day--and each days events together. Of course, Harvey is invisible, but that doesn't stop Mr. Dodd from holding long and short discourse with old Harvey.  So, his relatives--mainly his older sister--think him quite mad.  And it all develops from there, on the day and night when his sister--very hesitantly--decides to commit Elwood to a local asylum.  But it does not happen, and how it doesn't happen is such a funny and telling series of events, that it has made the play Harvey a classic, and the movie version as well. Rich with many layers of meaning, done in an original and funny way. A absolute must see--Harvey is eternal.   "},{"Title":"My Favourite Comedy Movie","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Harvey is a light hearted comedy filled with subtle and low key humor and not to mention a truckload of nostalgic charm. Many old-fashioned movies which are said to be classic 'must see' pictures seem goofy and obvious to me. Movies like Casablanca are said to be filled with Nostalgic Charm but I simply disagree, as the acting is absolutely awful.Harvey's main character is Elwood.P.Dowd - a man who is so cheerful and polite everyone likes him until they meet Harvey, his friend. Now, Harvey isn't a rude fellow. In fact he never says anything that anyone can hear except Elwood (James Stewart). The problem with Harvey  is that he is invisible to everyone apart from Elwood!. Elwood tells us that Harvey is a big white rabbit. In fact, so big the rabbit is 6 foot 3 and a half inches tall. People immediately think Elwood is nutty when he tries to introduce them to Harvey. And the people who hate dealing with this the most are his sister Veta (Josephine Hull) and his sister's daughter Mertal May who are constantly made to endure Elwood's antics. Many parties and social gatherings are either ruined or canceled because of Elwood.The character Elwood.P.Dowd is one of the most likable characters I've ever met in a movie. He's so gentle to everyone and he is polite and never has a nasty word to say. He always has some great philosophies on life and some great little stories to tell. This character is so likable due to two factors.  The first factor is the movie's script. This is easily the best script I've seen in a comedy movie. Every joke just seems to work - even the most obvious ones for which there are very little. And the 2nd factor is the actor James Stewart. This is easily the best performance of his career. How he did not win best actor in the Oscars is something I'll never understand.There are some many delightful scenes in this movie which get better with every passing viewing. This is the sort of film which you could watch 4 times in one year and still enjoy it the next time you watch it. This film has a lot to say. It offers many kind philosophies and little words of wisdom which I will not give away and nearly all of its humor is original and heavily smile inducing. Harvey is one of the finest films I've ever seen and definitely the best comedy I've ever seen. 5 STARS  "},{"Title":"Where can I get a pooka?","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, he wasn't bad as George Bailey in It's a Wonderful Life, but Elwood P. Dowd is the character Jimmy Stewart was born to play. His speech outside Charlie's bar is beautiful, as he describes how he spends his days, and his sister's transformation at the end, when she realizes she likes him better insane, is a guaranteed smile-through-your-tears moment.I also cherish the bit where Dr. Sanderson thinks Dowd has been wrongly committed to the mental hospital and tries to explain that he and the nurse have made a mistake. Dowd believes he's referring to a sexual indiscretion. The doctor says, Of course, if I had seen your sister first ...  Stewart's shocked expression is priceless!This film leaves me yearning for two things my very own pooka, and Akron, cold beer and 'poor, poor thing.' See it; you'll understand!  "},{"Title":"The Good in Everyone","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  HARVEY has to be one of the best movies ever made due to its inner message. James Stewart gives yet another sparkling performance but the best part of the film was how Elwood (Stewart) finds something good in everyone he meets. Whether the person is bitter at the time, has a poor record in life or just a new face in town, Elwood always gives them his greeting card of friendship and offers dinner to anyone who accepts.  In a society of fast paced, ignorant people who feel they are above the law, more people like Elwood are needed.  Maybe everybody needs a Harvey to reduce the amount of pain in the world, and besides, everybody can use another best friend. "},{"Title":"The Great Initiator","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a fantastic movie!  I have seen it many times, and adore it more each time.  This movie finally made my husband realize that movies don't have to be in color to be good.  Even my children love it.  The comedy, the script, the acting...all timeless.  And Harvey was the first movie I saw starring James Stewart, and now I am hooked.  I strongly urge everyone to rent it as soon as possible! "},{"Title":"alcoholic embarrasses his socially prominent family","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most witty and compassionate films ever made. Writer Mary Chase deserves most of the credit, but the acting and cinematography are also masterful. This is one of the few films that can make one laugh and cry. It's a very insightful plea for tolerance and understanding. Although the subject is alcoholism, homophobes should benefit from seeing the film. James Stewart was never more appealing and subtle. If you know of a better comedy, let us know. "},{"Title":"Long, boring, awful","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I understand the whimsical nature of the story, and the purported deeper questions... like who are the sane ones? who really are the happy ones? Also, I love Jimmy Stewart as an actor. Once again, he is fantastic... but the story is flat out stupid. You will wait and wait for something interesting to happen, and you will be disappointed. So boring and stupid! It is one of those movies where you hope that some amazing ending will come to save the movie, but no just more disappointment as the end just simply comes. I smiled a couple times but otherwise it was a long, boring movie and a complete waste of time.Watch any other Jimmy Stewart movie for the 20th time before watching this drivel. "},{"Title":"...Harvey has overcome not only time and space, but any objections.","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jimmy Stewart has played so many Everyman roles that it seems the part of Elwood P. Dowd was made specifically for him. Although the character of Harvey was written as a six foot, three and a half inch rabbit, Stewart himself stated that he 'made' Harvey six feet, eight inches in order to look up at him. For a concept like this to work, the writing had to be special enough to make the story convincing, and special it was. By the end of the picture, you're almost ready to believe that a giant invisible rabbit might be a better tonic for staying sane in this crazy world than all the psychiatry that science can muster.What I find particularly interesting about the character of Dowd, Elwood P, is that he was seemingly portrayed as an alcoholic with a touch of mental illness. Yet for all that, you never see him actually take a drink. It's inferred of course, and you see him ordering martinis at Charlie's and going for the hidden whiskey bottle in the bookcase, but you don't actually see him drinking. His explanation of how he met Harvey in the first place is told with such downright sincerity that it becomes plausible to Dr. Sanderson (Charle Drake) and Nurse Kelly (Peggy Dow). That's why it becomes so absurdly logical later in the story to see Dr. Chumley on the couch admitting his innermost feelings to Dowd, who wisely attends his counsel. The film is full of character reversals like that, adding to the whimsical nature of the story and making it a fun picture to watch.There's a line in the film in which Stewart's character remembers his mother's advice about being oh so smart or oh so pleasant. Having tried the smart route for most of his life, Elwood P. Dowd eventually came to realize that he'd rather recommend pleasant. Having a fine time wherever you are and whoever you're with is probably the best take away one might glean from Harvey. Not the worst advice if you don't have your own personal pooka. "}{"Title":"Simple but clever classic comedy","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A story of a man talking to a tall imaginary rabbit seems like a child's film, but Harvey is anything but -- in fact it challenges our tendency to dismiss it as such. It is a case study of a perfectly delusional but perfectly charming middle-aged man who despite those around him believing him insane, ends up making them drive themselves crazy.Based on Mary Chase's Pulitzer-winning play (Chase also had a hand in the screenplay), Harvey tells the story of Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart), who as mentioned appears to have an imaginary friend rabbit who accompanies him to the bars where he meets people and invites them to have drinks at his house sometime. He appears to have no job and his older sister Veta (Josephine Hull) is embarrassed by his behavior, enough to the point where she finally takes him to a mental hospital to be committed, where farce-like humor ensues.Stewart, who has always fallen nicely into roles involving naive people passionately committed to something, is an ideal choice for Elwood. He gives the role a dreamy quality few of the other great actors of the '40s and '50s could have. Elwood is warm, kind-hearted, complimentary and other than drinking a lot and talking to an imaginary rabbit, seems devoid of any other vices or character flaws.As the doctors and nurses at the mental hospital get involved, we learn more about Elwood. The film is like a psychological case study in which we become so focused wanting to know what is triggering his delusion that we miss the point. That is until Chase's wonderful script makes sense of it toward the end.The film has the vibe of a very straight play adaptation. My guess would be that little of script changed; there's a lot of expository dialogue in the beginning. There's also not a whole lot of interesting visual storytelling. About the best thing director Henry Koster does other than not actually show Harvey is include where Harvey 'is' in the frame of his shot, which as I read was suggested by Stewart. The film relies mostly on the talents of Stewart and of Oscar-winner Hull as the completely whiny and over-dramatic old coot of a sister and the thoughtful and simplistic wisdom of Chase's script that preaches that normality is relative and that kindness is the true measure of character. "},{"Title":"Mr. Dowd has a very special friend","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey is a unique film in it's own. My hat is off to Jimmie once again for his superb acting. The movie rides on the back of him and his special friend, Harvey.Mr. Dowd, the main character is as happy-go-lucky as they come. He's an extremely polite and thoughtful person, and even so his family tries to hide him from their friends/house guests. Mr. Dowd has a very tall and very invisible upright-walking rabbit who accompanies him daily.His family tries to lock him up in a mental hospital. His 'illness' doesn't hinder him at all. To the average person, they see Mr. Dowd walking down the street having a seemingly one sided conversation. He holds doors for Harvey, pulls out extra seating at the dinner table, reserves barstools, etc.His interactions with Harvey set a standard in acting. Period.The movie is downright heartwarming and fun. It's a celebration of friendship. It makes me wonder about those people who walk down the street at night, talking to themselves. I wonder if they're in the company of a six foot tall rabbit? "},{"Title":"I used to be smart. I recommend pleasant","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In the AFI's list of greatest movie stars of all time, the top three were Humphrey Bogart, Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart. In terms of popularity among filmgoers,I disagree and think most would probably choose as one-two Clark Gable, the so-called King of Hollywood who lost some luster from his crown after returning from World War 2, and John Wayne, who after the war was the Duke who became the new King. Bogie played too many gangsters (it's been said that he was sent to the electric chair 12 times in his film career) to be a fan favorite and Cary Grant was a little too British to be loved by American audiences. That leaves Gary Cooper to round out my top three of the most popular actors. Only Gable was a bigger public draw in the era from the silents to WW2. But after the war, like Gable, Cooper only had one really great film, HIGH NOON.Sadly,both Gable and Coop saw their starlight fade in the postwar years. That brings us to the #3 greatest AFI star, Jimmy Stewart. Not a heartthrob among the ladies like Gable and Grant nor the action hero like Cooper and Wayne, Stewart made a career of playing the ordinary guy who does extraordinary things. He and John Wayne basically played themselves for five decades and nobody could have done it better. And with few exceptions, both he and the Duke always played the good guy in their pictures. In HARVEY, you couldn't pick a better good-guy role. Stewart took the character he'd played on Broadway to Hollywood and put his stamp on one of the most memorable characters to hit the silver screen Elwood P. Dowd, who chose pleasant over smart. The Academy voters who failed to honor him with the Oscar for this ought to have been committed to the Chumley Rest home themselves, and Cecil Kellaway deserved at least an Academy nomination for his part in the picture. Although the film delivers a strong message about tolerance for those who act differently than the norm, it succeeds just as well as a story of a man with a strange quirk who nevertheless brings so much happiness into the lives of those whom he and Harvey touches. He and Harvey touched me, too.Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"I've always loved this film...","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...,as well as practically all of Mr. Stewart's work. It is as charming and endearing a story as one could ever hope to find. But something has always puzzled me If, as we know, Mr. Stewart himself stood 6'3, why did he always look up at Harvey, who, at 6'3 1/2, is only an half in taller? From the angle(s) it would appear that Harvey is 7', or taller.This movie has always deserved a 10, so far as I'm concerned; but it gets a 9.99 because of this minor infraction by either Mr. Stewart or the director. View it. Without hesitation. Clear your head and give it your complete attention; you will be completely enthralled. If you've never seen this movie you've missed out on one of the most engaging pieces of cinema in the last hundred years!JR "},{"Title":"Pleasant, but dated","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In this world you've either got to be oh so smart or oh so pleasant. I was smart for years. I recommend pleasant.Harvey, Jimmy Stewart, Universal International Pictures. All of these warm, charming, phony, & dead. The sweetness of the film comes from its refreshing, if naive, optimism about human nature. Stewart rattles off a few truly poetic monologues about Harvey that seemingly boost the film's gravitas, but when you really lay the film on the slab, it appears irresponsibly simple-minded. What is Elwood P. Dowd's secret exactly? That alcoholism is a noble enterprise so long as it is pursued within the context of building fellowship? That, in trying to be pleasant, you can deftly avoid pain? It's sweet like all stories that say, gee, wouldn't the world be swell if everyone were just nicer to everyone else, but such stories have no business posturing as humanist or even adult fiction, as Harvey presumptuously does. How is it that Dowd doesn't get spiffed with all the drinking he does? Where is his belligerent side? Why doesn't he have to work? It's always amazed me how easy it is for jobless movie characters to tip cab drivers and the like. Where does Dowd get all his drinking money from? You may think I am quibbling, but the degree of seriousness with which I regard this film stem from the seriousness of the film's own subject matter. Don't tell me it isn't serious. That really it's just about a six foot rabbit and a bit silly and leave it at that. Harvey is nothing short of alcoholic apologetics. Sure, it's okay if there is nothing more to your life than drinking and making friends, because, hey that's what Dowd does and isn't Dowd happy?I bring this up to argue that the film is problematic, not (merely) socially but aesthetically. Nevermind Harvey. Why can't Dowd be real? Strip away just a layer of that affected civility and let me see some repressed hostility and pathological loneliness. As is, all he does is drink, introduce himself to people, and politely invite them to dinner to the chagrin of his sister. That's it. That's the totality of his being. And he's the moral compass of the film. More than that, he's a shaman! Throw a little tension, a dash of denial into the character and suddenly you've got a strikingly touching individual. Still with the sweetness and politeness and the rabbit and all of it, but also with weakness and contradiction and all of the other wonderful things that make us human.Anyway, I've babbled on a bit too long and I really must bring this to a close. It's good enough, really. Stewart is great at being a sweetheart. But if you want a real treat, I'd do a doubleheader, following this up with Hitchcock's Vertigo. That way you get to see the dark side of Stewart's aww-shucks persona and it'll provide a springboard for fantasizing about how great it would have been if they had the guts to make the movie about a guy and his six-foot rabbit spirit a bit more realistic. "},{"Title":"contrast this rabbit with the one in Donnie Darko","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've noticed that during the last few years, portrayals of rabbits in movies look rather menacing, such as Donnie Darko*. Harvey brings us back to a time when rabbits could be cute and fluffy, or as acerbic as Bugs Bunny. The imaginary title character is apparently a composite, possibly an extension of Elwood P. Dowd's (Jimmy Stewart) personality. Of course, that sets in motion a series of wacky events in the movie.This movie may have brought Jimmy Stewart's aw shucks demeanor to its fullest. No matter what weird thing he does in the movie, you root for him (well duh, when do you not root for Jimmy Stewart?). Harvey is truly a movie for the ages. Also starring Josephine Hull (who won Best Supporting Actress), Peggy Dow, Charles Drake, Cecil Kellaway, Victoria Horne and Jesse White.*Not that there's anything wrong with menacing-looking rabbits; it actually looks kinda neat. The Steve Martin black comedy Novocaine also had a creepy rabbit. But many years earlier, the Twilight Zone movie also had an evil rabbit, and I've heard of Night of the Lepus (which apparently had a killer bunny) but never seen it. "},{"Title":"THE feel-good movie","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is THE feel-good movie, especially if you've ever felt that you have the answer & now if only someone would ask you the question. The Stewart character has the answer, & people keep skating around the question, so he keeps telling them about Harvey. And they think he's nuts, of course. I never could make up my mind if he was crazy or if Harvey was real. I finally gave up thinking about it & just enjoyed the movie! This film may be over 50 years old, but it still holds up. In fact, it just gets better as our world gets more & more complex & demanding. Remade with Harry Anderson in the Jimmy Stewart role; almost as good. "},{"Title":"Rumpots And Crackpots And How Are You, Mr. Wilson?","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Billy Joel once sang that everyone goes South, every now and then. Only Elwood P. Dowd didn't buy a return ticket, either for himself or for his longtime companion, Harvey. Good thing, too, for movie lovers, since the result is one of the great moments of film.Just calling Harvey a fine comedy seems a cruel misconception. Harvey is a presentation of life the way it should be. It features one of cinema's great performances, by James Stewart in the role of Elwood Dowd, a well-bred man of supremely good disposition who apparently has chucked his Yale education and high society vantage point in favor of a friendship with a giant pooka, or mystical Celtic rabbit, who takes the name Harvey.Some people are blind, Dowd explains. That's very often brought to my attention. That's especially true, one supposes, when he tries to introduce people to Harvey. Harvey is more than a rabbit; he's a state of mind. Dowd has come to a conclusion about this rat race we call life, from some wisdom his mother gave him 'In this world you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant.' Well for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. And you can quote me.An earlier reviewer, jrfranchi, likened this film to Being There, and in my view that's hitting the nail on the head. Harvey is a warm-hearted fable, too, very in the spirit of Peter Sellers' greatest role only without the existential angst of Being There. Here you have a character who is God's fool, like Chance the Gardener, only there's no question about whether Elwood P. Dowd is protected by the way of the world. His own long-suffering sister, Veta Simmons, puts it like this I never should have done anything about Elwood. Something protects him. That awful pooka.Josephine Hull won an Oscar for her performance as Veta in this film, and a great choice it was, too, but if you had to give this film one acting Oscar, it would have to be James Stewart as Elwood. Did any comedy in history ever deserve an acting Oscar more? I saw Vertigo, and Stewart's performance as one of the most complex characters ever presented in film, and I'm here to say, with all due respect, he's even better presenting the sweetness and light that is Elwood P. Dowd. How can anyone watch him in that scene outside Charlie's with Dr. Sanderson and Miss Kelly, when he talks about collecting all the warm glows of those people's smiles, and not tear up like I do? It's even more affecting to realize, as Elwood seems to will himself not to, that introducing all his new friends to Harvey represents a kind of faux pas, a reason why they subsequently disappear.Harvey hits notes like that, yet it never stops being so doggone funny. I'll risk spoiling some punchlines to get this across. Hop hop hop hippity hop, love is all I need. People get run over by trucks every day. Why can't that happen to Elwood? Isn't that Mrs. Frank Cummings? Doesn't she look ghastly? I thought she was dead. I must get a closer look. Poor, poor thing... Interesting work? I haven't failed, judge. I haven't even tried yet. Sense And Sensibility...Hmm...No, Random House...Usual acknowledgments.The great thing about Harvey is you don't really need the laughs to warm yourself in the warm glow of this movie. Just a few moments in its presence makes you feel like a better person. One scene that always gets me is the first time we see Elwood in a bar, and he's taken advantage of, just as we'd expect he would, by a jerk who tells the bartender the rabbit will pay for his drink. You want the guy to get what he deserves, but instead Elwood waves and says Harvey would be delighted...The fact is that Harvey and Elwood can afford such users more than you and I can. He drinks to excess, but he never suffers for it. He believes in the goodness of his fellow man, and never lets himself see otherwise. Comedies are about laughing at people, yet the glory of Harvey is you aren't quite sure whether the joke's on them or you. Elwood P. Dowd, in his battle with the 20th century, may be more heroic than Homer. He's a lesson to us all. I wish reality was as amenable to him as he is to it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, whimsical film.","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've wrestled with reality for 35 years, Doctor, and I'm happy to state I finally won out over it. Jimmy Stewart, in one of his personal favorite film and stage roles, portrays Elwood P. Dowd, a gentle philosopher and harmless alcoholic who, after his mother's death, befriends an imaginary - or is he? - 6'3.5 white rabbit; a Pooka who goes by the name of Harvey. Unfortunately, Harvey is invisible to just about everyone but Elwood. Elwood wanders through life perfectly happy, harming no one, but alienating his family and many of the townspeople with his friend.Josephine Hull, (who won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role in the film; she also played the part on-stage) portrays his sister Veta Louise Simmons, and she steals the film, IMO; her facial expressions and gestures are priceless (she also played one of the aunts in Arsenic and Old Lace, 1944).Jimmy Stewart found himself personally identified with the role for many years, much to his delight, remarking in interviews how strangers would sometimes stop him in the street and seriously ask him if Harvey were with him, only to be kindly told, No, he's at home today, with a slight cold or some other humoring excuse for the lack of his invisible friend.The pacing is fast and furious, and the dialogue alternately hilarious and touching in this whimsical, bittersweet tale of illusions and realities. Of course the movie is dated and implausible today in several respects; however it still holds a gentle, childlike appeal that transcends time. It's a great, simply-told feel-good movie to start off the holiday season. "},{"Title":"One of the Stewarts Best and High in the Top Films of all times.","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although many cite alcoholism as elwoods problem in the film I do not think this is the case.  He is happy and pleasant and is kind to everyone....so he must be crazy.Too often in our own lives we look elsewhere for happiness and hope that other places or  things will bring us happiness. Only yourself can make you happy and that is the main point  of this movie. Is Harvey a rabbit? A guardian angel? A figment of the imagination?To Elwood and his friends it does not matter. That is what makes this so good. While the 50's were all about conformity this film takes the  opposite option and does it with style. I try to picture someone other than Stewart as Elwood  and I don't think any actor could have even come close to his performance. It was the role he  was made to play!If you plan to study film make this one your first project! "}{"Title":"perfect motion picture o","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  yeah this film is perfect, its one of the best films i have ever seen, as one other comment i read mentioned, yes the scene in the alley is the best scene, and is one of the greatest scenes i have ever seen in any film. however hollywood should not dare remake this film, tom hanks, no i dont think so. they will fail miserably at any rate, it isnt possible for them to make it better ( as if they ever could ), so whats the point ?after watching this film it makes me want to be a better person, elwood is so damn nice, so ridiculously nice that it leaves me feeling i wish i could be like that.watch this film, nah buy this film. "},{"Title":"A Film made in Heaven?","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A film such as Harvey can only come along every so often, indeed it is such a rare commodity that it could have been made in Heaven.James Stewart (need I say?) is exquisite but it is the script, the pacing, dammit just *everything* that makes this utter bliss.Dowd recalling how he first met Harvey, and the cab-driver at the end explaining why he wants his money before people leave the clinic, are just two of the defining moments of this cinematic genius. "},{"Title":"Ode to Dowd","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Elwood P. Dowd is the most enjoyable character in the history of literature. Every action Jimmy Stewart takes, every dim witted and savant insight gives the viewer a peaceful easy feeling, comparable, but 1,000 times greater than when you first experienced Tom Hanks as Forest Gump.I've heard rumors of this film being remade in the near future. Don't know if it's true. I don't like to think of young people seeing a new rendition, and not knowing what true magic Harvey once was. I fear for the coming generation. "},{"Title":"Pure magic.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Never mind the warm-and-fuzzy fluff that swirls around in this movie like confetti - just experience Jimmy Stewart dancing his way into your heart with simple deliveries like I always have a wonderful time, wherever I am, whoever I'm with. This is simply a wonderful movie, filled with hope, optimism, transformation, humor and the truly irrepressible and utterly disarming Jimmy Stewart magic. What I found most incredible about the fantasy element in the movie is that the question whether Harvey, the 6ft3in rabbit really exists almost fades into irrelevance, since the rationale for his 'existence', as a metaphor for all the purity and warmth and kindness that has been extinguished from humans, is as real as Stewart's soliloquies with Harvey come across as. Harvey needs to exist, and the real magic in the movie lies in succeeding to make us believe that.  "},{"Title":"A truely beautiful film.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion, this film is an absolute clasic of its time. Its wondefully sweet and one of those films which shows how powerful the use of imagination really is. The end is enough to bring a tear to anyones eyes. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time great comedies!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Harvey is one of those movies that I can actually say that it made me feel good after I watched it. And this feeling lasted at least for the rest of the day. It's amazing. I can't imagine watching anyone other than Jimmy Stewart in this role. This is definitely one of his best performances of his long, impressive career (Stewart is one of my favorite actors). I also wish I knew a pooka like Harvey. Really. He seems like he would be a good friend to have around. To anyone who has not seen this movie, watch it, it's great. My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"if you only get to see one Jimmy Stewart film in your life, let it be this one !!!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Harvey is a fantastic film... there are not really words that describe it... It is a most beautiful but hilarious film...Jimmy Stewart is absolutely outstanding and incredibly sincere and lovable as eccentric Elwood P Dowd. i find the way he always opens doors and speaks to this invisible rabbit is absolutely wonderful... there is no way that you could not beleive that there really is a rabbit there because Jimmy Stewart makes it sooo believable, and thats what wonderful about it, it's sooo real , you can at times almost see Harvey the rabbit, just by the ways Jimmy Stewart acts around him and talks to him... it really makes you believe that there is someone or at least something there.Another heartwarming thing about the film is Elwood P Dowd's attitude to life and those around him... he thinks nothing of asking complete strangers like taxi drivers or people he meets in bars to come over to his house and have tea with him. Everything he says is spoken with such sincerity that you honestly wish that you too knew someone as lovely as Elwood P Dowd. He is so gentle and kind and honest that you just cannot fail to fall instantly in love with this character.This film is about as loveable as they possibly come, once you've seen it once, you will absolutely and completely fall in love with it. It's beautiful and also very poignant and meaningful... Elwood P Dowd says a lot of things that really make sense... so listen hard !!my favourite quote is ... ' in this life you have to be oh so smart or oh so pleasent, for years i was smart... now i recommend pleasent.'but there are some many other wonderful lines from that film which i just can't remember right now.... see just another great reason for you all to go and watch this film !!An absolute must see, for Jimmy fans and non Jimmy fans alike... i guarantee that any non jimmy lover will be completed converted after watching this... you cannot fail to fall absolutely and hopelessly in love with Jimmy Stewart/Elwood P Dowd... The wonderful thing is that you can imagine the real Jimmy Stewart being exactly the same out of character...an absolute must see ! "},{"Title":"Go out right now and see it!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really hate to spoil Harvey by talking too much about it. I think a great deal of its beauty is in what you can discover for yourself about it.All you need to know is that it's great. The acting is superb all-around, most of all from Jimmy Stewart and Josephine Hull (who won an Osacr for her performance). The writing is top-notch witty, thoughtful, beautiful, hilarious.Harvey is truly incredible it's very funny, but it's not just a comedy. The story has some beautiful ideas in it that deserve to be mulled over for quite a long time. Really, I love this movie.Go NOW, and see it. If you're still reading you're not going and seeing it! Didn't you hear me? Go! Begone! See it!Hooray! "},{"Title":"weird and extremely funny","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best comedies I have ever seen, and certainly one of the oddest. James Stewart is great, as always, and the plot is original and quite unpredictable.  "},{"Title":"Stewart shines in charming comedy","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jimmy Stewart was most famous for playing gentle, clumsy characters often taken advantage of like Mr. Smith or George Bailey. Most of his later roles were more complex and serious like in Liberty Valance or Broken Arrow. One exception is his performance as Elwood P. Dowd in Harvey. This is a fun and heart-warming comedy even if it does deal with a drunk who sees a six-foot tall rabbit invisible to others. Jimmy truly shines here, in one of his most memorable roles. Josephine Hull, best known as Aunt Abby in Arsenic and Old Lace is great as Stewart's much older sister who has long been embarassed by Elwood and his drunken fantasies. Stewart has the difficult task of talking to the rabbit and responding to it as if it was really there and does a great job. This is a very funny movie and is worth watching over and over. Like Mr. Deeds, Elwood shows that the people we often think of as being crazy are usually saner than they might seem. "}{"Title":" A 'feelgood' masterpiece","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  James Stewart's greatest performance since It's A Wonderful Life in a perfect 'feelgood' movie. His soliloquy outside the bar when he describes how he first met Harvey the six foot rabbit ranks among the great moments in movie history.I have played this sequence over and over again - its a masterpiece. My fourteen year old twins who normally regard old black and white films as 'naff' watched and enjoyed Harvey. It's a real pleasure to return to Elgood.P.Dowd and his Pooka now I have it on video. Maybe we should all have a Harvey, it would probably relieve much of the stress in the world. "},{"Title":"A wonderful escape from reality.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have enjoyed this movie many many times since it came out in the early 1950s.  Since video tapes became available, I have purchased this one and look at it for relaxation 3 or 4 times a year.  I have been a fan of Jimmy Stewart all along.  The first time I witnessed Harvey was the stage production with Joe E Brown.  I wish that had been filmed.I rented and watched the 1996 Harvey with Harry Anderson but found it disappointing.  Probably because I can only see Stewart as the real Harvey. For people who like Harvey I recommend Being There with Peter Sellers and King of Hearts with Alan Bates. "},{"Title":"Oh-so-smart & oh-so-pleasant.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've never really liked old movies, so many were just star vehicles or just too perfect for words (I really can't bear It's a Wonderful Life)...but Harvey is one of the few that stand out.Jimmy Stewart is definitely my favourite 'black-and-white' actor and I think this role was close to his best (certainly better than The Philadelphia Story for which he got the Oscar).  Stewart plays his character constantly inebriated and 'oh-so-pleasant' and you can't help but warm to his misunderstood Mr Dowd.  His family want him committed for his belief that he has a constant companion that just happens to be an invisible white rabbit over 6' tall...but I think today they'd want to commit him more for his constantly happy attitude and desire to be friends with everybody, especially those not normally noticed.  But in being so pleasant, his life is the smartest one of all, and, not surprisingly, leaves him untouched by worries (with a little help from his invisible pal).The movie is whimsical and genuinely funny and was made in the perfect time when it comes to acting styles and production values.  This movie could not be made today and retain its charm or even its humour, and I doubt any one could ever match Jimmy Stewart in the main role.For its time, its place and its purpose, 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Life's tough-here's a movie that admits it!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If life were meant to be easy, God would have made the world a movie...here's one movie that dares to look at life and admit its not as easy as it looks.  Jimmy Stewart's appearance in this movie may not be his most famous but it is the jewel that adds the greatest luster to his increadible Hollywood crown.  Stewart depicts an alcoholic whose best friend is a six foot tall rabbit visible only to him.  Once a proud member of small town society, Stewart's Elwood P. Dowd now spends more of his time befriending drunken excons and embarrassing his society family than progressing his social standing.  The hidden question of the film is what could make a rich society man want to throw his money and prestige away for the life of an outcast?  When an attempt to have Dowd institutionalized fails, the family and the hospital staff are thrown into a chaotic that forces them to view the invisible rabbit Harvey for themselves. Harvey is more than an invisible rabbit (more specifically, a Pooka - an invisible spirit which likes to take animal form and cause mischief). Harvey embodies the carefree sense of happiness most people slowly loose beyond the age of five.  Dowd and Harvey have no sense of time, space, physical or social limitations but instead exist in their own realm of self-sustaining confidence and happiness.  The secret to Dowd and Harvey's (and eventually the rest of the character's) seemingly indepent and unrelenting joy is the final great message of the movie...that the greatest happiness a person can find can only come from themselves. "},{"Title":"The secret to happy living","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Fifty years after it was created, this film is more relevant than ever. James Stewart plays Elwood P Dowd, a man who has found happiness in life not through business success, cosmetic surgery, wealth, or fame, but through an over-developed sense of friendship. Elwood's closest friend happens to be a six-foot invisible white rabbit, but the film goes on to reveal him as a character capable of making friends with just about anyone.Though the film does deal with his drinking habit (portrayed in almost childish simplicity) it is the perceptions others have of him which provides the greatest depth to the film. To his close relatives he is an embarrassment, as his manners do not seem suitable for his social standing. But to those he befriends he is a charming and pleasant man with great insight. While he is being interviewed by a psychiatric doctor, Dowd offers a glimpse into his world when he explains how he followed the advice of his Grandmother In this world, Elwood,... you must be oh-so smart, or oh-so pleasant. For years I was smart,.. now I recommend pleasant--- you may quote me.Shortly after being exposed to Dowd's thinking, Dr Chumley himself begins to see the rabbit. Perhaps the rabbit is the personification of Dowd's blissfully simplistic view of life. And if such a belief system should seem bizarre and outdated in today's world it is worth remembering that when the rabbit wanted out, it opened the gate for itself !!!  "},{"Title":"Just About The Greatest Classic There Is","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The Wonderful Pulitzer Prize Play... becomes one of the Great Motion Pictures of our Time! Some may find me to be the one who hasn't got the mind or patience for old-time classics. You could say that I'm the kind who thinks above the surface, doesn't dig deeper, and likes it if there is a lot of explosions. You could say that I don't know what is good acting, maybe based on my voting history, maybe because I didn't like Casablanca, or maybe just because you don't like me. Let me just say that I don't care. I don't need your opinion to say out loud that this is the greatest classic movie there is. Jim Stewart is on my list of the top ten actors in cinema history. His depth in character can't go any deeper than rock bottom, and it's not that his character (whatever that may be) is totally out there or different beyond all reasons. It's that by means of being a simple man with simple needs and loves everything and everyone around him, flows through him like he puts everything he's got into this individual. His characters name is Elwood P. Dowd, a simple man with simple needs and loves everything and everyone around him. There something very special about this fine gentlemen, he's got one of the best friends anyone could ever hope possible. Someone who is there for him side by side every step of the way to see that there isn't a seconds time to his friend lonely. A friend who realizes that he is about the only friend that this man has. I don't mean to say that nobody likes Elwood P. Dowd, but because he is the only man who can literally see his best friend for what he really is. I don't have the answer to that, only Elwood P. Dowd does.The name of this game is Harvey. About a man named Elwood P. Dowd (Stewart) who lives with his sister Veta Louise Simmons (Hull) and his niece Myrtle Mae Simmons (Horne). Elwood is known as a man with an animated imagination, they think it to be because of his alcohol problem. The alcohol may have gotten to him over his years, depriving him of a job and forcing him to home with his sister, but certainly has nothing to do with his independent mind. He says to have befriended a someone who goes by the name Harvey. If you don't have the eyes or the will Harvey can't be seen. He is invisible to the naked eye, one untrained to accept something that they can't witness for thyself. Elwood is the only one who really sees him, for what and who he really is. A living creature with tissue and feelings like everyone else. People call Elwood crazy, giving his sister Myrtle a difficult time socializing with the towns folk. He means absolutely no harm, and she sees that, but through her care (so she says) she has him sent to the wacko house. Chumleys Rest Sanatorium, a facility for the mentally ill. Oh, if only they knew. From there on the story takes you through Elwood's life of dealing with all that the doctors and his sister throw at him. Not in the way some may take, Elwood is a very special man, and has the kind heart of a child. Something regular humans tend to grow out of. Wouldn't it be something if we could all keep our childhood state of mind, to be able to accept something for what it is? Instead of trying to see the reasoning behind it all? I guess it isn't possible. Which is why we have this movie to help us realize the kid inside all of us.****/**** stars "},{"Title":"What if God were one of us?' -- or a 6 ft, 8 inch rabbit??","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  'Harvey' with Jimmy Stewart as Elwood Dowd is simply a delightful movie. It has a very 'stage' look and feel, as it was adapted from the award-winning play. The DVD has a very nice picture and the extra with Stewart's narration is a great bonus. I can't imagine anyone NOT likeing 'Harvey', and is one of those older movies that looks very appropriate in B&W.The rest of my comments contain spoilers that should not be read by those who have not yet seen 'Harvey.'Watching the movie, it is clear to me that 'Harvey' is real. The hat with holes for the ears shows up at the clinic and no one knows where it came from. When the male nurse looks up the work 'poohka', the last line he reads is a direct reference to himself. Towards the end, when the clinic owner is being followed by Harvey, we see doors opening, as well as the iron gate near the end, when Elwood is joined by Harvey. Therefore, when Elwood describes how he first met Harvey, on the street, we must assume it is completely accurate. So, what is Harvey? After he makes himself visible to the old doctor, he changes from a grumpy old man to one of kindness, mirroring the demeanor of Elwood throughout the movie. So 'Harvey' must be a spirit, namely a devine spirit, that is a companion and positive influence to all those who see him. He simply takes on the form of a 6 ft, 8 inch rabbit or 'poohka' (or 'pookha'). There is a current TV series that plays on this theme, 'Joan of Arcadia', and God appears to Joan in different human forms, and inspires her daily life. As the song says, with improper grammar, 'What if God was one of us... "},{"Title":"Holy Harvey!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  HARVEY didn't change my life because of it's characters, but because of its character. Everybody enjoys this silly little story of a goofy nerd who thinks he sees an invisible friend (a common delusion among small children, but an adult whose constant companion is a tall, prankish, yet benign...rabbit?  For most of the film, Elwood P. Dowd goes around trying to introduce people to Harvey, but meets with basically two kinds of response.  Either people try to get him to abandon his folly, or they try to ignore his odd behavior.Eventually, we see him being committed to an asylum, by his sister Veta, (who, we find out later, has ALSO seen Harvey, though she will not admit to it!)  The proceedings are hilarious, of course, but underneath, there is a serious message.  Everyone senses that! Things become more confusing toward the end, as other people become friends with the (s)pook!  Even the head psychiatrist at the asylum forms a relationship with Harvey, though it doesn't last long...Harvey breaks it off!  We are shown that Harvey REALLY exists, as gates and windows are opened (talk about cheap special effects!) and, ultimately we see that he has power to change one's quality of life! Now, let me change that last sentence to ultimately we see that He has power to change one's quality of life! Watch HARVEY one more time, or twenty-five more times (as I have) and bear in mind that Mary Ellen Chase, who won the Pulitzer Prize for writing this play, (in which James Stewart won a Tony Award for playing Dowd on Broadway) also wrote a text that I used in college THE BIBLE AS LITERATURE. If you are familiar with the New Testament, dozens of things will pop out at you I was going to list some of them here, but I find that, like Dowd, I am faced with the difficulty of getting others to see through my eyes and feel what I feel. Suffice it to say, Dowd is NOT an alcoholic with delirium tremens.  He goes to the tavern to find people he can introduce to the Spirit, and invites them to dinner at his house.  He gives them a card, telling them that the address has been changed.  Why should that be a part of the script? Well, you either get it or you don't...or, like Veta, you get it, but you don't want to believe it...not to the extent that it would make you, to some extent, a misfit.  You might find yourself having to live in this world, while being, at the same time, not a part of it. For me, Harvey is REAL, but...I know him by another name! "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Harvey'","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I might as well get the bad stuff out of the way first I did not find this to be anywhere near as funny as most people did. In fact, I didn't get many laughs out of it at all. Much of the humor was just stupid.Josephine Hull, who won an Academy Award for her performance in this, was very annoying - a shrill woman who never stopped yakking, many times in hysterics. After assaulting my ears for almost an hour, I almost canned this film because of her abrasive character.However, the GOOD news when the story shifts back to Jimmy Stewart and others, the film picks up and becomes quite enjoyable. Stewart winds up making some very profound statements that are well worth watching and listening to a number of times. What a great attitude he had and what a pleasant person to emulate!Overall, it was a decent movie but not anywhere as good as I had hoped, or had heard it was, thanks in many parts to Hull's character. That can happen when your expectations are too high. Stewart was great, though. "},{"Title":"a great classic with some very memorable scenes","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So I watched 1950's Harvey. Well is it a classic, well yeah. Is it perfectly adapted for 60 years after its release well no, but its still really good. The foundation of this classic, lies in the great performance of Jimmy Stewart, combined with a good story, and memorable scenes. My favorite scene is near the end when Jimmy Stewart talks about all the people he meets everyday in an alley behind a bar. Could this movie be remade, well yeah, I would like to see a 21st century Harvey, but will people today like Harvey circa 1950, well I hope I am not alone in saying yes! if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Elwood is seeing somebody these days","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't believe I've ever seen the play performed, and this is the only filmed version that I've watched. This is a screwball comedy of manners(if you don't know what those terms mean, think like a sit-com, and jokes about the upper class), partially set at the world's most understaffed mental institution. The humor can get rude, has bits of fast talking, and it is pretty funny, although there are silly mix-ups and stuff that doesn't mean or affect anything(and was 100 minutes not enough to tie up all those plot threads?), and it gets to be over the top at times; it also occasionally tries too hard and falls flat. As I kind of expected, this is sappy here and there. Stewart is the real anchor, the one that keeps it from floating away in pure goofiness; he is the image of innocence, and the choice was made to not show this as a detriment to himself(as it undoubtedly would be, today; we are living in a more cynical era, and messages such as this one, as excessively sentimental as its presentation is on occasion in this, are worth keeping in mind). The pace is largely speedy. It's well-shot and edited. The acting is well-done, and fits the purpose. Given when it was released, this is a little sexist. There isn't much offensive content, other than a disturbing idea or two that are treated rather lightly. The DVD comes with a 7 minute intro by James(arguably with minor spoilers) and a trailer. I recommend this to those who can see themselves liking the concept. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Supreme film-making... A magical piece of work","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't say enough about Harvey, it's all been said and written already. This is one of the greatest comedy/drama films ever made, and James Stewart (one of the best actors in film history, if not the best of them all) is just superior in this role. Elwood's character is one of the most unique ones ever seen on screen. He's a 42 year old man - charming, innocent, good-hearted, even if a bit eccentric (some might say it's an understatement). I think if there has ever been a perfect movie, then this is one. Not only the supreme acting by JS, and his supporting crew, not only the story, but this is one of those movies that have more than one message in them. Harvey makes you stop and think for quite a while after it's over. It actually means something, and while you will probably laugh quite a few times during Harvey, at times it will also touch you, and excite you... All throughout the movie, you ask yourself, does Harvey, the 6'3 pooka (A huge rabbit from Celtic mythology) actually exist or is he just a product if some people (most notably Elwood's) imagination?... There are things that indicate both ways, and that's another stand-out element in this classic Hollywood film. It's a masterpiece, period, and I would recommend it to any one. It's not just a comedy, but it's a mature comedy/drama, a sophisticated, brilliant one at that. "},{"Title":"Harvey - A gentle spirit wins the day.","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jimmy Stewart is my favorite actor of all time and this is my favorite Jimmy Stewart film. That is saying a lot when you think of great, great films like The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, It's a Wonderful Life,Rear Window, Vertigo, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, etc.,etc.Sure Jimmy Stewart could play a tough guy, but in this film Jimmy Stewart plays Elwood P. Dowd, an eccentric, yet gentle-spirited man without an ounce of guile who pleasantly navigates his way through life.The film is funny, with some good slapstick humor, but in the end it is the gentle spirit of Elwood P. Dowd as portrayed by a truly great actor that makes this film unique.In the history of Hollywood there have been some great leading men, but I am hard-pressed to think of one who could have pulled of this role as well as WWII War Hero and Brigadier General - Jimmy Stewart. "},{"Title":"Charming, Most Unusual and Gentle Put Down of U.S. Statists and Snobs","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harvey (1950) Of all the films ever produced in Hollywood, only a very few can be labeled as charming, eccentric and well-scripted at the same time. I suggest Mary Chase's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, Harvey, adapted for the screen by herself, Oscar Brodney and Myles Connolly, can be considered one such work. The main story of the film can be summed in a single sentence Bright Elwood P. Dowd, Yale graduate, is driving his two female relatives to distraction because of his unfeigned friendship for and keeping company with a very tall white rabbit named Harvey, a pooka or Celtic animal familiar. The viewers are told that Dowd has inherited a house and money from his Mother, that his elder sister and her daughter are living in his house; and we see that what he does with his days is be pleasant to everyone, which includes having a drink every day at his favorite bar, iniviting all sorts of persons to dinner--and introducing citizens to his best friend. During the narrative, we do not at any time see Harvey, but we are given visual evidence of his real existence. The thrust of this charming, continually interesting and unusual story therefore is not whether Harvey is real but instead whether each person to whom Dowd introduces him approves of Harvey enough to respond to Dowd's interest, kindness and suggestions about how to stop being conventionally judgmental and start being more accepting of others--so they can learn to be happy. This is the same muted but definite anti-United States and pro-American message that one finds in a hundreds of other plays, serious and comedic--The Philadelphia Story and many others. This is the message of all films that scorn the century-long totalitarianizing of U.S. institutions under infallibility-preaching so-called leaders; of every film made about people of intelligence, sympathy and ability being forced to accept that they nowadays cannot succeed in becoming happy by use of their talents. That frustration, I suggest, led Chase to write the mid-century Harvey, long before others put forth the same message about a loss of humanity. Harvey is the same height as Abraham Lincoln, and his purpose, only half-explicitly stated, is the same as Lincoln's a house divided against itself cannot stand, and he is quietly trying to free the half of those in the United States who are spoiling their lives and those of others by acting against fairness. Harvey can stop time and allow a person to live our his fantasies--or else improve his/her life by convincing him to ignore the artificial barriers and class-distinctions that have been allowed to spoil the justice and happiness of millions. During the film, we see the shocking effect that the honesty of Dowd, who has given up boss-over-others games, has on those who are still buying into this unAmerican nonsense--all the while pretending they are doing ethically what they should. Veteran Henry Koster directed very solidly, with William Daniels' remarkable consistent cinematography, sets by Julia Heron and Bernard Herzbrun, understated music by Frank Skinner, skilled Art Direction by Herzbrun and Nathan Juran and Orry-Kelly's costumes as ornaments of his well-mounted expansion of a successful theatrical play. Among the large cast appearing in John Beck's production, supporting players such as Almira Sessions, Dick Wessel, Pat Flaherty, Nana Bryant, Minerva Urecal, Maudie Prickett, Graycie Mills, Clem Bevans, Aileen Carlyle and Wallace Ford all gain notice. Major parts are played by Jesse White, Peggy Dow, William H. Lynn, Victoria Horne and the great Cecil Kellaway. Charles Drake plays Dow's love interest, Josephine Hull his long-suffering sister, and James Stewart portrays Dowd as an amiable eccentric whose methods may be questioned but whose motives are depicted as unfailingly admirable. Unusual and funny. "},{"Title":"Agood lit nus test for today","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every time I watch a movie from the 40s 50s or 60s I'm amazed at how there is little difference between then and now. This film is no exception. This film stars James Stewart as Elwood P. Dowd an overly friendly person who claims to have an invisible 6ft rabbit named Harvey as his friend. This causes problems with his socially conscious family who want to commit him to an insane asylum. Now believe it or not it really doesn't matter whether Harvey is real or not. What matters is how the viewer sees Elwood. Is he nuts or is he sane? Well consider this am an walks up charming polite treats you and everyone around like they are the most important person around like they were his brother or sister regardless of race, religion or background. Yet this same person will tell you he sees an invisible rabbit who is 6ft tall. Now look at the people in Elwood's life. they are snobs who would treat people like dirt if they don't measure up, but these people don't claim to see Harvey. Who the viewer choose? All I can say is sometimes a few eccentricities are worth over looking for a good friend. "},{"Title":"Funny, but doesn't make you laugh.","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie centers around Elwood, who can see a 6 foot rabbit that is his friend. The storyline keeps its feet on the ground, which is a welcome sight after watching most movies that came out this year. It was made back in the days where there seemed to be little pressure to create dramatically suspenseful and sappy endings. This is both a good thing and bad thing. On the one hand, you're not rolling your eyes and swallowing plot holes, but on the other hand, the whole story goes over as sort of a joke thats very clever and funny, but doesn't crack you up. Well done, but nothing spectacular. Certainly no Marx Brothers, but might be nice for kids were it not for all the drinking. "},{"Title":"Koster Brava","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Henry Koster was a fine journeyman director who probably did little more on this film than keep out of the way of Jimmy Stewart and Josephine Hull and prevent the supporting cast from bumping into the furniture but for all that the finished product is something he can be proud of as can Mary Chase, who adapted her own Broadway Pulitzer Prizewinning play for the screen. Despite the inevitable - if not obligatory 'opening out' the stage origins are apparent but the movie is no worse for that - seasoned playgoers won't mind and non-playgoers won't know or care - and even the central flaw - Elwood P. Dowd lives in a small town where everyone knows everyone else so his eccentricity would be well documented and the ladies who come for tea at the beginning would take Elwood's behaviour in their stride rather than being shocked/scared into leaving - is easy to overlook given the charm of the central performance - Harvey, natch - and the wonderful support. In some ways Elwood P. Dowd is first cousin to Longellow Deeds, a notion reinforced by the fact that both pooka and pixilated begin with the same letter of the alphabet and both films have established places in the pantheon of great movies. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies ever","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just recently saw this movie for the first time on Turner Classic Movies and I loved it. Jimmy Stewart does an excellent job as Elwood Dowd and Josephine Hull, who is also great in Arsenic and Old Lace, is wonderful as his sister Veta. The rest of the cast all contribute outstanding performances that raise this film to the level of an all-time classic and actual give meaning to that clichéd phrase, heart warming. The director makes you laugh and makes you care about a character you cannot see. Harvey's presence is felt in his scenes even when you are simply looking at an empty space. It is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Within two days of watching this film I went right ahead and ordered the DVD. "},{"Title":"An Imaginary Rabit is a Success","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this film I was skeptical--Jimmy Stewart with an imaginary rabbit? But it was Jimmy Stewart, after all, so I watched. It took a little while to get into it, but before I knew it I was seeing rabbits. Elwood P. Dowd is just about the nicest character anywhere, and thinks the world of his drinking buddy and friend, Harvey. Not everyone else sees eye to eye with Harvey, who just so happens to be invisible. Though Elwood enjoys the company of Harvey, Elwood's sister, played skillfully by Josephine Hull, and his niece, are not as enchanted by Harvey, who is making their household the neighborhood mockery. The sister decides that Elwood is best off at the sanatorium, but with his eloquence and some other comic happenstances, Elwood is considered the one sane one. "},{"Title":"It has an undertaste","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've only just caught up with this film after hearing about it for decades. I enjoyed it. The dialogue was witty and sometimes even profound - but if I noted it down and read it later, would it read like something recollected from a dream? Have I been hypnotised into thinking that America is full of wise, warm people who value kindness above everything? Elwood P Dowd is one of those characters like Pippa in Pippa Passes (no, I've never read it either but it's by Robert Browning) who scatter fairy dust on everyone they meet as they pass on their way. By just existing, he brings real happiness to his niece Myrtle and the lovelorn Nurse Kelly and these scenes are funny and convincing. But I'm one of those who ends up with the bitter aftertaste of aspartame rather than the pure white sugar the film aims to dish out. I have a feeling America isn't really like this.And Harvey, if you accept him as real, is a pooka - a kind of Celtic demon. The fact that he's a 6-foot rabbit makes him all the more sinister. "}{"Title":"Harvey","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What a wonderful movie. This is one of my personal favorites. Henry Koster does a good job with the direction. He settles the tricky problem of the imaginary Harvey by hilariously including room for him in every shot.The Screenplay is prefect. It is handled by Oscar Brooney and Mary Chase, she was also writer of the Pulitzer Prize winning play. Excellent dialog is provided for everyone and it's just such an original idea that you have to appreciate Mary Chase for coming up with it.The acting is top notch, particularly by James Stewart who obviously has much of the weight for this movie on his shoulders. Cast the wrong person in the lead and the entire production falls in on itself. Luckily they did not do that here. I can see no other person who could pull off Elwood P. Dowd as perfectly as Stewart does. His all-American charm endears him to the audience. Cary Grant could have done it but not as well. The supporting cast is very good. Josephine Hull particularly steps out of the background as the nervous and easily flustered sister of Stewart. She won a well deserved Oscar for her exasperated performance. Also Wallace Ford has some very memorable dialog towards the end of the film as a taxi driver.Overall this is one of the most feel good movies I have seen. The only movie that might be able to beat it is It's a Wonderful Life 1946. If you haven't seen it you should. Everyone should get to enjoy this little nugget of a movie as much as I did. "},{"Title":"one of our best performances on film","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is truly an American classic, and every actor performs perfectly, but I have noticed many are calling James Stewart our greatest film actor ever over this and several other terrific films he starred in. How about Tom Joad in Grapes of Wrath with Henry Fonda? And Burt Lancaster's Elmer Gantry was a film ideally suited to celebrate every element of Lancaster's usually over-the-top explosions of acting energy. Robert Mitchum in Cape Fear could give you nightmares for years. There is a wagon load full to discuss. I am not so certain Stewart is such a great actor, a la Olivier, as he is a great performer, doing Jimmy Stewart with the same great manner in which John Wayne entertained us perpetually as John Wayne. Elwood P. Dowd could be George Bailey after a seven year old experience that had altered his world, or George Bailey could be a young man running for Congress under the name of Smith. It is this Jimmy Stewart essence of a good, intelligent, and generally kind man that makes his role of Shep Henderson in Bell, Book, and Candle (another great classic with terrific performances all around) so doggone funny. In Rear Window and Vertigo it is the basis for his predicament in each film. Nothing wrong with that, because genuine entertainment, something we want to talk about to others, is really what its all about. Like Marlon Brando being perpetually pummeled in his films (did his agent demand these scenes? No one gets beaten like Marlon in film after film), Jimmy Stewart's Good Every Man has tragedy and magically mysterious things befall him, sometimes comically, or, like in Friendly Persuasion, tragic intervention crashes into his otherwise peaceful life. But the Jimmy Stewart good guy wins out in the end just because of the reasoning that who he essentially is simply deserves a good ending.Geographically, this film is pure Ohio, small town America where absolutely everyone has their personal quirks and eccentricities which exceeds that of the person they are attempting to commit to a mental institution. And for all those writing here at IMDb who keep referring to Elwood as an alcoholic don't you get it? That's what the folks within the film who have misjudged him think. He isn't drunk ever, and only drinks once in the film. Dowd drinks to socialize with Harvey and their friends, and the list of 10 things that demonstrate alcoholism don't get near Dowd's world (missed work, blackouts, arguments with family and friends, drinking causing financial difficulties, etc). Dr. Chumley's the latent drunk. The bar is his office and Harvey's, too, and here, have a card, but don't call him at that number, that's the old one; better to call him at this one. "},{"Title":"Is there a dull hint of sentimentality in this movie?","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The nobility of the message, to be pleasant rather than smart, is it completely authentic? This bit of skepticism represents an anomaly amidst a thousand nuggets of praise I have for this movie&#151;I love this movie, with all my heart, or at least most of it. Only part of me tastes a tinge of saccharin in Elwood P. Dowd's pleasantness. Still, considering the nuanced performance of Josephine Hull (not to mention Stewart's perfect performance), her so comfortably walking that thin wire between recognizing Harvey's existence as fact and rejecting him as the imaginary friend invented by Dowd. And that line, delivered by Stewart, saying how no one ever walks into a bar carrying something light. Also, it's just funny, especially _____; she brought laughter out of me spontaneously, at unexpected moments. Then there's the reversal of the doctor's position on Harvey, the dreamer inside him coming out. I am suddenly eager to watch it again, right now&#151;given how good it looks compared to most other movies, especially contemporary ones, I'm inclined to rescind my earlier criticisms, minimal as they were&#151;this movie should be seen by all who dream of generosity and kindness filling the world. "},{"Title":"The Wide Wonderful World of the Loony Bin-Harvey ***'/12","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" James Stewart shined in this comic performance of 1950. Elwood P. Dowd is a mild-mannered gentleman whose difficulty is that he has an imaginary friend, Harvey, which is no less a rabbit!Added to the confusion is his sister, the adorable but ever nutty Josephine Hull. Miss Hull apparently made a career of playing lunatics. She was excellent as Cary Grant's aunt in Arsenic and Old Lace, and for Harvey, she was voted best supporting actress.The fun really begins when Stewart is sent to a mental institution. Another example, of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, but in a comic vain. As always, in these situations, the tables are turned supposedly on normal sister Hull. "},{"Title":"Jimmy Stewart not Best Actor for 1950? There should have been a ballot recount.","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are two principal actors in this movie, James Stewart as Elwood P. Dowd and Harvey who although is never seen or heard, through the delivery of Jimmy Stewart he becomes as real to the viewers imagination as an actual character on the screen. Stewart was up for Best Actor for the 1950 Academy Award against Jose Ferrer, William Holden, Spencer Tracy and Louis Calhern but lost out to Ferrer. It should have went to Stewart. Stewart was as much born to play Dowd as Gregory Peck was born to play Atticus Finch in To Kill A Mockingbird. Josephine Hull in the role of Dowd's sister did win the Academy Award of 1950 as Best Supporting Actress, the only award Harvey won, but it is Stewart that is every inch of this film. I saw this growing up throughout the 1960's at least once a year on TV and saw it several times in the 1970's but it's probably been 25 years or so since I've seen this last. This is a charming, uplifting fantasy comedy/drama. The film's director Henry Kostner, directed a few of my favorites besides this including The Bishops Wife, O' Henry's Full House and The Inspector General. He would go on to direct Stewart in a couple more movies after Harvey but their future association never matched what they did here. Is Harvey real or just part of Elwood P. Dowd's imagination or delusion? There is a scene where the Jesse White character of Wilson comes to believe there might just be such a thing as a Pooka. This is one of my favorite movies and I would give it a 10 out of a possible 10 and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie that cannot be replaced","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My father first gave this movie I can only comment as a fan of the movie and not a part time web critic. This is truly my favorite movie I am only 36 so I guess that is young for a Harvey fan. Going through some tough times in my marriage and life Harvey is the one movie I watch to escape. It is my feel Good movie. I have actually tried to write a sequel just for fun and Jim Carrey would of course be Elwood. With all the remake movies out now I'm dread that they will do Harvey. It tends to tarnish a good classic when they blow it with a remake. IT was nice to be able to use my imagination and not be able to see the rabbit. You know in a remake film the almighty computer animator will undoubtedly show the rabbit.Harvey stands today as a testament to how a writer used to have to earn a living. The actors have to keep you interested for an hour and a half with nothing more than the script and simple props.old fashioned innocent sexual inuendo surrounding sister Vita and the white Slavers with their sex urges.todays version of inuendo will leave you reaching for the hand cream and tissue, and thats just an Uncle Bens Rice Commercial.I challenge Hollywood that they could not remake this film properly.Go ahead and make it color after all it is the new millennium, but what would they do without the latest pop diva playing Nurse Kelly and a good reason to add a rap soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A wonderful story hat will have you believing in Pookas","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This has been my favorite movie since I was a child. My Dad always told us that being nice took the same amount of time and effort as being rude. Elwood P. Dowd summarized that sentiment when he explained that he never attended the Yale Alumni dances. He said that he could be spending his life being smart or being nice and he chose nice. I took some folklore classes in college and I have aways told my children that since you cannot prove that something does not exist, I have always preferred to believe that all fairies, gnomes, pookas, leprechauns and other creatures might exist. Jimmy Stewart was one of my favorite actors and reminded me of my Father. How interesting that they shared the same birthday, Mr. Stewart being 10 years older than Dad. "},{"Title":"I am a pooka","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Not too much to say, I think the summary sums it up nicely enough. I am a pooka. Other then that it was a good enough movie. Not too many movies any more that have my kind in them. Not trying to say this is a recent movie or anything, but it's just nice to see my kind. If I thought much more of it, I might look into some sort of discrimination law suit, but to be honest with you I'm not too worried about it. Harvey was a nice enough representation of my kind in the movie. He was nice, never rude, and a little mischivious, just the way a pooka should be. Sure do wish they would make more movies with my kind in them. Guess I could make one myself, but that might be a bit too much work. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie only once about 30 years ago. It hasn't lost any of its appeal and I remembered it well. I am not sure if there has ever been a more charming movie character than that of Elwood P. Dowd. No other actor besides Jimmy Stewart could have been more suited for this role and made it believable. There is something about this character that makes you feel good about life. That there is indeed someone or something out there that zeroes in on certain people and keeps them out of harms way if only to perpetuate the spirit of kindness and generosity that is locked in the souls of even the most hardened. Harvey brought back a good childhood memory for me and is a must see for those of us that always want to believe in the human spirit. "},{"Title":"Fun for the whole family","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What makes a James Stewart movie so good? He's always so up front with all of his characters. They always seem more realistic than the other people around him. And maybe that's because he'd never received any professional acting training, maybe it's that unmistakable voice or slight hunch, or maybe it's because he was picking perfect roles for himself, who knows. But this may be one of the strongest of his performances that I have seen. He's funny, he's a bit sad, but always a pleasure to watch as a character who's the only person able to see an almost seven foot rabbit. The only drawback to this movie is that over half of the supporting cast gets into the habit of being more annoying with stale jokes in order to play off of Stewart that it becomes just a little bit boring until he jumps back on screen. "}{"Title":"Vita is the life of the story","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This may have been brought to the screen as a Jimmy Stewart film and whilst he , in the character of Elwood P Dowd gets to deliver all the philosophical heart-string pullers and one liners it's Josephine Hull as the sister Veta that steals the show. I can't really think of a killer line she gets to deliver but the performance is a tour de force from start to finish and instantly injects energy and pace juxtaposed to Elwoods necessarily affable and relaxed persona. Elwood may be an alcoholic or someone who likes a lot of relaxed drinks with friends but one gets the feeling that previously he's been in a high pressure job living on his intellect, and supporting his ill mother who has since died. At some point he's opted out of the being-very-clever rat race in favour of doing very little and being very nice. No problem there, he's inherited his mothers estate and has the means to do this. He also has a friend, a pooka, presently in the form of a six foot three and a half inch tall invisible white rabbit who Dowd continually attempts to introduce to friends, relatives and complete strangers alike. The pooka isn't just invisible to strangers (and we the audience) it's inaudible and possibly intangible, so in effect it doesn't exist. This aspect of Dowds behaviour alone gives cause for him to be shunned by all except old family and fellow shunned members of society and in turn gives rise to the main plot to get him sectioned, as we would say today, under the mental health act and committed to an institution. The fact that the supposedly sane characters in the story are all far more troubled in their lives and often less stable than Elwood is no coincidence. Dowd is harmless, extremely pleasant, generous to everyone and sees good in almost every situation and person but the fact that many can't value his good qualities because of the one different aspect to him is a lesson for our time now just as it should have been for the racists and Macarthyites of the past. Is there anything I don't like about the play/film. Well Stewart does seem a little young for the character even though no other major Hollywood star was anywhere near as suitable for the part; and I'd really have liked not to have it made clear that the pooka did or didn't exist at the end after all the point of the piece is not whether Dowd is sane or not, he isn't really even if the pooka does exist, it's whether he's done anything for which he should be locked away and drugged or forced to act like the rest of us. "},{"Title":"Charming, lighthearted film","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSHarvey is a wonderful, clean film about a man named Elwood P. Dowd (James Stewart at his finest) whose best friend is a 6ft. 3in. white rabbit named Harvey...who happens to be invisible to everyone but Elwood. The film is lighthearted and funny and charming.  For some reason, Hollywood does not make films like this anymore.  The DVD with Stewart's narrative is wonderful but a little boring at times.  Kudos to Mary Chase in writing the play that the movie was based on.  Like his earlier film, It's a Wonderful Life, Jimmy Stewart never ceased to amaze me.  His charm, personality, and talent all shine through this movie.  No sex, violence, cussing....just clean fun.  I recommend this to fans of film noir or anyone looking for a nice, pleasant film to watch on a Saturday night.   "},{"Title":"Oh how I miss Jimmy Stewart","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My words can only be inadequate when trying to review a classic of this quality. So I will only talk about the acting. Where is Jimmy Stewart now that we really need him?  Wasn't Josephine Hull super?  All of the following were superb Cecil Kellaway as Dr. Chumley; Wallace Ford, the cabbie who sets us all straight; Clem Bevins, always good as Clem Bevins; Harry Hines, what a great character; Minerva Urecal. Jesse White and his love interest Victoria Horne. I guess I could go on till I'd listed them all, but this will suffice. "},{"Title":"Charming and lovable old Hollywood classic","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This lovely, amusing and downright enchanting comedy classic from the golden age of Hollywood is a beautiful, touching and timeless masterpiece. Words can't describe how much I love Jimmy Stewart. He truly was a genius and one of the biggest, finest and the most charismatic filmstars in the history of cinema. Stewart made a trademark out of playing characters that were utterly nice and charming guys and in Harvey he plays perhaps the nicest guy of the planet! My all time Jimmy Stewart favorite is naturally Frank Capra's beloved holiday classic It's a wonderful life but if I would have to choose my second favorite it might just be Harvey. Excellent dialogue and marvelous acting - this is a perfect feel-good movie. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A piece of Hollywood heaven that fell from the sky!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is Jimmy Stewart at his very best, in this gentle, funny, and touching, and surprisingly haunting, and to an extent life changing film. An american classic that is one of my favorites and is golden Hollywood at its best. One of the best of its kind. "},{"Title":"True goodness","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jimmy Stewart's portrayal of Elwood P. Dowd would touch even the most cynical personality.  Although a bit naive, he is able to find good in the actions even the most disagreeable people.  Overall, this is one of my all-time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Tale of two movies","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For the first 70 or so minutes, this delightful movie could enchant and delight even the most cynical of critics. It is very easy to identify with this sweet-natured prototypical Jimmy Stewart character as he meanders through his life. The question of whether or not Harvey the rabbit actually exists has no bearing on a story filled with hilarious misunderstandings and double takes. Unfortunately, for this viewer, the last half hour degenerates into a morality play, where we are to confront our own beliefs of reality. Both the writing and pace of the direction bog down at this point. I've never been a fan of forced sentiment, and this movie crams it down your throat towards the end. I'd still give it an 8/10, but I just feel it could have been so much better if it had retained its screwball charm throughout.  "},{"Title":"Stewart makes this film (duh!)","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Feel free to fast-forward through all the parts where-in Elwood's sister and niece are bitching (in quite the expositional and over-the-top way) about their concerns regarding Elwood... especially if you've already seen this film at least once before.  Jimmy Stewart carries this picture, delivering all the best lines, and representing all the most human of feelings.  Just watch the man.How Veta Louise Simmons--and not Jimmy Stewart--won an Oscar for this film, I'll never know.  But if you want an example of a character withdrawing from the world at the same time that he embraces and enfolds it, then study Elwood P. Dowd good and hard.  Only Jimmy Stewart could have pulled this one off. "},{"Title":"Clever !","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the sweetest and most watchable movies I've ever seen.James Stewart never better.Family movie everyone can and will enjoy! "},{"Title":"We all need a friend like Harvey.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This must be Jimmy Stewart's best film (and he made some great ones).His laid-back, pleasant, and friendly portrayal of Elwood P. Dowd relaxes and reassures me every time I watch it.  And everyone else is just perfect as well.Does Harvey really exist?  Is Elwood just a drunkard?  You really have to make your own mind up, but to me there's no doubt.  Watch HARVEY and you'll make an acquaintance that will stay with you for life. "}{"Title":"I wish I could see Harvey when I saw Harvey ...","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If there ever was a movie that I've been longing to watch for a long time; Harvey is the name. The film made IMDb's Top 250 list (to start with the least) and holds two honorable positions in American Film Institute's Top 100 Laughs and Top 10 Fantasy movies. What's more it's regarded as one of James Stewart's greatest roles (Oscar-nominated), it's based on an Pulitzer-winning play, and the plot premise of a grown-up man with an imaginary giant white rabbit named Harvey, seemed ridiculously intriguing. Conclusion I wouldn't have dared to call myself a movie lover if I didn't have the slightest ounce of curiosity to see something like Harvey. Now that I did, I have the strange feeling that I missed something.I don't intend to 'play it smart' with Harvey but to appreciate it is not an easy task either because one really needs to focus entirely on Stewart's performance not to get the several elements that severely dated, starting with some over-the-top, corny and laughable performances even by 50's standards. Seriously, I couldn't stand Josephine Hull's constant hysteria and her bird-looking niece who'd throw herself at any pant-wearing human being. What was cute and funny became rapidly irritating after a while, and Stewart was rather the character who relieved me from the environing cacophony than a true protagonist. I don't think I've been irritated by a bunch of characters as much as I was in Harvey to the point it really distracted from the film's emotional core the relationship between Dowd and his imaginary friend and the way it influenced his social interactions.Now, I can hear some voices claiming But it was in 1950 and more recent films have dated in a worse way! Yes and I would even add that comedy is a genre prone to that kind of criticism, but this is why I had to state my expectations in the previous paragraph. Besides, 1950 was an exceptional year for movies with such masterpieces as Rashomon, Sunset Blvd. and All About Eve and even 'lesser' films like Melville's Les Enfants Terribles or Huston's The Asphalt Jungle were still incredibly fresh and modern so Harvey would inevitably suffer from a comparison unless you'd expect a minor film, but what a recognition then for such a minor film! Had it not been so well-regarded in the first place I would have avoid a huge disappointment. But let's have a look at the bright side of the film Jimmy Stewart.There's no doubt that the film features one of the most likable roles from one of the most beloved American actors. No doubt that there's a very sweet and gentle feeling reaching a very emotional pinnacle during the conclusion, and Harvey himself is the little glitter enchanting the film with a glow of mysterious eccentricity that would please both kids and adults. I want to say that Dowd, a man of such an unconventional kindness, is a character who never gets angry, shocked or sad, but I can't even use negative words to describe him for there's something that raises this man above all the negativity of the world, and the performance from Jimmy Stewart is so efficient that he almost made his autistic behavior extremely appealing. But he was not mentally challenged since the film reveals that Harvey does exist.So, what's left of the message if there is a reason behind this smile, this hedonistic and constantly positive attitude? Now, imagine if you had the possibility to have such a friend, able to stop the passing of time, to listen to you, to be close to you, to inspire you kindness and amiability, imagine that. Who wouldn't love to live a life enriched by such powers? But while there was something extraordinarily inspiring in Stewart's detachment to the gesticulations of normal people, the film reveals at the end that there was a 'trick', there was a 'reason', it was not disinterested. Maybe we all have a 'Harvey' to listen to, maybe it's a metaphor for our inner child, our guardian angel, I like to think that way but then how about giving a chance for other people to have their Harvey if Harvey prefers to be with Dowd at the end.I'm not a cynical individual, incapable of a positive naivety and I'm not criticizing the film for the sake of it, just to expose a sort of smartness without reading between the lines the 'beautiful message' lying beneath Stewart's communicative smile, But I don't like being patronized either or be taught a lesson. On that level, I couldn't stand the way Harvey was being too explicit about the niceness being the solution to life instead of more 'normal' behavior, especially since it never tried to challenge the main character, to make him evolve. In a way, the film reminded of another Stewart 'classic' that had the same frustrating effect on me, You Can't Take it With You or Capra's uninspired lesson about eccentricity being the key for happiness, as the perfect antidote against alienating order and social codes, but the film had a way to get to that conclusion.So it's one thing to have a positive message but another one to take it for granted without developing it with some solid dramatization. Forrest Gump also featured a sort of Candide-like, sweet figure, whose very innocence leads him to be successful but Gump was also capable of displaying courage, sadness, even hostility and aggressiveness, it was a multi-layered personality. Unfortunately, Elwood P. Dowd is constantly jovial, good-hearted, in a good mood to a point that flirts with one-dimensionality as if he was drugged by his own beatitude, and we can only assume that he's a good model but no clear action, no palpable evolution, helps us to embrace his view on life, to be like him. That's too bad because the film had a great potential, and I wish I could see Harvey as Dowd did. "},{"Title":"A Very Feel Good Movie","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Based on a very popular play, Harvey is of the fantasy comedy genre. The fantasy in this movie is a 6 feet 3 and a half inches tall rabbit(Harvey) of Celtic mythology who can be seen only by a selected few. The protagonist Elwood P. Dowd (Stewart) is one of the selected ones who not only can see this rabbit but also accompanies him everywhere and introduces him to all the town inhabitants. Obviously, whoever meets Elwood considers him a mentally inbalanced case which also becomes a thing of embarrassment for his family members which includes his sister and his niece. They think of getting rid of Elwood by transporting him to the mental sanatorium. Elwood, by nature is a very well-mannered, polite and pleasant gentleman. Anyone who meets him at the first instance is obviously charmed by his nature until he introduces his gigantic friend. The funny moments in the movie are not forced, but arise completely due to the out of hand situations. I will call this movie a fantasy comedy with a human touch. There are situations when one feels pity for Elwood and consider his state of mind way better than the so called 'normal' humans who don't care for fellow humans, let alone animals. Stewart has done a fine, fine job. He is my favorite actor of the B/W era. He has a certain cinematic charm which attracts the viewer. In this movie, I thought he had a very tough role to play, talking to an invisible object and giving the proper expressions is not an easy job. Josephine Hull plays the neurotic and eccentric middle aged sister to perfection. A very feel good movie which will surely leave a positive impression.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"My imaginary best friend","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There is a lesson to be learned when we meet Elwood Dowd, the eccentric man who has an imaginary companion, in his case, an enormous rabbit! One usually has the desire to label people like him insane, but are they really? How many times have we watched, children specially, who seem to have a pal that only exists in their minds! In the case of Elwood, a harmless forty-something individual, it appears he is a grown up child, into his own fantasy world, but far from being out of his mind.Elwood's sister Veta has been at her wits' end trying to deal with him. She is too embarrassed to have him around during any of her social gatherings, such as the one she is offering as the story begins. Veta, thinking she is doing the right thing, decides to take her brother to Dr. Chumley's mental clinic, thinking he will be much better off, or perhaps, he can regain whatever he has lost.Things at the clinic don't go as planned. For starters, Dr. Sanderson, mistakingly misreads Veta's motives for committing Elwood to the hospital; he thinks is she that needs all the help she can get. Dr. Sanderson calls Wilson, an orderly, and have him take Veta to a room in order to start her treatment. It is at this point where everything turns loose as a comedy of errors ensues in the clinic, involving its director, Dr. Chumley, who is afraid Elwood will sue the institution.This delightful comedy is an adaptation of Mary Chase's play that was a big hit that went to enjoy a long run on Broadway. The original work was directed by the legendary Antoinette Perry, whose nickname Tony serves for the name of the theater awards since they were established. Josephine Hull and Jesse White, two of the original theater cast made it to the film version. This film, adapted by its author and Oscar Brodney. Henry Koster directed with a fine senses of timing.The performances are first rate. Although James Stewart was rumored not to have enjoyed his work in the film, he made a great contribution to the overall enjoyment. His part, although key to the story, could be considered as a supporting role because this is an comedy for an ensemble. Best of all is Josephine Hull, a great character actress, repeating her theater creation. Ms. Hull's Veta, together with her Abby Brewster of Arsenic and Old Lace are treasured moments in the history of the American cinema. Peggy Dow appears as Nurse Kelly. Charles Drake is Dr. Sanderson. Cecil Kellaway has some good moments as Dr. Chumely. The amazing Jesse White was a welcomed presence in whatever film he was cast. He does a fine job as the eager orderly Wilson. William Daniels photographed the film. The DVD we watched has been well restored.One of the best American comedies of all times. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Lunatic of Ivory soap purity","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Old-fashioned - meaning clean, sweet and well-made - comedy of a good-natured man with mental health problems (James Stewart) whose purity of mind is never sullied by people living in the ugly, dirty reality. Too much purity for you? Well, not for me, thank you, and I hope it will never remade. Based on the Pulitzer Prize winning play by Mary Chase, who also wrote the screenplay with Oscar Brodney and uncredited Myles Connolly, Harvey has the taxi driver saying about normal people and their sanity And you know what stinkers they are. Not a masterpiece, but a good, solid film, which does not exploit mental illness in modern, I-need-a-good-scrubbing-in-a-luxury-bath-way. "},{"Title":"very good film","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The film allows us to think about what is normal in our society and what is not, according to whats normal values are. I saw the film several times, and each time i enjoy it. The story is about a pleasant and delicate man, that for some reason, family and friends don't pay attention to him, till he invented a story about his invisible friend, a Rabbit. And suddenly friend and family want to help him, each one in a peculiar way. The actors and actresses are excellent!!! I admirer the play, the screenplay....you have to see it. Excellent performance. Is a film that we also learn not to change anyone behavior. "},{"Title":"Smile, laugh, think.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I tried to give this a 9, but couldn't. A lot of movies are very good; this one is, but it also leaves you feeling very good.My favorite line, which I think wraps up the theme concisely, was (shortened, and from IMDb's quote reference) Years ago my mother used to say to me... 'In this world, Elwood, you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant.' Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. In the context of the movie, it's quite honestly the only line in any movie that's every really turned me introspective (sans liquor).There's a lot to say, but as has been pointed out, it's not a terribly deep film -- it's best just to watch it for yourself. Good, innocent fun from a time when movies could be fun and innocent. "},{"Title":"Harvey is a sweet movie proving that what is normal is not always the good one.","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A good-humored and cordial guy named Elwood P. Dowd(James Stewart) is presumed to be an oddball because he makes friends with an invisible six-foot three and a half inches tall rabbit named Harvey. Harvey is actually a pooka--a mischievous,fairy spirit in animal form from Celtic mythology which is very fond of rumpots,crackpots...Elwood's sister and niece seem to be socially ostracized whenever the sister tries to form social occasions at home to get the young niece started socially, so that she can meet some nice young men.If you pay attention to your environment you will see examples like Elwood you know.We do not seem to care for the feelings of screwballs. They are just ordinary simple freaks the way we see them. How many of us do really care for a minute and listen to those people?It's an undeniable fact that most of us see such people as psychotic cases you know.And as a recent university graduate who studied theorists like Freud, Erikson, Maslow etc...I can tell we always seem to attach some sort of psychoanalysis to cases like Elwoods'.See for example at a point when the doctor and the nurse happen to find Elwood alone before the pub the doctor starts to ask questions like when you were a child, didn't you have a playmate?Someone with whom you spent many happy hours?Didn't you know somebody sometime,someplace by the name of Harvey?.Elwood's answers which are honest and direct do not really satisfy him because his psychoanalysis doesn't serve a deep purpose and it's not really working at all.Unfortunately today this is still the case. We look for the answers in someone's subconscious or in some sort of childhood memory. We do not realize what we really need is purely a system of thought,a life-stance that upholds human feelings, ethics, and justice, and rejects pseudo science.That's what I see in this movie. Besides the ending of the movie, the words of the cab driver gives a memorable lesson to us allAfter this he'll be a perfectly normal human being.And you know what stinkers they are. Not everyone has to be walk upon some agreed human standards.Not everyone has to be normal because we cannot be really sure what is normal should be also good. "},{"Title":"Too Sentimental","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Read all of my reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.comTowards the end of the 1950 film, Harvey, Elwood P Dowd (played by James Stewart in an Academy Award nominated role) says thisIn this world, you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant. Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. It is a memorable line, and one that sums up the film quite well. For the picture is filled with lots of smart people, and a few pleasant ones. It, in fact, seems to be the film's central theme. Dowd is an alcoholic and mentally ill, all of which creates quite a disturbance throughout the film, but is ultimately washed over because he smiles a lot, allows others to pass through the door first, and speaks in a gentle, even voice.Perhaps I'm being too unkind myself, it is after all a harmless comedy, slap stick and all. At that, it fairs well enough. The catch of the film, if you've somehow managed to not hear it before in the 55 years since its release, or forgot to look at the picture on the front of the DVD box, is that Dowd's best friends happens to be an invisible 6 foot rabbit, named Harvey. Much of the film's humor, and a great deal of it's heart, come from that rabbit, which the audience never sees.The conflict comes from Dowd's sister, Veta Louise Simmons (Josephine Hall) and her daughter Myrtle Mae (Victoria Horne). They have grown tired of Dowd's antics with Harvey, and the embarrassment of having such a relative has caused untold grief for their social positions. Early in the film they decide to have Dowd committed to an insane asylum. Slapstick ensues when Verta is mistaken for the crazy one.I found it to be a fine, humorous film. All of the cast members are firing on all cylinders and create a wonderful ensemble cast. Stewart and Hall are particularly fine as Dowd and his sister. The jokes work well enough, at least they are not particularly unfunny, and are pleasant enough. I think this is where my complaint comes in; it is all just too pleasant. Even the Simmons' are rather sweet and kind while they try to put Dowd away.It was slightly disturbing to me to watch a man with an obvious mental illness be touted as the film's hero, and a character that we should all emulate. But again, I'm probably being too unpleasant again. I realize that the film is being more Peter Pan than Awakenings in this aspect. For Harvey seems more fantastical than hallucination, but Dowd never once hints that the giant rabbit might not be real. I know, I know, I'm being too much the tired cynic at this point. Dowd did give me the same brief desire of improvement that Atticus Finch give me while watching To Kill a Mockingbird. Though Finch never spotted giant rabbits, just a black man served more injustice.It is difficult to complain about a film that really just wishes we would all be happy and kind to one another. Indeed a brief searching of the IMDb's user comments finds an agreement with everyone that this is a wonderful, joyful film.It is a heartwarming film, which only managed to kindle a low flame in my heart. This is a weird feeling. It is as I feel the chastisement of a million fans calling me a cold hearted son of a son of a sailor. It just failed to make me laugh enough, or move me enough to declare it wonderful. While I don't have any hard complaints about the picture, it is not something that I'll be placing on any top films list.More reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"gentle, subtle comedy.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is without a shadow of a doubt one of the best films ever. It is a gentle comedy that makes me laugh and cry and sometimes both at the same time. It is a film that never insults the viewers intelligence and the story is just so perfect. There is not another actor that could possibly remake this role, James Stewart is just so perfect his relaxed and pleasant demeanor never over emphasized. Just the perfect oldie, they truly do not make them like this anymore!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The stuff dreams are made of...","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) Harvey is, without a doubt, one of Jimmy Stewart's 'signature' pictures. He is just the traditional neighborhood nice-guy.  As Elwood P. Dowd, though, his role is actually not so much what he was in his other films, but more of what he is to us.  He actually plays a man who makes people feel better about themselves. Just by spending some time with them, and exposing them to his purity and sweetness is such an experience for people that they feel better.  To quote Elwood himself, `We came as strangers - soon we have friends. They come over. They sit with us. They drink with us. They talk to us. They tell us about the great big terrible things they've done and the great big wonderful things they're going to do. Their hopes, their regrets. Their loves, their hates. All very large, because nobody ever brings anything small into a bar.Then I introduce them to Harvey, and he's bigger and grander than anything they can offer me. When they leave, they leave impressed.'  Elwood's lepine friend, Harvey, is part of what keeps him so pure. The movie's true brilliance lies in the fact that it never asks if Harvey is real, though it clearly hints that he is.  The point is, whether he is real or not, the positive effect he has on people is real enough.  Even when people are unaware of it, Harvey is doing something good for them.  Marvin Wilson and Myrtle Mae would never have gotten together if Mr. Wilson hadn't been looking for Elwood, who was looking for Harvey.  And the doctor and his assistant are so fascinated by Dowd that they look into him, and he brings them together. And when Veneeta realizes that getting rid of Harvey will cost her brother that pleasantness which everyone knows him for, she realizes that Harvey, real or not, must have some purpose.  That is the whole point of this film It is these little fantasies and dreams, grounded in childlike innocence, and sometimes bordering on craziness, that help us keep our innocence. This movie, with wonderful acting, hilarious misunderstanding and comedy-of-errors situations, and with touching romance and family love, is pure magic.  Does magic exist? Of course! We just need reminding now and then.  And this film gives it to us. "}{"Title":"A gentle man enjoys life with his friend - a 6ft rabbit.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful film that dissolves your cares away as you watch it. Befriended by a 6ft rabbit James Stewart as Ellwood P. Dowd has nothing but a kind word for everyone. Misunderstood by his sister (beautifully played by Josephine Hull) and treated as a crank by the local asylum, Ellwood is almost brought to normality by his family but Harvey has other ideas. Although drinking occupies a major part of the story, it's a gentle film and James Stewart's character exudes warmth and friendship.  "},{"Title":"Great for all ages","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that shows how you don't need special effects or glitz to make a funny and elegant movie.  This is my favorite Jimmy Steward movie(although Destry Rides Again is close) and in it he avoids the preaching in his Frank Capra films.  It's just about a nice man with a VERY unusual friend.  It goes well with the movies Arsenic and Old Lace. and Kind Hearts and Coronets "},{"Title":"Stewart is great!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film. I really didnt want to give it a chance until my dad finally got me to watch it. Now I'm glad he did! It is just wonderful. Jimmy Stewart is great as Elwood and of course we can't forget about Harvey. ) A great, funny film that anyone would enjoy. "},{"Title":"Who's Really Crazy?","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jimmy Stewart has never been more endearing. His thoughtful way of saying his lines in this classic and the reactions of the other actors to him is brilliant. Stewart plays an alcoholic who has drifted over the edge and seems to be the only who can see Harvey. Has he gone crazy? Is he making everyone else crazy? A delightful romp that your whole family will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Love the idea of the movie","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is wonderful. I think we all need a Harvey once in while. I saw this movie as a child on TV and have never forgot it. I even named my fish Harvey at one time in my life. Feel good movie. We need more of them. What is wrong with a little imagination! Make believe! "},{"Title":"Jimmy Stewart,The Best!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've loved this movie from the first time I saw it.Jimmy Stewart ,in my opinion, was one of the best actors in film History.He shines all the way through this movie and soon, you too ,could swear you can see Harvey, standing there on the street corner or at the corner pub, just as natural as you please. The rest of the cast just adds to the joyous havoc of this all time family classic. Give this one a Ten!!! "},{"Title":"Harvey","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had heard the story somewhere of a tall rabbit named Harvey, probably before they did the rabbit adverts for the furniture, i.e. beds and sofa store, and this is the film it came from, based on a hit stage show. Basically Elwood P. Dowd (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated James Stewart) is the mild mannered, pleasant man with who drinks very regularly drinks, and (possibly caused by alcohol, or is it?) a very unusual friend, an invisible six-foot-tall white rabbit. Elwood lives with his eccentric sister Veta Louise Simmons (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Josephine Hull) and her daughter Myrtle Mae Simmons (Victoria Horne), and Veta has had her fill of Elwood bringing home unknown friends, but more especially the invisible friend. So she decides to get Elwood to a mental institution, and it is their confusion with her over-the-top pleading and eccentricity that begins a comedy of errors begins as the doctor's search for the true nut. With Elwood's good nature, they have no idea of his abnormality, and they interrupt his introductions to Harvey, but they do try to understand his problem when they find out it is him. But Harvey could be real, when towards the end you see swinging doors, and Dr. Chumley (Cecil Kellaway) believe his existence. Also starring Peggy Dow as Miss Kelly, Charles Drake as Dr. Sanderson and Jesse White as Wilson. It is a lot of fun with the mix of confusions, sanity and insanity, and mix-ups, I can see why the critics think this is one of the finest roles by Stewart, and I can also see why Hull won the Oscar. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. James Stewart was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Stars, and he was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 35 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"Utterly charming and sweet little comedy","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" While this isn't the best screwball comedy from Hollywood (that honor goes to ARSENIC AND OLD LACE), it is one of the finest and an utterly charming and sweet little film. This is all thanks to wonderful performances from Jimmy Stewart as well as Josephine Hull as his sister (she received an Oscar for her performance), as well as the exceptional writing.Stewart plays Elwood P. Dowd, a disturbed but nice man who spends all of his time in the company of his friend, Harvey (a giant invisible white rabbit). His sister is beside herself dealing with Elwood's eccentricities and decides to finally have him committed once and for all.Where the film goes from here I'll leave up to you to find out for yourself, as I would hate to spoil the surprise. But this film is an absolute must for all old film buffs and would be appreciated by anyone with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant, Thoughtful, & Entertaining Fantasy","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An offbeat, interesting story and a fine performance by Jimmy Stewart make this classic a pleasant, thoughtful fantasy that is often very funny as well.  Despite the far-fetched plot, it never seems to go overboard.  It is an enjoyable and worthwhile contrast to the kinds of fantasy features that depend on superficial special effects to outweigh a lack of substance in other areas.Stewart could not have done better in the leading role, making an improbable character both believable and sympathetic.  In fact, all of the characters are treated kindly, which is a rarity in features of this kind.  The rest of the cast supports Stewart well, especially Josephine Hull as his high-strung, long-suffering sister.  Jesse White also has some very good moments.Taken figuratively, the story of Stewart's character and his friend Harvey provides some worthwhile observations on topics such as human nature, fantasy versus reality, what it means to be 'well-adjusted', and the like.  While hardly meant to be taken too seriously, it is thoughtful and worthwhile, maintaining a difficult balance as few films have been able to do. "},{"Title":"A true feel-good movie!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Elwood is a simple-minded alcoholic whose best friend is him imaginary(?) 6'3 1/2 rabbit (a pooka). With a resume like that, one might find it hard to believe he'd be so likeable. But he is, and so is the movie, and so is Harvey. But wait, how can Harvey be likeable? He's imaginary, right? Or is he? Maybe Harvey is there to remind us that the only real thing in life is the warmth of a handshake or that feeling you get when someone smiles at you. Schedules and bills and social parties seem to fade in our minds as we settle on the core values of life - having others like us and having ourselves like others. And so here's to Elwood and his friend Harvey. They like us and we like them. This is a movie that all must see, if not just to remind us that no matter how crazy the world gets, there'll always be a pooka to talk to. "}{"Title":"And you may quote me. -James Stewart, Harvey","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  And I will, you can count on that.An enlightening and entertaining look at human nature. From the surface, Dowd appears delusional--everything they say him to be, but as the movie progresses, you begin to realize that he's the only one who has it right. The world is a wonderful place, full of tricksters and sunsets and flowers and missing button-holes. He sees it all with the help of his best friend, a pooka who can only be seen if you believe in him. You start to wonder if it's right, the way you veiw the world I mean, as a static place of only so many mornings. You start to wonder if you're really taking care of what's important. Does it really matter so much that you be on time every day of your life? Does it matter if you see that TV drama and wouldn't it be nicer to take a walk and see a few sunsets? What's so important about work that you run off every day with hardly a thought for anything else? Dowd has advantages we do not. He needs no money, his inheritance has taken care of him it seems and for those of us less fortunate, work pays our bills. But even so, if life becomes repetitive and you don't have any fun...won't you please stop for a little bit?--Even if it means being a little late. Won't you please stop and take stock of what really is important. Flowers, and the sunset and the little things people will say...for example Hello. "},{"Title":"I wish I had a friend like Harvey!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film belongs in anyone's library that is a Jimmy Stewart fan. A perfect example of an actor made for a role and a role made for an actor. The film offers a wonderful supporting cast. Let Harvey's magic entertain your family and friends, often. "},{"Title":"How do you spell overrated?","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  James Stewart's performance is great, and the theme of the movie is also appealing. But what about the plot??  In my opinion this movie is really bad, and gets even worse towards the end. The obsession of locking *somebody* up and the whole idea of the mental institution and its staff who rudely push around the 'patients', just turns this movie into some kind of zoo. The whole thing is just too ridiculous, even taking into the consideration that it was made in 1950, though I've always believed that true classics are timeless. "},{"Title":"Highly Dated","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie might have been cute or funny at one time -- but that time has long passed. This dull exercise in eccentric characters has a few chuckles, but that's it. Of course, Jimmy Stuart is great, but how long can anyone sustain a one-joke movie? Today this might make a good 1/2 hour sitcom, nothing more.And as a point of reference -- I love old movies. But the more I see, I find that the comedies don't wear nearly as well as the dramas. Things people used to find funny often aren't funny anymore.So my advice -- skip this film. If you want more Stuart, see some Hitchcock or Capra. If you want older comedies that are still funny, try anything with both William Powell & Myrna Loy. And if you want older films, try any of the great film noirs.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyably light and amusing film","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elwood P. Dowd comes from a well-off family but is considered an embarrassment because of his penchant for the daily drink and his friendship with an invisible 6'3 white rabbit that he calls Harvey. His sister Veta Simmons decides to have him committed and transports him to the asylum herself. However a confusion sees her committed and Elwood allowed to walk free (with his unseen friend). Once they realise their mistake they try to settle things with Veta and bring Elwood back into care &#150; however in this modern world is he really the crazy one or can he teach the others a thing or two?Famous among even those who haven't seen it, Harvey is probably not as good as its reputation suggests but it is still a rather light and enjoyable little film. The plot is a simple series of misunderstandings and mistakes while all those involved learn lessons as Elwood bumbles on naïvely regardless. It is very light stuff that ignores the darker issues of mental illness, Celtic mythology and alcoholism and instead just turns out a comedy but this is understandably and it would have been a very different film if it had tried to look at these issues. I didn't really laugh at any point but found the light material effortless to go along with and the delivery is with a consistent light touch. Personally I don't see what makes people class it as one of the best films ever made (as my fellow users of this site do) but it is certainly an enjoyably slight affair.The cast match the material well by delivering everything with appropriate touches. Stewart leads the cast with an enjoyable character that ignores the more serious aspects but suits the light touch of the film. It isn't a great performance but it works well within the film. The film belongs to him but he is well supported by Hull, White, Drake, Kellaway and Dow. Nobody gives a great performance but again they suit the tone of the film.Not the classic and thing of wonder that some would have you believe then but regardless it is still a light and enjoyable little comedy. Not a hilarious affair, not a deeply touching one but it effortlessly glides along with the slightest of plots and least likely of scenarios to produce something that is easy to relax into and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In his other films Stewart's stumbling line delivery is charming, but in this film it is like listening to a skipping record -- it makes an already slow film drone on. The dialog started out with spirit but quickly flattened out which made the film fall far short of other witty 50s era American productions. The Harvey gag was under-developed, leaving viewers with a murky idea of what/who Harvey was and little idea as to why we should like him/it as much as Stewart did. Desperation seemed to be the only reason that the time travel idea was even introduced as well as an apt description of how badly Steward needed mime training in order to pull off the Harvey gag. If you want to see Stewart in a stellar comic performance, watch Philadelphia Story. "},{"Title":"Monotonously cheerful...","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Mary Chase adapted her Pulitzer Prize-winning play about a small town eccentric whose best friend is a six-foot three-inch rabbit named Harvey (whom only he can see). In the lead, James Stewart doesn't deviate from his popular movie persona--that of an amiably befuddled, nervously chattering man with his head in the clouds--and he's forced to carry this heavy whimsy a long way (having his character be a known drunk as well certainly doesn't help; Stewart bumbles about enough as it is). Josephine Hull won a Supporting Oscar for reprising her stage role as Stewart's exasperated sister who wants her brother committed. Stagy, overlong comedy with sentimental trappings congeals on the screen, despite a large number of professional critics who think very highly of it. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Suprisingly quirky for 1950...","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Obtuse, funny, but over-rated screwball comedy about a suspected delusional schizophrenic(Jimmy Stewert - cleverly cast as the Super-nice Dowd). Funny, pleasant but beyond silly at times.  Most will chuck this into the 'they don't make 'em like that anymore' catergory, but I don't think the comedy for mental illness' sake is particularly funny.It finally turns out that the rabbit is actually real (couldn't have seen that coming!), and the film ultimately makes it's (what is now a tired) point 'Which one of us is truly insane?'You're better off checking out 'Shock Corridor' and 'One Flew A Cuckoo's Nest', pal. "},{"Title":"Very cheesy, even for a Frank capra movie.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This starts off well. James stewart is his usual amiable self but as the film goes on, he becomes a bit annoying. The point the film makes about the essential goodness in stewart's character and how curing him of his mental illness will also maybe get rid of this goodness, is made without any subtlety or intelligence. Some of the other characters in the film who are supposed to be more well adjusted, seem to be almost as crazy as the main character! The last 15 minutes or so are what really spoils the film. Not wanting to give anything away I'll only say it is unconvincing and corny. I see this film made it into the top 50 highest rated comedies on this website. Amazing how varied peoples tastes are! "},{"Title":"Jimmy Stewart sees a giant rabbit, and it's just HILARIOUS.","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"17 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Without an iota of doubt one of the worst comedies ever made, held high in the cinematic sky - for unfathomable reasons - by all the critics. There is also no doubt about another thing if a movie were made today with this idiotic/sophomoric script, and with this kind of bad acting, for sure it would be dismissed by every critic as the unfunny crap that it is. The humour is juvenile, obvious, and predictable, the jokes are pathetic, and the characterizations have less credibility than a 5-cent Mickey Mouse comic. The movie seems to plow through with difficulty; bad plot-devices are constantly used to make the plot go one way or another. This is forgivable when a comedy is funny, but when it's this bad, it just stinks. Half-way through the movie I lost all interest in the proceedings. I could literally go through the whole movie, scene be scene, and explain in detail why the scenes or the gags bomb (we're talking hydrogen bombs here), but doing that with an unfunny comedy is tiresome and depressing. Stewart is awful in a dull, one-note role; for the whole duration he just grins and spreads wise words of wisdom to his fellow bad actors, while spewing out a number of shockingly unfunny lines. I've never seen Stewart in a role anywhere close to as bad as this - and this role is hailed as one of his best! The rest of the cast is even worse. There is plenty of that old-school mugging, and while I can't entirely blame the cast for the lousy script, there is little effort on anyone's part to make more of this than the kind of Disney-type comedy for pre-pubescents that it turned out to be. This movie was supposed to be your typical Hollywood feel-good fantasy/comedy; they didn't entirely fail in that I felt good when pressing the forward button on the remote-control. How this malarkey made it into IMDb's top 250 films list is a mystery which I'll need to solve at some point.Leonard Maltin, the film nerd, said that Stewart gives one of his best performances. That is a misleading statement. Stewart's best is another actor's worst.Btw, this review has a 1 of 12 usefulness rating, not 1 of 8. You see, some strange Jimmy Stewart fan had it chucked away for a while; those 4 NO votes should never be forgotten! Thanks for clicking NO. It's been a pleasure... "}{"Title":"Shame, Shame","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just found out by viewing this site that Jimmy Stewart was a racist. I have for years loved his movies but I can't watch him in the same manner that I did before. I live in Pennsylvania and I know it is the most racist state in the US. But I never would have dreamed that Jimmy Stewart might have been a member of the KKK. I will never watch his movies again. It is a shame that someone with so much talent was also so very small-minded. He wasn't just crazy in Harvey. He was crazy for real. However, the movie was great. I just wish they had gotten Judy Holiday to play the part. She would have been more amusing than Stewart and I know for a fact that she was not a racist. "}]