[{"Title":"Don't Take This One For Granted","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"110 out of 146 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE African QUEEN is probably one of the most widely available films in the world, on sale in the electronics department of virtually every major retail chain, a commonplace at every rental counter, frequently seen on television. It is hard to imagine any one in the western world, especially in the United States, who has not seen the film at least once--and probably more than once. And so we take it for granted.That is a mistake. Based on the famous C.S. Forester novel, which it follows quite closely, THE African QUEEN is the simple story of pragmatic river-rat Charlie Allnut (Bogart) and high-minded Methodist missionary spinster Rose Sayer (Hepburn) who are thrown together by chance when German troops sweep through Africa during World War I. Once safely aboard his beat-up riverboat The African Queen, Allnut desires nothing more than to dodge the Germans until war's end; Rose, however, determines to strike a blow against the Germans by sailing the boat downriver to attack a German battleship.There are so many fine things about this movie that they are hard to innumerate. Filmed on location in the Congo, the cinematography is remarkably fine without being obtrusive; the script, which is at once subtle and very purposeful, has a remarkably natural tone; the two stars--who play the vast majority of the film alone together--give justly famous performances; and Huston's direction is so fine that we never feel even the slightest hint of directorial manipulation. As an adventure, it has a sense of realism that most adventure stories lack; as a character study it is remarkably detailed and finely wrought; as a love story, it is quite touching without engaging in common sentimentality. And it can be enjoyed by many people of diverse backgrounds and ages without the faintest qualm.If you haven't seen THE African QUEEN in a while (or heaven forbid never seen it at all) don't take it for granted thinking you'll catch it sooner or later. Sit down with the film and watch it with fresh eyes. You'll be amazed.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"If some one remakes this, I'm sending out a posse.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"72 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To face a script in which most of the plot revolves around the dialogue of only two people in one location must be terrifying.  Thank goodness for Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart.  John Huston's adaptation of C.S. Forester's The African Queen was solid.  And the decision to film on location in Africa helped develop the concept of nature as a viable character within the plot helps solidify the film. But without Katharine Hepburn, and Humphry Bogart, this film could have been reduced to a nice little travelog on the beauty and terror of African and the pretty animals living there. Within The African Queen each character undergoes metamorphosis. Charlie Alnutt grows from an apathetic man who enjoys the inside of a bottle, to a courageous man. Rosie in turn allows herself to be human, and vulnerable perhaps for the first time in her life. With lesser actors these changes would have appeared rushed, unexplained,and a dull beginning to an inexplicable romance. But it isn't. It's a captivating film. Rosie's brittle smile, Charlie's face as his vices are destroyed, these are moments of brilliance in an incredible film. I highly recommend it.It's also worth noting that this was not an easy film to make. These performances survived crew and cast illnesses, constant mechanical errors and inclement weather. For more about the conditions it was created under, I suggest you read Katherine Hepburn's The Making of The African Queen or How I went to Africa with Bogart, Bacall and Huston and almost lost my mind. She's not the sanest author in the world, but all the more enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"A Great Classic With Everything You Could Ask For","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"63 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This great classic has everything you could ask for - two fine stars who could carry the show by themselves, and a story full of adventure, drama, humor, and romance.  It's a lot of fun to watch, and it is also a film you can admire for the expert way it was put together.Bogart and Hepburn not only give great performances, they are also wonderful together, and they make the on-screen relationship between their characters believable and interesting - it's great to watch as it develops.  The adventures that they find are that much more entertaining for the way that you come to care about them.  The story itself is exciting, too, with a lot of ups and downs for the heroes.  Topping it off are the wonderful settings, with a lot of fine shots of wild animals and jungle scenery - there is always plenty to look at, and it also sets off the action nicely.Any one of a number of things would make The African Queen worth watching, and as a whole it is a terrific movie.  It's a must-see for any fan of classic movies, and one that you can also enjoy watching numerous times.  "},{"Title":"Bogie Deserved It","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"66 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To me this film will always be the validation of Humphrey Bogart's long and distinguished career. His portrayal of the hard drinking Charlie was what made this film what it was.  Also, he showed just how great an actor he was when he was able to match up against the woman who is generally considered to be the greatest actress in film history, Katherine Hepburn.  Also, this film will always be recognized for having the perfect mix of action, romance and comedy and it will always be a classic. "},{"Title":"A successful mixture of comedy, character and adventure","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"46 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen was Bogart's fourth film to be directed by John Huston and his performance in it was very likely the best in his career as well as one which finally won him an Academy Award&#133; He beat out Marlon Brando, who was heavily favored to win for A Streetcar Named Desire. The screenplay by Huston and the celebrated movie critic-writer, James Agee, matched Bogart with Katherine Hepburn in what amounted to a two-star tour de force in a deeply touching romance linked to adventures and heroics&#133;Bogart and Hepburn were delightful as they infused their personal conflict with a warmth, humor, and tenderness rarely seen in films&#133; Mixing comedy and adventure, it was a two-character film, in which Hepburn gave a fine demonstration of her ability to develop within a role... The sensitive interaction between her and Bogart (in an unfamiliar guise) undoubtedly benefited from her many films with Tracy&#133;Bogart was given a rare opportunity to demonstrate his range as an actor, more than holding his own opposite the formidable Hepburn... He played many scenes with maximum effectiveness, down impossible rapids, where he becomes covered with leeches and suffers a severe fever attack, his drunk scene where he rebels against Hepburn and mocks her high-blown speeches, and the tender moments in which he realizes he's fallen under her bewitching spell&#133;The African Queen was not an easy film to make, most of it being done on location in the insect-infested, suffocatingly hot and humid African Congo&#133; But the result was a brilliantly entertaining film, a successful mixture of comedy, character and adventure&#133; "},{"Title":"Love Isn't Just For the Young","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"44 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is a significant historical film in two respects. Along with King Solomon's Mines it was the first American film to show the real Africa to the American public. Previously our ideas about Africa were gleaned from studio backlot jungles created for Tarzan films and the like. The African Queen changed all that, no cheap studio sets would do any more.But also, The African Queen dealt with romance among mature adults in their forties. A ne'er do well river pilot on a ramshackle boat and the spinster sister of a missionary, thrown together by the circumstance of war. Humphrey Bogart, our intrepid river pilot, makes a scheduled stop to deliver mail to the mission run by Robert Morley and Katharine Hepburn. And he breaks the news to them that World War I has started. Almost as soon as he leaves them, German troops from East Africa come to call. Bogie comes back and he finds Kate with her dead brother. They bury him and skedaddle. And while skedaddling they conceive of a cockeyed plan to help in the war effort.To say what it is and what happens would spoil the story, but let me say this. The original opening of the film with Bogart coming in as church services are being conducted for a few hundred uncomprehending native Africans is Director John Huston's comment on the usefulness of the lives Morley and Hepburn have led up to that point. What Hepburn and Bogart accomplish by the end of the film makes up for the waste that was Hepburn's life.But The African Queen is a great romance as well. Bogart became a great romantic star in Casablanca and he upholds the tradition here, winning an Academy Award for Best Actor. Katie Hepburn doesn't seem to miss her usual partner Spencer Tracy not a bit, the part of Rose Sayer is a perfect fit. As was remarked, they're going to have stories to tell their grandkids.When I watch The African Queen I'm reminded of what Bogart's friend Frank Sinatra sang in one of his best ballads about how Love Isn't Just For the Young. Kate and Bogie sure prove it here. "},{"Title":"Out of Africa with Bogey and Kate","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films whose special effects and scenery must have been astounding at the time (1951), but which seem mediocre at best today. BUT, and that's a big 'but', this does not detract from the greatness of the movie overall. The scenery truly is beautiful, for one thing--and the direction and cinematography is great. However, what truly makes this film a classic, and deservedly so, is the performances given by the lead actors. For their one film together, Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn pull out all the stops. Bogart is crude, dirty and a low-life river-rat with a heart of gold. He gives the Oscar-winning performance of his lifetime. Hepburn is prim and prissy, but always manages to win us over with her radiance and vulnerability, as well as that core of steel and strength she lends to all her on-screen characters. He's charming, in his way; she's achingly beautiful in hers. You can't help but warm to Charlie and Rosie, and truly, genuinely root for them to get together.The ending is predictable; all 'opposites-attract' romance adventure stories are. You know without a doubt that the sunset will be there for Charlie and Rosie to ride off (or swim) into together. But you still hurt when Charlie hurts; and you still smile like a fool when he sees Rose, and when he tries to explain her forthrightness away by jungle fever. You believe the love, and that's what the African Queen is all about.Oh, and the gin and leech scenes, of course. Those are brilliant, as everyone else here has already mentioned! ;) "},{"Title":"Three Great Artists and One Great Movie","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is not the best movie Ford, Bogart, or Hepburn did as individual artists, the but joining of their considerable talents did create a unique and most enjoyable movie that is fondly associated with all of them.The African Queen is a war movie, romance, adventure, comedy, drama, morality tale, and battle of the sexes all in one and it works on all levels. Though it often appears as somewhat hoaky...almost like a silent movie at points with its melodramatic score... that's because it does not strive to recreate reality like the usual war movie, it is actually an on location play. You could put it on a Broadway or London stage today and it would still work without a word or inflection changed.Though this is a movie of many great moments, what stays with you is the blossoming love of Charlie and Rose and how it helps them find the best in themselves for each other. I guess when all is said and done, The African Queen is a romance after all.If you appreciate any of the great artists that created it or just great movie making, this is one for the collection. "},{"Title":"Kate and Bogey on a Quest","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one's unique. The photography often makes it look like a travelogue, but it's one of the most captivating adventure/love stories ever put on film. Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn cruising down the river. Taking care of the gin. Over the rapids. Past the bullets. Through the swamp. Among the leeches. It's no wonder you love boating, Mr. Alnutt. And guess who comes to the rescue! This is an epic quest, the kind of tale humans have been spinning since we learned to talk. Movies don't get much better than this.  "},{"Title":"entertaining but overrated","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"31 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is an entertaining film done in grand old Hollywood style, and it is probably the most conventional movie John Huston ever made. It's surprising though that people can call this movie one of the greatest of all time considering the hokey (and at times unbelievable) script and the awkward lack of chemistry between Bogart and Hepburn. Actually, that lack of chemistry creates some strangely funny moments which change the tone of this adventure story--sometimes for the better and sometimes for the worse. The two are never really believable as the characters they are playing, but they are still fun to watch as a couple of stars chewing up the scenery. Bogart's Academy Award for this performance is obviously a Revlon choice in that it makes up for his being overlooked for at least 10 better performances that he gave prior to this one. Huston's direction seems to lose focus in the last 10 minutes or so and the ending is very abrupt, but overall the film is briskly paced and painless. Also worth noting is the wonderful use of African locations as photographed by master cinematographer Jack Cardiff. If you want to see a better film with similar themes, check out Huston's far superior Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison. "}{"Title":"The African Queen","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An amazing romance-adventure classic highlighted by the brilliant performances of Bogart and Hepburn. Oscar winner Bogart's Charlie is a broken man who finds true hope and happiness in Hepburn's Rose. Rose finds love and meaning from Charlie. It's adorable to see them call each other Missus and Mr. Almont even when we know that they love each other. Even when they have their first quarrel near the end of the picture, we know that their lives have changed forever as a result of the other person. It's a film about true love. This is also a very funny film, which was a shock to director Huston. Bogart's stomach growling scene early on in the film is a hoot. More humor commences as both stars play off of each other wonderfully. The scenary is beautiful. No film has captured the essence and importance of nature better than this classic. This is the film that sparked other romance adventures such as Romancing the Stone and Six Days and Seven Nights. Before you view those newer installments, you better check out the one and true original classic.   "},{"Title":"Amazing and memorable movie!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MILD SPOILERS!After having seen some of this in my youth, I finally broke down and watched the whole thing recently.  I was very impressed!  I thought it was entertaining and even moving at times.  I could see (retrospectively) how this seminal movie has influenced many of my favorites.  (Dead Man Walking, Stand By Me, Apocalypse Now, etc.)  Oddly, while African Queen had a strong beginning and ending, it was its incredible MIDDLE that made it such a classic.  It is in its middle sections that African Queen wins our hearts.  Here we see Rose lose her annoyingly prim composure during a vicious bug attack.  We watch Rose and Charlie's first kiss and see their initially awkward love blossom into something comfortable and natural. And of course my favorite  the leech scene!  We see the now indomitable Charlie enter the water to drag the Queen through the mud.  Then, before long, we see his utterly believable discomfiture as he and Rose discover that he is covered in leeches. (SNAKESINDIANA JONESLEECHESCHARLIE ALLNUT)  And then, once they've all been salted off...Charlie resigns himself to get back in the water.  Why?  For his new-found love of country, self, and (most significant) Rose.  At least that's what his scared but determined face seems to say.In such scenes, our love for these characters grows as does theirs for each other.  In the face of terror and pain and even specific phobias, the initially annoying personas are stripped away and we see Rose and Charlie in their truest forms afraid and hurting.  Yet, in spite of their weaknesses, they struggle onward.  In this, they are TRUE HEROES.  They are terrified and discouraged (far from the imperturbable Superman-types) and still they do the impossible (or the unnavigable as the case may be).  These are my kind of heroes!And, while the eleventh hour ending may be a bit far-fetched, we don't mind.  These two have earned a victorious ending, however it is delivered!       "},{"Title":"Two-Person Adventure Story That Entertains","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is almost strictly a two-person movie with Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn dominating the story and screen time. It's a likable classic film because of those two famous actors, a nice romance, good adventure and even some comedy thrown in to the mix. I'm shocked a well-known film with these actors still isn't available on DVD in Region 1, as of late 2006. The two actors squabble in the beginning but I like the fact that the film didn't go on too long in that regard as they did in many old-time battle-of-the-sexes movies. The story also a little unusual in that neither lead actor is in his/her prime, meaning it's almost a middle-age romance story.Once they become enamored with each other, the movie mainly goes into the trials the two have in piloting this boat, The African Queen down river with the goal of reaching a German ship and blowing it up. Yes, it's a World War II movie, of sorts.To be honest, the film does slow down a bit in the beginning of Bogie and Hepburn's romance but the last 30 minutes finish strong with one obstacle after another hitting the pair of adventurers, and it's interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"Bogart And Hepburn At Their Best","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are arguably the two greatest performers of all time. Bogart has proved his success with such roles as Rick Blaine in Casablanca and Samuel Spade in The Maltese Falcon. Hepburn has shown us her talents with The Philadelphia Story and Bringing Up Baby. Did they ever happen to make a movie together? Yes, they did. Was it any good? You bet your ass! The African Queen is a rousing tale of adventure and romance with two unlikely companions. Bogie plays a steamboat captain who agrees to take Robert Morley's sister, The Great Kate, back to civilization during the onset of World War I. In the process, they must fight for survival along treacherous waters.The gin-guzzling riverboat captain is a great counter to the strait-laced missionary and the two stars make this a ride to remember. Besides the performances, the script probably shines the most. James Agee and John Huston, who also directed, have a great knack for writing crisp and smooth interplay between the two leads.There aren't very many supporting roles in this movie, but Robert Morley makes the best of his small performance. He's actually quite memorable and he hearkens back to supporting players of older Bogart movies like Sidney Greenstreet.Both leads received well deserved Oscar nominations and Humphrey Bogart finally won his big award. That should tell you that I'm not the only one who thought this movie was excellent. If you like stirring action with great chemistry from the stars, then you'll love The African Queen. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest romantic films of all time","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe there is any doubt after fifty-five years that African Queen is one of the greatest romantic/adventure films of all time, and one of Humphrey Bogart's most delightful roles.Some classic films appear awkward and even amateurish after all this time, due to the stunning advances in film technology over the decades, but African Queen remains astonishing fresh. I believe this is due to the rugged on-location filming, which is a Hollywood legend in and of itself (Please read Katherine Hepburn's excellent book Making of the African Queen AND Clint Eastwood's outstanding film 'White Hunter, Black Heart, for an accurate and detailed look at the goings-on behind the cameras). The realism of the location filming feels as immediate and convincing as if the movie had been filmed this year.Bogart and Katherine Hepburn turn in what must be among the very best performances of their respective careers, as a drunken captain and a prim missionary lady. Perhaps because they are initially not very sympathetic or traditionally good looking or even young, their courtship is deeply touching. I think that this is one of the most moving screen romances of all time because of this...it's a refreshing change from youth-obsessed Hollywood (then as now) to see 40-somethings in a convincing and deeply romantic love story.My favorite scene remains the one where Charlie and Rosie, exhausted by their travails trying to get the African Queen through a reed-choked section of river, collapse unconscious in the boat, feeling they are doomed for certain death...while a crane shots shows that they have indeed reached the last portion of the reeds, and are gracefully floating into clear waters...what a beautiful metaphor for hope against all odds. This never fails to move me to tears.Surely one of the source inspirations for modern stuff like Indiana Jones, African Queen has plenty of physical adventure (white water rapids), evil Germans (always reliable baddies, even in WWI), gross out parts (the leeches) and suspense...so that this film seems equally loved by both men and women. It's a grand adventure as well as a sensitive love story. The ending is one of the most deeply satisfying in all of cinema history.That brings me to the source material -- the original novel by C.S. Forrester. Many reviewers comment on this, but I'll bet that very few have READ it. I went to great lengths to order this long out-of-print novel (so short it's almost a novella) from interlibrary loan a few years back. The film is a remarkably faithful adaptation of the book, with ONE glaring obsession. I don't think it's an actual spoiler to remark on this for film history buffs, but I'll still buffer thisSPOILER ALERT! (well, sort of)In the movie, Rosie and Charlie are married by the German captain and this is one of the satisfying romantic highlights of the film, especially as they ask to marry just before what appears to be their certain execution. However, in the book, it's revealed at the novel's end (which otherwise mostly reflects the film's ending) that Charlie is a womanizer, who has already married (but never divorced) several other women. He's a bigamist, who doesn't take his vows with the least seriousness and will undoubtedly leave Rosie, just as he has the last three wives. Furthermore, due to his bigamy, their marriage is a sham and certainly invalid.This is the ironic twist that ends the novel, and I can't say I am surprised that Hollywood cleaned it up to present us with the far more conventional (and I have to admit, far more satisfying) ending that exists. However, for film buffs, I think this detail is interesting and well-worth knowing! "},{"Title":"a classic for good reason.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The African Queen is a classic, not because of the chemistry of its stars or the pretty pictures, but because unlike many similar stories of this nature, it is about something Salvation.The movie begins when a church service held in a remote african village by Rev. Sayer and his sister is interrupted by Charlie Allnut, a comic variation on the theme of existentialist heroes so familiar to both Bogart and director John Huston's work.While the africans can be redeemed simply by exposure, Allnut is beyond the Sayer's reach He is unredeemable, belching and gurgling his way through high tea. Minutes after he leaves, the village is burned to the ground by German.  The reverend is dead. He is not physically killed by the Germans He loses his mind, and then drops dead.Allnut returns to rescue Rose and they begin their journey down the river together. Hundreds of incompatible couples have been sent on journeys down roads and rivers by thousands of screewriters, but in most cases their differences are invented and phoney, and the resolving of their differences comes only because the people making the movie knew it had to be that way. In The African Queen it is organic and it is noble. With her brother and her village gone, rose has only one soul left to save That of Charlie Allnut. And he is a legitimate challenge to her, a true lost soul, not some derivative character played by Harrison Ford.In the course of their journey they don't bicker and fall in love, they have a profound impact on each other. Allnut loosens Rosie up, and turns her into a woman. Rosie reforms Allnut, and turns him into a man, ultimately inspiring him to become a hero by attempting the impossible an attack on the German boat at the lake the river empties into. Their plans go awry and they are caputured and sentenced to death. Before being hanged, they ask the German Captain to marry them. Like the church service athe beginning, the marriage ceremony at the end of the movie is  interupted not by Mr. Allnut, but instead by the African Queen herself, now outfitted as a floating bomb, crashing into the German boat.Huston returned to the idea of putting a bunch of people in a tight spot together many times The Treasure Of Sierra Madre, Key Largo, We Were Strangers, Beat The Devil, Heaven Knows Mr. Allison being a few examples. In some cases the purposes were noble, in others they were most certainly not. In this case it is the act of falling in love and in doing so, inspiring each other to greatness.  The African Queen is no Treasure Of Sierra Madre, but that's one of the 10 great movies ever, this is just a great movie. "},{"Title":"What year were YOU born?","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was born in 1952. For those of you who are used to the cgi and tech wizardry of the 90's and this new millennium, then you have a painful adjustment to make. Welcome to reality...Films used to be shot on a medium called Film. Actors spoke their lines and they were recorded live on tape. Films were literally cut with a razor blade.If you aren't prepared to make some allowances for the 1952 date on the film, go away and watch some cgi marvel that doesn't need actors. Look at the latest Starwars movie - all cgi, no quality.Yes, the green screen background is visible in many scenes, but it isn't an impediment to enjoying the movie.Yes, the boat going down the rapids is a model, with stuffed dummies nailed to the tiller.Yes, the social niceties of 1952 seem quaint from our perspective, but they were real then - as real as the leeches - The *way* in which the characters work out their personal issues are part of the magic of the movie. By modern standards it's quaint, but back then it was revolutionary.Never forget this in film reviews - many great films of their era are now outpaced by later copies with more action and less style(rip-offs?). The best films are the most copied and in a strange way the earliest to date - but they come back in style.That said, I agree that Bogie didn't win the Oscar for *this film* but for his *previous* work that had not been adequately rewarded at the time (Maltese Falcon anyone?). Awards are like this. They're partial and they lag reality...I agree that Bogie and Hepburn fall together too fast, but at the time it was almost verboten to hint at a night of passion the way this film does. The film was a landmark. We can never go back to how things were in the past, and before this film. Similarly, by breaking so many rules and moulds, this film may have contemned itself to a non-appreciative future with a new generation who don't understand that there was a before.Before this film, it had never been done. Once this film did it, nobody could appreciate that one would not do it this way.Bogie and Hepburn were marvelous here. Watch it just for them... "},{"Title":"Giants of the silver screen delivering one giant of a movie.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" WW1, East Africa, after her brother is killed by invading German troops, Rose Sayer is reliant on gruff steamboat captain, Charlie Allnut, to ferry her safely out of harms way and back to civilisation. Trouble is is that they are poles apart in ideals and ways, she is a devoted missionary, he a hard drinking tough nut with a glint in his eye. Yet as they venture further down the river, an unlikely alliance is starting to form, both in personalities and a keenness to give it to the Germans!It's probably something of a given that The African Queen was starting with an advantage from the very first cry of action! Because to have Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn as your lead actors is not to be sniffed at, whilst also having John Huston directing is stacking the odds heavily in your favour. Thankfully history and time show us that all involved in this piece crafted a most delightful and exciting picture, yet it triumphs more as an intriguing picture than merely a meeting of Hollywood giants. Adapted by Huston and James Agee from the novel by C.S. Forester, it's believed that the original intention was to film it as an outright drama, but whether by star design or a going with the flow attitude, the picture turned out to be a drama fused with splices of humour, the kind where the tongue gets firmly stuck in the cheek.As character pieces go, The African Queen has few peers, especially in the pantheon of 50s cinema, then you add the excellent story to work from, with the location work in Congo and Uganda expertly utilised by Huston (clearly revelling in the mix) and his photographer, Jack Cardiff. Then there is that magical flow, just as The African Queen (the boat itself) is flowing down the river, so does the film effortlessly glide along without pretentious posturing, screaming out that this is as a humane a story as you are likely to witness again. Some cynical reviewers will point to the dated studio filmed segments as a reason why this film shouldn't be termed a classic amongst classics, but really it's only an issue if you want it to dim your appreciation of the splendour from every other frame. From Bogart and his wry or humorous expressions, to Hepburn and the art of acting prim, this is a pure joy and justly it deserves to make all those lists containing greatest films of all time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Bogart's finest performance (spoilers)","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The African Queen is one of the finest films ever made, and one of my personal favorites.  It is the story of love born between two unlikely human beings amidst intense battles against nature and Ze Germans.  Charlie Allnut (Bogart) and Rose Sayer (Hepburn) have no business ever even speaking to each other under normal circumstances.  He being the gruff, unkempt lush Canadian captain of a one man ship, The African Queen, and she being the somewhat haughty, prim and proper British sister of a missionary killed by the Germans in Africa in the first World War.  The film is the story of their worlds meeting during a journey towards the destruction of the German's most powerful ship in Africa.What is it that makes this film so great?  It's all Bogart and Hepburn.  Of the roughly 105 minutes of film, it's them and them alone for about 90.  Arguably, no two actors have ever solely carried a film this good by themselves.  Both, especially Bogart, lose themselves in the roles completely.  Of immense help was, of course, director John Huston and the decision to go into Africa and not a Hollywood backlot or LA area river to do the filming.  The river and the jungle's harshly real environment made Bogart and Hepburn's performances all the better.  I could praddle on and on about why Bogart and Hepburn are so great in this film, but there are two key moments that sum it all up for me.  Both may seem unordinary overall, but say all that needs to be said about the two characters.  The first is when Rose, who has been calling (Bogart) Mr. Allnut for as long as she has known him, realizes she doesn't know his first name.  He tells her It's Charlie.  She gets a big smile on her face and repeats Charlie...that's a nice name.  Something about her demeanor when she says that displays, to me, an extraordinary joy and affection, maybe even love, for Charlie that her words perhaps do not.  Later, after Charlie and Rose have successfully navigated some white water rapids that seemed impossible to get through, Charlie grabs Rose, kisses her, and shouts Hip Hip Horray!  Again, there's something about the way Bogart does it that conveys to me the same joy, affection and love for Rose that she did earlier when repeating his name.Again, these two moments seem relatively insignificant in the context of the whole movie.  But in my opinion, they make the movie.  In this movie, as with most others, it's hard to give a damn about what characters say or do if you don't give a damn about them.  And those moments make me care about these two characters in a way that I ordinarily never would.  I shudder to think what results Bette Davis and David Niven, both fine actors, would have had with this filmThe ending of the film is, of course, implausible.  Without revealing anything, what are the odds of things happening as they did?  But who cares.  By the end, we as viewers should and would be ecstatic if Rose and Charlie were simply able to marry before their execution.  The boat ultimately blowing up and both our heroes coming out married and alive is icing on the cake.  The film ends with us knowing that despite what Keanu Reeves says, a relationship between two people who meet under extreme circumstances can work out.   Also, Robert Morley's brief performance as Rose's brother is memorable, as are most all of his performances.  And Bogart scene with the leeches is as horrifying as the same scene in Stand By Me kids is funny.  "},{"Title":"Bogart's Oscar winner!!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The African Queen is one of the greatest movies I've ever seen!  It's funny, adventurous, romantic, and overall entertaining. My favorite part is when Charlie (Bogart) thinks Rosie (Katharine Hepburn) died when his boat, the African Queen, was destroyed.  The men of the Louisa, who picked him up, are threatening him with death, but Charlie doesn't even care.  He's too distraught about losing Rose.  But then they bring her in, and he is overjoyed!  She's alive!  I also love the ending, because it keeps you thinking.  Since it ends with Charlie and Rose just treading in the water, you wonder if they get to safety or if they drown.  I like to think that they swim to safety.  But it doesn't really matter, because they're together!Humphrey Bogart and John Huston, the director, once again create a fantastic movie.  Huston also directed Bogie in such classics as The Maltese Falcon, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre and Key Largo.  So I recommend this Oscar-winning classic to anyone who wants to see one of the greatest triumphs in Hollywood! "}{"Title":"not up to par with the best of Bogart &/or Huston; Hepburn gets wildly overpraised","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Term overrated; it wouldn't be something I would attribute to a film usually as directed by John Huston and starring Humphrey Bogart (co-star Katherine Hepburn is another matter). But overtime this little piece of romantic fluff/saga of war-time daring-do has been called one of the greatest American films ever made. And for those who do love it, more power to them. It is a star vehicle first and foremost- and in 1951 if you were going to have two stars for the majority of the running-time these were the two to get- and die-hard fans can praise it as much as they want. But when it comes down to it, the film hasn't aged as well as one might think, and it goes without saying that what was really on Huston's mind during filming (hunting elephants) probably had something to do with the focus coming off of things like, erm, logic. It is a yarn, to be certain, and under the terms of what is light-hearted (in quotes because it has some dark undertones) it works out alright. But an all-time classic I think not.For one thing- and I know I would get some arguing over this- the two stars don't really have that much chemistry. It doesn't help matters that cliché steers the ship; Bogart and Hepburns' characters, Charlie and Rosie, are going down a river where at first they can't stand one another as one is a drunkard on gin and the other is a prissy go-for-it-all who doesn't really see the consequences, AND whenever Bogie somehow gets the African Queen over some rapids she suddenly starts to fall in love with the guy. I don't buy it- when comparing to something like, say, the real McCoy in Bogie and McCall, it doesn't hold a candle. Hepburn, until maybe the second half when she changes gears only slightly, and depending on the risks in the scene, doesn't alter much in her personality. While it is, in a way, a good performance at playing someone who is shrill and prissy, it doesn't help make one care that much about her.Meanwhile, Bogie is still a pro at what he does (though not Oscar-worthy pro, not up against Brando- the performance that really deserved it was In a Lonely Place, which is sour grapes of course long after the fact). He, and Huston's occasional outbursts of creativity in the simple framework of the script, do make it mildly entertaining; it's a good picture to probably check out on a rainy summer's weekend afternoon with lots of tea (or gin). And there's even a few fascinating bits with the dangers of going down a river in Africa, i.e. the swarming bugs and the leeches as they try and get the boat out of the mud. But by the time of the ending, when the 'what-the-hell' moment happens as the torpedo strikes at the ship at the most unlikely- yet most likely- of moments, I couldn't wait for the recently married to get off the screen. If you haven't seen a film by Huston or with Bogie or Hepburn, look elsewhere to start. If exotic locales and silly romantic river-boat adventure is your game, be my guest. "},{"Title":"Simple story that is good for the acting of Bogart and Hepburn.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am certain that this movie maintains it's rather high ranking because of the performances of Humphrey Bogart as Canadian Charlie Allnut, working in German East Africa, and Katharine Hepburn as Rose Sayer, helping her missionary brother. The story is straightforward, about the two of them using Charlie's little boat named African Queen to escape the threat of the invading Germans. The bulk of the movie is their trip down a river, through a marsh, and into a large lake on the small boat, making necessary underwater repairs as necessary. The dialog is snappy and interesting, the two actors at the tops of their forms. The DVD has a nice presentation.SPOILERS. The movie starts with the missionary activity, and they depend on Charlie and his little boat to bring them supplies and mail occasionally. Germans show up, burn the village, rough up the minister, who later dies as a result. Threatened, Charlie and Rose avoid a German fort and gunshots, get stuck in reeds, but a good rain and flood overnight send them into the lake, where they hatch a plan to convert two compressed gas cylinders into torpedoes to sink the German boat. In bad weather the African Queen sinks instead, they get rescued, then about to be executed as spies, the German boat rams the overturned Queen, sinks, and Charlie and Rose, having just been married by the German boat captain, survive. "},{"Title":"Bogie and Hepburn ride the rapids...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Huston made many fine films but my two favorites are still The Maltese Falcon and The African Queen.Why The African Queen? It has a perfect script, two characters who throw sparks off each other, great location work that shows in the photography, and two of the finest performances ever on film--Bogie's gin-slinging boat captain and a prim missionary proving that opposites attract. Both are priceless in their roles--every gesture, every word showing us exactly what their personalities are--and getting every bit of humor out of the script.The story has them meeting after her missionary brother (Robert Morley) has been killed. While aboard his riverboat, she talks him into sinking a German ship (this is pre-World War I) and the rest of the film has them fighting to stay afloat amid the rapids as the boat heads downstream toward the enemy. Bogie's exchanges with her showed that despite everything, he was gradually coming to admire her. He fully deserved the Oscar for this performance. Along with his Captain Queeg in The Caine Mutiny and his Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon, this ranks as one of his very best film roles.Adventure, humor and romance--in what must have been a most uncomfortable film for the actors and crew as they trudged through darkest Africa! Despite what she says about it in her book, Bogie claims she thought everything was divine--just like her character, Rosie. "},{"Title":"Not your standard Girl vs Boy movie","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although it starts out as so many of these movies did, the sexual revolution seems to have taken a back seat quickly in this film. Thankfully. Although this work begins as a battle of the sexes, it quickly becomes a two person show of cooperation, understanding, and a genuine caring.Bogart exhibits herein the dynamic of a struggling submissive male in a male-dominant era. He strives to stand alone, and has found his own survival more assured, when so doing, rather than in the company of other men who expect something from him, he is not. The same goes for the company of simpering submissive females, who also expect something from him he is not able to give.His character literally blooms before the audience under the watchful and caring guidance of a dominant female role delivered perfectly by Hepburn, an actress whose entire career is marked by dominant female roles in an age where Female Dominance was generally frowned upon. Thankfully, much of the world still held a matriarchal heart, and She achieved the level of stardom her performances deserved.I love this one, and it rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Man Against  the  Great  Zambeeze","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few films are as long lasting as the great memories they create in the minds of their audience. In the life of some actors, few indeed stand out from their competition. The African Queen is one such film. The great John Huston took a boatload of cameras, a case of whiskey, film cargo, and two legendary actors and pitted them against the African elements. In doing so, an immortal saga was created. The story is that of bush river Captain Charlie Allnut, (Humphrey Bogart) being challenged by a spinster, named Rose 'Rosy' Sayer, who has tragically lost her missionary brother, (Robert Morley), to sail down the treacherous and formidable Zambeeze river. Once there, the plan is to sail out on Lake Victoria, engage and destroy a German warship named the Louisia. An insane voyage to be sure and one filled with many other terrors such as man eating crocodiles, swarms of flesh eating mosquito's and blood-sucking, black water leeches. The film is typical Huston and many believe that the scene where Bogart is pulling the tiny boat through the reed-lined African swamp, earned him his very first well deserve Oscar. For his fans, this is a classic which lives in the treasured moments of cinematic history. ***** "},{"Title":"Maybe it's just me...","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possible spoilers...I love films. I love classic films. This film was released over 20 years before I was. My dad was surprised I'd never seen this one, and I finally gave it a rent last week. I don't know, maybe I just wasn't in a movie frame of mind? This film did nothing for me at all.I've seen better from both lead performers. In fact, I'm rather surprised this is the one Bogey won the Oscar for. Once the romance blossomed, it just seemed I was watching this thing constantly waiting and wondering, When's this going to get somewhere? A round or two of the rapids, ducking German fort gunfire, getting through the muck, having their tiff after Bogey overindulged on his gin...all of this ultimately didn't keep my interest very deeply. Only in the last 15 minutes did I really feel fully attentive to the film, and in that same last 15 minutes were probably among the funnier moments of the film. The cinematography was excellent, whether any or all of the animal footage was first unit or second unit or stock footage or whatever. I didn't not like the film overall, but it's nothing I'll be rushing to see a second time.  "},{"Title":"a queen of a movie","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, so I admit that The African Queen is pure escapism, but you gotta love it. Katharine Hepburn plays Rose Sayer, a prim and proper missionary in German East Africa with her brother (Robert Morley) in 1914. Suddenly, right after they receive news that war has broken out in Europe, the German army comes in and demolishes their settlement. After the brother dies, hard-drinking stubbly sailor Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart) comes in and agrees to take Rose down the river. Along the way, they bicker about various things (she's disgusted by his drinking, he finds her too pious), but they grow to respect each other.Bogart and Hepburn pretty much play their usual roles, and the movie also stars a few crocodiles (most of the movie was filmed on location in Africa). The portrayal of the German army certainly seems to be an allusion to the Nazis. But overall, the movie is quite admirable, with Rose's and Charlie's personalities bouncing off of each other. It's like an early buddy comedy, even though it's serious. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best ever","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen might the most well-rounded movie I have ever seen, or at least most well-rounded of the oldies. Staring Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn 'The African Queen touched on brilliance in action, adventure, comedy, and a nice little dose of drama and romance to create a package that anyone would love.The majority of the filming was done with just Bogart and Hepburn as they steamed down the river in the filthy and boozing Captain Charlie Aunt's (Bogart) boat The African Queen, in which the movie was named after. Hepburn played a strong willed missionary named Rose Sayer who was somewhat an annoying character early on but I thought effectively fell into place as a character you applauded at just the right time in the movie. Anyone who has seen Hepburn in True Grit will realize she is playing pretty close to the same character which could have been a negative but in both cases (Being True Grit and The African Queen) the combined talent of actors easily overpowered the problem.The lone flaw that was obvious in the movie was the fact that a vast majority of the filming appeared to be filmed in studio with fake backgrounds. Of course it was standard practice at that time but given the clarity and visuals we are use to in this modern day and age it does stand out more than it would of even just ten years ago. I guess the reason it stands out so much in The African Queen is the adventure aspect itself was a very visual thing with the river rolling by behind the camera and many subtle actions in the background. I watched the movie on VHS because at the time of this review there isn't a good US release or a widescreen release. Which of course I question why it isn't cleaned up and released. "},{"Title":"The hard work paid off.","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the 1950's,location shooting was a rarity,so the locale selected,everyone involved with this production knew it was going to be very hard work to get this film made.They just didn't know how tough until work began.I guess it helped to have one of the best directors of that day (not to mention in all of cinema history),John Huston,paired with two of the best actors to grace the screen,Humphrey Bogart and Kate Hepburn.The story is very captivating,and these cinema giants,working harder than usual under very adverse conditions,managed to come up with a winner.Definitely on the must see list for any classic cinema fan. "},{"Title":"The African Queen A gamble that paid off","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cinematographer Jack Cardiff says he was offered a cut of the take on African Queen in exchange for his salary, and declined, much to his regret. I wonder how many people would have foreseen the greatness of this movie, just from the script? Part of the problem would have been the simplicity and unpretentiousness of the concept A semi-decrepit couple going down a river in a thoroughly decrepit boat to destroy a German warship. Nearly the entire movie consists of the interactions of this most improbable couple in 1914 cooped up on a steam-powered boat built around 1885.But the modern viewer would more likely recognize the script's potential, for what we have here is a prototype of the Indiana Jones quests, which included a chance pairing with an improbable female, travel that required overcoming insurmountable obstacles, natural and man-made, and a seemingly impossible goal. Add to that excitement and just the right dose of humor and romance, not taking yourself too seriously, but not going over the top into farce. If Steven Spielberg didn't deliberately use The African Queen as a model, I'll eat my hat. Heck, Harrison Ford would seem the best modern actor to fill Bogart's shoes in a remake because you can imagine him as an unshaven sop who cleans up into a hero and lover. But can anyone match Bogart's and Hepburn's acting? This is 90 percent of the picture's greatness. The movie's charm is the personal transformation of the two characters the reserved, repressed missionary into a thrill-seeking military tactician and romantic lover; and the lazy, louche Bogart brought into line by the woman he needs to give him strength. Neither has a great deal of confidence in themselves at the start, especially in romance, yet all this changes by the seemingly impossible conclusion. So the adventure quest is also a personal, spiritual quest, not unlike the Indy films.The adventure/spiritual quest of course predates Indy and Hollywood, going back to Ancient Greece, so it is an immortal formula, if done right. We see a variation in Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and an element even in North by Northwest. If done wrong, if the formula is misused, the result can be preposterous, like Rooster Cogburn, a pointless, pathetic attempt to exploit the success of The African Queen by pairing Hepburn with an aging John Wayne. In African Queen, Hepburn's most potent weapon against Bogie is to refuse to talk to him; in Rooster, Hepburn bludgeons the Duke into submission by chattering him into near insanity with one of the worst scripts every written. It is the sheer improbability of the plot that makes the story so delicious. One reviewer here said, you expect me to believe this? Well, yes and no. This is Hollywood, so it's not supposed to be entirely reality based. A movie creates an alternate universe with certain rules and assumptions, and if it is good, it is internally consistent, but at odds with reality, which is what you want to escape from. Hepburn sets down the challenge early on Blow up the Louisa. The secondary implied challenge is to do this without Bogie and Kate tearing each other's eyes out. Since Hepburn is a righteous Christian, the movie allows for a certain amount of divine intervention. The movie carries you along, step by step, without unduly straining your credulity, if you accept the divine grace part. The other fascination for viewers must have been deepest Africa, which was a much more mysterious unknown 60 years ago. If the movie had not been shot on location, it would have been only a shadow of itself.So, would you have spotted the future greatness of The African Queen in 1951? Bogart, along with Casablanca, would not achieve cult status until the Sixties. Sam Spiegel's masterpieces were in the future On the Waterfront, Bridge on the River Kwai, Lawrence of Arabia. Residuals from TV, VHS, DVDs were inconceivable. What you were left with was a movie that was likely to be very good, like countless other movies, fun to watch, that would do well at the box office and then disappear. But, shooting on location in Africa with all its unknowns, it could also be a disaster that might never be completed. Shooting The African Queen was a gamble, like its plot, but one that paid off beyond anyone's imagining. "}{"Title":"I Pronounce You Man And Wife - Proceed With The Execution","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1914, Rose Sayer and her brother Samuel run a missionary in a remote region of East Africa. Their only contact with the outside world is one Charlie Alnutt, who runs a small packet ship called The African Queen up the local river. When the Germans declare war and Samuel dies of fever, Rose and Charlie try to take the boat downriver and escape &#x85;The African Queen is one of the richest, most entertaining and heartwarming romance pictures ever made. Unlike most love stories, it actually has a credible plot with plenty of action and humour to keep it steaming along. It was also an incredibly original idea for a movie; take two completely different people (and actors) with nothing in common, and slam them into a breathless adventure. This idea has been copied endlessly since, but here it is fresh, funny and memorable, as the God-fearing prim spinster Rose rubs dirty, lazy, laid-back Charlie up all the wrong ways. Hepburn and Bogart are sensational in their only film together (he won an Oscar), her naive sobriety gradually melting into real physical attraction, whilst his never-take-anything-seriously attitude is tested to the limit. The two of them carry the whole movie together, and their relationship is constantly changing and growing; a testament to the power of the characters and performances. The movie is also a technical masterpiece - a large amount of it was shot on location in The Congo and Uganda (unheard of at the time) and it deftly combines exteriors, studio sets, second unit footage and effects shots in a way that is still being used nowadays. The sheer technical challenge of it (whitewater rapids, underwater scenes, mosquitoes, shooting a whole movie on a thirty-foot boat) is something only a director of Huston's chutzpah would dare, and the end result is dazzling. Jack Cardiff's early colour photography is outstanding, and his operator was Ted Moore, who went on to shoot many of the classic James Bond films. Like so many great movies, the film was an independent production, funded by a small British company called Romulus and produced by the legendary Sam Spiegel. Written by Huston and James Agee (with uncredited work by John Collier and Peter Viertel), based on a novel by C.S. Forester (author of the Horatio Hornblower books). For a great movie about the pre-production work on this film and John Huston in general, check out Clint Eastwood's White Hunter Black Heart, adapted from Viertel's account of his work on the film (the production of which, according to most sources, was fairly torturous). I'm not normally a fan of romantic pictures - they always seem so contrived - but this is a definite must-see; two great performances, a great story and a great movie. "},{"Title":"Indescribably Good","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A real gem of film-making! Bogart and Hepburn shine in this two-actors-adventure-movie and even without the breathtaking visual effects of todays' films, it outshines them in its simplicity and authenticity.The plot is very good and straight and the situation where the two characters (polar opposites) interact is an eye candy for all film goers. Bogard's Oscar as well-deserved and Hepburn could won her fifth with that powerful performance. I consider the film a pioneer in war/jungle movies making and the fact that the commandos are so different (a Sunday school teacher and a drunk) makes it all the better.If you have not seen it run and get it. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"African Queen in B&W","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In reference to Elentari's query about why this film appeared on TV in B&W - it was a common practice for early TV to have prints that were in B&W even if it was originally a color theatrical release - usually in the era before color TV - it would have been cheaper to produce B&W film prints. These were generally 16mm prints released to the TV studios in B&W. Some of these TV Prints still survive in collector's hands today. African Queen was made in the Technicolor process and all theatrical screenings would have been in color. Generally speaking it is possible to tell which (originally b&w prints) have been colorised. They have an un-natural appearance about them, and there is a general repetition of the same color - example hats, coats, cars, all seem to the one shade of brown, or all vegetation seems to be the one shade of green. In artificial colorization prints there is not the subtle tonings of different shades of color associated with natural (original) color productions. "},{"Title":"A Real Classic","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a great old classic. Well worth watching and enjoying. It has a little bit of everything in it from romance to war and lots of adventure. Although it probably didn't cost much to make this movie, as the two lead characters are who we spend the entire movie with, this movie has much value for the viewer. We follow along as two opposites survive in a very small boat with many obstacles and fall in love and fight the Germans in Africa. I have watched this movie several times and every time I feel like it was time well spent. Humphrey Bogart gives what I believe is one of his best performances. And Kathryn Hepburn is superb! If you love old movies this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Must see that  cannot be contested","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Recently I watched The African Queen and at first I had my doubts; but after finishing the film it was awesome. A timeless movies that cannot be remade or re-casted as Bogart and Hepburn at their best. Something that will be remembered as one of the moments to be modelled for todays cinematic experience.The movie is based on a novel written by C.S forester about 2 couples played by Hepburn and Bogart going through outrageous circumstances against the Germans. But more importantly it is about the spectacular chemistry between Hepburn and Bogart going through the times of the German war time era. A film where the Technicolour vision makes the movie come alive. Overall I would highly recommend this movie if you ever get the chance. A rare gem that beenfound to shine through the years for a fresh look at an phenomenal casting, directing and location. "},{"Title":"Nature, Mr Alnutt, is what we are put in this world to rise above","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen was one of a small number of classic films I saw as a child. It was before I had heard of Humphrey Bogart, Katherine Hepburn or the director John Huston, but the romantic adventure story and dazzling imagery really gripped me and seared itself into my memory. Now that I've got to know the picture again as an adult I can appreciate why.This was Huston's lightest and most upbeat film so far, and yet it still contains shadows of his trademark pessimism. Although he generally worked from literary adaptations, Huston was always attracted to these stories about humanity struggling in the face of nature, about broken dreams and failed quests. The flipside to this was that even his gloomiest films seem to celebrate the human spirit soldiering on in the midst of these failures. The African Queen is, in its way, another of these failed quests &#150; the attack on the Louisa doesn't go exactly as planned, and the Sayers' missionary post becomes a lost cause &#150; but the strength of humanity, embodied in the hero and heroine, is at the fore.This also happens to be Huston's first feature in colour. Both Huston and his cinematographer Jack Cardiff had studied painting before they came into film, so it is no surprise that the colour compositions are masterful here at a time when many filmmakers were still feeling their way with Technicolor. The Sayers and their home in the opening scenes are picked out in grubby whites. The greens of the jungle are incredibly vibrant. Huston's eye for character placement is also on top form. For him, every shot was like a painting.What I think really makes The African Queen so timeless is the tender ordinariness of the romance that is at its heart. All too often in cinema the love story seems tacked on, and very often the female lead herself is tacked on for the sake of a romantic angle. Here however, both characters are essential to the story, and you feel as if their falling in love is a logical part of their character development. Also the fact that these two characters are totally isolated on the boat frees the love story from any complications of third parties. What I mean is there are no rivals, no comic relief sidekicks egging them on, no confidants for them to discuss their true feelings with &#150; all we see is the two leads, and their romance unfolds all the more naturally for it.The middle-aged Bogart and Hepburn were also beginning to lose currency as romantic leads at this time. Neither are their characters typical heroes &#150; one is a tramp, the other a frump. But this in itself is why they are so appealing and so easy to identify with. Not only are the two of them perfectly cast, but The African Queen is possibly a career best for both as well.There really is very little not to like about The African Queen &#150; it is simply a great story well told. "},{"Title":"A lovely clean romantic movie that is a classic to be watched time and time again.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a story that is based around the time of World War I in the middle of Africa. The story starts with a brother (Rev. Samuel Sayer) and sister (Rose Sayer) who run a Methodist Church ministry to preach the word of God to the primitive black natives that live there. Their only contact to the civilised outside world is a small river steamboat trader (Charlie Allnut) who drops by regularly to deliver a few supplies and mail on his passage. The shack church and village are destroyed by passing German troops and the natives are kidnapped which is too much for the Rev. Samuel Sayer to witness and the stress of the loss of his life's work is too much for him. He becomes very ill with fever and dies. From this point this is where the story really take off. Charlie discovers that the village is destroyed and the Rev Sayer is dead. He takes pity on Rose who is by herself now and offers her passage on his old steamer back to civilisation. Rose is a middle aged prude, probably a virgin, religiously stiff lipped spinster who find Charlie though trustworthy but rather rough in gentlemanly etiquette and who enjoys his gin too much. The two obviously have their personal differences. Rose though a prude is very patriotic and a surprisingly brave woman who comes up with the seemingly far fetched idea of using Charlie's steamboat as a weapon to sink a German warship using explosives on board. Charlie though absolutely detests the plan but decides to agree though not really meaning to really go through with it. Thinking the dangers of the river will eventually scare Rose off her brave idea. As the story unfolds, the clashing of naturally opposing personalities slowly turn to them finding great respect towards each other (Even after Rosie dumped his cases of good gin overboard). On their journey down the river to the enemy warship, Charlie and Rose begin to fall in love and at the end they ultimately prove their love.This has to be a greatest romance movie that does not require any mushy kissing love scenes throughout. A true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Brilliant first-world war adventure","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, this was one fine first world war movie. It had adventure, it had humour and most importantly it was well made and one of the best screen pairings I feel in history. John Huston directs wonderfully, and the location shooting is marvellous, with the cinematography so beautiful and the scenery so exotic. The script is of exceptional quality, complete with endearing screwball humour, and the story is well constructed, well paced and exciting. The strongest asset though is the superb lead performances of Humphrey Bogart as the unkempt steamboat skipper and Katherine Hepburn as the prim spinster seemingly basing her character on Eleanor Roosevelt. The two share a chemistry that is positively magnetic and it works so well. That's why I consider this pairings one of the best screen pairings on film. Overall, brilliant, well worth seeing for the leads alone. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Huston once again shows what a great director he is in making this delightful picture.  It really is a character piece, focusing on the two leads and there undeniable chemistry.  Bogie deserved this oscar - it arguably is his greatest performance.  Hepburn is equally as excellent in playing the prim and proper, slightly stuck up passenger.  Once again she shows her off talent in being able to balance the comedy elements with the melodrama - a performance also worthy of an oscar. It is testament to their acting ability and the direction of Huston that you never doubt the situation they are in - they really do look like they went through emotional and physical hell.  You won't find the gloss i.e. nice spanking new costumes and perfect facial complexions here.I for one became attached to the duo's journey - who can forget the episode with the leeches, the sheer disgust and fear on Bogie's face when he first realises the critters are on him, and the slow realisation he has to go back into the water to get the boat moving. Masterful acting it really is, and surprising coming from him.Forget the comments by whats his name Bsinc - even though all opinions must be respected, just go back to watching Titanic or Romeo Must Die or whatever it is you watch.  This is a classic and is single handedly responsible for setting the template for all subsequent romantic adventures.Its a disgrace the film did not even get nominated for the 51' best picture oscar, since is thoroughly deserved to win it (an American in Paris!??!)  "},{"Title":"Steamboat Bogie","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is one of those perfect anti-boring, instantly emotional engaging films that you never want to end. I never want Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn to leave that tiny broken down old boat in an African rain forest. The African Queen is the movie I measure all man and woman who hate each other at the start and gradually fall in love I measured against. With the power of these actors the transition comes of completely organically without a contrivance in sight. It's one of those rare films which feels like a different (but equally brilliant) film every time I watch it.Katharine Hepburn's Rose does seem like a very unlikable character during the first portion of the film, not treating Charlie with any respect because he won't agree with her demands and interfering with what ain't her property! But she's Kate, she can do whatever she wants and get away with it, and we still love her for it, or at least that's the case with me.The African Queen was one of my earliest exposures to classic cinema, eons before these movies took over my life, although I only saw the remaining 40 minutes. However it stuck with me, particularly the scene in they start getting eaten by insects. That scene always gives me the heebie jeebies. "}{"Title":"Doesn't disappoint","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The legendary screen coupling of Humphrey Bogart & Katharine Hepburn does not disappoint. Set during WWI, John Huston's action/comedy has the pair as a steam boat operator & a mission heading down a treacherous African river intent on torpedoing a German freighter. The chemistry is undeniable between the two leads and the film's pace is breakneck. Hepburn is stellar as a spinster who actually plots the scheme. Bogart, a coward in hero's clothing, is at times very funny. He deservedly won an Oscar for his unlikeliest role. The clever script is by Huston and the great James Agee. The shot on location photography is by Jack Cardiff and the supporting cast includes three outstanding character actors Robert Morley, Theodore Bikel and Peter Bull (as a bombastic German captain). "},{"Title":"When Polar Opposites Meet In Tropics","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" WE CERTAINLY CANNOT believe that we haven't sent in a review for this true All Time Classic film. It's always at the top of our list and definitely one of those pictures that we routinely view from tome to time. To us it ranks right up there with the likes of CASABLANCA, CITIZEN KANE, LAWRENCE OF ARABIA and DONDI. (just kidding about the last one) WITH ITS BEAUTUIFUL, authentic African locales, it is captivating from the very first scenes. Next to TRADER HORN (MGM, 1931), this is perhaps the earliest location shooting that was done in the 'Dark Continent'; and this time it's in true color.WITH THE CAMERA work being done in the Nth degree of perfection, the area of story and production easily matched the quality of the previous category. The novel by C.S. Forrester was adapted by the very capable hands of James Agee; with assistance from Director John Huston, John Collier and Peter Vitrel. The screen story seems to be flawless, moving along without wasting a single scene. Director Huston once again demonstrates his chameleon-like ability to bring us a true variety of great films that all retain singular identities.THE SEEMINGLY UNLIKELY teaming of Kate with Bogie provides us with a super charged dynamic and even sexual tension between two so different people. She being the prim and proper church woman and He being a sort of foulmouthed vulgarian and boozer to boot; theirs is a highly unlikely romance, to say the least.SET IN AN Africa of the Colonial Period, circa 1914-18, the story plays out against a backdrop of hostilities between European Powers set in their variously colored pieces of the Dark Continent's geography.IN ESSENCE, WHAT we have is a sort of Odyssey on the River, with the two people growing in their appreciation and acceptance of the other. Eventually, the two would be an item and spend the rest of their lives together; presumably not in sub-equatorial Africa, but rather back in Merry Olde England.IN THE PROCESS, Bogie sacrifices 'the African Queen'(the ship's name) as a sort of guided missile or torpedo; which is dispatched with an explosive load to destroy a German Man-o-War on the Lake. (Lake Victoria, we believe.) "},{"Title":"One of the best of all time","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm sure nearly everybody has seen this film. Many have watched it several times, as I have and find it just as enjoyable the tenth viewing as the first. The casting of the film is first class as are the direction, photography and script. Bogart and Hepburn are in incredible form as Charlie and Rose and the development of their relationship is both beautiful and hilarious. I doubt that I'll ever be fortunate enough to see a pairing of main characters as good as this ever again. If I were making a list of 100 must see films of all time , this would make the cut without second thought as the time spent on board the African Queen is a ride to cherish and if you haven't seen it yet, you simply must. "},{"Title":"The most exciting, romantic and inspiring Odyssey of American Cinema &#x85;","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" He loves his boat and knows the African river like his pocket. She loves her country and believes in accomplishment driven by faith and patriotism. It's all natural that the two main protagonists of The African Queen turn the titular boat into the unsung heroine of a military deed, whose success is as improbable as the very thought that a straight-laced Methodist missionary spinster would fall in love with a coarse, rudimentary and gin-soaked mailman, but not so when the romance serves as the very fuel of that mission, and when it's Humphrey Bogart, Katharine Hepburn and John Huston on the lead the miracle of The African Queen, as movie and story, is the result of three immense talents confidently maneuvering in the same direction.Film historian and critic Richard Schickel said about Hepburn that her secret appeal relied on the characters she usually played a woman on her high horse with slightly pretentious, often comically stated ideas about the world. It was for men to bring her down and get her to reveal herself as quite a good gal, sporty and democratic generally, the task would fall to slightly rough-necked and good-natured male But for once, The African Queen provides an interesting twist to the usual formula, because it's Rose who gets Charlie on her horse. The effect is even greater because it forces Bogart to abandon his tough-guy facade, and (for once again) play a man who tries to please a woman. Huston's Treasure of the Sierra Madre had already demonstrated a new range of versatility in Bogart's acting, but even as the anti-heroic Fred C. Dobbs, Bogart was exuding a threatening toughness; as Allnut, it's a new step on his career, as a more lovable kind of loser, in a performance that will earn him an Oscar for Best Actor (Hepburn, Huston and James Agee for the screenplay will also be nominated). The word 'loser' might sound too harsh, but it's still better than coward, which seems to fit Allnut's initial plan to avoid trouble and hide in a spot with enough supply of gin, waiting for that worldwide war (the first) to stop. Too bad for him, he's got Hepburn aboard, an iron-lady who followed her bother (Robert Morley) in German East Africa only to witness the efforts of a lifetime being burned down by the Kaiser's army, a fatal shock for the brother.But Rose is stronger than her ill-fated brother and when she accepts to set off aboard The African Queen, she's most determined to be part of the conflict, not in the victim's departments. And the glorious boat, becomes the unlikely arena of two one dominant and one dominated spirit in Allnut, treating Rose as a lady, until he finds out that she's not a passive and fear-stricken female observer. It's indeed Rose who suggests the idea of building a torpedo, out of oxygen cylinders and inflammable material, to destroy a German ship blocking the way to British ships from a lake downriver. Allnut argues that it's going to a certain death, they'll have to navigate along a German fort, to negotiate a few rapids, to get mired on mud across dense reeds, their chances of survival are mighty slim. An unflappable Rose then confronts Allnut to his own responsibilities as both a man, and a Canadian subject of the Union Jack brandished by the boat, and Allnut, not to lose face, accepts with reluctance.But we know it's a matter of time before Rose drives Allnut all nut, he finally gives himself a little one-to-one gin-soaked party, driving enough anger to finally take his promise back, disappointing his distinguished and courageous host. He wakes up with one hell of a hangover and all his emptied bottles floating on the river; trying to make amends from his behavior, he explains that his drinking is only expression of human nature, to which he gets the greatest cinematic come-back ever nature, Mr Allnut is what we're put in this world to rise above, and the line resonates as the film's motto. It's never about what we have at hands, but what we can build on it. Rosie ignites the fire of bravery in Allnut, and the exhilarating cross of the first obstacles lead to the victorious embrace, sealing the existence of a love that got from one heart to the other, through a taped adrenalin-filled boiler hose, and a few rows as tumultuous as the rapids.This is not Hollywood corny romantic comedy; this is John Huston confronting two genuine characters one another, an inspirational believer and a practical technician, both combining their strengths for survival and accomplishment. Katharine Hepburn might play her usual 'strong woman' role but she's never mean-spirited. On the other hand, Bogie is clearly in love with his 'Rosie', he admires her and can see that she's changing him for the better, it's not just about forming a couple, but being a team, not just about being a team, but improving, for love and for duty, whether for sharing a tent during under a heavy storm, to fix a propeller underwater or to even accept that God is still the one who has the last word. That's The African Queen thrilling, romantic, inspiring, starring the two stars, honored by the American Film Institute as the greatest screen legends, Bogart and Hepburn, in interactions full of comedy given the opposition of their personalities and a believable chemistry built on trust, incentive and partnership, this is not 'holding-hands' heroism à la Titanic, each step is tackled with technical precision. Which makes the climactic duel with the Germans a bit less realistic by contrast but this is another aspect of Hollywood's immortal classics, sometimes; every single element has not to be taken seriously for a triumphal ending. Indeed, when you have great actors, great writing and great director on the tiller, the story can surely navigate its way to legend. "},{"Title":"Back When","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't remember what the website was but it listed this as the greatest movie of all time. While I had known of its existence most of my life but would never watch it thinking it was to old of a movie to bother with, Boy was I wrong. I watched it today with the family for my first time. Outstanding all the way around. Them old actors put their heart into it, and a great job directing as well. I am going to research and watch a few more of these old great movies thanks to this one being so good. The movie flowed with out complications, staying simple and keeping interesting, and what lovable characters they portrayed doing it all with great acting. Not fluff and dazzle like these days. Todays acting could take a page from this movie coming from the era of acting and not special effects although these had great graphics, beautiful scenery, and great effects for its day. It is a must see movie Back When movies were more about acting. "},{"Title":"Two Hollywood heavyweights bring out the best in each other","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE AFRICAN_QUEEN is a fine film, starring Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn. Bogart plays a boat mechanic and Hepburn plays a prim and proper English missionary. The vast majority of the movie is just accompanying the two characters on a dangerous trip down an African river, and that suits me just fine.As the characters motor along, they become better acquainted and are forced to depend on each other. Bogart's blue-collar boatman and Hepburn's proper Englishwoman make for an unlikely romantic pairing.This performance won Humphrey Bogart his one and only Academy Award. And deservedly so, as this is perhaps his best acting performance. Bogart plays a dirty, scraggly mechanic. An ordinary Joe. A blue-collar worker. It's a bit of a departure from his famous 1940s roles as sarcastic and clever reluctant heroes. His role in THE AFRICAN_QUEEN is one where an actor can lose himself in the character. It's not Humphrey Bogart wearing a different outfit, it's a small-time boatman in Africa. A man with little interest in global affairs. A man who likes his gin. A man who knows his boat like a good friend, and who can read the river like an open book. A man who will gladly oblige the requests of his higher-class passengers. Bogart's character is just a bit softer and more nuanced, I think, than his roles in, say, CASABLANCA, THE MALTESE FALCON, or THE BIG SLEEP.For the most part, THE AFRICAN_QUEEN follows two characters on their foolhardy adventure down the river. There are no other characters for 95% of the film. So it is important that the two stars can act at the same level. The great Katharine Hepburn provides a screen presence that can balance out Humphrey Bogart's. It's a rare delight to see two titans of the silver screen share almost the entire screen time. And Bogie and Hepburn, playing opposite-type characters, keep each other in check. Neither star outshines the other.The story has to do with World War I repercussions in the African colonies. When the Germans go on the march, Hepburn's missionary escapes with Bogart's boatman. They motor downstream in Bogart's rusty steamer The African Queen, braving all sorts of danger, from rapids to crocodiles to gunfire. The reason for the journey? Hepburn decides it is her patriotic duty to use the explosive cargo on the Queen to sabotage a German ship.All along the journey, through the hardships, the two sailors need each other. Hepburn learns how to handle the boat and grows to admire Bogart, while Bogart benefits from Hepburn's help and female companionship. As far as the mission goes, one person is always there to spur the other one on when the going gets rough. Each one will do just about anything for the other.John Huston's Technicolor film was shot in part on location in Africa and includes some nice scenery. The movie is pleasant, with some adventure and some romance. It's not heavy or bogged down with political themes or messages. It's not really about anything. (The human spirit, maybe?) THE AFRICAN_QUEEN is just an enjoyable trip through the African jungle with two of the biggest stars in Hollywood history. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bogey and Hepburn are a classic pair in this classic adventure movie The African Queen!  This movie proves what love, bravery, and an occasional quarrel can get you through.  Hepburn and Bogey were magnificent actors! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unbeatable entertainment by dynamic duo!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In their only co-starring effort, Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are glorious in this technicolor production of C.S. Forester's novel  directed by John Huston.  When there is a tribal uprising in the Belgian Congo and missionary Rose Sayer's (Hepburn) brother (played by Robert Morley) is killed, she enlists the aid of dipsomaniac Charles Allnut (Bogart) to help get her to safety by way of his boat, The African Queen.  Unused to each others' ways of living (while she is prim and proper, he is foul-mouthed and lethargic), they are forced to battle the tides, rapids and each other.  After many strong-willed shouting matches, the mismatched pair soon discover that they are falling in love with each other, but even that dosen't stop them from going head-to-head during the various stages of their journey.  Scene for scene, this film only grows better with age, due to the undeniable chemistry between the two leads (Bogart won the Best Actor Oscar; Hepburn was nominated Best Actress) and Huston's magnificent direction, which also netted an Oscar nomination.  Kudos to James Agee (who later wrote the screenplay for The Night of the Hunter) for his wonderful script and Jack Cardiff for his vivid cinematography.  A brilliant chronicle of the neverending battle of the sexes. **** "},{"Title":"Humphrey Bogart Is Back","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After several years of performances in films that were not up to his massive star talent, Humphrey Bogart makes a strong comeback in a film that is generally considered by many to be his greatest performance. He certainly delivers the acting goods here in his portrayal of a steamer captain with a drinking problem who agrees to offer sanctuary to a woman (Katharine Hepburn) who has lost her brother amid the fighting in World War I. The two of them eventually get involved in planning to destroy a German gunboat and their early tension soon (inevitably) evolves into love. This film is a classic adventure and it should've won the Best Picture Academy Award for 1951. However, it wasn't even nominated and that is a real insult. Fortunately, time has been kind to this film and Bogart did win a Best Actor Academy Award for it.  "},{"Title":"Bogey is a deity!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers ahead.        The African Queen is splendid fun and a must for Bogart fanatics like myself.  Bogart once again plays a rough around the edge everyman character, in this case Charlie Ulnet, a riverboat captain, who engages in an unlikely romance with Rose Sayer, an upper class missionary played by Katharine Hepburn.  She left alone and helpless when German troops overrun a mission run by her brother, and he takes her aboard out of pity.  She proves however to be far from helpless, devising a crazy scheme to get revenge on the Germans who are responsible, by sinking the Louisa a German warship that provides the primary German military presence in the area.	The character essentially recaps Bogey's role in Casablanca, he's a man who's a selfish and roguish outsider, on the surface, but he has the heart of a lion-hearted idealist.  Like in Casablanca, it takes the love of a woman to crack his cynical shell and make him into a paladin.  Of course in Casablanca, he was already in love with the woman who fills this role, and in fact her initial rejection of him was one of the things that turned him into a hardened cynic.  In Casablanca, also, the two lovers have to sacrifice their connection for the greater good at the end.  In the African Queen Bogey gets to cream the bad guys and get the girl, this makes the film less bittersweet, but also less complex.  (In case anyone was wondering the characters that Bogey plays in this one and in Casablanca were obviously the basis for the character of Han Solo in Star Wars).	Most of the fun in the African Queen comes from the chemistry between Bogey and Hepburn.  It's a relationship that crosses class lines and as a result changes them both.  Like so many great movie relationships they begin as antagonists and a series of dangerous situations, survived by reluctant cooperation drive them together.  The process changes them both.  Sayer has a civilizing effect on Charlie, steering him away from his self destructive excesses, at the same time Charlie and the river itself drag Rose off her upper class pedestal, she is made tougher and earthier and infinitely more appealing by the ordeal.  Nevertheless, they retain their essential natures, no matter how she smoothes his rough edges, he remains wild and undomesticated, and no matter how much she weathers the elements, she retains an aristocratic elegance (Hepburn always has this).  The two have their lives redirected by their romance without loosing what makes them uniquely them.	Like Aguirre the Wrath of God, and Apocalypse Now this movie studies the effects of being isolated with the forces of nature through a long ride down a dangerous river.  However this movie is almost the polar opposite of those films.  Herzog and Coppola assume that the wildness of nature and the oppressive claustrophobia of a people in close proximity will spawn hatred distrust, decay, and eventually self-annihilation. John Huston takes a far more optimistic view of human nature, believing that shared hardship will unite and strengthen people.  Which view is true?  `The opposite of a small truth is false; the opposite of a great truth is also true.'.  The African Queen, shows us one side of human nature, those later more cynical films, show us the other.  Made after the Vietnam War, those later films are less crowd-pleasing, more uncompromising, bleaker and more artistic in their intent.  Still the African Queen is both a triumph and great fun.  It's scripted by the Pulitzer Prize winning novelist and movie fanatic James Agee.  Based on a novel by C.S. Forester.9/10  "}{"Title":"Humor,Adventure,action,Romance and Humphrey Bogart.What more do you want!!!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting by Bogart is brilliant and Katharine Hepburn is as good.It´s exciting and VERY funny.It also have a great direction by John Huston and even if a few of the action scenes feels old and maybe some of the special effects is not fantastic Humphrey Bogart really deserved his Oscar but Katharine Hepburn is as good.The dialogue between them is wonderful.4,5/5 "},{"Title":"Fun to watch.","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a bit of a clumsy and flawed movie but it's all good enough and fun to watch.At times this movie is just great, while at others it just isn't. I think this is due to the fact that this movie never manages to find its right balance. At times the movie is being adventurous, at other comical or action-like, or romantic. But its never really fully one thing. The movie changes style a lot, even with its own comedy. At times it's a screwball, while at others its being more of a modern type of comedy. Perhaps this is due to the fact that this movie got made in 1951, when the screwball type of comedies weren't really around anymore and movies tried to find a new, more modern, type of comedy, for the new modern audience. When watching this movie you really have the feeling it could had been a great one, if it had made a choice at what it truly wanted to be. If it had been a screwball comedy the movie would probably had ended up being an hilarious one, if it had been more an adventurous movie, lets say Indiana Jones style, this movie would had been truly fun. Now it's just a bit of everything, without ever forming one great, successful, big whole. It's the reason why the movie still feels a bit clumsy and definitely flawed.But nevertheless, there of course is still plenty of fun in this movie. It's a good movie to watch to be entertained by, just don't expect to be blown away by any cleverness or originality, or even greatness for all that matter.It has the right concept and story for this type of movie. Basically movies like this are still being around today, in which two people, who don't even like each other at first, due to circumstances end up together and start to grow toward each other. A classic movie set up, which makes it perhaps also strange that this movie hasn't got remade yet. I'm not counting the 1977 version with the same title, since its being more of a sequel and was supposed to be a pilot for a TV-series that got picked up by any studios.Because the movie got shot in the early '50's but in full color, the movie has a sort of cheap look over it, even though this at the time was a very expensive movie to shoot. It's just one of those movies that would probably had been better off being shot in black & white. Besides, Humphrey Bogart never looked at his best in color. It was both for him and Katharine Hepburn the first time they appeared in a Technicolor film. It will also be remembered as the movie that earned Humphrey Bogart his first and only Oscar. Totally ridicules of course, since he had played so many, much better roles throughout his career. But at least he still won an Oscar during his career. Not every great actor out of cinematic history can say that very same.But before I'm sounding too negative I should say that you probably won't regret watching this movie. It's a fun classic, that however could had been much, much better.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Grand Entertainment","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Africa during WWI, a hard-drinking steamboat captain and an uptight missionary embark on a mission to torpedo a German ship. Beautifully filmed on location in stunning Technicolor by noted cinematographer Cardiff, this classic perfectly captures the sights and sounds of Africa and finds Bogart, Hepburn, and Huston in peak form. It is marvelously entertaining, thanks to the charming performances of the two stars in their only screen teaming. Bogart won a well-deserved Oscar. The plot is simple, with the focus being the unlikely romance between the two disparate characters. Sure, it's a little hokey, but it's a masterful blend of comedy, adventure, and romance. "},{"Title":"Merrily, merrily, merrily merrily, merrily - was it all a dream?","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film studies coursework aside, one can tell the elasticity of a film by watching it again (over five decades later) and if it can continue to stretch, it has beaten through the space/film continuum. Was it enjoyed as much the first time as it was the 100th time? These are great questions to ponder as you watch another round of Breathless, Brief Encounter, or even Grand Illusion for the millionth time. Time, like age, can either be a blessing for films or a curse. The African Queen is a difficult one to pinpoint. On one hand it stars giants like Bogart and Hepburn direction by John Ford, while on the other hand it suffers from serious plot holes, sinking character development, and some over-burdening outside connections. There is power behind the working forces of The African Queen, but they need to soon realize that the elastic is pulled to the point of no return, without releasing a DVD soon &#150; they will a broken film with time not on its side.If one asked who the five most important characters were in The African Queen, it would be simple. They would be Hepburn, Bogart, Africa, Germany, and finally the boat itself (side note &#150; none of these are in any symbolic order). These are all of the elements that we, as the viewer, are asked to be involved with throughout the course of the 104 minutes. Bogart is easy, on the eyes, ears, and soul. He embodied the surly captain with no care in the world. He was funny, captivating, and in control of every scene he was involved. Hepburn was a good counter-balance, but not that powerful of a character. She was weak when she was meant to be strong, insulting when kind, panicked when excited, and obviously had never been down rapids before in her life. Bogart had the swagger, Hepburn had the cue-cards and patented voice. They had chemistry, but more like a high school romance than a heated cinematic one. Bogart deserved the Oscar. They were great to watch on-screen, even as goofy as I thought Hepburn was, the pacing of the film and their dialogue kept me in motion. I loved what 50s cinema tried when doing a destination shoot. Africa was brought to the masses &#150; in pre-production format. Campy cinematography deterred the faithful viewer away from the story because plastic mosquitoes and leeches were an eye-sore. It must have been amazing at the time to see Africa in its glory, now it seems forced and overwhelming. Then, let's not forget, the Germans. What good 50s film doesn't enjoy a good frolic in a wooded area without those pesky Germans lurking about? They were hams &#150; all of them, but they brought a beginning, center, and end climax to this claustrophobic film. Finally, there was the African Queen herself, an aging professional that had more stories to tell than Ford would allow. It may save the day, bring a couple closer together, or even be a drinking buddy. Either way, these are the characters that create The African Queen, whether you like them or not, they are with you throughout the journey.As mentioned, the acting is bearable. The cinematography will definitely need a strong re-vamp when transferred to a DVD. The story itself keeps you seatbelted to your seat for the 104 minutes &#133; than why do I find myself so unfocused about my thoughts with this classic. Finicky with the characters , what juggles my mind with this film more of the overall platter than just one part of the serving. I didn't connect with the character, that's obvious, the story was fun &#150; but at the same time seemed very dated and overwhelming. In one scene Bogart is afraid of the rapids, in the next leeches, in the next mosquitoes, but is never afraid to sleep outside without shelter. What can be irritating is that Africa really isn't all that frightening in this film, for being the major antagonist; I needed dark and seedy nights followed by blistering hot days with unbearable living conditions. Hepburn sweat, Bogart drank &#150; that was about it. The boat itself was actually the scariest part of the film because of the cramp living area. While it did feel like the African Queen grew and shrunk between scenes, there was this sense of claustrophobia that couldn't be replicated in other films. There was tension, confusion, and panic on this boat, as well there should be, but it needed to be heightened. The terror level needed to go up one more notch &#150; Bogey wasn't duct taping his windows.Overall, The African Queen is a classic. There is never a reason to argue against that. It is a classic, however, that is slowly deteriorating over time. The sets are aged, the special effects are MST3K-able, and the acting (albeit fun) seemed cheap by the end. Set upon the background of the bestselling book by the same title, this is one of those that one should probably read prior to watching. Descriptions could mean life or death, and only the printed page will give us a true sense of emotion. I think I will add this film to my collection when it comes out, I could watch it again &#150; but not side by side. Bogey is the character that steals the show, while Africa &#150; in all its glory &#150; seems to be short changed in the long run. Symbolically this film will be taught in film classes until the end of time, but for me, it seems to be loosing steam around each bend. A classic yes, but will it remain that way? Guess I am back to wondering how many licks on the old Tootsie Pop for now...Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe this is one of the best films ever made. The chemistry between Bogart and Hepburn is unique. The scenes alone are classic. A recommendation to see if one has not seen. Not just once but many times can not wait until it is on DVD. Hopefully with extra features. "},{"Title":"Very funny, sometimes very moving.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The African Queen is without doubt one of the best films ever made, due mainly to the unique chemistry between the characters. (possible spoilers ahead folks!!)Charlie Ulnut (Humphrey Bogart) is the captain of a clapped out riverboat (The African Queen), and makes his living carrying mail and supplies to the local mine and villages. He likes his gin, and is content with his idyllic life.Rose Sayer (Katharine Hepburn)is a middle-aged English spinster who has spent her entire life following in the footsteps of her brother (Robert Morley). When he volunteered to become a missionary preacher in Africa, she went too. Rose is very prim and strait-laced, and has never experienced life.The two are thrown together when, in 1914, German troops overrun the preachers village and cause his death. Charlie, out of pity, takes her under his wing; but Rose's Grief becomes anger directed towards the Germans, and the unwilling Charlie has no choice but to cooperate in a plot to sink the German cruiser 'Louisa' on a downstream lake.On their journey down the river, these two complete opposites form a bond which ultimately turns to love. Together they face and overcome many hazards such as white water, German snipers, and the leeches (ugh!!). All this and the knowledge that once they start, there is no going back!!!There are many memorable scenes including the one where Charlie wakes with a hangover, only to find Rose disposing of his entire stock of gin!! his expression is unforgettable! Another classic moment is when Charlie tries to enter Rose's sleeping quarters; the outraged Rose thinks he is making a pass at her, but all he wants is to get out of the rain!!Along with these are several poignant scenes; the one where the preacher has succumbed to delirium, just after the German attack, is particular moving, and one cannot help but feel pity for this poor man. Another is when Charlie emerges from the river covered in leeches; his repulsion is very real, and he knows he has to go back in againOne scene, however, that struck me as being a little contrived was the scene where they have just survived the rapids, and their love surfaces for the first time. Their kiss is supposed to be spontaneous, but you can clearly see Charlie makes several unsuccessful attempts first.The film is also memorable for the magnificent scenery of the African jungle and the wildlife. This film definitely scores a 9/10. "},{"Title":"There ain't nothing so complicated as the inside of a torpedo","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by John Huston, The African Queen is an amiable romance and rollicking WW 1 adventure which relies heavily on the stunt casting and star power of Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn in the lead roles.The film is colourful and proudly far fetched, but is ultimately inconsequential. As audiences love lightweight fluff, it's no surprise that this was Huston's biggest hit. The film brought in so much money that John Ford would try to rip it off with the atrocious Mogambo (1953), and Huston would himself virtually remake it six years later with Heaven Knows, Mr Allison.Though regarded as a classic by many, the film's dialogue lacks wit, its second unit (and rear screen projection) photography is jarring, several sequences are embarrassing (Bogey and Hepburn impersonating animals, Hepburn titillating us with shots of her underwear etc), and the film's archetypal romance, between an uptight woman and a dirty rascal, has been done to death by countless others films.Of course Bogart is always worth watching, but everything he did here he did better elsewhere. He played a better boat captain in To Have and Have Not and The Caine Mutiny, he had better romances in Casablanca, To Have and Have Not and The Big Sleep, and as a rogue who is swayed by a woman toward patriotism and joining the fight against Germans, he was better in Casablanca.Incidentally, Hepburn was a bit of an oddity in real life. A tomboy, the child of activist parents, very intelligent and rumoured to be gay or bisexual, the roles she played typically mirrored her own life. They're well educated characters, aloof, intelligent, confident, modern, sophisticated, share her preference for trousers over skirts (radical at the time), and of course are always distrustful of men. Able to cut men down to size with their brains, shrill voice and razor-sharp wit, Hepburn's characters quickly led to her becoming a feminist icon (and much later, a gay and lesbian icon). Her characters didn't need men, didn't even seem to need sex (indeed they were often sexually frigid) and were almost always fully independent and autonomous. That is, of course, until the final acts of her films. Almost all her characters are eventually beaten down, tamed and subjugated by lowbrow, carnal, earthly men. The most overt examples are perhaps The Rainmaker and The Philadelphia Story.Hilariously, John Huston didn't much care for The African Queen. He embarked on the project primarily because it allowed him to journey to Africa and shoot elephants (some claim he never shot any). Clint Eastwood's White Hunter Black Heart is a fictionalised account of Huston's ordeals and adventures whilst making this film.7.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Some flawless performances is a strangely imperfect classic with a bizarre bizarre ending.","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" African Queen (1951)Humphrey Bogart is his gritty flawless best here--as funny as he gets, and as bitter, tired, and leach covered. That's enough to sustain any movie, and toss in that his friend and fellow manly-man John Huston directed, we have a brutally physical, man-against-nature and man-against-himself film. This is the Bogart of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948), where Huston and he again create a character that is as three-dimensional, compelling, repugnant, and cutting as they get. And unlike Treasure, the public and the academy responded well. He won Best Actor in 1952.Katherine Hepburn is another story, and why she was cast for this film I'm not sure (she was chosen before Bogart, and choosing Bogart was her idea). I'll guess it's because she is so physical and fearless, a perfect tomboy in church marm clothes. She overcomes the stiffness of her part by sheer presence, but also, eventually, by her getting tough and dirty, too. She becomes less the preacher's sister and more the pioneer woman caught in the middle of World War I in Africa. She had a rough time during the location shoots, getting sick and losing a lot of weight, so some of her gaunt appearance is not acting one bit.The arrival of the Germans in two main scenes may have seemed necessary in post war American (though a different German-inspired world war). But it enters the movie at first as a curiosity and a necessity, to drive the two characters down the raging river. The second time is near the end, and it turns the movie into a farce. It's the bizarre tone of the ending that throws the movie out of balance. The sudden lighthearted, improbable, and almost goofy turn, so at odds with the rest of the drama (even at odds with the sincerely funny humor earlier on), makes you wonder, after it's over, whether the whole movie was meant to be a kind of excessive satire. If so, I missed it, and might need to see it again to read it differently.But taking it as a high adventure where two unlikely people are stuck having to depend on each other to survive, the movie still stutters. The wildlife shots (from the bow, supposedly) make it a Discover Channel safari at times. The home brew fix-it scenes are interesting but scarcely believable (he welds a metal prop for his boat with a charcoal fire on the beach, for starters). And the key scenes, the second most famous (after the leach scene, which is pretty amazing), are the running the rapids. This occurs several different times, and we have a mixture of actual shots, backscreen shots, and faked shots using a scale model in a studio in England, the boat and stiff dummies shooting down the water unguided and with a fast motion peculiarity. It's almost comical, and I took it as the best they could do for the time, and didn't let it bother me.Now, after the end, I'm wondering if they (Huston et al) never really wanted believability to be an issue. It is more a fable, an entertainment. Yet it seems hard to reconcile with the hype and the extremes required to shoot it. African Queen does have two of the most legendary actors of their time, and it takes location shooting to a new height, and it is a spectacular idea. I didn't know what to think by the end. Was I disappointed? Yes. Was I glad to have seen it? Absolutely. Now that it's finally out on DVD in the U.S. (and Blu-Ray, both very high quality), you should see it, too. "},{"Title":"Not the prime pick of Bogie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Easy does it, miss, don't wear yourself out, instructs Bogart to Hepburn as she works the pumping handle of his ship. It's a scene that seemingly inspired - to far more obvious effect - the clay modelling in Ghost. For African Queen is an innocent little film, and when Bogart emerges from a lake covered in leeches from head to foot, the only place the leeches don't end up is the same place as on Wil Wheaton in Stand By Me. Similarly, when Bogart (Charlie Allnut) and Hepburn (Rose Sayer) finally sleep together, there's no on-screen visual prompt to say that they have. They share a chaste kiss, the next thing it's morning. This element is also quite innovative, as, while this is a likeably predictable class opposites thrown together who fall in love movie, there's still over three quarters of an hour left post-sex.I did find it rather odd that this was the film that Bogart was so lauded for. Nominated three times, this was his only Oscar win (and against decent competition, too, such as Marlon Brando in A Streetcar Named Desire) plus his only nomination for the British equivalent. I say odd as, while he gives a fine performance, it's certainly not as outstanding as some of his other work, and I would even go so far as to say that there are instances where his pacing and inflection in his lines are all wrong. Or was he supposed to sound sarcastic when he hears of the death of Hepburn's brother? And in 79 film roles, it seems strange that only one should get so much acclaim.With the actor's name attached, word-of-mouth seems to have blown this one up as a classic to be revered. The fact is, it's merely a jolly, lightweight romantic comedy. Okay, you can't imagine Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan getting dirty and grimy, their mission to torpedo a German ship in the jungles of Africa, but the mismatched lovers routine is the whole show. The Nazi element may be the impetus, but the film is really all about Hepburn throwing away Bogart's gin, or their inevitable first kiss.The Nazis themselves are portrayed as jocular characters, who get blinded by sunlight or say to an aggravating Humphrey I shall hang you twice I think. Obviously this is a much, much better film than The Perfect Storm, but after seeing that picture's highly convincing special effects, viewing a toy boat bouncing off studio waves then cutting to the two stars in front of a film backdrop is quite amusing. Look out too for a scene where the two bathe in the water. Hepburn is implied to be nude, and we see most of her legs, arms, and torso, all bare flesh. Yet moments later, when she calls upon Bogart to help her aboard, she suddenly sports a full undergarment out of thin air.John Huston's direction is good, and does make nice use of the actual African shooting. James Agee too puts in a literate script. Music, though, by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra is at times over the top. While it may be important in terms of plot and character when the two stars first enter the boat, or Bogart takes his first drink of gin, having the full orchestra blaring up behind the two events blows them out of all proportion.Nothing else really matters this is a two-hander all the way. The two stars are in control, and, while both have been better, they give first class renditions. It's amiable, fluffy and not to be taken seriously. I wonder how shocked the makers were when they found this one in the AFI? 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity poor script makes for an uneven, overly-simplistic, uninteresting river-boat ride.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (major spoilers - if you're a fan, do not read!)The atmosphere is hot and wet, the music is obvious radio-style highlighting of the plot, the subject matter is handled with the subtlety of a broom-handle by brash director Huston, but most of all, the script needed heavy-duty rewrites.It is impossibly uneven having only seen clips from the movie before, i'd always thought the thing that drew people to it was how such totally different people as the old ship's captain and the reserved school-teacher could get together - but this most interesting aspect of the story was not well developed at all. Her transition takes place by far too quickly. Within the space of ten minutes, instead of what it should have been, a gradual progression from school-marm to ship's captain's wife throughout the film, she goes from getting onto the boat for the first time and kissing Bogart for the first time. So we can throw this out the window as a point of interest for the story and its loss is felt deeply from this moment on, the script fishes around for a purpose, for narrative drive it dabbles in rapids, leaches, waterfalls, and sentimental moments of i love you and you love me and there's no conflict, which go nowhere, but most pretentious of all was how Huston pulls a fast one on us by trying to suggest that these two would involve themselves in the war, which is going on off-screen, however small their intended input may have been, by fashioning some torpedoes out of reeds and saw-dust and cutting some holes in the bow of the African Queen to lay them in (never mind how they were supposed to have shot out of these holes...).In the 90's people used to make jokes about how MacGyver used to be able to fashion a parachute out of some matchsticks, or an aeroplane out of an old shoe and some shaving cream. Macyver thus became a metaphor for the ridiculous situations filmmakers sometimes ask us to believe people could get out of. I can't see why audiences in the 50's didn't feel the same way about African Queen. Charlie and Rose weld a propeller back together using a campfire and a billower, they make a torpeedo god knows how (Bogey explains it, but he says it very quickly, in hopes the audience won't listen), they repair a massive hole in the bottom of the boat and fix the mast by similar impossibilities. There is a technical name for these kinds of cop-outs, and its deus ex machina usually it only refers to when a new character or event is introduced to rescue the protagonists from some situation they could not have plausibly escaped from. But these kinds of implausible ways the characters get out of situations in this movie are very similar. You may have heard this term in Donnie Darko (towards the end), and in Adaptation (Robert McKee warns against using it). Huston cops out and uses one in the end of African Queen, as well as the various other big fish he expects us to swallow throughout.Huston should have realized the more interesting aspect of the story was not the political one, the anti-war sentiments, it was not the down-stream adventure either - it was, or should have been, the relationship between Charlie and Rose. This is indeed what has drawn people to it across the years, but if you look back at it, its really the part of the movie that is copped out on. Look at Pride and Prejudice by comparison Mr Darcy and Elizabeth spend the entire book/movie/mini-series despising each other, and only in the last five minutes/pages do they give in. By contrast, Charlie and Rose only TAKE five minutes to give in! Huston's interests lay elsewhere he clearly was not interested in romance, and so got the two of them together as quick as he could bear, so they could begin to lie in each others arms and call each other dear and proceed to have a couple of adventures, which fill out the rest of the film.No, this is not one of the greatest pictures ever made. It wasn't even the greatest picture in 1951 see Streetcar Named Desire and An American in Paris for that honour, or any of the movies on my profile for better movies of all time. It had the potential to be great, but it was too poorly written. Bogey and Hepburn are good in this - Hepburn especially (when Bogey acted, it was great, and not how he was in real life, but it was always that same fast-talking, wise-cracking persona, not much different here than in The Big Sleep and the Maltese Falcon, i'm sorry to say. It was a crying shame that the Academy decided to award the Best Actor of the year to Bogey, in honour of a phenomenal career, instead of to Brando, for a phenomenal performance). There are sweet moments (though they quickly turn to sap), there are great scenes, but these are not enough to make a great movie. Kurosawa once said that even a great director can not make a good movie out of a poor script, and this is what Huston has baned himself with in African Queen. The characters, so loved and praised by many, end up being more two-dimensional than they could have been, due to the simplistic story. At the moment when they kiss, they immediately become boring, because they're just like every other lovey-dovey romantic leads of the period, calling each other dear, willing to go anywhere with each other, beyond the bounds of normal reason, considering they only just met! And all of a sudden there is nothing more complex going on under the surface than a bumpy ride down the river. It tells a simple story, but unfortunately the story was too simple to retain my interest. 3 out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Not the classic it is often called but still solidly entertaining","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As World War I breaks out, Charlie Allnut is ferrying supplies around East African in his steamer, The African Queen.  He comes across a missionary team and warns them of the war however the missionary pair stay.  When Rev Sayer dies, Allnut agrees to escort Sayer's sister, Rose, back to the West.  However she convinces him to perhaps take on a German ship.  On their journey the two fall for each other before the inevitable conflict.There aren't many films that I could watch easily every Saturday afternoon, but The African Queen I think must be one of them. Of course the plot is very implausible and it isn't the best story in the world but it has a sort of ambling joy to it that makes the film very enjoyable.  The weaknesses in the plot are pretty much all covered by the warm feeling the film gives and this saves it.This warm feeling mainly comes from the easy chemistry that Hepburn and Bogart have.  They compliment each other perfectly.  Bogart won the Oscar, but he really is a bit OTT and hammy.  After years of giving hard boiled low key performances it is a little ironic he got it for this.  Hepburn is very good &#150; an English rose that falls for Allnut.  Neither is brilliant but together they work really well.  Aside from a few German caricatures, it is all these two and it shows how well they do that the film rarely flags with them onscreen.I don't think this is as much of a classic as people seem to think it is, simply because the plot is unlikely and doesn't quite work.  However the easy chemistry between the stars make it well worth a watch and a definite choice for a nice Saturday afternoon in. "},{"Title":"Where's the Wildlife?","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen (1951) Dir John Huston / Cast Humphrey Bogart, Katherine Hepburn, Robert Morley, Peter Bull, Theodore Bikel Stunning if not overrated adventure about overcoming extreme odds. Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn escape to the African Queen, a small cargo boat owned by the Bogart character. Setting is World War 1 with the Germans in pursuit. Some comic moments set in as when the leads struggle to adapt and tease viewers with sexual tension. Director John Huston does a superb job and is backed with effective suspense and action although the romantic elements are an ill timed formula that are unnecessarily distracting. Huston previously directed Bogart in Maltese Falcon and Key Largo. Bogart carries some sarcasm while Hepburn maintains a stern disposition especially after her brother is killed but viewers are well aware of what their journey is all about. And despite the romantic drivel the concluding union between the two is priceless. Outside the leading roles, the rest of the characters are waterlogged bores. Robert Morley plays Hepburn's brother who doesn't last very long, and Peter Bull appears in a flat supporting role. It stresses perseverance and equality of genders and a screenplay that doesn't deliver quite as effectively as its reputation boasts. It does delivers with adventure, thrills and the untimely arrival of a cargo boat. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"An old fashioned Hollywood picture in all the best ways","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" After finishing 'The African Queen' the first thing that I said to myself was 'Boy what a trip'. In reviewing the picture you are almost reviewing more than just the story, acting, and direction you have to review the iconography of an old romanticized Hollywood. There are a lot of cases where you almost don't want to believe or fall for the legends but 'The African Queen' is not one of them. It is a picture that rightly makes you a bright eyed romantic based purely on the strengths of Hepburn and Bogart. Bogart and Hepburn have such iconic persona that the movie it's self kind of has an adjustment before you can fully engross yourself in the story. It's an old fashioned film and I mean that in the best way possible. This formula sizzles with Bogart and Hepburn when to be frank I think with others you'd laugh at the film and not with it. The dialogue to be frank is way over the top. Bogart's romantic banter sounds like something someone might say to a dog. It cannot be overstressed how much charm he has in the part. There is a wink at the camera in almost every scene and it works. Bogart was never an excellent actor but by God he was an excellent personality that exuded confidence and coolness. Hepburn has such fire and like Bogart is essential for us to buy the conceit of this film.This movie is excellent and goofy. It will make you smile. "},{"Title":"Seldom is so much accomplished in a film with so little","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Finally watched this film for the first time. Katherine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart are both at their best that i've ever seen. If I'd known the film was 145 long, and the vast majority was on a small boat with only two actors exchanges with each other, I would have assumed that the film would be incredibly slow and boring. If it was made (or rebooted, please don't) today, i'm afraid it would be. That is simply not true with the African Queen. Both characters are incredibly complex and relatable. Hepburn is pious and tenacious, but also reckless. Bogart is rough around the edges and seems uneducated, but incredibly gentle and self-sacrificing. Their relationship grows throughout this movie in a way I've never seen before.The one thing that I appreciated most about this love story, is that they fell in love near the beginning. The rest of the film focuses on their sacrifices they make for each other, and the ways they complete each other. I've never seen a film SHOW without telling that these two people could not have accomplished what they did without each other. Inspiring for me in my marriage, and full of beautiful moments. Truly a classic. They really don't make movies like this one anymore. "},{"Title":"That's the ticket","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bogart and Hepburn turn in really good performances, Oscar winning for Bogart and an Oscar nomination for Hepburn. The chemistry between them makes the movie. The banter and overall transformation by both is fun to watch over the course of the movie.To continue my praise would be purely to blend in with the real film aficionados that see the true brilliance of classic cinema. However, if the king is not wearing any clothes we have to say something, right? Well, besides Bogart and Hepburn the performances of other actors are bad, sometimes laughably bad. Hepburn's brother in the film simply bugs his eyes out over and over to convey his shock. As one would expect the special effects aren't very special over 60 years ago, which I don't hold against an old film but it is something you notice.I'll give the film some extra credit it filmed on location (Africa) when it was widely unheard of to do so. It also had to deal with the Nazi hearings in Hollywood, both Bogart and Hepburn participated in the hearings. So there is an interesting back drop and obstacles to overcome. Worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Going On Location to Africa was Unnecessary","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Legendary Film for Many Reasons. Humphrey Bogart in His Only Oscar Winner. The Trio of Bogart, Katharine Hepburn, and Director John Huston Teaming Up and Going On Location to Africa. The Shoot has Many an Anecdotes about the Hardships and Hard Drinking. Hepburn Refused to Partake and Suffered Physical Ailments because She Drank Water.The Beginning is in a Colonial Christian Camp where Hepburn and Her Missionary Brother Try to Convert the Natives. It's Chilling with its Ethnocentric Conceit as They Try and Recruit Soldiers for Christ. The Germans Show Up and Try and Enslave Another Type of Soldier. Both are Equally Appalling.A Movie that goes to Great Lengths to be Charming, Adventurous, and Realistic. It Succeeds on Two of the Three. Although it was Filmed in Africa, All of the Wildlife Shots are Detached from the Performers and Look Staged and Appear as Travelogues Most of the Time. Speaking of Phony, the River Voyage Rarely Presents Itself as Nothing More than Bad Representations with Rear Projection, Awful Miniatures, and the Editing is a Bore. The Musical Score Seems Out of Place and Corny. The Film's Real Strength is the Performances by the Two Seasoned Pros. It's Quite Odd to have a Romance with Such Aged Actors Portraying More than Middle-Aged Looking Characters. But it does Work and there are Moments when You Feel Warm and Fuzzy for these Two, because it is Obvious that Neither had Ever Found True Love Before.Slightly Overrated, but there are Powerful Scenes like Getting Lost in the Reeds and the Resourcefulness and Intelligence of the Couple is Believable in a Suspension of Belief Kind of Way. This is Taxed in the Finale and the Ending Confrontation with the Germans is Extremely Contrived.Overall, Much to Enjoy and it Works Fine Most of the Time. A Must See for Film Buffs and Casual Viewers will Find it Well Worth a Watch. "},{"Title":"Incredible production","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's September 1914 in German East Africa. News finally reaches the colony that Germany is at war with England. Reverend Samuel Sayer (Robert Morley) becomes a hostile and German troops burn down his mission. Heart broken, Samuel dies. His prim sister Rose Sayer (Katharine Hepburn) escapes with Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart) on his rickety river steamboat 'African Queen'. He was transporting supplies to a mine but the Germans had already been there. They're trapped behind German lines when Rose comes up with a scheme to sink the German steamboat Louisa for King and country.This is basically a sweaty 2-person play in a road trip adventure. It's a very simple story at its core. It's about these two characters growing together over the trip. These older actors give this so much depth. Then there is the jungle production. It feels so much like a grittier 'Apocalypse Now'. I don't know if it's Katharine Hepburn's sickness but it's got a great sense of realism. "},{"Title":"Predictable, yet still a heartwarming classic","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much like most of the classic Romantic Comedies from the 50's and earlier, you know where the movie is going, but it still is nevertheless intriguing watching a great Romance blossom before our eyes. That is especially thanks to Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn. 2 actors who dominated the theaters at that time, and in their only film together do a fantastic job at making us truly believe the spark between the characters.Much like most of the other reviewers, I cant help but mention how impressive this film looks for a 1951 movie. Even though at times you can clearly see the outlines for green-screen like effects, it still is vastly beautiful film. Its a wonder why it didn't get nominated for more awards at the Oscars. Even heading to the latter half of the peak of her career, Katharine Hepburn has never looked more beautiful. I'm also impressed at the actors willingness to do this movie, as it is partially filmed in Africa. You cant help but think at that point in Hollywood, almost every movie was shot in California or New York. It's good to see a classic film take on an entirely different location.So from award worthy performances and directing to the astounding cinematography, this film deserves a place among the great Hollywood achievements in film.8.2/10 "},{"Title":"Succeeds on Star Power Alone","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" If there is ANYBODY who has yet to see The African Queen (and I mean for the very first time) then be forewarned there are spoilers belowAlthough I remember being thrilled by this when I first saw it (as it doubtless thrilled movie goers who saw it on the big screen in the early 1950's), when I turn a critical eye towards the movie today, its flaws are obvious. If the movie succeeds at all, it does so on sheer star power alone - and star power it has. Who can resist the great Hepburn and the great Bogey? Certainly not I - I was entertained and to an extent charmed by the grace and the magnitude of these bona-fide screen legends. But in the final analysis, it is the very magnitude of these superstars that does the movie in. Where there could have be a real sense of peril and doom - with a few exceptions it felt like a walk in the park. The only exception, I would say, was the leeching scene. When Bogy returns to the parasite infested water, the look on his face made me shudder in my shoes. But other than that, they treated the journey much like a jaunt to the corner store. Laughing at the hippos (incredibly dangerous to humans in real life), blithely ignoring the crocs, the lions, the chimpanzees - this was kind of a travelogue - I never once felt that they were in any danger from predators. The river itself with the whitewater scenes did provide a little excitement, but it was quickly over. Then Bogey just whips up a campfire and repairs the damaged propeller and shaft. When at first he stated that it would be impossible to do so, he should have stuck to his guns. It would have been. A straightened shaft and a neatly welded prop blade was a ridiculous outcome. The way they suddenly embraced and became love birds was equally inane. The way they calmly accepted the German captain's death sentence was just over the top. The whole plan was a joke, and Bogey knew it from the start. The movie would have been far more tense and convincing had he stuck to his guns and they somehow had to navigate out of trouble but with a much more realistic narrative. Many classic movies from the past display the same tendency to rely on its star power and neglect the true facts of life, ignoring the reality that one-in-a-million strokes of luck actually only happen one-in-a-million times. The Louisa striking the torpedo on the sunken Queen, and Hepburn and Bogey (who had lost everything) swimming off in laughter was the final straw. The art of cinema has benefited greatly by the fantastic directors and screenwriters who came after. Movies were still in their infancy in 1951, and it shows. If it were done today the same way, the movie would by laughed off the screen and out of the theaters in a week. "},{"Title":"In this game plan for the attack on the U.S.S. Cole . . .","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . by Al Qaida, the characters of Charlie Allnut and Rose Sayer (In the name of Kaiser Wilhelm, I now pronounce you man and wife; proceed with the execution) are both CIVILIANS, dressed in NON-MILITARY clothing. Neither has any armed forces experience. They take it into their heads to bring a small boat against a huge foreign military ship and BLOW IT UP, with an aim of killing hundreds. So next time someone wonders where the sneaky, devious, infernal Al Qaida terrorists got their dastardly, devilish, nefarious plot to attack the U.S.S. Cole, you can tell them that it was from a fictitious English Methodist missionary lady named Rose Sayer. They say the winners of wars used to write the history books. Nowadays, the victorious side makes movies for world-wide distribution, which give any Stone Ager in a rowboat or cave both the inspiration and the blueprint to torture America with asymmetrical warfare tactics. Though our spy boys have kept a full listing of Osama Bin Laden's extensive DVD collection top secret, you can bet that it included a least one copy of THE AFR!CAN QUEEN. "}{"Title":"a hooray to the love birds!","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Huston marshals two Hollywood juggernauts (Bogart and Hepburn) in an African cruise on a riverboat (named THE African QUEEN) set under the dawn of WWI, with the outlandish aim to torpedo a German dreadnought as a suicide attack. Opening up with close-up shots perusing indigenous dwellers out of exoticism, with an accompanying carol of psalm conducted by Rev. Samuel Sayer (Morley) and his sister Rose (Hepburn) in the 1st Methodist Church in Kungdu, which reeks of condescendence and Pharisaism since none of the locals have a clue of what they are parroting, and the unhealthy allusion of them to a bunch of predators when the boat owner Charlie's (Bogart) unfinished cigarette is up for grabs doesn't ameliorate the revulsion albeit its intention of being funny, nevertheless Bogart's belly is just as musical as his singing. Luckily soon we embark on an adventure strictly includes only Rose and Charlie, it's never too late to fall in love, after the initial distinction around Rose's starry-eyed strategy, the flame of romance is kindled during a perilous passage with rapids. The thrill of riding the waves must stir up an old maiden's passion, the two-hander between Bogart and Hepburn is tremendously entertaining to watch, Bogart plays against his usual detached sangfroid, totally unreserved as a down-to-earth ilk, it is quite refreshing to know this role capped him an Oscar statue, when he imitates a roaring hippopotamus, the joy is tangible and it is a precious moment for Boart's screen image; Hepburn is at the top of her game as well, her appellation to Charlie changed from Mr. Allnut to dear is handled with a heartwarming vignette, and she is also the trailblazer who pioneers a progressive view as a fearless woman, challenges Bogart to the final assail gallantly meanwhile her tender moment with the man she loved is truly touching. The film is also a taxing endeavor in a physical sense, frowzily dressed under the sizzler, all the river turbulence they have to endure (although it is too dangerous to be shoot live on-set, the post-produced and recreated effect is just passable), slogging through the reed-rampant water area by trawling the boat manually, not to mention the fake mosquitoes and leeches (most of the crew were under the weather during the shooting). Near the coda, Houston deftly injects some gallows humor into their capture by the German navy, but the final twist is merely ludicrous, the capsize is exerted with a slapdash hurry, anyway, it is a genuine romantic exploit can woo a massive fun-seeking, love-hankering viewers plus many non-German patriots and for Huston and his team, it was a lavish hunt for novelty paid by the company and the inception of a long-standing friendship between Lauren Bacall and Katharine Hepburn. "},{"Title":"great  acting","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" that is its secret - the splendid acting. after so many years, not the story, not the adventures, maybe not the love story are importance but the exploration of each role detail by Hepburn and Bogard remains impressive. and, sure, the Huston art to transform a novel adaptation in a legendary film. the result - not a nice/lovely old movie who can be admired but a splendid show about a meeting and a love who has many nuances of strong friendship. a film who is far to be pink or dusty. only courageous and smart. a special note for the Robert Morley performance and for the triumphal end, not surprising but really different by ordinary happy close of stories. an admirable film. "},{"Title":"Classic Wartime Romantic Adventure.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Huston directed this classic WWI romantic adventure that stars Humphrey Bogart as Riverboat Captain Charlie Allnut, an alcoholic and aging veteran of the river who is persuaded to lead pious Rose Sayer(played by Katharine Hepburn) by her missionary brother(played by Robert Morley) who is later beaten and left to die of fever by the German occupiers. Rose buries her brother, then sets out on the river journey, determined to avenge her brother's death(and do God's work) by tracking down and destroying a German submarine with a torpedo. Along the way, the mismatched couple connect and fall in love... Fine adventure with two perfectly cast stars at their best. Bogart won an overdue best actor Academy Award for his wonderful performance, with superb direction making this an authentic and memorable journey indeed, overcoming the predictable(yet believable) inevitability of the romance. "},{"Title":"bomb.................I'm now a Bogart fan","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" always put off watching this movie as the combination of Bogart and Hepburn didn't interest me. decided to watch it to night as there was nothing else on the screen. well...i loved the film and i was completely entranced by Mr. Bogart. too see him smile....at last and his drunk scenes were absolutely on track. sure the story line is a bit...exaggerated but it still is a poignant movie. Katherine Hepburn another one who never captured my heart is quite good in this one. she has an ability to feed the other actors right on with her replies and reactions. now I'm glad I've watched it and recommend it to all people who like good acting and a movie that has thrills....sentimentality....and humour. "},{"Title":"African Queen.....Rules The Waves","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just like brandy, The African Queen gets better with age. Humphrey Bogart (Charlie Allnut) won a best actor Academy award for his great performance. He beat Marlon Brando (A Streetcar Named Desire)....and that was a correct decision. Early in his career Bogey was mostly a bootlegger, then came his period of playing private Dicks. Few people knew he could REALLY act. Then in the Treasure of Sierra Madre and this great movie, he showed what he could do. Katherine Hepburn was at least as good as Meryl Streep....and in this wonderful film she once again shows her class. The African Queen is about ..the strangeness of love..how little boats can do Titanical things..and that entertainment is (and always will be) the reason we visit cinemas. Having a good script is so important to any movie .. Bogey and Kate deliver there lines with aplomb. There is a lot of fun in The African Queen, and this 1951 film delivers at all levels. John Huston (a close friend of Bogey) directs probably his best movie. Bogey did not like working on location, but thankfully Huston advised him that there would be enough booze for the whole shoot..!! "},{"Title":"Bogart and Hepburn in a classic adventure","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had caught the end of this film before but somehow had never watched it all the way through so when I saw it listed in the TV guide I had to watch it; now, having seen it, I can see why it is considered a classic. The film opens in 1914 in German East Africa, present day Tanzania, where an English missionary and his sister are taking a church service. They are interrupted by the steam boat 'African Queen' and her captain Charlie Allnut. He informs them of the war that has broken out in Europe and as such they are stranded in an enemy country. It isn't long before the Germans turn up and burn down the village; they leave the missionaries but the affect leaves the preacher a broken man and he soon dies. When Allnut returns he takes the sister, Rosie Sayer, aboard his boat and sets off down river. He suggests they find an island and sit the war out but she has other ideas... she wants to continue down river, past a German fort, over deadly rapids and on to the lake. This lake is patrolled by the German ship the Queen Louisa which is the only thing keeping British forces from attacking the German colony. She intends to take their small boat and sink the Louisa! I really enjoyed this film; Bogart was great as the gin-swilling steamer captain and Katherine Hepburn was equally good as the prim sister of the preacher; the two of them had a great on screen chemistry. Director John Huston did a fine job creating an exciting story; I was surprised just how good some of the special effects looked; it really looked like their small boat was being tossed around in the rapids even though a model was used... it helped of course that much of the movie was filmed on location in Africa; the scenery looked real because it was! While at heart the film is a romantic story between the two very different characters I couldn't help thinking about the film 'Apocalypse Now' as the boat went further and further along the river getting into various scrapes and approaching the deadly conclusion to its mission... this film is of course much lighter in tone! That isn't to say there isn't tension and more than once it looks as if the two protagonists are going to die before completing their self-given mission. If you want a good adventure that is suitable for all ages you could do a lot worse than this... I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Showcase work of Bogie, Hepburn and Huston","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is a fantastically told story of a gin-swilling riverboat captain and an uptight Methodist missionary. When the movie begins, we are told that the First World War is about to begin. Two Methodist missionaries, a brother and sister, are forced to deal with the German forces that invade the village at which they teach, as it is a British colony. The confrontation ends up killing the brother, leaving his sister, Rose, played marvelously by the always enjoyable Katharine Hepburn, to fend for herself. She takes in with a riverboat captain, played by the immensely talented Humphrey Bogart, named Charlie, who captains the smallish steamship, the African Queen. Their journey takes them down the Ulanga River in Africa. At the beginning of their journey, Rose devises a plan to retaliate against the Germans, for her country, and also to avenge her brother's death. Initially hesitant, Charlie agrees. They decide to turn the boat into a torpedo of sorts and destroy the German gunboat, the Queen Louisa, which is effectively blocking British forces. It is at this point in the film that their respective journeys begin.As the uncouth Charlie and the prim and proper Rose first embark, they are essentially night and day in comparison to one another. Bogart and Hepburn both turn in career performances in their rendition of this odd couple. Rose's strong will and unrelenting attitude convinces, Charlie, who didn't want to get involved in the first place, thinking her plan was suicide. The two actors do a fantastic job of keeping the audience's attention, as it is just the two on screen for a large majority of the movie. As the pair travel down the river, they first gain a begrudging respect for one another. As they traverse and survive the dangerous Ulanga River, that respect slowly starts blossoming into love. While Charlie had been traveling that river for years, he never noticed the natural beauty until he found himself falling for Rose. The pair also grow as individuals, with Charlie becoming more mature and Rose shedding a little of her inhibition. John Huston does a wonderful crafting this story. He gets the best out of his actors and knows how to work with pace and timing. He does a great job of leading us down the path of their relationship without it feeling forced or campy, as happens in so many films today. He masterfully crafts a certain mood to the film; silly, dramatic, and high tension, all at appropriate moments. When the pair is trudging through the marsh, for example, you feel a real sense of doom and despair, as if they might not get out alive.This film just goes to show the incredible talents of the actors and director. Every moment felt genuine and authentic. This film certainly deserves its place in cinematic history as a classic.8/10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps a little over-rated but still a fun adventure","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems that the majority of people think this is some sort of amazing feat of film making and that Bogart and Hepburn redefine film making in this movie and I simply don't agree with any of that. I don't think The African Queen is anything that makes it the be all and end all BUT it is a very entertaining, fun, old classic flick. This is only the second film I have ever seen with Bogart, the first being Casablanca and his zany, alcoholic, lovable old Charlie Allnut is fun and hilarious and just easy to watch. Katherine Hepburn is the polar opposite as the reserved and proper Rose Sayer and together they make the most awkwardly opposite and perfect couple. To say the romance however is rushed is a huge understatement. They go from fun love/hate banter to making out on the boat in a split second with no segway to their romance which bogs it down just a little. I suppose that chemistry is what makes this film so popular with film critics and movie lovers.The scenery is stunning and the story is unique in its own way. Legendary director John Huston spins a story using the right combination of characters and setting. Everything about this movie is perfect to be an rip roaring entertaining adventure with the perfect dash of romance. I don't mean to take anything from it but the fact remains it also doesn't bring anything to the table that makes it truly exceptional in my opinion. I suppose because its stood the test of time and features two legendary Hollywood icons that it understandably gets hyped up so much. It is worthy entertainment and a fun filled adventure with good performances! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie as a child, and without knowing who the two leads were, I thought it was a fun movie. It was much later that I understood that this was a famous movie acted by two of the most famous actors.Somehow, the old junky boat is part of the cast. It was like a third actor of the show. It was always ready to breakdown, or ready to sink, and not totally reliable. If this was a 300 horse power Chris Craft cabin cruiser going down the river, maybe the movie wouldn't have been so good, or maybe it would have been. There's something charming about living on a boat. This movie captures that charm. There's sense of adventure and survival, and even that of a vacation, punctuated with romance.All these ingredients makes this movie a fantastic movie to watch, and every time I see it it makes me feel the same way it did when I saw it as a kid. I think this is because of happy go lucky character portrayed by Humphrey Bogart, and utterly reliable character portrayed by Catherine Hepburn. What was truly unsinkable were the spirit of these two people.I could only imagine what happened in Kenya. "},{"Title":"River romance","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's always nice when you watch one of those 100 Films You Must See and besides my dad's always going about this classic so I was pleased to finally get around to it. To be fair, the story does stretch credulity to breaking point on many occasions, not just the unlikely romance between crusty old Bogie and prim and proper Kate, but their whole adventure down the river surviving in one piece culminating in the highly improbable destruction of a German warship...and they survive that too.Of course with all this to swallow, for the movie to work you have to engage with the lead characters in what is basically a two-hander for much of the time and who better to engage with than Bogart and Hepburn. Both are in great form in what must have been very physically exacting roles and even if I didn't fully swallow their romance, I decided early in to go with the flow, much like the old African Queen herself.John Huston keeps a sure hand on the tiller, moving the story from episode to episode with little time for reflection until the big finale, which is just about the right approach. Of course it helps that he has the great Jack Cardiff behind the camera who only a few years was filming Scott of The Antarctic in a completely different climate to the steamy jungle here.All told, holes in the plot apart, the film is great fun to watch and with such a heavyweight team behind and in front of the camera, it really couldn't fail. "}{"Title":"A classic movie, but not Bogart's best","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" My mum watches (and loves) this movie as a romance, however I watched, and enjoyed, this movie more as an adventure. The first impression I got from this movie was a book I read at university called 'the Heart of Darkness' a story about a river boat captain that sails up a river in the Congo. This movie differs as they are not traveling up the river, but rather down it. Further, one can argue that the hero of the movie is the boat, The African Queen, and the main antagonist in the movie is the river. Bogart and Hepburn are more supporting characters rather than the lead.The movie begins in an African village deep in the jungle where a missionary and his sister are teaching the villagers civilisation. One notes immediately that what the missionary is teaching them is not all that interesting to them, for when Bogart arrives, they immediately flock to him, expecting cigars. However, the missionary learns that war has broken out in Europe, and quickly comes to their village when the Germans arrive, enslave the population, but leaves the missionary and his sister alone. Then the missionary dies of malaria, but fortunately Bogart returns to assist Hepburn leave the village.This is when the main part of the movie begins. Beyond the adventure of traveling down a river in darkest Africa, the two characters, who are opposites, must learn to not only live together, but to also survive. For an English lady, Hepburn turns out to be very smart, incredibly insightful, and motivate, while for a rough bushman, Bogart turns out to be a coward.There is romance in this movie, but to me the romance is more akin to what one would expect from an Indiana Jones movie than from a Jane Austin novel, and the movement of the movie is not focused on the blossoming relationship between Hepburn and Bogart, but rather their movement towards a goal that lies at the end of the river.Personally, I do not think this is one of Bogart's best movies - his film noir is so much better, however this is still a great movie, worthy of the great actor that was Humphrey Bogart. "},{"Title":"A classic with some age...","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember watching the African Queen as a child in the 70's and loving the story and the great ending. It's a simple movie and that's what makes it good. Bogart is great as the lovable captain but I was never fond of Hepburn's acting in this one, she puts in a strange performance even for her. The movie has aged a great deal since 1951 but that is to be expected. There are some bad special effects and some hammy episodes like the mosquito attack and the forced funniness of him imitating animals. There is also the fact that they are supposed to be from Canada and England but sound nothing like it. The relationship between them is very odd and comes off a bit forced but it's the story and the boat who are the true stars of this classic. "},{"Title":"War-time Romantic Adventure","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" War Time adventures have often been a popular genre, from Casablanca to the English Patient. Adventures set in the past in exotic location have also been a popular idea, and the African Queen does that.Set in 1914 on the outbreak of World War One, Rose (Katharine Hepburn) and Samuel Sayer (Robert Morley), are brother and sister from England, working as missionaries in German East Africa. After the village they are working in is attacked by the Germans and the men are forced into the army. Samuel soon dies of a fever. Rose ends up going with Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart), a Canadian boat captain of the African Queen. Both try to find a course to British territory. The only way is going through rapids, passed by a massive German fortress and through a lake dominated by a large German battle riverboat. On the way Rose comes up with an ambitious scheme to blow up the boat and on the two fall in love.The African Queen is a popular film, and rated by critics and fans. It is a fine excellent of film making, focusing on only two characters and sticks to it's narrative course. They is action adventure for men, and a strong romantic storyline for women. Katharine Hepburn offers a good performance, whilst Humphrey Bogart was strong for the most of the time, but he did overact at times. Humphrey Bogart won an Oscar for this performance, but he should have won it for Casablanca. They are good set-pieces, and John Huston show he has skill behind the camera. But at times his direction was a little too obvious. The scenery and the cinematography are excellent throughout the film. The African jungle and rivers do look wonderful.The African Queen is a fine example of a time for it's time. A respectable 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"An old standard","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" When a seedy river cargo boat captain and a lady from America who is somewhat on the Puritan side are forced to flee downriver from German troops, their adventures and trials are well chronicled by this fine film.However, the story and adventures are really just a set piece to exhibit the fine one on one acting between two legends of the profession, Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn. The initial antipathy that gradually resolves into mutual respect and affection thru the course of their trial by fire is entirely believable, very funny, and often painful (for the characters, not the viewer).This is a must see classic for all fans of great cinema, and is a sterling example of how two top notch actors can hold the stage and your rapt attention virtually by themselves for an entire movie. "},{"Title":"A Nice Adventure Film.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Huston's The African Queen (1951) is not the masterpiece that everyone claims it is. Certain scenes are overplayed, most notably when Charlie (Humphrey Bogart) and Rose (Katharine Hepburn) are arguing over who should take the boat to blow up the Louisa and the climax which relies too much on coincidence. Also, there is some rather obvious back projection when The African Queen is going down rapids. But, for all this, it still remains an enjoyable movie. Huston coaxes memorable performances from Bogart and Hepburn and there is some great cinematography by Jack Cardiff. It certainly a film that deserves to be remembered, and its the sort of film that you put your feet up to on a wet Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Love on the boat","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's the year 1914.The war has started in Europe.Katharine Hepburn plays a British missionary called Rose Sayer who's in Africa with her brother Samuel (Robert Morley).Soon the war comes to Africa and Rose's reverend brother dies.Humphrey Bogart plays a boozing Canadian boat captain Charlie Allnut who has to get Rose back to civilization with the African Queen.Their other intension of the journey is to construct a torpedo and destroy a German warship, the Louisa.On the way they face many difficulties and challenges, the unpredictable weather being one of them.At first Rosie and Charlie nearly hate each other but soon the opposites start to attract and hate turns to love.John Huston, a fine director is in charge of The African Queen (1951).Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn, what a team they make.They share a huge amount of chemistry on that little boat.Besides them there are only a few other actors in the movie.One of them is Theodore Bikel in his early movie role playing First Officer.This movie is a great adventure drama with some war and romance.It's pretty amazing to watch those two people on the boat trying to survive.The movie offers a bit of comedy, as well.It's quite funny to watch Bogie imitating those hippos and apes.I recommend you get on the African Queen and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Rated 9/10","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Very Good Adventure/Romantic Comedy/War Movie I saw this movie accidentally, I was actually looking for Casablanca; then I got hold of 3 DVD's at a Good Deal Without reading any reviews I saw this movie, I was astounded after watching the Cinematography and Direction at its best in the 1950's My second movie of Humphrey Bogart and he was really impressive, Wonderful Locations, Awesome plot, Good Direction, Wonderful Cinematography and Good Performances by Bogart and Hepburn.I would recommend all Romantic Movie Buffs to watch this movie, I was love the sequences which ultimately lead to blossoming of Romance between Charlie and Rosie. "},{"Title":"Gin Soaked Hollywood at Its Best","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brilliant! Absolutely Brilliant! If one can overlook the lack of chemistry between Bogart and Hepburn, then it is a true classic. Naturally, the special effects are lackluster, but this simple jungle adventure is one of my all time favorites. There is nothing like seeing Bogart, normally a debonair night club owner or film noir detective, taking on the role dirty, alcoholic boats man in Africa. There is adventure at every turn in the river, but the constant action does not take away from a great plot and great acting. The scenery is great due to the film being shot on location in Africa. Despite the lack of chemistry on screen, the movie showcases two of Hollywood's finest in the lead roles. The blend of acting, plot, and suspense epitomizes what made movies better then than they are today. The African Queen is a truly unique film the likes of which will not be seen again. The simplicity of the story would be overshadowed by special effects and digital imaging if made today. This is the perfect blend of a drama with an action adventure. "},{"Title":"Its immense charm wins you over","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is a film made in a time when all that was needed to make it work was character, performance, direction - and a bit of goodwill from the audience. Sounds easy, but try and find all that in a Hollywood film today! I first saw The African Queen when I was just a boy. It was already 30 years old then, and dated, but its immense charm wins you over just as inevitably as that of the two main characters makes them fall for each other.Forget the impossible coincidences and holes in the plot, and forgive the politically-incorrect portrayals of the Germans and Africans (it was after all a different time, and no great offence was meant). This is a Sunday afternoon treat. Two great Hollywood icons sparring with each other on-screen - with another (Huston) choreographing it all from behind the camera. I agree with the IMDb reviewer who says it is not the classic it is often claimed to be. But it's damn good, all the same. "},{"Title":"Adventures with Her Highness.","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" So often we find a Bogart character struggling with his conscience, weighing up the benefits of altruism versus one-eyed self interest. If you were looking for a reluctant hero, he would probably have been the ultimate casting choice of his time. Then there was Kate Hepburn, also without rival if what you needed was a fiercely independent, strong willed female figure. Much of the joy in The African Queen comes from putting these two well-known, larger than life personalities together and then watching the sparks fly. Of course, when you have the great John Huston overseeing proceedings, you know you're not gonna be short of a few thrilling set-pieces detailed in exotic locales, either...So what unfolds then is a terrifically entertaining battle of wills on tumultuous waters. You know that after all they've been through, they'll finally reach a place of mutual respect and affection, but the transition between feelings is subtly dealt with by a smart script. It proves that a romance between two people who've been around the block can lift the heart just as well as youthful passion.The voyage we are asked to take on The African Queen proves to be a richly entertaining one. "}{"Title":"David Jeffers for SIFFblog.com","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Written by .. Reviewing Vincente Minnelli's 1945 masterpiece of impulsive romance, James Agee began, The Clock (MGM) at its best, is so good that it inspires ingratitude for not being great. Agee's lyrical profundity was as entertaining to read as it was astute. In an era before the endless abyss of PR shtick and kiss-ass reviews supplanted the loftier ethics of film-criticism, Agee was the high water mark. Writing for Time and The Nation only seven brief years in the nineteen-forties, he introduced the modern form of criticism still in use, and influenced generations of writers. By 1948, Agee was dividing his time between freelance journalism and screen writing. His 1949 Life magazine cover story, Comedy's Greatest Era, remains among the finest essays ever written on silent film. Agee's genuine admiration of talent, and effusively positive means of expression, resulted in numerous, abiding friendships. Only recently discovered, Agee wrote The Tramp's New World, a post-apocalyptic fantasy, for Charles Chaplin, whom he fearlessly defended during the HUAC lunacy that eventually forced Chaplin from the country. Agee wrote screenplays for two of the most enduring films produced in the nineteen-fifties, The African Queen (1951), and The Night of the Hunter (1955). The latter was directed by Charles Laughton, who lived up to his onerous reputation, and Agee's participation ended in his acrimonious departure. Laughton claimed (after Agee's unfortunate death at 45) that little of the writer's work survived in the final version of the film. The Night of the Hunter would later be considered a groundbreaking film, through its use of minimalist production design, unforgettable performances (Lillian Gish, Robert Mitchum, Shelley Winters), and resonating moral message. Agee was far more successful collaborating with director John Huston on The African Queen. The film garnered several Oscar nominations, including best screenplay, and won for best actor (Humphrey Bogart). Huston and Agee, who became great friends, shared screen writing duties in the adaptation of C. S. Forester's novel. What remains clear today is the brilliance and insight with which Agee presented film analysis in a thoughtful, entertaining and informative manner, and the magic of his words on the printed page. His aspirations as a screenwriter, while depriving readers of his film criticism, were understandable given his immense talent, though unfortunate, considering his abbreviated life. Directed by ... The son of an itinerate stage actor and a newspaper correspondent, John Huston was a sickly child, dividing his time between divorced parents, bouncing from boarding school to fleabag hotel room. He became amateur lightweight boxing champion of California in his teens, and by twenty-one a lieutenant in the Mexican Cavalry. While in Mexico Huston wrote a book, it was published, and he leveraged this early success into a Hollywood screen writing contract, which eventually led to directing. His origins explain Huston's affinity for great writers. Throughout his career he collaborated with Truman Capote, James Agee, Arthur Miller, and developed films based on the works of Kipling, Melville, Joyce, and many others. Huston made his directing debut in spectacular fashion with The Maltese Falcon (1941). During his World War II military service, Huston directed a documentary account of the Battle for San Pietro (1945), depicting the conflict with such jarring reality Army censors cut it to half its original length. Even then the film evoked such a strong anti-war sentiment it remained unseen until years later. Huston's greatest success brought him two Oscars and a plumb role for his aging father Walter, as the crotchety prospector in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948). Starring Huston's favorite actor, Humphrey Bogart, it was their fourth of eight films together. Badges? We ain't got no badges. We don't need no stinking badges! Key Largo (1948) later that year was a tour-de-force for claustrophobic gangster Edward G. Robinson, with an all-star cast, again featuring Bogart, Laurel Bacall, and Lionel Barrymore. Claire Trevor won an Oscar for her portrayal of Gaye Dawn, a pathetic, over-the-hill, alcoholic gun moll. The Asphalt Jungle (1950), based on a novel by W. R. Burnett, was a noir thriller about a jewel heist gone bad, starring Sterling Hayden and Sam Jaffe. It was followed by &#133;The African Queen (1951) Wednesday, February 14, 500 & 730pm The Historic Lynwood Theater, Bainbridge IslandBased on a novel by C. S. Forester, The African Queen (1951) is the story of two irascible misfits, thrown together by adversity, forced to reconcile their considerable differences for the sake of justice and survival, who inexplicably end up falling in love. Set in Africa as the first World War begins, German troops destroy the missionary outpost of Reverend Samuel Sayer (Robert Morley) and his sister Rose (Katherine Hepburn). Their only contact with civilization is Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart), the seedy pilot of their supply boat. When Charlie finds Rose in the burnt out settlement after her brother has died, he takes her on board to avoid capture, and what begins as a plan to simply 'hide' becomes a mission of heroism. Charlie suffers Rose's starchy spinsterhood, while Rose comes to terms with Charlie's crude, slovenly behavior and drunkenness, as their humorous journey reaches its harrowing and memorable conclusion. Rarely do combinations of story, production and talent line up with results as wonderful as The African Queen. Two of Hollywood's finest actors, well into middle age, were perfectly cast as disparaged, alien opposites, with utterly hysterical and ultimately sweet results. Directed by an emerging Hollywood master, photographed by a stalwart of British Cinema (Jack Cardiff), adapted from the novel by a genius of film commentary and screen writing (James Agee), the enduring popularity of The African Queen fifty years on confirms why this film's place in American culture is as certain as water is wet. "},{"Title":"Great Story","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The heart of this film is great performances by two of the great people acting in film history at the point this film was made. Katherine Hepburn & Humphrey Bogart are both veteran performers by the time they did this film & it shows. The location shots in Africa & camera work are also top notch. The story builds the drama slowly & steadily all the way through. This is the kind of film which can still be made but there are only a few actors & actresses today that could come anywhere near the performance of Kate & Bogie. If you have never seen it, this film provides great lessons in how to make a great film. All the location work & pains taken to make this one show in the finished product. "},{"Title":"Classic adventure for the times. Bogart and Hepburn.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This John Huston classic combines drama, adventure and romance within a background of war. Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are at,some say, their very best. In WWI Africa , a Bible-thumping spinster Rose Sayer(Hepburn) tries hard to turn the other cheek when her missionary brother is killed. A hard drinking riverboat captain Charlie Allnut(Bogart)offers the strait-laced lady what he thinks is the safest passage down an African river. Captain Charlie is as rustic as Rose is prim and proper. Along the slow cruise, Rose persuades Allnut to destroy a German gunboat. The two battle aquatic obstacles and themselves. The riverboat will end up needing some repair and before long the unlikely couple find affection for each other. Also featured Robert Morley, Theodore Bikel and Peter Bull. This movie's allure has and will further endure the test of time. "},{"Title":"anyone remember a B&W African Queen?","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember this movie being shown all the time on Channel 9 in Chicago as a kid and it was almost always shown in b&w. I remember them making a big deal when they would air it in color. The screen shots here at IMDb are in b&w too. However, The movie is listed here as in color and I've only ever seen it in color since those channel 9 showings as a kid in the early eighties. It's airing on TCM tonight in color and they didn't say anything about it ever being in b&w in the intro. The color of the movie doesn't look like it was colorized either, (The inside of mouths is usually a good indicator of colorized films. In African Queen all the color appears genuine and there is no trace of the occasional grey tongue or greyness between teeth.).Anyone know anything about a b&w African Queen? How was it originally shown in theaters? Was it just the TV showings of it that were in b&w, if so -why? (And, no, we didn't ever have a b&w TV so I'm not confused - beside the screen shots here are b&w too) "},{"Title":"Bogart in his most atypical role, not counting The return of Dr. X","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not the greatest movie ever made but very close to being the best adventure film of the 50's. The role of Charlie Allnut was not one that you would automatically think would belong to Humphrey Bogart but he certainly gave a performance of a lifetime. Bogart was toiling in gangster roles as a contract player at Warner Bros. and usually played the heavy, unlike his biggest rival, James Cagney whose gangsters always had a sympathetic aspect of them. Even his hero roles like Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon and Philip Marlowe in The Big Sleep were ruthless when needed. Here, he plays an all out good guy and even though he has the same surly disposition in beginning as in some of his former roles it never goes beyond him regretting it in the next scene.Also, Bogart gets a love interest who's roughly the same age as him, something very rare in films of that day. Clark Gable was still playing opposite actresses more than half his age all the way up to his death. You can see that does something. Katharine Hepburn, who plays Rosie, and Bogie actually look believable as lovers and they also look very comfortable playing opposite each other.There have been dozens of comments about director John Huston's wild and unpredictable behaviour when making this film and it was all portrayed in the Clint Eastwood film White Hunter, Black Heart but even if the film had such a troubled production it was certainly worth it. The care of each scene shows and because this is virtually a two person story, the dialog is absolutely brilliant.Hepburn and Bogie are of course two of the biggest reason to see this film and the plot really takes a backseat. The reason it all sort of comes together is the way that Bogie and Hepburn never seem to lose their cool, even in the face of death and to act that way and still make it seem believable is good acting indeed.Bogie had one or two good parts left before he died and Hepburn was of course one of the last survivors of film's golden age. All the more reason to enjoy that you are still able to see this film and go back to a more innocent time. "},{"Title":"What a time we've had Rosey, what a time!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's taken me a few screenings to really appreciate The African Queen, the film that cemented Humphrey Bogart's reputation with a Best Actor Oscar. Making that achievement even more noteworthy is the fact that the film itself wasn't nominated for Best Picture, somewhat puzzling in my view. Throughout the movie, Bogey's inspired to an entire new range of facial expressions not limited to the familiar pursing of his lips seen in virtually every single one of his other films. He appears most anguished in an amusing scene having tea with Reverend Sayer (Robert Morley) and his sister Rose (Katherine Hepburn). As Mr. Allnut's (Bogart) stomach grumbles incessantly, the good reverend finds a page in the newspaper advertising 'Pace Windcock's Wind Pills'!Never were two individuals more disparate than gin swilling machinist Charlie Allnut and the spinsterish Rosey Sayer, but it's that hurdle that the film manages to overcome as the pair find themselves growing closer to each other through raging river rapids, German gunfire and leech infested waters. At first, Rosey's suggestion that they blow up a hundred ton steamship with home made torpedoes is completely derided by Allnut, but as time passes, the impossible seems more and more doable. The victory kiss between the two following the conquest of the rapids cements a new dynamic between them, and all of a sudden it's a different movie, a romantic adventure.Originally written as a serious film, no one was more surprised than director John Huston at how effectively funny Bogart and Hepburn were together. Though Hepburn was genuinely disturbed by the amount of drinking between the two men on the set, it didn't affect the end product, as wry humor managed to alter the movie's overall tone. The actors look like they're having just the grandest time as Bogey does a mean hippo imitation alternating with chattering chimpanzee antics. I think the gin might have been having an effect by that time.I still prefer some of Bogart's earlier films, Casablanca is my all time favorite. Even so, the greatness of The African Queen can't be denied, featuring as it does the contenders for greatest male and female actors in history. And who can't identify with the pronouncement of the Louisa's first officer as he marries the seemingly doomed couple - By the authority vested in me..., I pronounce you man and wife. Proceed with the execution. "},{"Title":"Huston gives golden-period Hollywood an Indian Summer","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" An engaging, romantic parent of the road-trip movie. Bogart and Hepburn are the very coinage of Hollywood monarchy, exclusively occupying all but the book-ends of the film. The necessary special effects (action sequences on floodwater) are dated but never less than convincing. Neither star shies away from the physical requirements of their circumstance; in fact it makes the honesty and tenderness of the burgeoning love-story all the more remarkable. Comic, touching, exciting - gripping even - it's also a fine, thorough but economical adventure romp. The only question for me is how Hepburn could not have picked up an Oscar as Bogart did (it went to Vivian Leigh's turn in A Streetcar Named Desire). Terrific matinée to see in the New Year. 8/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite film of all time...","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are those that find this film lacking in literary quality, but they are missing the point behind this Forester/Agee/Huston compilation.  On the one hand, the characters seem weak, but for those of us who understand, we see them as true compassionate beings.  It is easy to feign the superficiality of those without heart.  Real strength lies within the caring nature, the love of life as our Creator intended, the willingness to give, no matter the price!  The characters portrayed by Hepburn and Bogart were born with these qualities, but hadn't fully grown into them until thrown together by circumstances.  Rose and Charlie would certainly have plenty of reason for disagreement and family strife in their future, but their love for each other, and their marriage, would certainly survive for these characters truly do have heart. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Photography in the African Queen","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" ****************************Mild Spoilers Ahead*************************What I like most about the Arican Queen is the beautiful photogrpahy.  It's just beautiful and it's the best feature of the film.  Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are an unlikely pair who end up together on a boat in a jungle in Africa.  The actors are skillful as is the director.  The two leads are energetic and lively.  It is a very good film which, unfortunately, lags in a couple of spots and has some noticeable plot holes.  It is generally engrossing, but there are a few minor flaws in Hepburn's and Bogart's portrayals as well as a couple of minor flaws in the script detracting from the otherwise fine story's sincerity and authenticity.  Despite the minor glitches, this is an admirable film.  I recommend it and rate it a 90/100.  It's a minor classic.   "},{"Title":"The 2 Greats of Cinema","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a rather simple movie but yet forceful enough to make you want to sit through it. You can see the characters develop as the movie go along and yet there is little action and just conversations between Hepburn & Bogart. Nevermind this wasn't a lavish epic but watch this to remind you of better Hollywood days gone by. "}{"Title":"Draws the viewer in like few movies","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"     I saw this movie as a kid, and just sat there captivated.  I loved the adventure, the characters, the tension, the excitement.  Traveling down the Congo on a cool old boat with danger all about, Bogart and Hepburn are amazing.  This is the kind of adventure that people--kids especially--dream about, and it is wonderfully done here.  I think we are less a land of adventure today, because people are more concerned with looking perfect than with having character and accomplishing important things.  Mass culture and mass idiots have done that to us.  Hopefully, we can turn it around.  But if you can't enjoy this movie, I would be concerned about you.      "},{"Title":"One of the few timeless films of the 50s","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Compelling, semi-action packed story with Hepburn & Bogart trying to escape from the Belgium-Congo during World War I.  Along the way in their dilapidated boat (African Queen), they battle turbid waters, insects, German soldiers, and each other.  Bogart won his only Academy Award for this role. Filmed on location in Africa.  Director John Huston co-wrote the script.  "},{"Title":"Bogie and Hepburn on the river","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful!  I remember when my dad first bought the video.  We went home and watched it.  We all thought it was funny.  It's set in 1914 Africa and is about a missionary named Rose Sayer who goes on a boat ride with captain Charlie Alnut in order to sink the German Louisa ship (this is the beginning of WWI).  One of my favorite parts was when Rose was sleeping under a canopy in the boat and Charlie came in to get out of the rain.  Mr. Alnut what are you doing? was what she said.  Me? Uh-nothin' miss! was Mr. Alnut's reply.  Well get out this instant!  One thing that I can't understand is why Rose would wear such a long dress in such hot weather.  I guess even when she isn't in England she must remain properly dressed.  This movie has it all Romance, Comedy, Action, Adventure, along with great acting done by Katherine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart.    "},{"Title":"Adventure, Huston style.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Huston takes us into the perilous rivers of Africa for arousing journey with Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn. Hepburn persuades Bogart to take his boat on a mission to sink aGerman warship, but first they have to make it past treacherouswaters, German soldiers, and just about everything else naturehas to throw at them.  They also have to contend with eachother.  Hepburn being the prim and proper missionary and Bogartis the hard drinking, hard living type.  A great story that'sbrought to life by wonderful African locations.  They don't makemovies like this anymore.          "},{"Title":"Good acting and photography, but a rather poor script ruins much of that","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film has a very good reputation and is routinely regarded as a classic and one of Bogart's finest works. In my view, however, this is in an overall assessment overrating the actual quality of the film.The photography is quite good for much of the film; there are, obviously, lots of good shots of the meandering riverine area, and some of the shots of the boat itself are done very well (such as a rotating shot of the African Queen as she is moored on the bank of the Ulanga, or a zoom-out of the boat as Rosie and Charles think they are done for while they are, in fact, very close to their destination). The script, however, can only be called mediocre at best. It remained utterly unclear to me why on Earth Charles would ever agree to the plan - his doubts about the feasibility aside, he must also have understood that even if the plan succeeded, the boat that provides his living would be lost. Yet, this and other questions about the plan are never addressed, and instead Bogart's character allows Katherine Hepburn's character to boss her around while, at that stage, she has absolutely nothing to offer that he might be interested in. Add to that a lot of overly pathetic and schmaltzy dialogue - first between Hepburn's character and her brother, later between Hepburn's and Bogart's characters -, and you get a script of rather poor quality.Some of the acting was decent. Bogart does a good job portraying a drunkard who is, much against his initial will, transformed into a hero, while Hepburn does a similarly good job at portraying an old spinster transformed into a passionate lover. It's just not sufficient to compensate for the many other shortcomings that the film suffers from. "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece In Every Way Possible","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Charlie Allnut is a rascal. He is also a boat captain in Africa, who ferries things up and down the river in 1914. One day he stops at a missionary, where prim Rose Sayer is preaching along with her brother. Charlie has tea with them, but to say they get along is an overstatement. Charlie leaves, but not before telling the English Rose and her brother that Germany has declared war.Soon after he leaves, the camp is taken over by Germans, who burn the huts down and leave Rose and her brother to fend for them selves. Her brother catches the fever, and dies. It is then that Charlie comes back. He helps Rose bury her brother, and then asks her along to wait out the war in the jungle. Soon after, they find a place to hide, when Rose begins to look at a map.She asks Charlie why they can't go up the river, and he tells her that there are rapids, a German fort, waterfalls, and at the end, a big German steamer, patrolling the lake so the British can't move down. Noticing Charlie has a lot of explosives, that he was carrying for the mine, Rose asks if they can't ride to the lake, and then blow up the German steamer. Charlie says no, but Rose persists, and you can see where this is going.I know it sounds dark, but it is really anything but.There is one thing that can impede you from enjoying The African Queen cynicism. You cannot look at this film from a cynical point of view. You'll hate it. That said, you can going into it being cynical, but you have to drop it after five minutes. Okay, got it? Good, we can move on. Three films have been called Huston's best The Maltese Falcon, The Treasure of The Sierra Madre and The African Queen. At least, from what I've heard.I did not like The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre, and as I have not reviewed The Maltese Falcon, I'll hold judgment until then. So what is Huston's best film? The African Queen, from what I've seen. Many people have tried to describe the essence of this film. Is it Bogart, Hepburn or Huston? Is it the shooting on location? Or maybe the story? I cannot pinpoint the film's greatness. It is like a cozy den, that once you've entered, you never want to leave.The only other film I've had such a reaction to is Casablanca. It is a great film, but why? The performances by Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are certainly part of that magic.You only have to see them on screen for a second, and you are instantly with them. Bogart plays the kind of character only Bogart could play, and likewise with Hepburn. They inhabit their characters with an energy that cannot be defined. You do not think of them as Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart, but as Rose Sayer and Charlie Allnut.The characters are that memorable. It is the kind of love story that feels alive and fresh, despite how in a different film it would seem clichéd. Here it embraces the cliché, and is better because of it. The development feels like a natural extension of the plot. Speaking of plot, the screenplay by James Agee and John Huston achieves that perfect balance of giving you a plot that keeps you interested, and two leads you cannot help but love.Agee had a heart attack before he could finish the screenplay, so Huston brought it down to Africa to finish it. He brought Peter Viertel to work on it with him, and sometimes they would write the next scene the day before it was shot. Shooting on an actual river in Africa must have presented a massive challenge for the cinematographer, but he succeeded admirably. The film is neither a walking travel ad, but it doesn't forget about it's landscape either.Perhaps the only weak link is the score, but even that can not impede the film from greatness. This brings me to Huston's direction. He has often been accused of his films looking staged, with no amazing cinematic tricks employed. I cannot defend him, but I can say this. Huston is a director. He is not an actor's director, a cinematographer's director, or a screenwriters director. He is truly a director, he oversees all aspects of production with the same wise gaze. He is not an auteur. He trusts the people he works with to do a good job, and just oversees them doing it. This kind of film making is the only kind that would work for The African Queen. And it does, Huston delivers yet another beautiful adventure film. If you are feeling low, this is the kind of film that can make you feel better. When I gave The Dead ten stars, it took me a while to make the decision. Here it took me a second. The African Queen is an indisputable masterpiece, for now and for always.The African Queen, 1951, Starring Humphrey Bogart, Katharine Hepburn and Robert Morely, Directed by John Huston, 10/10 (A+)(This is part of an ongoing project to watch and review every John Huston movie. You can read this this and other reviews at http//everyjohnhustonmovie.blogspot.ca/) "},{"Title":"Bogart, Hepburn and Huston - A Formula For Success","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Humphrey Bogart, Katharine Hepburn and John Huston. With two great stars and a great director (all of them surely ranking among the giants of the industry) you know that you're going to get a wonderful movie - and so you do. The African Queen is probably not the best piece of work by any of the three, but putting them together definitely creates a formula for success.Bogart is Charlie Allnut, the Canadian captain of the riverboat African Queen and Hepburn is Rosie, sister of an English missionary. As World War I breaks out, the pair find themselves in enemy territory - German East Africa - with only the bare possibility of escape they have to pilot the boat down a hazardous river and into a large river separating German East Africa from British East Africa. The problem is that the lake is guarded by a powerful German gunboat that Charlie and Rosie plan to sink by turning the African Queen into a torpedo.It's a fine movie, a solid dramatic adventure with good use of humour scattered throughout as Charlie and Rosie develop their relationship with each other. I appreciated that the romance was between a pair of mature characters. Had the movie been made today Hollywood would probably cast a couple of beautiful but lightweight 20-something's in the lead roles. Bogart and Hepburn on the other hand brought the appropriate gravitas to the roles even while portraying an entirely believable romance. Meanwhile, director Huston makes good use of the movie's African setting, with some truly wonderful wildlife shots and as the end approaches there's real suspense about what's going to happen to these two. It may not be the best movie any of the three made in their careers, but it's an altogether enjoyable classic. "},{"Title":"The lavish sense of adventure and both fascinating and intrinsic in equal measure character study, sees Huston's African Queen sit upon its throne with aplomb.","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Huston's The African Queen is built around an enthralling relationship between two central characters of binary opposition whom eventually come to understand and follow both one another's thinking and lifestyle. The film is a fantastic picture, a superior character study and a gripping adventure through the hostile territories of a jungle by way of a river boat and into the unknown. Huston seamlessly encompasses an odd aura of our characters just drifting, or stuck, in this hostile, frightening, nightmarish zone as predominant genres of both romance and adventure are ably supported by that of the war genre along with a sense of it being a singular stranded journey in which the characters will get very few second chances at what they attempt. There's a sense of hopelessness in the film, beautifully masked hopelessness which is achieved by the strong leads with set positions on a range of items primed to clash and envelop. In short, it is one of the better films of both this era and of this ilk that you will, perhaps, ever see.The film unfolds in 1914, just as The First World War breaks out, and takes place in a large territory on the continent of Africa known as German East Africa which has since gone on to be broken up into a number of other nations. Katharine Hepburn's Rose Sayer runs a small parish with her brother Sam (Morley) within the confines of this stretch of jungled land, frequent visits from Humphrey Bogart's American mailman Charlie Allnut and a lot of both studying and singing of Christianity with her Reverend brother plus the congregators seemingly the norm. Tragedy strikes and The War arrives at their church in the form of native, black soldiers under the command of the German army whom burn and destroy everything, including the local village, within the vicinity; these enemies of freedom and Christianity destroying most of the world the Sayer's inhabit, so much so that Sam passes away through the grief and shock of it all.Here begins a tale of romance, self discovery and conflict with one another; nature around them and the larger element of the German war machine - something which is enthralling on several levels. In appearance, Rose is prim and formal; her similarities to Charlie the well-oiled, greasy, steamboat dwelling delivery boy whom chugs up and down the river initially fleeting. She partakes in a session of singing Christian tunes within the confines of her church that, like her brother, sees her struggle to instigate much positivity within the presence of the black locals charged with joining in. On Charlie's boat, and where the aforementioned brother/sister pairing lack the charisma to be at one with the predominant settlers of their locale, the mailman is at ease with a coloured gentleman as they laugh and talk in a relaxed manner and in one that suggests at-ease. It is the first few examples of both the to-be central characters standing in stark opposition to one another, a sense Huston puts across that neither of them will ever really connect with one another and thus the film cannot possibly revolve around them and thus, has to come to focus on something else prior to the catalyst event. Perhaps the film will be about Charlie on his boat all by himself. Maybe it will even revolve around the trials and tribulations of Rose and her brother trying to take their parish from the, apparently uninspiring settlement it is, to something more meaningful to the locals.The torching of the village acts as Rose's point of no return, her forced coming together with Charlie on board his boat as she escapes away with him seeing ideologies and lifestyles immediately clash. While Charlie himself verbally identifies Rose as a doer, he himself lives by the philosophy that you needn't do what you can put off until tomorrow. Rose is smarting from her brother's death and wants revenge on the Germans by later targeting a warship of their's further down the river whereas Charlie is much more of a pacifist; the two of them even share binary oppositional traits in what it is they prefer to drink in that prim, formal Englishwoman Rose would much rather have tea than Charlie's informal American mailman gin. The key scene, as each of them share this toing and froing as the war and dense jungle force them to occupy this small space of the steam boat, comes when Charlie simultaneously casts off Rose's quaint bonnet hat and lands a kiss onto her as they manage to avoid almost certain destruction at the hands of a German fort down the river. The removing of the bonnet furthers Rose's own arc, a sense that she is seeing more of the native land she inhabits and developing more whilst on this boat than she ever did hosting uncharismatic and fleeting sessions of Christianity preaching at the old church, just as it effectively plants seeds of love within the text.The film is much more than a sporadic series of events that play out down a river and that could unfold in any order you wish. There's a sense of depth of proceedings; that sense of two characters constantly facing new obstacles and feeling fresh emotions towards both their situation and one another. Huston brings the jungle surrounding them alive by having the noises it omits contribute to the text in that monkeys screech when Charlie is hungover and elephants roar when characters are angry at one another. Aided by the late Jack Cardiff's cinematography and some sublime direction, The African Queen is a wondrous adaptation of the C. S. Forester novel; a film which begins and ends with the harsh realities of war and going on to detail that hate and destruction furthers feelings of hate and destruction, in between focusing on a nourishing relationship between two people coming to share the polar opposites. "},{"Title":"a charming film that still inspires","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is the story of a missionary English woman, Rose, and a Canadian boat man,Charlie, in what was then German East Africa, who go on a mission to torpedo a German gunboat right after the 1st World War began. They plan on using the African Queen, Charlie's boat, as part of their home made torpedo and bomb the German gunboat with it.It's a charming film about patriotism in times of war, exceeding ones limits for what they believe in and finding love even at the most desperate times. Since it's an old film it can't help but suffer from things like overacting and overwhelming orchestral music that distract and dictate what to feel in each scene, but these are things you soon get use to and accept as part of its charm.There are ideas in the film which today seem dated and less than politically correct. The fact that European countries have colonised Africa is not an issue here. The natives are portrayed either as dim- witted villagers unable to behave like civilised white people or as bloodthirsty goons with riffles working for the evil Germans. Furthermore there are sexist lines from Charlie which sound comical by today's standards. Acknowledging and putting these PC issues aside, the film talks about bravery, hope and love.There are beautiful surroundings and the appearance of bad blue screen is limited. The film is fascinated with all sorts of social contrasts, people of different races, ethnicities and classes interacting with each other, falling in love and fighting. There is a naivety in the issues the film touches upon, like alcoholism, death and war, but the importance of having hope and human willpower is always present. You care for the characters, even though they are insignificant and hopeless. Their persistence to achieve their goal, even when all is lost, is inspiring and makes the film relatable and relevant even today and that's what makes this film a classic. I give it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Slow-starting, scrappy adventure made worthy by two superb performances...","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director John Huston--in surprisingly light and sly spirits--also helped to adapt C.S. Forester's novel to the screen, concerning a missionary, left alone after the death of her beloved father, hitching a ride out of war-torn Africa with help from a salty, surly seaman. The budding romance between Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart (in his Oscar-winning role) softens the rough-hewn, sweaty scenario, though there is still plenty of action and good, ribbing dialogue. Not particularly well-made, with on-location sequences shuffled together with studio shots, yet the incredible star-power certainly puts it across after a balky opening. The finale is satisfying, though rather comical where on earth are they swimming to? *** from **** "}{"Title":"I think I shall have to hang you twice","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't imagine anybody not enjoying a thrilling romantic adventure like 'The African Queen (1951).' Though it may not pack the emotional punch of 'The Treasure of Sierra Madre (1948)' or 'Moby Dick (1956),' this is nonetheless John Huston at his most entertaining, thanks largely to the impeccable chemistry between two of Hollywood's all-time most charismatic stars. In 1914, as the outbreak of WWI disturbs even the remote depths of wild Africa, Humphrey Bogart &#150; grizzled, gruff and coarse &#150; must form a tentative alliance with prim and proper British spinster Katharine Hepburn, if they are to triumph over the evil forces of Germany. With only the vague objective of somehow sinking the feared German warship, the Louisa, the two near-strangers strike out downriver in Bogart's small but resilient steam-powered supply boat, the African Queen. A continual bombardment of jungle obstacles, both natural and human, frequently threaten their survival, but the more prevailing question is whether or not the two polar-opposites will be able to survive each other!John Huston's rousing adventure was largely filmed on location in Africa, though many of the white-water sequences were obviously shot before a rear-projection screen in London; fortunately, these optical effects are far less distracting on a cinema screen. It can often be problematic to build almost an entire film around just two characters, but Bogart and Hepburn are clearly up to the challenge, sharing a chemistry that is infectiously entertaining. Whether they're engaged in awkwardly-formal conversation, at each other's throats, or falling in love, every line of dialogue (from a screenplay by John Huston and James Agee) is an absolute delight, all the more so because we know that Charlie and Rose will eventually end up in each other's arms. At either end of the adventure, Robert Morley lends some pathos to the tale as Rose's humble missionary brother, who dies following a German raid; and Peter Bull, though perhaps too cartoonish to entirely fit the film's overall tone, adds some lighthearted humour as a temperamental enemy captain.Just what is it about 'The African Queen' that has made it such an enormous viewer favourite? I think that much of this has to do with Huston's predominantly lighthearted approach to the material &#150; if you're not gripping your seat in excitement, then you're laughing at the interactions between the two leads. However, there's also a less-pronounced political commentary at play. Reverend Sayer's death might been viewed as symbolising the inevitable death of British Colonialism. That Bogart's roguish, hard-drinking North American (he's actually a Canadian) effectively conquers the prudishness of Hepburn's formal British spinster may likewise be taken to foreshadow the United States' rise as the world's most influential superpower. All politics aside, I find it amusing that just last week I attended a cinema screening of Francis Ford Coppola's 'Apocalypse Now (1979),' in which an intrepid team of soldiers venture into the darkness upriver. Just consider 'The African Queen' as that film's polar opposite &#150; for this time we're going downriver, and we're gonna have a rollicking good time. "},{"Title":"Not to Be Missed.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything works together in this romantic adventure. Down the Ulanga with seedy Bogie and starchy Hepburn in the beaten-up old African Queen. Ride the rapids, go over a waterfall, suffer the slings and arrows of the German fort at Shona, get half eaten by clouds of flying gnats, be leeched by slimy critters as you haul the boat by hand through mephitic swamps, half die from fever, come within an inch of being hanged by Theodore Bikel and Peter (I think I shall hang you twice) Bull aboard the German riverboat -- and have more fun doing it than you could have imagined.It's not all action. There is a tentative and touching romance developed between Humphrey Bogart as the skipper of the decrepit launch and Katherine Hepburn as the skinny, psalm-singing old maid who convinces him that the Louisa, the German gunboat, must be sunk with improvised torpedoes.Hepburn is a tough babe in this movie, tougher than Bogart. She stoically endures the death of her missionary brother, Robert Morley, at the hands of the marauding Germans when the First World War begins. Instead of being frightened by the rapids, she's thrilled by them. And she pushes the common-sensical Bogart to heights of inspiration, strength, and heroism.There's a delicate love story under all the adventures, far more effective than that in, say, Casablanca. The mismatched couple find each other through compromise and by forming a superordinate goal -- the sinking of the Louisa. Until then, Hepburn seemed content to live out her life with her brother in an attempt to convert the natives who could scarcely care less. And Bogart was perfectly satisfied being his own boss, a wastrel whose most carefully planned thought never reached beyond tomorrow. Bogart gives the role everything he's got -- and that's a lot. He cultivates not another variation on his familiar screen persona but a genuine portrait of a character that already seems familiar to us but which we've never associated with Bogart before. He's always been a dapper urbanite, but here we see him chuckling gleefully as he kicks the temperamental engine on his boat. Drunk, he brings up his poor old mother and is about to weep. One of his best scenes has him at tea with Morley and Hepburn, uncomfortable with all that politesse and distracted by his gastric motility. Morley reads the newspaper and announces that a rival of his has just been promoted to Bishop. Bogart jumps in his chair, startled, and says, Huh? Then his belly begins curmuring -- audibly. Have some more tea, Mister Allnut, says Hepburn, doing her best to ignore the borborygmus. It's much funnier than Eddy Murphy's family all ventilating their bowels at the dinner table in The Nutty Professor. See it at once or be hanged twice. "},{"Title":"African Queen! More of Bogey at his Best","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's odd how the passage of years results in the accumulation of a huge cache of memories from which the mundane and routine have been excluded. It's almost as if your memory becomes so inundated with information that it establishes an internal prioritization program that eliminates all but the finest memories from our minds. We remember only the finest cars we owned, the prettiest girls we dated, the finest meals we ever ate, etc. So it goes with entertainment and movies I suppose. Of the thousands of movies I've seen over my sixty plus years, there are perhaps 30 or so that I remember with both clarity and fondness. At the top of the list would be movies that starred Humphrey Bogart; in my estimation, the finest actor who ever lived. African Queen was probably one of the first Bogart movie that I ever saw and I was simply mesmerized by his and Katherine Hepburn's portrayals of a hard drinking roustabout teamed up with a prim and proper lady. The interaction between the 2 as they make their way along a dangerous river in a beat up little steam powered boat named African Queen, all the while trying to avoid Nazi forces, is absolutely unforgettable. It's one of those movies that sucks you in and won't let go until the final scene rolls and the screen fades to black. Of course, how many movies did Bogey make that have an identical affect?... Casablanca, The Maltese Falcon, To have or Have Not, Dark Passage... and the list goes on. "},{"Title":"A well-deserved classic of the times","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot remember Bogart ever making a film in which he had to interpret a character - except in African Queen, now a classic in the world of cinema. And the chemistry between him and Katherine Hepburn comes off just so well. Maybe I have seen this film four or five times, and no doubt I will see it again.The beautiful photography along the great river, plays in so well with the story-line, as the development of C.S. Forester's characters take shape. Indeed, I think Forester must have been charmed by the film. As you will be charmed by many of his novels - all good reading. How a film with essentially only two actors can hold your attention with so much fascination, beggars belief, but this odd coupling does so with great success. I am not a Huston fan but with this one, I take off my hat and congratulate him. "},{"Title":"Great performance by Humphrey Bogart & Co under grueling circumstances","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" African Queen is a classic movie and truly deserves its 17 th position in AFI's 100 years 100 movies list.Shooting of this film was done under testing conditions in the African continent and full credit to the stars,the director and the crew for coming up with such a great show.The film's storyline is survival in a hostile environment and is very well depicted. Some great scenery to go with it.Charles Alnut(Humphrey Bogart) and Rose Sayer (Katherine Hepburn) have the energy and the spirit of not only to take on mother nature but also enough patriotism to take on the Germans.Humphrey Bogart was absolutely amazing in his portrayal of Charles Alnut a man who would do anything to survive.For Alnut survival is primary mannerisms are next.Humorous dialogues had been a specialty of Bogart and he lives upto his reputation in this movie. He truly deserved his Oscar for best actor.Katherine Hepburn was also excellent as Rose Sayer a pious lady ready to mend Alnut's ways and makes Alnut bend to her whims and fancies every single time.Credit must also be given to director John Huston for bringing out the best from the cast. "},{"Title":"I'm convinced now that necessity is the mother of invention","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Charlie (Bogart) says that he never does today what he can put off until tomorrow. That attitude probably explains the condition of his river boat. What a dirty old tub it is and the engine so rusty he has to regularly kick the pipes to dislodge the rust, otherwise the pipes could clog up and the boiler explode. But Charlie is not over fussy. With a supply of wood for the boiler and a case of gin for himself, he manages to keep going up and down the river on his African Queen.It's a pretty tall story when you come to think of it....a rough neck like Charlie falling in love with Rose a prim and very staid Methodist missionary (Katherine Hepburn). But in a way that's the charm of the film. Two lost souls enduring every hardship together and finding strength in each other's companionship.What surprises me is Rose's remarkable suggestions on repairing a bent propeller shaft and broken blade with little more than a campfire and a hammer. And as for creating a couple of torpedoes from some gas cylinders filled with sticks of dynamite and what not, it beggars belief. But what fun it is to see all this come together ( just like in a boy's adventure book) and we wait expectantly for the German ship Louisa to be scuttled.I could not understand how leeches were prevalent in one part of the river and not further down stream and how dozens of crocodiles slithering into the water did not deter them from wading in the water later on. But it had to be like that because it was just a series of adventures...ever-changing...and danger at every turn of the river.I have to admire the performances of Bogart and Hepburn who were on the screen virtually all the time. I especially enjoyed watching Katherine Hepburn...a truly superb actress.I thought the ending of the film left much to be desired. It was not the same quality cinema as in the rest of this outstanding film. Who was steering the Louisa and why did he not see the Afrian Queen? As for the exuberant married couple bursting into song while in a half-drowned state, it was a bit hard to take but at least it ensured a happy ending after so many near-death experiences. "},{"Title":"Please stop the bitching and moaning, This is a great movie","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  African Queen, The (1951) African Queen is one of the best movies ever made. No special effects, no car crashes, just a man, a woman and a boat. The writing is simple and to the point, the acting and chemistry of the two stars is honest and likeable.Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn play two lonely people in the congo, he a river rat with his own supply boat, her a spinster sister of a christian missionary, their differences in life make the story. John Huston directs African Queen with the simple touch of an artist, each scene is better than the last, leading up the last great scene.This movie is a a timeless classic. If you are a real movie fan you will love African Queen and want to see it again and again. if you are not a fan of any movie made before 1980 you will hate this movie. "},{"Title":"highly entertaining","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I adore this movie-it's so cute!  Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are both wonderful in this movie and allow you to see the subtle changes in their relationship, culminating in a deep, powerful love.  The disasters they encounter are amazing, from the mosquitoes and leeches to rapids and a broken propeller, yet through the magic of Hollywood they manage to survive it all.  Usually that's meant to be an insult, but not here-you care about these characters and want them to come out on top (literally, when speaking of the river).  Highlight of the whole movie, though Boggie making faces at the hippos.  Totally unexpected and hilarious.  This movie is full of charming surprises like that, which make it very enjoyable, viewing after viewing. "},{"Title":"This is the best of Bogart.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The African Queen belongs to that elite category of movies CLASSICS.  Released in 1951, the film stars Humphrey Bogart (who won the Academy Award for Best Actor) and Katharine Hepburn, and was directed by John Huston. It was shot on location in Africa under very difficult conditions for the cast and crew. In spite of that, Bogart gave the performance of a lifetime. Perhaps it wouldn't be fair to list the stars without including the African Queen herself, a run down old steamer that was held together with spit and chewing gum. Huston's direction was impeccable, capturing the beauty of the African jungle, the terrors of World War I, and the challenges of being a Missionary to the African natives.   Without giving away too much (there are so many twists and turns which you must discover for yourself), it is safe to say that this is a love story in the truly classical sense. It's the story of a relationship between two people that starts out of necessity and just grows and grows. It is also an upper in that by the end of the move, you have this warm and fuzzy feeling. Call me old fashioned, but I like movies that make me feel good. If you like stories that leave you feeling mad or frustrated, try watching the News. The bottom line is that whether you have just a few movies or a houseful, you MUST have The African Queen. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I remembered it...","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently re-watched the classic The African Queen on AMC. I remembered it fondly from my youth as a great movie featuring a lady and a cantankerous sailor who set out down a river in Africa, and *** SPOILER NOTICE *** eventually warm to each other.The movie does not quite stand up to my memories of it. Much of it is quite dated, and many of the scenes featuring Bogart and/or Hepburn in front of a backdrop (onto which is projected film of the water) are embarrassingly flawed. Perhaps within a budget in 1951, that was the best they could do, but a constant mix of scenes where Bogart and Hepburn are in a REAL boat in REAL water makes these inserted scenes look silly. The movie Titanic, made a mere 2 years later in 1953, had none of these technical problems.In addition, the characters were not as argumentative as I remember them. Without much conflict about one-third into the movie, there's not much place for this movie to go, except, literally, down the river.However, all that being said, it's still one of Bogart's best performances, his only Oscar, and is somehow still worth viewing. Rating 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Bogie and Katie... what a team!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take Katharine Hepburn playing the prissy, spinsterish, yet amazingly fearless minister's sister, take Humphrey Bogart as the take-charge, gin-swilling, yet amazingly (Okay, not so amazingly) not-such-a-bad-egg boat captain, and put them on a boat going down a river in the African jungle under John Huston's direction, and you've got a gripping, occasionally exciting and dramatic, but more often than not funny-in-a-good-way film.  The two stars have marvelous chemistry and play so well off each other that (Spoiler Alert, I think!) their eventual love affair is the only natural way to go and not just contrived by the writers.  These may not be Bogie's or Katie's best performances, but they sure ain't their worst, either!  This may not be Huston's best film, but it sure ain't his worst, either!  Definitly deserves to be a classic, if only because Bogart and Hepburn are just so good together. "},{"Title":"A real tour de force","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A real tour de force. Humphrey Bogart (Charlie Allnut) and Katherine Hepburn (Rose Sayer) fight like cats and dogs at first, but fall in love.  Hepburn does her best to reform Bogart's hard drinking sailor, first from the bottle and then to the greater cause of fighting the Germans. Wonderful direction by John Huston takes advantage of his lead actors, as well as a good story, also by Huston, that offers sorry, laughter, and love. "},{"Title":"Four stars","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my all-time favorite Hollywood movie - Hepburn and Bogart at their very best.  The brutality of the Germans, bludgeoning the missionary and burning the village, starts Rose and Charlie on their quest through the unknown jungle, down the treacherous rapids, past the German fort to blow up the Louisa.  Two people from completely different worlds face death together - There's death a thousand time over down that river, develop great respect for one another - You're the bravest man who ever lived and fall in love.  The deus-ex-machina ending is pure Hollywood perfection.I'm not really sure what it is about this movie that makes it so great, but it truly is.  "},{"Title":"Amazing movie!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is hands-down one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Everything about this movie is absolutely beautiful.  The acting is amazing, the story's enthralling..  They just don't make movies like this anymore.  If you're thinking of renting this movie, do it.  If we walk past it in the classics isle..  Trust me, you'll regret it ) "},{"Title":"Bogie in a performance of a lifetime.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bogie is at his peak in this love story. His tender heart far outweighs his gruff exterior.  Katherine is wonderful as his leading lady.  A must see film for all ages!!..  "},{"Title":"Romance on the river","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" As unlikely a pair as Bogart and Hepburn make, their performances are great and they actually do have chemistry. They are an odd Huck Finn and Jim going down the river, discovering what life is all about. "},{"Title":"Decent romantic adventure","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" When defending predictable, formulaic films, I often hear that it's the road from A to B that matters. But when that road, as in The African Queen, in which A is Humphrey Bogart's ragged boatman and Katharine Hepburn's stern missionary not standing each other and B is them falling hopelessly in love, is not very interesting or entertaining, you have a problem.It's strange, everything I remembered about The African Queen was less pronounced now that I watched it again, for both better and worse. Firstly, the distance between A and B was a lot shorter &#x96; in the beginning, there was more of a slight annoyance or a stiff reservation than a downright hatred or dislike, and it didn't take very long before they fell into each other's arms. Secondly, Hepburn's character was a lot less annoying. I still don't think she (or Bogart) is very good, but I didn't exactly want her to die this time, and I guess their chemistry is all right. The romance was probably a bit less sappy, whereas the adventure and the finale were decidedly less riveting.One thing I did notice to a larger extent now was the pleasant Technicolor work, which is used to the greatest effect when there is a lot of nature on the screen, such as the opening scene where the camera sneaks through the jungle and enters the East African village of Kungdu. But other than that, The African Queen is still just a decent romantic adventure that I don't quite get the praise for. "},{"Title":"A beautiful mess","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A classic in spite of itself. The African Queen is legendary more because of the confluence of cast, director, historical province, and the stories that came out of the shoot and less by being a technically good film. Humphrey Bogart, six years before his death, plays the Canadian Charlie Allnut with as much effort at the accent as Kevin Costner put into Robin Hood Prince of Thieves. Katherine Hepburn's appearance betrays the constant dysentery she suffered during the on location parts of the shoot. According to the 1990 Client Eastwood film White Hunter, Black Heart director John Huston spent most of the shoot chasing an elephant and later cleaning in post production in a London sound studio. The gaps between the London material and that filmed on location (the ending credits just say Africa, I guess you identifying just the continent was good enough back in 1951) are blatantly obvious. However, the story of a proper English missionary spinster finding secular thrills by running rapids and falling in love while exacting explosive revenge against the World War I edition of German imperialism is a good one. Mix in some genuinely good repartee and the exotic location (hippos and alligators and leeches, oh, my!) and you can overlook the high-school-film-strip soundtrack and the laughably bad green screen effects. "},{"Title":"Another Worthwhile Classic!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Classic Hepburn/Bogart flick has two of the biggest sex icons (of the time) pairing together. Hepburn is quite fun but completely upstaged by Bogart, whose rough river rat character is one of the most suiting--and--memorable of all time.All in all, a perfect Saturday afternoon matinee. Perhaps not one of my biggest favorites, but still an amazing movie.5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Memory Corrected, but not to be neglected","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remembered The African Queen as a great movie; a rambling adventure, telling the gently romantic story of Charlie and Rosie's Quixotic cruise to sink the Louisa. I remembered snappy dialogue and well-drawn characters. I remembered a movie that moved me equally to laughter and tears.I reviewed it this weekend and found my memory to be in error. The African Queen is not a great movie.The writing is flabby, relying on the established personas of the actors rather than any internal references to convey the depth of the characters. The photography, though adequate, seems poorly knit together, and sometimes clichéd; for example, the footage of crocodiles slipping into the water after Charlie asks about the presence of the reptiles. Likewise, the sniper fire from the German fort appears to be stock footage.The acting, while not demanding, is pure and crisp. Given little other than exposition to say, Bogart and Hepburn use their inestimable presences to make this middle aged couple come to life. We see that Rosie is the order Charlie yearns for, even before his after-shaving speech on the joys of having a good woman around. We see that Rose had never been Rosie before Charlie and she became lovers, although she'd always wanted to be. No lines suggest these insights, nor do any overt dramatic gestures. Rather tensions in Hepburn's voice, in Bogart's shoulders, in the angles of their body's convey meanings the script cannot find a way to say. And perhaps it should not have to.The script abounds with absurdities, either intentional or otherwise. Charlie says that the river has one hundred miles of rapids. Even assuming one hundred miles refers to stretches of calm water followed by white water, nothing of so demanding a nature is intimated by the actual events in the movie. We are told that the African Queen can only maintain steerage if she moves faster than the river current, yet the rapids clearly move faster than any speeds the ship ever demonstrates. Rosie's steering through the rapids is then an impossibility.However, the script does convey the wonderful irony of the civilized worldview of the early 20th century. Rosie says Nature, Mr. Allnut, is what we are put in this world to rise above, and indeed, she and Charlie appear do just that. They overcome the obstacles of the river and deal firmly with Charlie's human weaknesses. At the last, however, nature, as manifested in the storm that sinks the African Queen and as manifested in the love she and Charlie share, proves as indomitable as it always is.No, this is not a great movie; rather a very good one. And though the great ones are few, the very good ones are not many more in number, and we should be grateful for the cruise of the African Queen. "}{"Title":"John Huston's best known film","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The African Queen is probably John Huston's best known film. It ranks among the greatest of the greats and rightfully deserves so. It covers so many different categories of film Comedy, Adventure, Suspense, and Drama... All into one! Bogart gives one of his his best and only oscar winning performance (how the man won only one Oscar baffles the mind).During world war I In the jungle of East Africa, a village is destroyed by German troops. Charlie Alnut (Bogart) is in charge of running supplies to the village. He returns after the attack and finds out that Rose (Katharine Hepburn) has survived the attack. Her brother, a reverend was killed in the attack, so Charlie offers to take her on his small steamboat (called The African Queen) back to civilization.During the journey down the river, the two argue, bicker, avoid the Germans, go through deadly rapids, and much more. As they overcome obstacle after obstacle the two grow closer and closer together and realize that the only way they can make it is together.The African Queen was originally supposed to be a straight drama, but John Huston found that his actors had so much chemistry and decided to combine other elements into the film which made it the great classic that it is known as today.  "},{"Title":"A good movie, but it's greatness is overexaggerated","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time last night with my girlfriend last night knowing it was a classic romance-adventure movie and would definitely help me win over the heart of a girl and not bore me like chick flicks tend to do.This movie however didn't work.  There is no real emotions in it and the chemistry between the two often doesn't work well.  You never get attached to them emotionally and are never scared for them, because they are somehow or another ridiculously equipped to conquer any problem they come across and any other problems, that manage to go beyond impossible, are resolved by insane events of divine intervention.  I think a lot of people mistake this for a great movie because it has two great actors and overlook the fact that they just don't work right together.In the end it had some fairly heart-warming parts and some almost sad parts (which I think are essential for a good drama).  And the actors do their best to overcome an often ridiculous script.  It is a very good movie (at times) which has gotten a little more praise than it deserves because of nostalgia factors and idolizing attachment to the actors.For a great movie, check out White Hunter, Black Heart directed, and starred in, by Clint Eastwood.  It is about the director of this movie, John Huston (Wilson), and his crazy antics while filming this movie.  It is chockful of laughs and drama and is one of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Not Huston's best","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Huston has made some brilliant films (The Treasure of the Sierra Madre and The Maltese Falcon), some moderate films (The Asphalt Jungle and The Man Who Would Be King) and some terrible films (The Misfits and Annie). The African Queen is definitely one of those moderate films. A bit better than The Man Who Would Be King, a bit lesser than The Asphalt Jungle. In any case nothing to write home about. Nonetheless I was a bit disappointed. Not because it's Huston directing (he's too precarious to rely on), but because it's Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn acting. I love both of them. Like, really, adore. Especially Hepburn. It might be because of misguided romantic ideas of a lost Hollywood era. Or it might be just because I like the sight and style of them both. Anyway, both Bogart (who won his first and only Oscar for this movie and called it the best acting he had ever done) as Hepburn were not on their best. By far. Did Bogart get the Oscar because it was the first time he was seen in colour? He certainly makes a different impression when seen in colour... I liked him better in The Maltese Falcon, Casablanca, The Big Sleep and especially in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. Same with Hepburn, who just seems sick all the time (which she partly was during the recordings). Compared to Bringing Up Baby, The Philadelphia Story, Adam's Rib and even The Lion in Winter her acting was often annoying and laughable. I get why this movie is seen as a classic, but a classic doesn't necessarily mean a good movie. This was just okay. No more, no less. "},{"Title":"Humphrey Bogart is my African Queen","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The synergy between Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart is unforgettable. They might be some of the only two people that you could leave on a boat together for a whole movie and make it interesting. The film had an interesting motif of the battle of the sexes, which made many of the scenes between Hepburn and Bogart tense and exciting. John Huston has a great capacity to excite, and in The African Queen he adeptly balances a quality mixture of realistic dirt and Hollywood adventure gloss. The end result is an engaging, fun experience that keeps you interested from start to finish. Also, those leeches were gross as heck. "},{"Title":"Love at Sea","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The beginning of the movie was interesting with the moving camera through the jungle. It brought us to a Methodist Church within a village. There was much chaos at this point to where the movie wasn't grabbing my interest. The Germans come in a burn down the village and the church and beat the Reverend where he eventually falls ill and dies. Rose is left there with nothing until Charlie Allnut comes along and she leaves with him on his little boat, named African Queen. While on their travels, Rose wants to get revenge so they plan on taking down the big German boat with a torpedo. I enjoyed the special effects of the ship in rough waters. The use of the African animals throughout the film were enjoyable. The movie has a lot of misguiding scenes that takes you away from the aspect of the movie. The movie ends abruptly after Rose and Charlie and kidnapped by the Germans and she tells them that they planned on blowing up the ship. She believes that telling them the truth she will spare Charlies life. Only to find out that her and Charlie must now die. While they are preparing to hang Charlie the boat is hit and catches fire. Everyone flees for their safety. Along comes a piece of the African Queen boat portraying that it blew up the German boat. "},{"Title":"No Ship of Fools, this Tug!","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A prim and proper missionary and a grizzled drunken sea captain take on the Nazi's in this brilliant adventure that should NEVER be re-made. Leave excellence alone, probably the greatest movie NOT to be nominated for a Best Picture Oscar. What a shame, because so many Best Picture nominees and a few winners can't even compare to this excellence that this features. In their only appearance together, real-life friends Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart share an undeniable chemistry that can't be denied. She's opposed to his crass persona. He thinks of her as a skinny old maid. But physical attraction isn't everything, and their shared experience in going down the rough rapid-filled river brings them together through the most necessary of human experience survival.The personality of director John Huston is felt deeply in this, his most personal of films, documented through the many bios of the people involved, including Bogart's real-life wife, Lauren Bacall who accompanied the cast and crew and establishing an equally close friendship with Hepburn whom she obviously adored. Robert Morley is touching in his brief role as Hepburn's fragile brother, while Theodore Bikel is commanding, yet sympathetic and very un-Nazi like as the German officer who captures Bogart and Hepburn during the last stages of their mission.There are so many memorable sequences here, from Hepburn, Morley and Bogart's oh-so-polite tear party, the invasion on the mission by the Nazi's, Hepburn and Bogart's various fights (especially after she pours out his booze), the strength which Hepburn must find during their flight down the rapids, and her reaction to it once it is over. Humorously, the scene where Bogart discovers he's covered in leeches becomes both funny and touching as Hepburn must pull them off of him. The photography is definitely influenced by the British cinematographers, utilizing different filters and techniques to make it look very different than American films, comparable to the photography of such British classics as Black Narcissus and Caesar and Cleopatra. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately not worth the time","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I understand why this is a classic. Really, I do. Katharine Hepburn is a symbol of the height of Hollywood, Humphrey Bogart is a revered icon of cinema, and the film centrally features a political poke at the early stages of WWII, which was a huge plus at the time of its release, even more than now. But in compared to films throughout decades of awe- inspiring cinematic classics, The African Queen (1951, John Huston) just doesn't hold ground. The verisimilitude of Hepburn's performance as a deeply religious yet vengeful missionary relies heavily on the dirt smeared on her normally flawless face, and almost all of the other roles are occupied by C-list actors who are on that list for a reason. Bogart's performance as the rough and informal (to the point of discomfort to Hepburn's character) captain of the titular riverboat the African Queen is the only one that is truly believable, and is one of the only things I liked about this film.As an adventure film, it's expected to have adventure; which it does. But the scenes that don't are boring, and the adventure that it has isn't enough to make up for the unconvincing acting and the somewhat silly events that conspire. All in all, just not worth the time. "},{"Title":"Screwball romance for the Fifties","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is a unique movie in many ways. Most obviously, it's the only film where you'll find two of the greats of Hollywood history, Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn, in the same film. It's also spectacular that this film was actually shot on location, except for the in-water stunts, in Africa, apparently at great hardship to the cast and crew.What I like best, though, is that The African Queen has a premise that, while not completely original (boat going down a river and its variations being a classic plot in literature and film) is off-kilter enough that it this movie is a breath of fresh air, even 60 years later.As the film opens, we meet the pure missionary Rosie (Helpburn) and the light of her life brother and fellow missionary, who dies of grief after war erupts and the Germans destroy his missionary village, in an apparent bid to conscript the natives as troops. Rosie has no recourse but to cast her lot with Mr. Allnut (Bogart), the boozing river captain and only British subject she has contact with.Then the movie unexpectedly veers into screwball comedy territory, as Rosie, the innocent missionary, decides it's their duty as patriotic English citizens to convert Mr. Allnut's capable but aged boat into a kamikaze torpedo and take out the major German gunboat in the region. This launches them on a trip down some unfriendly (unnavigable, even) waters that is more funny than scary, which ultimately ends on an absolutely screwball high note.The film is funny and breezy, with just enough of a plot and character development that what the characters are doing doesn't come off as utterly insane, which is a problem I have with some of the more out there screwballs.It should be said however that it's rather amazing that a film set in Africa, with Africa in its title, only has Africans on screen for maybe 3 minutes, and that they have no meaningful dialogue. Ah, Hollywood before political correctness! Still, this is a very fun film and an absolute must to see if you enjoy either of the leads, or, as in my case, if you're a fan of both of them. "},{"Title":"Romance on the river","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by John Huston The African Queen tells the story of Rosie(Katherine Hepburn)who is the missionary sister of a priest(Robert Morley)when he is killed during an attack on their home Rosie is rescued by local river trader Charlie(Humphrey Bogart).Starting out as opposites Charlie loves to drink gin and Rosie is a strict religious woman.They begin to develop a touching relationship while struggling to survive on the river. Released in 1951 this is a classic film that is well worth watching featuring two very talented stars as the leads this film just keeps getting better and better with the passage of time.Well worth buying on DVD. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was only ten years old when this movie was released. Not a movie you would expect an eleven-year-old to be interested in - but I went to see it and remember really enjoying it. Of course I did not see any goofs when I first saw the movie. As an adult I find it a lot of fun to look for the bloopers and mistakes in every movie. You pointed out some that I did not catch. There is one other I did see. When Charley and Rose are on deck of the German gunboat, about to be hanged, their hands had already been tied behind them. When the boat struck the torpedoes, Charley lifted the noose from his neck and then lifted the noose from Rose's neck. Neither of them had their hands tied behind their back at that time. "}{"Title":"Two For The Reeds","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bogie was one lucky guy; in the space of three years he got to romance BOTH the wonderful Hepburns, respectively Katherine and Audrey (Sabrina, 1954). These two pros virtually carry the entire movie and run a slightly larger gamut than the celebrated A to B which, according to Dorothy Parker, encompassed Hepburn's entire range. It's a delight to watch them explore the roles and develop the characters and little short of amazing that well into middle age they could conjure up the feeling of teenagers discovering Love. Actors like these don't grow on trees unlike so many of the newer breed who litter the film sets of the world with sawdust. Deservedly a classic. "},{"Title":"John Huston Scores again and Bogart gets the Oscar.","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director John Huston scores another in his string of brilliant cinematic successes with The African Queen, which also garnered Humphry Bogat his only Acadamy Award for best actor. A classically paced romantic comedy also starring the ever delightful Catherine Hepburn as Rosey Sayer, an uptight spinster missionary who is forced to flee her mission after the death of her brother (played by noted character actor Rober Morley) with the scruffy river boat captain Charlie Allnut (Bogart). Other well known character actors include Peter Bull as the Captain of the German ship, Theodore Bikel in his debut role as the ship's first officer, and Walter Gotell (best known for his appearance in 14 James Bond films) as the second officer. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"God has not forsaken this place","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the most improbable screen romance since outlaw John Wayne wooed Quaker Gail Russell in ANGEL AND THE BADMAN, river boat pilot Humphrey Bogart and missionary Kate Hepburn battle each other, a river and the Germans before they find true love. The menace of nature and Axis occupation might have been explored more fully to heighten the suspense and danger in this place the missionary believes is not God-forsaken, but any chance to see these two actors at the top of their game overcomes any such minor drawbacks. Robert Morley is very good in his few scenes and there are a couple of crew members here worth a mention also. Assistant director Guy Hamilton and camera operator Ted Moore eventually moved up to bigger chairs as film director and cinematographer, respectively, and coincidentally worked together in those capacities in four James Bond flicks. It's not either Kate's or Bogey's best work, but it's a rare treat to see a pairing of such great superstars in a well-written and beautifully photographed film that's a treat for ear and eye. Be sure to bag this trophy in one of your DVD hunts. Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"Bogart and Hepburn? An Unlikely Jungle Romance","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Who would have thought that Humphrey Bogart, known for playing brooding tough guys; Katharine Hepburn, known for playing strong-willed and ever-so-distant females; and John Huston, a man's man director, could put together such a light-hearted, screwball comedy? But that's exactly what happens with The African Queen. Bogart stepped way out of his usual screen persona to play this comical, grizzled character; Hepburn launched the phase of her career that would find her playing uptight spinsters. I never would have thought they'd have any chemistry together, let alone produce even the palest of sexual sparks, but they're as natural a screen pair as either of them was separately with their respective frequent film partners. This adventure romance finds Hepburn's straight-laced missionary and Bogart's unkempt river-boat captain winding their way through the African wilderness. They do all the things you would expect them to do in a movie like this, but what they do best is bicker, down to the very last scene, where their bickering continues even as they are rescued and the final credits roll. According to film annals, Huston hadn't set out to make a comedy, but when he realized how much chemistry his two stars had, he changed gears and made a different movie than was originally intended. Thank God for that -- I'm not a big fan of Huston or his heavy-handed touch as a director, so I'm glad Bogart and Hepburn forced him to lighten up.Grade A "},{"Title":"River Romance","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" They said it would be a flop. Alexander Korda advised producer Sami Spiegel with this little gem A story of two old people going up and down a river. You will be bankrupt. Well, Spiegel and director John Huston must have been grinning like Cheshire cats for many years to come after the big success that was 'The African Queen'.The great thing about the film is it's performances by it's two leads, Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn. A very unlikely pairing, for starters. Bogart was the tough, cynical man-of-the-world who was often on his lady Bacall's arm. Hepburn was Spencer Tracy's girl; a spinsterish, fiery sort who looked unwilling to compromise for love. The opposites-attract teaming worked brilliantly with Bogart and Hepburn enjoying terrific chemistry. She's the prim spinster sister of a Methodist minister, he's the gin-swilling boat captain who must transport her back to civilization during World War One. The pairing isn't glamorous, but this film (and their relationship) quickly blossoms into one of cinema's greatest stories of love and survival.It's a different role for Bogart. He did a lot of his best work for Huston, and he won the Academy Award (his sole Oscar) for his role as Charlie Allnut. While it isn't his best performance, IMO, (In A Lonely Place and The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre hold that place in my book)he is really great. Did he deserve the Oscar over Brando in 'Streetcar' and Clift in 'A Place In The Sun' that year? Probably not, but Bogart did deserve to be awarded for his outstanding contribution to film, so I was happy with his win. Hepburn was nominated too but lost out to Vivien Leigh for 'Streetcar'.Enough Oscars talk. This film has some stunning cinematography, amazing action sequences and a wonderful script that allows Hepburn and Bogart to portray their characters at the fullest. It is one of the triumphs of the cinema, this film. There's nothing more enjoyable than watching bible-quoting Hepburn be softened by love, Bogart engage in animal antics to cheer his girl, and Huston handle the rapids with technical ease.10/10. "},{"Title":"When the Stars Come Out","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" One should watch this movie to see what actors really are. You take tough guy Bogart and match him with Hepburn and the sparks fly. The acting is subtle and restrained. We know who these people are and they give that to us. There is no macho posturing, no abject silliness. These are two people stuck in a place with everything they brought. Throw in the fact that they cannot escape and must do what they must do. You see the frightened, hesitant duo, slowly melt into each other. There is dignity everywhere. What is said, is said correctly. Bogart's character could have been moody and angry, but he wasn't raised that way. He is actually a little hesitant to approach this woman. She speaks in that cautious way of hers, making little pronouncements about who he is and what he should do. But she never takes on that firebrand thing that she often did in other movies. The journey down the river is an archetype, done so many times. But it's not the journey. It's the affection developing between two very kind people who also get to a side that shows their strengths when the chips are down. This is a beautiful movie in every respect good writing, terrific acting, and, of course, John Ford. What can I say? "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie. My wife could not hardly believe it when she found out some 30 years ago. There is just something magical and timeless about Bogart and Hepburn. It does not seem to get dated and plays just as well today as the first time I saw. This movie is true magic. I think this is the best part Bogey ever played. It is a remarkable love story between a grizzled loaner and a prim and proper lady with strict moral values. Normally I am not one for love stories but this one just sparkles with the dynamic personalities of Bogart and Hepburn.Once a year Ihave to break out this movie, grab some popcorn and indulge myself in a bit of movie magic. I do not think it is the best movie made, just my favorite. "},{"Title":"Undiminished Classic Carries the Unshakable Triumvirate of Bogart, Hepburn and Huston at Their Peak","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The reputation of this deserved classic rests primarily on the shoulders of master director John Huston and his two legendary stars, Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn. The story itself, penned by Huston and James Agee (with uncredited help from Peter Viertel) based on a novel by C.S. Forester, is a two-character high adventure that moves its narrative in a rather contrived manner. Yet, the resulting 1951 film sparkles in a burnished aura of Hollywood lore, as Clint Eastwood saw fit to make a film about the production itself with 1990's White Hunter, Black Heart and Hepburn herself wrote an entertaining memoir 36 years after the fact with the seemingly apt title, The Making of the African Queen Or How I Went to Africa With Bogart, Bacall and Huston and Almost Lost My Mind. Between Bogart's apparent boozing, Huston's big game obsessions, Hepburn's idiosyncrasies and the challenging African jungle, it must have been quite an unpredictable set.Set at the outbreak of WWI in 1914 German East Africa when there was an unabated frenzy to colonize and convert the native Africans, the story focuses on Rose Sayer, the prim sister of a missionary who just died from fever and dementia after the Germans invaded and destroyed the village in which they were living and holding mass. To escape the pending return of the Germans, she joins Charlie Allnut, the boozy steamship captain who runs supplies - including torpedo shells and the makings of explosives - along the Ulanga-Bora River. She concocts an ambitious plot to use the explosives aboard Charlie's boat, The African Queen, as a means to destroy the powerful German gunboat, the Louisa, which rules the large lake at the end of the river. Charlie reluctantly agrees, and their perilous journey takes up the bulk of the film. Even though the ending is a bit far-fetched, it doesn't matter much by that point since the characters have so completely ingratiated themselves with the viewer.What makes the film memorable is how the characters evolve from lonely souls who have given up all hope for happiness in their lives to the heroic defenders of the British Empire whose mutual patriotic dedication turns to love. Lesser actors would have been defeated by the sharp corners of the sometimes incredulous plot turns, especially Rose's lightning-quick turnaround on Charlie's charms, but Bogart and Hepburn are so completely in their element that the contrivances actually become part of the allure of the movie. Both have given more accomplished performances in their careers, but neither has appeared more winning than they do here. A Huston favorite, Robert Morley has a few effective moments at the beginning as Rose's reverend brother Samuel, and toward the end, Peter Bull brings appropriate Teutonic bluster as the captain of the Louisa.Obviously inspired by the real-life locations he uses in the Congo and Uganda, Huston directs the proceedings with passion, and he brings genuine excitement to scenes such as their conquest of the rapids and Charlie's dredging of the boat through the mud. More importantly, he allows the two stars ample room to generate the chemistry that has made this such an enduring classic. Jack Cardiff's cinematography is appropriately evocative for the first color film by either star (or for the director for that matter), though some of the later scenes, especially the storm sequence, feel comparatively claustrophobic given that they were obviously shot inside a studio tank in London. A true must-see among Hollywood classics. "},{"Title":"About actors","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was a good exception to see Humphrey Bogart so laughing. His role was different than usually, he acted easy-going way as Humphrey can. I've read Kathrine Hepburn's book about this film and I wouldn't call the movie bad because of their lack of chemistry, I think that there is some. And it is good to see especially a woman so dirty and without makeup in a film of old days. Some technical cuts should be undone, it's better to leave those kind of scenes out than make a dull copy of natural life. Story was nice when compared for an example to Bogart's To Have And Have Not. I think that this movie could be done better. Movie is a honest one after all. I like it. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful, a classic. So fresh and funny and interesting and endearing. I recommend it highly to anyone who loves movies. You can see how others have tried to imitate it, but this movie is just about perfect. You'll never be bored!! "}{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time this year after it came highly recommended from my grandfather. I liked it a lot. It was funny at some parts, very touching, romantic, and the visual effects....well, they were all...but awesome for the time being that it was. Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn were excellent together. I truly enjoyed the scenes in this movie. If you like classics, I'd click right to Amazon.com and buy this. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Bogart is best among bests","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Performance of Bogart is a real landmark in the role of a leading character. The other roles I can think of that might go very close to what Bogart gave in The African Queen are as follows1. William Hurt in Kiss of the Spider Woman 2. Anthony Hopkins in Silence of the Lambs 3. Dustin Hoffman in Rainman 4. Humphrey Bogart in Casablanca 5. Uttam Kumar in Nayak Throughly enchanting and entertaining. Kate is also brilliant in her own way. "},{"Title":"Good?","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is John Huston's film about a sailor (Humphrey Bogart) and a bible-thumping missionary (Katherine Hepburn) who decide to turn their boat into a torpedo and sink a German battleship during World War I.I had a lot of problems with this movie... first, Bogart's character is extremely suspect he has more than a passing resemblance to Casablanca's Rick, who starts out the lone wolf but eventually accepts nobility and sacrifice for the greater good, but with none of the subtlety- here Bogart goes from drunken nihilist to mensch-martyr in about two days. He also lets Katherine Hepburn's character get away with way too much self-righteous moralizing; when he wakes up to find her pouring his bottles of gin into the river, I didn't believe for a split second that he wouldn't have pushed her in too.And a word on Katherine Hepburn- in this and all of her films there is a fine line between spunk and being obnoxious and I never seem to find her spunky... in spite of the fact that the supporting cast always does. I consider her eternal cinematic pluck more than a bit grating... when she proudly announces to the Germans that she planned to sink their battleship with torpedoes the SS soldiers seem tickled pink- the girl's got moxie! A woman this brazen would have been beaten to death before the age of nine.That said, The African Queen is still a worthy film- in spite of its flaws and slow pace. One of the Top 100 Films of All-Time as chosen by the American Film Institute? That's another story entirely... especially when both actors gave their best performances elsewhere.GRADE C "},{"Title":"See it next","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I consider this to be one of the best movies ever made. Unfortunately, movies this good can't be made anymore. There is adventure and action without ridiculous and overblown special effects. There is romance without unnecessary sex scenes. There is humor without silliness. There is no profanity.The best actor and actress of their time are on the screen, together, almost full time interacting through a story and script that are flawless. Although scenes of Africa and it's wildlife in color were not common when the movie was made, they are not overplayed.Anyone of any age who has not seen this movie should see it before seeing anything else. "},{"Title":"A cute lil film","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had no idea what this film was about going in...a romantic comedy was furthest from my mind.I thought it would be more Apocalypse Now then what it is.  Just goes to show...don't judge a book by it's cover.It really is a lightweight film.  Very cute. "},{"Title":"great classic!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I had heard a lot about this film, and even though Bogart is one of my favourite actors, it was with much apprehension that I began watching this film. I was not sure that I could sit through a film starring an actor and an actress, both supposedly past their prime, riding in a boat somewhere in Africa. I should have known better. For sheer economy in casting efforts, this film is unrivalled. It is almost unimaginable for any of today's  film to be as superior a product with as few actors and special effects. Both Bogart and Hepburn excel, and the ride down the river has a great poetic feel to it.Deservedly a classic!  "},{"Title":"SOmething wonderful","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" African QUeen was a movie that proved to be better than I expected. It's a story of two different kinds of people coming from different backgrounds & teachings who r forced to take the trip for better or worse & it turns out to be an adventure that they learn from. The two best personalities of BOgie & KaTe put together for a heart warming trip through the trails of Africa. THe most touching parts are those when they squeal with joy at their team work & get through the rapids. A very humane film that shows that deep down we are all just men & women with no differences produced by where we're coming from. IT's the inevitable joining of the hearts stemming from the concern & respect given by the other & putting their own fears aside TO join their minds, hands & courage to overcome all obstacles. "},{"Title":"Great Actors,Great Film","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Humphrey Bogart gives the greatest performance of his life as Charly Alnut,an odd Gin drinking man who lives on and runs a small riverboat delivering mail in Africa.He takes a prim missionary played by Kathrine Hepburn, who has been stranded by a fire which burned out her mission into his boat and the adventure begins.The unlikely pair eventually fall in love and strike a blow for England and the alias in WW1. One of America's Greatest Films of all time. "},{"Title":"Hepburn and Bogart star in a timeless classic.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" While Humphrey Bogart won his only Oscar for his role in African Queen, co-star Katharine Hepburn ran into A Streetcar Named Desire starring Vivien Leigh that year and had to settle simply for the nomination.But both Bogie and Kate are great.  They entrance the viewer for almost the entire picture, which stands as a magical piece of work.  It's not just a romance but an adventure film with both comedy and drama.  There's also a war going on.  Director John Huston pulls it off with class and understanding.  He knows his two stars are more than able to handle the roles of star-crossed, middle-aged folks thrown together under duress.It's always a sappy business to ask people what their favorite film is because there so many qualifiers. For example, is your favorite the you liked best when you saw it or is one of those films that lend themselves to repeat viewing--such as It's a Wonderful Life?The debate will undoubtedly rage on but African Queen deserves its place as a true favorite.  It's a movie that makes you smile and that's worth a lot.   "},{"Title":"highly over rated.....","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rating 8 out of 10 ?? Sorry Guys....I think this movie is very over rated !!! What's so special in this movie ??? A riverboat fixed two torpedoes to attack a German Warship ??? Not believable at all. And the way those torpedoes have been assembled and fixed with riverboat is humorous. Even school children's could have fixed better. This is my first comment in this site. But I am sorry to say this movie is highly over rated. why so ?? just wondering.... Be realistic. I know it's old movie . Technology was not enhanced that movie. But there should be a minimum logic that would make the film believable to watch. And this movie lacks that. Ever heard torpedoes can be assembled in that childish manner and fixed in a normal riverboat. I find it ridiculous. "}{"Title":"Just one of John Huston's great films, but one of the best","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are three primary reasons you might want to see this old black and white classic.First it is a beautiful and touching love story. Strait-laced teetotaler (and maiden sister of a preacher) Rose Sayer (Katharine Hepburn) meets a kind of ordinary joe who is a handyman deluxe sort of guy, Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart) a man who is a bit crude and likes to swill his gin. They're in the middle of Africa during the Great War. Her brother has been killed, the Germans have the natives where they want them and, well, Charlie has an old river boat and offers to give the high-toned woman a ride.There is nothing quite like the sparks that fly from opposite poles. And yes, opposites do attract, but of course it takes them awhile to feel the magnetic force. The beautiful thing about this love story is how Charlie proves his mettle and wins her heart--a heart never won before--by sheer gumption and by finding the courage he never knew he had--egged on and inspired by her relentless strength of character. The moment that she realizes, despite all the differences between them, that she loves him is beautifully and exactingly captured by John Huston's superb direction.The second reason to see this cinematic masterwork is the performance by Katherine Hepburn. She has given many outstanding performances; there is hardly an actor anywhere held in higher esteem, nor one who has had a more lasting and admired career. I have seen many of her movies but never have I seen her better. She is just perfect for the part and delivers every line with style and a deep understanding of her character. She allows us to understand that Rose's crazy, naïve beliefs about what is possible infect Charlie to the extent that he becomes something more than himself, and it is that self that she falls madly in love with.The third reason is the inspired performance by Humphrey Bogart. This is not the usual worldly-wise, tough guy that Bogart usually plays. Instead he is an ordinary, though pragmatic joe who knows his limitations. He didn't last this long as a self-styled river boat captain without taking certain precautions in what he would venture and what he would not. Yet, so taken with the relative status and the exquisite high-toned righteousness of Miss Rose Sayer, he is able to do things that ordinarily he wouldn't try. And when she falls in love with him, he is amply rewarded, and the audience loves it.I should add that shots of the boat, the African Queen, and of the animals along the river and in the river seemed authentic and atmospherically perfect even though I've seen a couple hundred much more modern African nature videos.By the way, this movie contains the famous quote, spoken by Miss Hepburn Human nature, Mr. Allnut, is what we were put on this earth to rise above. One more thing to add the movie was adapted by C.S. Forester and James Agee from Forester's novel. Those are two of the best writers to ever work a Hollywood screenplay, and it shows. The dialogue and the development of character and story are exquisitely done so that one is lost in the events and only returns to the real world when the movie ends.Truly, they don't make them like this anymore.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films of the 50's","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The African Queen is quite possibly one of the best films I have ever seen. Humphrey Bogart well deserved his Oscar for his work as Charlie Allnut in this epic film. The scenery, the special effects and the dialogue all combine to make this story so riveting and exciting that you feel as though you are on The African Queen alongside Bogart and Katharine Hepburn, which would have been great just to be with both those extraordinary actors. Of all the Katharine Hepburn movies I have seen, this is my favorite. It is one of the few movies she did with a truly strong plot. Many films which take place around only two characters, and virtually no supporting cast until the very beginning and very end of the film, don't do as well, but then those films weren't helmed by Hepburn and Bogart. They make this film enjoyable all on their own.If you want to see a truly well written and flawlessly acted film, see The African Queen. It'll bring adventure straight into your living room. "},{"Title":"The Music and Dance of The African Queen","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" No, this is not a movie musical -but- if you watch (and listen to) this cinematic gem, you can hear the music and see the ballet.The soundtrack isn't the music I'm referring to, it's the way Bogart and Hepburn sing to (and sometimes at) one-another. Put the movie on and close your eyes. Listen to the nuances of these two wonderful actors. Open your eyes and watch the ballet of their movements on screen.This is an exquisite example of the actor's art.The synopsis has one small error.The Queen is certainly more than 12 feet long. The Qeen is currently berthed in Key Largo, Florida - she is 30 feet long and just a little over 8 feet wide. No wonder Bogart had a hard time pulling her through the reeds! "},{"Title":"Not bad...one of the better old flicks!","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had seen this movie when I was much younger and recently saw it on video. The on location shots are great and noteworthy. The basic story is interesting, but the acting style is outdated. An updated version of this movie would have to dispense with obvious role playing in favor of real people embarking on a perilous journey. There are moments when the acting and dialogue seem real, but they are nullified by many other moments where the acting is overdone or inappropriate. The first scene where Humphrey kisses Kate is TOTALLY inappropriate and awkward looking. It doesn't look real. The build up to their emotions would have happened much more slowly and naturally. This scene felt forced in order to establish the beginnings of a romantic involvement.The last scene where they were frolicking in the sea was another prime example of nonordinary reality. The dialogue and mood were totally inappropriate considering their dire circumstances.These old movies were made for a naive audience whereby directors and producers felt they had to sugar coat every plot and relationship. They did this to the extent that NOBODY seemed like a REAL person. Without real characters, how can viewer empathy be fully tapped? It wasn't for me in this movie. But still, compared to most old movies, this movie had a charm that made it noteworthy. "},{"Title":"Moving wartime romance.. set in Africa","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the novel by C.S. Forrester, this John Huston film (1951) written with James Agee is set in German East Africa (now Tanzania) during the First World War (1914-18) and tells a love story capturing the spirit of that period.River boatman Charlie Allnut (Humphrey Bogart) is the most unlikely suitor for dedicated missionary Rose Sayer (Katherine Hepburn) but the situation takes an unexpected turn for the worse.Rose's brother Reverend Samuel Sayer (Robert Morely) succumbs to a tropical disease and she is left alone, bereft in wartime Africa. The war, of course, is in their heads until their village is invaded and burned by hostile troops who represent the very real, but distant war that is raging in Europe.Rose is forced to act, and with only the reluctant and slightly alcoholic mailman to lean on, she embarks on a journey that neither of them are fully equipped to deal with.But an unlikely romance is sparked from these desperate circumstances and between the two of them, they launch out into an uncertain future together in the modest vessel that is the title of the film.As the film unfolds, the prim and proper Rose and the rough and ready Charlie somehow beat one another into shape like a pair of blacksmiths working red hot iron.Without any precedent in their previous lives, they both find meaning and fulfilment in one another in a situation that is truly foreign to both of them.This film is an epic adventure for everybody who doesn't live there already. "},{"Title":"Classic MovieAfrican Queen","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Written by a mad genius and acted by two more, Queen is in a niche of its own.  It is unique.  An inexperienced woman and a worldly man rub their psyches against each other and reach a tender concord.  This is the stuff of greatness, the elemental force of man and woman.   "},{"Title":"Bogie and Hepburn are amazing!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasnt sure if I was going to enjoy this movie but I ended up loving it! Bogie and Hepburn are wonderful together. I swear that man can play anything, no wonder he was chosen as AFI's #1. I love the part when Bogie is smelling Kate's hair. That made me laugh so hard, the expression on his face was classic, along with this movie. "},{"Title":"Hepburn and Bogart are brilliant!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Katharine Hepburn (the greatest actress of all time!) and Humphrey Bogart (a legend, who won an Oscar for this film) are absolutely superb in this wonderful, romantic adventure! The spinster (Hepburn) and the drunkard (Bogart) travel downriver in Africa during World War II, fighting the Germans and each other! This film will keep you on the edge of your seat the entire time, and if you're not laughing, you'll be crying.This classic was directed by the late John Huston (father of Angelica) and filmed on location in the Belgian Congo, which is just gorgeous! I could watch it every week if I had the time -- it's that great and something I could never tire of! "},{"Title":"A Bit Hokey, But Not a Bad Film","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Africa during WWI, a gin-swilling riverboat owner/captain (Humphrey Bogart) is persuaded by a strait-laced missionary (Katharine Hepburn) to use his boat to attack an enemy warship.I really dislike Katharine Hepburn, and I did not like her much here. But I actually liked her more here than any other place I had seen her. Maybe because she was playing a demon... but she was far less obnoxious than in Bringing Up Baby. And having Bogey here really helped.Did Bogart deserve a best actor Oscar for this? Absolutely not. This is far from his best role. Was it a pity Oscar to make up for all the Oscars he never won? Perhaps. But I can say this is not his finest work, and Hepburn outdoes him easily.The film suffers a bit due to cheesy backgrounds, animals that clearly are not there and a couple that falls in love way too fast. But overall, it has some enjoyable moments and is surprisingly entertaining for a film that takes place almost entirely on a tiny boat. "},{"Title":"A terrific film","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is this Humphrey Bogart's best film? In my opinion, no. But this is only because Bogey had so many terrific performances, I actually can think of one or two films I liked just a bit more. But, this isn't to say this is a bad film--it's terrific. The script, acting and direction all worked together to make a movie that deservedly gained notoriety and praise.Is this Katherine Hepburn's best film? Probably. Mostly because not only did she do a great job of acting, but also because despite working in some of the worst conditions imaginable, everyone associated with the film marveled at her cheerful demeanor and professionalism.The film begins in a British colony in Africa at the outbreak of WWI. Despite Katherine Hepburn and her brother (played briefly by Robert Morley) being missionaries, they are rough handled by the Germans and he is killed in the process. Kate, usually quite the lady, is stranded and angry but unable to do anything. When she meets up with a crusty old skipper of a small scow (Bogart), he agrees to help. However, when she insists that instead of taking her to safety that they take on the Germans, he thinks she's crazy.A great script, great direction by John Huston and exceptional acting all work together to make this memorable. Should it be rated so highly on IMDb, maybe not...but it's still a heck of a good film. "}{"Title":"Queen vs. Kaiser","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The &#132;enemy warship Louisa, whose actual name is Liemba (meaning &#132;Lake Tanganyika) was built in 1913 at the Meyer-Werft Shipyard in Papenburg, Germany. For over 90 years the Liemba has been the only major means of transportation on Lake Tanganyika. It has been operating almost nonstop since 1927 as a passenger and cargo ferry after turbulent times during WW I.In the movie in common Hollywood fashion of demonizing the &#132;enemy (or simply &#132;other people) the Liemba (or Louisa) gets destroyed by the tale's American heroes in an act of guerrilla warfare. This fictional story may work as an adventurous fairytale, but the attitude problem is quite evident. The &#132;enemy does get reduced to evil and/or inept cartoon characters in millions of US movies, e.g. German troops (Raiders of the Lost Ark, Where eagles dare), Mexicans (The magnificent Seven, The Professionals), French (Two mules for sister Sara), British (The Patriot) etc., and the facts do get bent way beyond implausibility. In &#132;The Mercenaries the Iron Cross of the German mercenary (based on actual German mercenary in the Congo, Siegfried Müller) even does get changed to a swastika. I wonder why John Houston didn't paint a swastika on the bow of the Louisa as well.Also remarkable is the fact, that the &#132;democracy US of A seems to adore Kings and Queens; the heroic boat of this movie is a Queen, Elvis Presley is called King, Bush Sr. and Bush Jr. do reside and reign in an aura of selfrightousness like actual aristocrats in a hereditary monarchy. "},{"Title":"Great dialogue and action.  Bogie and Hepburn are fabulous.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The dialogue with sarcasms between Bogie and Hepburn is great. Hepburn has convinced Bogie to take the African Queen down the river to a lake where the Germans have a gun boat in order to blow it up. As they travel down the river with the crocodiles jumping into the river, Hepburn cries, Don't worry Mr. Allnut. He replies back, I'm not worried miss, gave myself up for dead long time ago. In addition, the early scene with Bogie, Hepburn and the brother, having tea and biscuits is a riot. The leeches scene is famous and quite memorable. This movie is a must see. Bogie made many great movies but he was never better in The African Queen.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my all time, most absolutely favorite movie ever!! I believe it has a little of everything. Danger! Excitement! War! Drought! Storms and more!LEECHES!! Ooooooh I hate the leaches, and I tell Mr Allnut every single time NOT to get them, but does he listen?  No! I often wonder if the fact that I was 7 when I saw this had any influence on the rest of my life.I still hate leeches. "},{"Title":"Great focused romance","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some other characters in The African Queen, but the bulk of it focuses on Rose (Katherine Hepburn) and Charlie Allnut (Mr. Allnut to her for most of the movie).  She is a preacher's spinster sister who along with Charlie seeks to exit inner Africa in a somewhat makeshift boat down a believed-to-be-unnavigable river, to escape from the German colonial forces at the outbreak of World War I.  It is noteworthy that this is often said to be the only movie (well, maybe well-known movie) in which Humphrey Bogart does not play himself -- Charlie is ingenuous and quite good-natured -- but Mr. Allnut's blue collar persona would seem not to be a match for Rose.  A romance develops nevertheless, and while his willingness to face challenges is less than hers, he certainly is chivalrous toward women.  The film's dominant focus on these two, in any event, works brilliantly, and results in one of the all-time classics.  Certainly many difficulties are faced in the river, and the two heroically persevere, while Rose melts as the moving yet not syrupy romance is engendered.  We of course face a final rendezvous with the bad guys.  I cannot think of a movie that is so good while ultimately being so simple and straightforward.          "},{"Title":"This does the impossible","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who would have ever thought that a movie that only focuses on two people for the whole time, could be this entertaining? Humphrey Bogart gives a brilliant, award worthy performance as the alcoholic boat captain. I first got this movie, because it took place during World War 1 and I was disappointed when I found out that it really wasn't a war movie. Once I got past the disappointment, I started to notice how great this movie was. Between the exciting action sequences, the top notch performances and brilliant dialouge and direction, this movie is entertaining from beginning to end. If you're debating over whether to see this movie or not, take my advice and rent it, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Real Classic Film","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films I have had the honor to see.   Have seen it many times and always enjoy it! The film, in my opinion should be ranked in the top 10 of all the films ever made to date! "},{"Title":"Simply a classic.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this (especially with your significant other) by all means go out and rent it tonight. Smart, fun, touching and it has both Bogart and Hepburn to boot. They do the battle of the sexes better than Hepburn and Tracy, in my opinion, and make this movie thrilling.  Some unfortunate cheesy effects (the boat going through the river wild) but the direction and the acting make it clear that you can have lousy effects (are you listening, hollywood?) but if the story is strong and the actors good,  no one cares. A lovely film.  "},{"Title":"One of my favrite movies of all time.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning Some Spoilers The only movie where AFI's number 1 screen legends male and female star in a movie together.Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn have the most amazing chemistry.Its a shame that they didn't take advantage of there pairing.One of the most beautiful looking films of its age.I often wonder how a film today with todays stars would look like in technicolor.I found Humphrey Bogart character very funny at times and his peformance was the best ive seen him.Katharine Hepburn is very beautiful and acted very well liked she did in all her films.The movie was nominated for several Oscars including best actress for Hepburn and best actor for Bogart which he won,his only Oscar of his amazing career.One of the best scenes in the movie is win Bogart wakes up with a hangover and Rose(Hepburn) is dumping all his bottles into the river.He tries to get up to stop her but cant because he has a monstrous headache caused by the hangover,quit funny actully.One of the most strong scenes is where to hide from the German army they must go through a swamp.Charlie(Bogart) has to get off and pull the boat where he gets a bunch of leeches on him.He goes back on the boat and has Rose remove them with salt,but has to go back in to pull the boat.Still his strength is not enough so Roose must get in to help pull.That night they become very ill,but are well by morning.And the touching of all the scenes is when towards the end where there about to be hanged Charlie ask if the officer would marry them first.Like i said this one of my favrite movies of all time.I give a perfect 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Epic Fail by IMDb regarding this movie","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" As I write this The African Queen is sitting at a 9/10 rating on IMDb, with 86 percent giving it a 10/10.That makes it one of the most blatantly skewed ratings I have ever seen on IMDb, because this movie is awful. It is just plain bad. So it is clear to me that the studios have gotten pretty good at gaming the IMDb rating. I've noticed that ratings are often skewed pretty high on IMDb, and it has only gotten worse. But The African Queen takes the cake in terms of a dreadfully bad movie getting an impossibly high rating for what it is.Why is it bad? The script is like a work of fan fiction, and not in a good way. When you are seeing a movie for the first time and you are completing the actor's lines before they are, clearly it is lacking in any originality. There is zero tension. Even the decent actors in this movie deliver very poor performances. But I think they simply had nothing to work with. There is only so much an actor can do to salvage bad writing. And in this case, there was nothing they could do.And the special effects are very underwhelming. What kills me is that the boats in the Krakatoa, East of Java movie were much more impressive than the shippage in The African Queen, where they simply look like kind of plastic models flailing about in an old wash tub .I won't go on and on about how bad it is because it has already taken two hours of my life away. But suffice to say that this is an extremely uninspired film which I am sure Bogart will rank as one of his worst.And IMDb, the studio owned you on this one. This is nowhere near a 9/10, or even a 6 for that matter. Don't see it. Not even as a rental, or even on Blu Ray, HD, or whatever is next. "},{"Title":"An Absolutely Flawless Film","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Comedy, drama, action, romance, suspense . . . `The African Queen' blends all these elements flawlessly into one phenomenal film.  The film, for the most part, features just two characters on a thirty-foot boat . . . but the boat's not ordinary, and neither are the characters.  Katherine Hepburn gives one of her greatest performances ever as missionary Rose Sayer, and Humphrey Bogart puts in THE best performance of his career as the grungy, affable captain of the `African Queen', Charlie Allnut.The plot is fairly simple -- it's 1914, and Allnut is a riverboat captain in Africa, bringing mail and other sundries from one port to another.  One of the places he brings mail to is a missionary led by the British reverend Samuel Sayer (Robert Morley) and his sister Rose.   With the outbreak of World War I, German troops overrun the missionary -- Samuel dies, and Allnut manages to spirit Rose away to safety.  Allnut finds himself challenged, though, when Rose concocts a plan -- not to flee from the Germans, but to attack the German ship `Louisa', which controls the African rivers.The story is more about the relationship between Rose and Allnut than about the journey of the `African Queen' itself -- where these two characters travel emotionally is far more important than where they go physically.  Allnut starts out as a world-weary traveler, content with his comfortable life of piloting his boat and drinking his gin.  It takes meeting someone like Rose to make him realize that there might be more wonderful things in his life that he might be missing.  In a similar way, Rose is an extremely sheltered woman, committed to the missionary and to her brother; when those things are stripped away from her, she is forced to see what else the world might hold for her.  The story moves nicely between comedy and drama as well -- there's a funny scene early on where Allnut has some embarrassingly loud gas, but in the very next scene, he's trying hard to offer comfort to Rose, even though he can't find the words to offer that comfort.  Hepburn is brilliant as Rose, struggling to maintain her dignity even though she's an emotional whirlwind, and Bogart . . . man, Bogart's simply the best.  He's incredibly funny, he's deadly serious, and perhaps most importantly . . . he's polite.  It's a great touch how he always politely calls Rose `Miss' throughout the film, no matter how urgent or dangerous the situation, simply because he believes that Rose should be treated with respect.  Bogart's portrayal of Charlie Allnut won him an Oscar in 1951; and quite honestly, it might be one of the top ten performances ever captured on film.  Ever.Director John Ford does a great job with the film as well -- the shots of the `African Queen' going down the rapids are simply breathtaking, and an eerie (and somewhat repulsive) scene involving Allnut and some leeches is skillfully handled as well.  Equally impressive, though, is how Ford handles the scenes between Bogart and Hepburn are fantastic as well.  Many times, while one character speaks, Ford chooses to focus on the other character that's listening, capturing a small smile or the sagging of shoulders to let the audience know what that other character's reaction is without the use of dialogue.  There's easily a dozen or so small touches like this throughout `The African Queen' that set it slightly above other great films, and into the realm of the masterpiece.Enough rambling.  It's one of the best films ever made, without question.  Go watch it!!  Grade A+ "}{"Title":"Another Continuity Error","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" As Charlie and Rosie are approaching the fortress at Shona, you can see two gunshots splashing in the water behind Charlie as he says Better get down, Miss. But there are no sound effects for the shots. Several cuts later, we see the Germans at the fortress exclaiming that the boat isn't stopping. The German commander calls a soldier forward and orders him to take a shot. Only then does the volley of shooting begin.There are also numerous shots of the model African Queen going down the various rapids. In some of them, it's very obvious that there are two doll figures representing Charlie and Rosie.Depite the numerous continuity errors and the horrible process photography in the rapids scenes, this is one of the greatest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"The African Queen","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is dominated by the two main stars on the boat, but it does not need any other characters as they are so gripping and so brilliant to watch together. Oscar winning, and BAFTA nominated Humphrey Bogart as Charlie Allnut and Oscar nominated Katharine Hepburn as Rose Sayer are just spectacular together as they travel down an African river to destroy a war vessel, the Louisa, planning to attack England or something. Charlie knows a way to make torpedoes from oxygen and timers, and Rose knows where the boat is going. Along the way the encounter rapids, bugs, storms, the Louisa and of course, each other (both in the good and bad way). In the end they do find the Louisa, but are sentenced to hanging. Before they die they request marriage, and there good misfortune, they crash into the wrecked African Queen (their boat) and the torpedoes. One of the best film endings ever when they blow up the Louisa and swim away together. Also starring Robert Morley as Rev. Samuel Sayer and Peter Bull as Captain of Louisa. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Director for John Huston and Best Writing, Screenplay, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Katherine Hepburn was number 38, and Humpherey Bogart number 36 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Bogart was also number 1 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Hepburn was also number 1 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, Bogart was number 27, and Hepburn number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 14 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 48 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, it was number 17 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 89 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"shot inside a booth dialog for two","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" a great film for its time held together by acting alone. The trials of the river boat in Africa much different from The Heart of Darkness The tough fix-it Canadian Bogart matched up with missionary Hepburn proves to be a hot dynamic. You are sucked into the small details of character and the charming boat itself. Another war film demonizing the Germans circa World War one.I like to imagine this film shot in Iceland, near the coast with a lot of wind, very strange to think of the scenes with the mosquitoes then, the heat has subsided and the crocodiles would be and the bottom of the lakes smoking cigarettes or something. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far one of bogie's great movie pictures, I put it up front ahead of Casablanca and Sierra, Katharine Hepburn was also superb in this movie, the look on Bogie's face after he inavertently hugged and kissed Ms. Hepburn  was  one of the best parts of the picture, I will always regard this motion picture as one of the greats. "},{"Title":"water on the brain","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There may be water on the brains, but this is a fantastically produced pic because of Kathryn Hepburn and Bogie.  They work so well together and play off of each other, and get soaking wet.  What a great film!  I have seen it at least a dozen times. "},{"Title":"We did not see these stars in color often before this movie.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only these two pros could make this claustrophobic script work. This is an all time favorite in great color. I've always liked it particularly because of the fact that they both appeared in many black and white movies and they look good in this color film.Here is a film that upholds good values; patriotism, religion, giving up the bottle. Bogey utters the famous And you call yourself a Christian? when Ms. Hepburn throws his booze into the river.Some suspense and some laughs make this a perennial favorite. I also recall it as superior regarding technical things like cinematography.  "},{"Title":"Am I missing something?","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see this movie was number 16 on the AFI list. Why? Why did this movie, which essentially was a romance/adventure movie with good performances and some nice cinematography but little more, beat out 2001 A Space Odyssey and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest? Humphrey Bogart was good, but this was hardly his best performance; that would be Casablanca, the Maltese Falcon or Treasure of the Sierra Madre. There is not one scene in this movie, in my opinion, that could classify it as a great film. Okay, all the scenes are good, and I especially liked Katharine Hepburn's transformation from a mean old lady to a romantic character (she looked like she lost 20 years in 2 hours). But seriously, John Huston's best? Better than Sierra Madre? No way. Somebody please inform me on what made this such a great movie, and not just a good one. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time. I think Humprey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn did a great job together. I can watch this movie over and over again without getting tired of it. "},{"Title":"Is it really THAT good?","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe my expectations were too high since I felt rather dissatisfied after watching The African Queen. One specific thing that annoyed me was the way how the main characters were portrayed; they were incredibly hard to warm to and therefore didn't make the watching experience really comfortable. Plus, their sudden romance was quite implausible and had a strong enforced taste in it. I admit there are a few nice moments, but as a whole the film doesn't live up to its high reputation. "},{"Title":"Not too bad of a film.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A man and his sister are in Africa trying to brainwash the natives with Christianity and the Germans attack their village. All of the Africans are taken to be transformed into soldiers and soon the man dies. A man comes by in his boat, The African Queen and takes the woman away. They are trying to sneak out of the country because Germans are everywhere and suddenly the woman decides she wants to destroy one of the ships used by the Germans and maybe get revenge and do her part. The man thinks she's a bit crazy but before long they are madly in love and they go on their quest and the adventures that lie ahead of them, in hopes of making a difference and then going on with their lives.This movie had a decent story and it wasn't predictable and things didn't go as planned as movies usually do. I liked many aspects of the film. There was little action here as it is often promoted as. It is a love story with some cool additions. About the only adventure on the river they encounter is bugs and rain.I was thinking if they had died on the ship at the moment the torpedoes hit, that would've been one of the greatest movie ending ever, but there was always happy endings in those days in films...too bad, some times bitter sweet tragedy is beautiful.John Huston did a really good job directing I enjoyed what I was seeing on film. Humphrey Bogart did an amazing job too, I think he was outstanding. Hepburn on the other hand I have never been a fan of, she always seems stuck up and rude and unpleasant in all of her roles and she looks 90 years old in this film, so yea, yea she might be a legend but she can't act. The guy that played her brother in here was horrible as well.I liked the film, don't get me wrong. It was a nice way to spend an evening and I can see why it is a beloved classic. I think it has a lot to offer, but I give it a lesser rating because It had little to offer to my needs as a movie fan. I would recommend it to people highly though if you love classics with legendary stars, legendary directors and romance with a touch of adventure. 3/10 stars. "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" African Queen, The (1951) **** (out of 4) Set in Africa during the start of WW1, a riverboat captain (Humphrey Bogart) takes a missionary worker (Katharine Hepburn) down the river to get away from Germans but soon the two plan on attacking one of their warships. Considering all the production trouble this film went through it's really amazing that any type of good movie was able to come out of it but in the end Huston managed to make a great movie and Bogart delivers one of his greatest performances. I think there are a few campy moments including the overly dramatic music score being used when the German's first attack the camp but outside of this the movie is pretty much flawless and moves lightening fast. The locations and the two stars are what really keeps this film moving. The scenes of the jungles, the wildlife and the river are all excellently captured and it really gives you a sense of being in Africa and not just on some backlot set. Bogart and Hepburn are both terrific in their roles and this brings the most fun in the film. There's always a debate on Bogart winning the Oscar here since it was the same year Brando changed history with A Streecar Named Desire. I think Brando's performance is better but that's not to take anything away from Bogart who actually delivers a performance without any of that Bogart persona attached. It's really incredible how Bogart created this character and didn't really resort to anything we've seen from him in the past. His scenes of courage are played unlike before. His scenes of romance are played unlike before. This is certainly a brilliant performance all around. Hepburn isn't as impressive but still delivers a great performance and the way she makes her character the complete opposite of Bogart is a lot of fun and the two make us believe their relationship towards the end. In the end this is certainly one of the greatest classics in film history. "},{"Title":"Don't understand what the fuss is about","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I ever saw this movie, I had heard nothing but rave reviews about how this was the best of all classic movies, etc. I even read a comment from a celebrity interview (don't remember whom) about the celebrity not seeing this movie until he was on his death bed because it is so special. So with great anticipation sat I to watch this film!! And with great disappointment sat I at the end of the film!! Okay, enough silly comments, heh. IMO this was a good movie, but an average movie at best. I fail to see what can be so classic about it and wish someone would explain this to me. With a film like 'Citizen Kane', that film was amazing when it was first released and is still just as amazing nearly 100 years later. There simply isn't another film like it out there. Perhaps 'The African Queen' is truly too outdated to make an impact today. Was this film revolutionary in any way back then and if so, how? "},{"Title":"What, no nomination?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just can't believe that Bogart didn't get a Oscar nomination for this one!  This movie is a typical Bogart special. Houston deserved his Oscar, but Bogart did too! Great and entertaining movie!   "},{"Title":"What an absurd idea!","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched The African Queen after I read it was on the Top 250. I have never been so disappointed by a movie off the Top 250-list before.The plot is totally unbelievable and predictable. I know it is based on a true story (very loosely I assume) but the script is just awful. It seems really unrealistic.The love story is highly unbelievable and cheesy. The action sequences are horribly dated. I know that this movie is from the 50's but the special effects are hilariously bad. Catherine Hepburn's character is annoying from the first second on. Whatever she says (example Mister Allnut?!; she says that at the beginning of every sentence...just annoying and stupid since there was no other person than him on the boat) or does (e.g. with the booze). She plays one of the least likable characters in the history of cinema. The idea she comes up with, which is the idea of the whole movie, wow, just plain ridiculous. This movie sucks big time.Uninteresting movie about a man and a woman, both without metabolism, going on a boat trip to attack a battleship with their small boat.* 4/10 * "},{"Title":"Existential Synthesis Unity Out Of Disparity","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"16 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers AheadA beautiful, unassuming little treasure featuring the great performances of the two greatest actors who ever lived. Their Daseins or beings in the world could not be more disparate. She is a deeply religious, recently widowed woman seeking justice for her murdered husband. He is a rather worldly, somewhat immoral guy, making a few bucks here and there, running the African Queen up and down the river. I love the scene with Bogie dining with the religious couple how uncomfortable everybody is; Bogie's stomach begins making loud noises from all the booze in there. They suspect it and look at him disapprovingly. The core of the movie is a beautiful parallel between the boat going down the river and their personalities beginning to join together. At the beginning, their differences could not have been more pronounced. Watch Bogie's reaction to risking his neck and seeking to punish the Germans for their murder of her husband. A battle ensues that Hepburn wins. She tends to win all the wars here; she does it in a very kind but firm manner. Later, she decides that his days of being an alcoholic are over by throwing all his booze away while he is asleep.She has a deep faith about her but is never too pushy about it. Lots of adventures, the bugs, the dried up river, getting shot at, and finally beached. Huston does what could never be shown today. They pray for deliverance and, as they sleep, God pours rain down and lifts their little boat into the lake. It was only a couple of hundred yards away. The movie is almost ineffable, I struggle to do it justice with words. Like the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, I am not in love with words. The movie is the sweetest little tale of two very different people that fall in love without full orchestras behind them. The attack on the German ship, even the journey itself, is secondary to these two lonely people coming together quite realistically. I have never been a huge fan of Hepburn, though her talent is undeniable, she is at her very best here. We admire Bogie's patience, protection and growing affection for her. It is a very small, quiet, little movie. It is not for the comic book generation. Sorry, it is devoid of what make today's movies such a trial kung fu, explosions, screaming, knifings, shootings, and non stop brainless action. The movie is about these two antithetical souls coming together; the river's path is but an existential metaphor. In true Hegelian fashion, we get thesis, antithesis and at the end a beautiful synthesis. Each soul changed from its association with the other. One of the most powerful love stories, believe me, when a misanthropist philosopher adores this romance what does that tell you? A Real Masterpiece From John Huston. "},{"Title":"Freestyle","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ho-boy, Morgan Freeman really borrowed his method from Bogie.  From John Wayne to Bogart to Freeman, the cycle continues.  Stallone uses a similar technique, but he is regarded as a failure so we don't watch his method with the same attention to detail.This movie is unique because of how it uses Hepburn, making it more useful than other Bogie films (Sierra, Casablanca) but not one of Hepburn's best.  It's all straight, a manner that today's movies don't dare presenting themselves as anymore because of the audience.The way the African setting is photographed resembles Florida more than Africa.  Still, there are a few clever tricks here to bring this out of the norm, but most rely in the pacing and not the script.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"CLASSICS FADE, BUT REMAIN ENJOYABLE","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a movie lover, but inevitably I stick to films of the 70s-90s.  That's usually disappointed by the classics which get this hype and glamour about them and their stars that is usually not worth all the talk.  The African Queen is one of those movies that I always hear talked about as one of the greats, as one of the films that Hollywood doesn't know how to make anymore.  But you know what, it's not that impressive now.Sure, if I'd seen it when it was made, it probably would have struck me, but so many films have copied the model of the African Queen now that Bogie and Hepburn just make a cute little couple in a fluffy love story.As a matter of fact, I kept on comparing this to Six Days, Seven Nights, which seemed to have more chemistry between its stars Harrison Ford and Anne Heche than this film did.  It certainly had more laughs.I don't know I look to the greats for inspiration, but for one thing it's a whole different experience on the small screen. For another, so many films have copied these models and added BIGGER laughs, MORE chemistry, MORE effects and dangers that the classics don't really strike you the way they might have back in the old days when they weren't classic but rather the big new thing.  That's not all true movies like the Hitchcock films, the Marx Bros. comedies, Some Like It Hot, even Casablanca grab my attention mostly for their writing and sharp acting more than anything else.  African Queen is enjoyable classic popcorn fluff- it was then "},{"Title":"Unlikely characters, absurd ending!","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I finally, after 42 years on this planet, got around to viewing this legendary film. Frankly, I'm dismayed by the amount of praise this film has received. Certainly, Bogart's portrayal is quite a departure from his norm and, therefore, noteworthy. Hepburn's character, however, is formulaic. If this was the first such character for her (as I'm led to believe), then the rest of her career consisted of nothing but typecasting. The elements that bother me most about this film, however, are Mr. Allnut's mild acceptance of a stubborn woman COMANDEERING his sole means of survival and income to engage in a ridiculous enterprise; Mr. Allnut's apathetic acceptance of the disposal of all of his gin; The moronically rapid development of the two character's relationship; and, finally, the coincidental collision of the Louisa with the mostly-sunk African Queen on a HUGE lake the day after a HUGE storm at the exact moment of our heroes' execution! To enjoy this film one must do more than suspend disbelief, one must bind and gag it! I want my 105 minutes back! "},{"Title":"Leeches","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise played an exaggerated version of himself in Magnolia, following a tradition set long ago.We liked to believe that the sex sirens we saw in movies the 30's were really that way in life and probably they were. John Wayne followed, never playing anything but himself. And so is the case with our Miss Kate. She delivers her lines with conviction, but it is always her conviction, not the character's.(A clue she never acts with her body, only her mouth and the tilt of her head. Even that tilt was normally restricted in the studio films as she insisted in a downward lighting to emphasize her cheeks.)I like to watch this every once in a while to remind myself how forgiving we are. A film can be severely flawed; dialog and normal dramatic practice can be compromised, but if there is one strong element -- only one is required -- we forgive all and happily join.The strong element here is the characterization of the two of course. Neither was an actor of particularly wide range or depth. Each had established themselves, their lives, in the public's mind -- screen and real persons merged.Reading her memoir of this movie, you can just see her on screen behaving not so much as her character (which is very poorly portrayed in the scenes with her brother) but as herself. It is a sort of documentary around which someone has arranged a story, after the fashion of What's up Tiger-Lily.So it boils down to whether you think these people are interesting, as people. I don't.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"LOL","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I completely understand the reviewer that wrote Did I miss something, because that's what I feel about this movie. To see that it even made it to the top 250 movies is even more ridiculous that this supposedly romantic movie itself. The acting by Katharine Hepburn is bad, her make up artist being worse(c'mon, the woman looks 15 years older than Bogie), but leaving the relationship between the two as the worst. I know that a lot has changed in the man/woman relationship over the past century, but when exactly did guys regain their pride and ba..s? I'm talking about the scene where on the first night on the Queen it starts raining and poor old Bogie, left sleeping in the rain, tries to take shelter where Hepburn is sleeping. She gets p***ed off and saysWhat are you doing? or something like that. MAN OH MAN, I get p***ed off just by remembering this scene because it's SOOOOO irritating. The woman is on HIS boat, because HE had the courtesy of saving her life(if he had known what a drag she'd turn up to be, I bet he wouldn't give it a seconds thought) when zee Germans burnt the village, and what does she do, SHE actually has the nerves to kick HIM out of HIS shelter despite the heavy rain. What the f..k? I'm sorry, but I refuse to believe any man would take this crap. I'd have thrown her Skeletor ass overboard the second she'd even start considering doing this. Seriously, the guy gets treated worse than George from Seinfeld, and that's saying a lot! And later on he gets drunk (hmmmm, go figure why he does that), in a moment of weakness(truth, if you ask me)explains to her that she's an utterly obnoxious and controlling person, which for some reason gets to her, and as soon as he falls asleep she's at it again. Picture waking up with a big hangover and the first thing you see is the most annoying person you've ever met in your life. Not pretty, right, well that person is destroying you property. Hepburn decided she had enough of Bogie (remember, she's still alive and kicking because of him) so she pours all of his booze into the river. And I'm not talking about a single bottle, NOOOOO SIR, she unloads the whole case. Everything!!! I can't really remember what happens next, my mind just went blank, probably because of the hatred I felt. Go figure. Anyways, these were just some bright moments from the developing romance between the two actors. The rest of the film relies completely on the dialogue between the two, because the exact story is told in the first two minutes the woman gets on board the African Queen. And what a plan she delivers, you have to see it to believe it, but I'll spare you with this one. Well, the corny dialogues fail completely, but we are left with the decades funniest moment when Bogie imitates a hippo. Another golden moment emerges when Bogie has to fix the propeller and gets naked. He's one skinny man and that's when it hit me that his character is probably supposed to be a slave of some sort. Under fed, with no dignity, wears the same clothes all the time, and even has to drag the ship on foot all by himself. There's actually a scene where he's dragging The African Queen(Hepburn is doing nothing helpful of course) and then you see the winning close up of his face. That was the Oscar winner for sure (NOT!), who'd let a white guy go through so much. And this movie actually got nominated for a bunch of Oscars, and Bogie even won one. He's not bad, but that's it, and if not bad wins an Oscar I can only imagine how many Bruce Willis should have gotten. Shows what they know, the should-have-given-an-Oscar-to-Kubrick-for-at-least-two-movies. (not counting the special effects one) This just might be the longest review I've ever written and the reason why I'm in such a sarcastic mood lies in the opening page of this movie, the user rating to be precise! I thought Casablanca was overrated, but this is just ridiculous. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Overrated and Ridiculous","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Conceptually brilliant, the African queen, matching Bogey vs. Hepburn thrown together as victims of circumstance going against all odds, while managing to handle each other.  What went wrong.  Humphrey, known for being the tough guy with a soft spot for a beautiful woman ends up playing a backwoods dope with a soft spot in the brain.  Hepburn, always respected for playing the sensible but emotionally deep woman ends up coming across as a two dimensional character infringing her beliefs while refusing to uphold them. There wasn't a moment when I believed these characters were real.  Their lame adventures were implausible helped along by luck and `The Grace of God.'   The only way that you could believe in their `Romance' was because of their absolute loneliness and inability to be tolerated by any other human beings.  This movie is so hammy that you end up hoping that they are going to die.  What is seemingly going to be a gritty look at human nature ends up looking like the Wild Safari ride.  The only things redeemable about this movie are some great shots as Bogart is dragging along the African Queen through the marsh and some cool underwater opticals.  Perhaps I have been skewed by the brilliance of Apocalypse Now, but this movie is only good enough to get through.  "},{"Title":"What a disappointment.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  What schmaltz from the usually dependable Huston.  Storywise, Bogart is so pussy whipped by about the 2nd scene with Hepburn that the film has nowhere to go afterwards.  I heard he was some tough guy in this movie and then is slowly changed throughout the course of film, well that change takes about 5 lines or so.  Then, incredible redundancy ensues...Technically, I couldn't believe how poorly matched the shots in the London's Olympic Studio pools were shot to match the rest of the film.  Look, I hate special effects and am not usually overly concerned about technical particulars of a film, but this  was terrible and even inexcusable for its time.  Not to mention that it's even more distracting when you realize what they're shooting is them just floating around which could've surely been shot on location.  A real disappointment, unless you like saccharine schmaltz. "},{"Title":"One of  Bogart's better acting moments, but plot stinks","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bogart shows a different screen persona from the traditional, stiff-lipped, cynical one of his other movies, including Casablanca. As for the story, how more banal can you get. It's the mythical hero story all over again, only this time the animus (Bogart) interacts with anima, and after the many ordeals are overcome, he has absorbed some of her softer traits (coming from her anima side) and she his masculine/animus. So from a standpoint of psychic development and change, a new wholeness is achieved. But did we have to go to Africa and stage all those boring ordeals for this? I thought Hollywood had run out of ideas in more recent years, but apparently they ran out of steam earlier. "},{"Title":"Bogie, Please!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fail to see how this movie gets rated so highly. I can't believe that Bogie rolls over for that obnoxious shrew Hepburn! Don't ever Play It Again! At least we always had Paris. By the end I was waiting for them both to be strung up, with an extra rope for the writers! "},{"Title":"BLAH.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was unrealistic, especially the relationship between Charlie and Rose. No bible-belt Christian lady who fall in love with a man like that over a period of one or two days. He was gross, I think. And while a relationship could've developed, the way it did would never actually happen. As far as an adventure film goes, I'll say it was decent. In fact it's better than a many few I've seen. But I am stuck on the relationship. It just seemed wrong and, well, gross. I was told it was because they were unlikely- they weren't attractive or anything. I'll say. Humphrey Bogart's front teeth made me want to grab his neck and file them down. "}]