[{"Title":"The dream film that altered my life!","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"49 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In the year of distribution (1951) of An American in Paris, I had just been married.  My husband and I saw the film, and laughed and cried over it.  We enjoyed the spectacular dancing, the vibrant colors of clothes and sets, and the marvelous Gershwin music.  We both swore that someday we would get to Paris.Sadly, it was not to be for us, as my husband, Thanos,  died 24 years later, having been sick for many years.  The following year an old friend invited me to visit him while he was on sabbatical from school.  He had spent many years in Paris, teaching English there, and rented a little house in Neuilly.  I said no, but all my friends said GO! It's the opportunity of a lifetime.  So I did, and fell in love with that glorious old city.I cried because Thanos was not with me, and yet I felt he knew I had come here for both of us, and was glad for me.  I have since visited the City of Light 5 times, and love it so very much. I am now too old and too disabled to do any more world traveling, but that city of romance is something that will always remind me of Thanos. That's why I still love to see the youthful Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron falling in love as WE were once young and in love - and the glorious city of Paris - the most beautiful place in the world! "},{"Title":"Experiencing Paris With Gershwin","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gene Kelly came up with some really grand ideas for musicals while with MGM. Here he's at the top of his creative powers working with the Arthur Freed musical unit. Hard to believe when you watch An American In Paris that the players never left the back lot at MGM. The magic of An American In Paris is due to the creative editing under the direction of Vincent Minnelli and the sets that MGM designed blended with some background establishing shots. The idea of the film originated with Kelly who wanted simply to do a film with a lengthy ballet sequence involving George Gershwin's tone poem An American in Paris. It sounded good to Arthur Freed who approached Ira Gershwin who said fine with him as long as they used other Gershwin material.Gershwin got the kind of deal for Gershwin music that Irving Berlin normally got. Not one note of non-Gershwin music is heard in An American in Paris. Listen to some of the background music and you will hear things like Embraceable You and But Not For Me which are not real musical numbers.Another guy who was a fair hand at writing lyrics, Alan Jay Lerner, wrote the story which admittedly is a thin one. All about an ex-GI played by Gene Kelly who after World War II never left France, just settled into an apartment on the Left Bank and proceeded to become a starving artist. He lives with eccentric composer Oscar Levant and does that ever sound like a redundancy. Two women are interested in him. Another expatriate American played by Nina Foch who wants to sponsor him as a painter if he'll reciprocate in other matters. But Kelly falls for a shop girl played by Leslie Caron in her film debut. Caron also has musical comedy star Georges Guetary interested in here.Of course the plot is just an excuse to sing and dance to the music of George Gershwin. An American in Paris happens to be the first film I ever saw as an in flight movie on the first airplane trip I ever took. I still remember flying back from Phoenix Arizona to Kennedy Airport seeing Gene Kelly doing I've Got Rhythm. My favorite number in the film however is Tra-La-La which Kelly sings and dances all over the apartment with Oscar Levant playing the piano. At one point Kelly dances on top of the baby grand piano.In a book about Arthur Freed, I read a quote where he said in the American in Paris ballet sequence was to be done with the background of the French impressionists which he felt the public would take to rather than a realistic setting on the streets or back lot. So it happened that way. Kelly had done lengthy ballet sequences in Words and Music, The Pirate, and On the Town. But this one topped them all. Still does in my opinion and that includes some of Gene Kelly's later films.In a surprise upset at the Oscars, An American In Paris was chosen best picture for 1951, beating out the heavily favored A Streetcar Named Desire. I guess fantasy trumped realism that year. Big budgets also have an upper hand in these things as well.Still An American in Paris is one of the best movie musicals ever done and since the studios no longer have all that creative talent under one roof, something less likely to be repeated. "},{"Title":"A display of breathtaking colors dizzyingly romantic...","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minnelli directed some of the most celebrated entertainments in cinema history... He was among the first Hollywood directors to show that a profound love of color, motion and music might produce intelligent entertainment... 'American in Paris' is the story of an ex-GI who remains in France after the war to study and paint... He falls in love with a charming gamine Lise Bourvier... Their romantic love affair sparkles as brightly as the City of Lights itself... The whole movie brings a touch of French elegance where technique, artistic style and music all come together in perfect synchronism...The first musical sequence introduces the exciting personality of Leslie Caron in her screen debut... She is like a diamond, a touch of class... George Guetary describes his fiancée ambiguous grace in a montage of different dance styles, sweet and shy, vivacious and modern, graceful and awesome... The number leads to an unpretentious bistro, where Kelly and his very good friends in Paris share a gentle parody of Viennese waltzes... Later Kelly celebrates a popular tap dancing with a crowd of enthusiastic children singing with him 'I Got Rhythm,' and at the massive jazz nightclub Kelly spots the girl of his dreams... He is instantly hit by her sparkling sapphire blue eyes, and only one clear thing is in his mind, to pull Lize onto the dance floor and sing to her It's very clear, Our love is here to stay.To the joyful 'Tra-La-La,' Kelly provides humor, wit and talent all around Oscar Levant's room ,and even on the top of his brown piano... When he meets his pretty Cinderella along the Seine river, Kelly is swept away by his happy meeting with Caron... He expresses all his emotions with 'Our Love Is Here to Stay.' The piece had a definite nighttime feel as the two lovers were bathed in soft, blue smoky light... They start an enchanting dance-duet juxtaposing differing elements... Caron dances with her head on his shoulder, then tries to run away in a fluid way... They move backward, away from each other, then pause to rush toward each other, for a little kiss, and a warm hug...The film's weakest numbers were those that bear little relation to the story... In one, Georges Guetary performs an entertaining stage show with showgirls in giant ornaments floating down to the stage... In another, Oscar Levant imagines himself conducting a concert, and playing not only a piano recital, but the other instruments as well... He even applauds to himself as members of the audience...The extravagant climactic super ballet of the film is quite an adventure, a breakthrough in taste, direction and design... It is a blaze of love, fury and vividness... It is Kelly's major fantasy of his lost love and of his feeling about Paris as viewed through the huge backdrops of some of France's most Impressionist painters...The number starts at the Beaux Arts Ball after Kelly finds himself separated from Lise, and begins a sketch with a black crayon... It gathers the important parts of the film's story through a constantly changing locations, all in the style of the painters who have influenced Jerry... The tour, richly attractive and superbly atmospheric, includes the Place De la Concorde Fountain, the Madeleine flower market, the Place De l'Opéra, to his Rendez-Vous at Montmartre, with the cancan dancers in a representation of Lautrec's Moulin Rouge...Kelly seems to defy the boundaries of his physical self... Caron seems to dominate her space and sweeps you away to another time and place...Nina Foch appeared very attractive and elegant in her one-shouldered white gown... In one of the film's most famous lines, Kelly asks her 'That's quite a dress you almost have on. What holds it up? Nina, cleverly replies, modesty!'An American in Paris' garnered six Oscars, including an honorary award to Gene Kelly... The film gave us a wealth of memories to take home... "},{"Title":"A trailblazing musical","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An American in Paris was, in many ways, the ultimate mixture of art and Hollywood musical. Made at the height of MGM's powers as a musical powerhouse, the film features memorable music from the Gershwins, who rightly have been called the 20th Century's equivalent of Beethoven and Mozart. Gene Kelly was also at the height of his powers in this film, though it could be rightly argued that this movie was just the warm-up for his best work in Singin' in the Rain (1952). The two films are actually closely linked. Aside from the Arthur Freed connection, the Broadway Melody segment in Rain owes its existence to the incredible American in Paris Ballet sequence in this film. This might well have been the only time a dance number is specially mentioned in the opening credits of the film. And it deserved to be, as it showcases Gene Kelly's skills as a dancer and choreographer to their utmost degree.The film's cast is uniformly excellent. Leslie Caron, incredibly making her film debut, shows a maturity that makes you think she'd been making films for years. Her introductory dance sequence, and later her work on the Ballet, provides some surprisingly sexy moments rivalled in MGM Musicals only by Cyd Charisse's work in Singin' in the Rain and The Band Wagon. Oscar Levant is hilarious as Kelly's stoic pal, who gets two of the film's best moments during the end party sequence (which I will not give away for anyone who hasn't seen the film), and one of the film's most memorable musical numbers which couples his incredible piano skills with state-of-the-art (for the time) special effects.Less memorable are Georges Guetary as Kelly's romantic rival, though he does get a few musical highlights, and Nina Foch as Leslie Caron's romantic rival. The May-December relationship between Kelly's character and Nina's reminded me of the same kept man relationship seen between George Peppard and Patricia Neal in Breakfast at Tiffany's.There are a few elements of the film that made it less satisfying for me than Singin' in the Rain. The Ballet, though lavish and well-produced, doesn't really fit with the rest of the movie. Without giving away the plot, the Ballet just happens, with no real rhyme or reason. And unlike the Broadway Melody sequence, it really doesn't have anything to do with the plot -- and in the best musicals, the songs always have some sort of raison d'etre. Making matters worse is the ending of the film which happens immediately after the Ballet. Although the ending shouldn't be a surprise (this IS an MGM musical, after all), I was hoping for a bit more ... movie after the Ballet ended. It's as if director Vincente Minnelli felt that he couldn't follow the Ballet with anything else. The film literally left me in the lurch.That negative aside, An American in Paris rightly ranks alongside the best of Hollywood's musicals. It doesn't quite reach the heights of Singin' in the Rain, but it comes close and it remains a testament to Gene Kelly's skills as one of the greatest dancers of all time. "},{"Title":"A great film that's not aging well","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Don't get me wrong the musical numbers are still top rate. Watching Kelly dance anything from the tap on the sidewalks to the full blown ballet at the end is still very much a marvel to behold. But the story? Ehhhh... not so much.Granted, plots in MGM musicals are pretty thin affairs anyway, little more than slight variations on their Broadway cousins (who, at the time, weren't anywhere near Shakespeare themselves!) stock formulae that involved a boy and a girl and a happy ending. But in American IN Paris, we're to somehow believe that Gene and Leslie are a perfect couple from their very first glance, even though it means trampling all over the feelings of the two people genuinely in love with these two (and Lord only knows why). Poor Nina Foch gets the worst of it her storyline doesn't even get a proper resolution... and I'm not quite sure I hold to the idea that she wanted to make Kelly a kept man instead, she comes across as a woman who falls in love way too easily and has the cash on hand to help her man of the moment realize his own dream with little thought of her own. Certainly she gets twisted in all directions from the moment Kelly, spurned by Caron, shows up at her apartment, seemingly ready to accept her a real woman... only to discover that she's just a rebound relationship -- and we all know how well those work out, right? Meanwhile, the guy who's kept Caron's body and soul together comes across as the kind of nice guy that would do *anything* to keep his wife happy... even if it means giving her up for some schmuck he (and she!) barely knows. Again, we're looking at someone with a fierce sense of devotion and the means to create a perfect world for his intended... only to find out that she never really loved him like she said she did. I have little doubt that when his act finally *did* tour the States, it was a huge disaster, because it's difficult to sing something about a stairway to Paradise through a layer of bitter cynicism.It's interesting that we have these parallel relationships, both set up along the same dynamics of one person totally in love and happy to lay out anything his/her partner wants, no matter the cost -- and that in both cases, the wealthy one, despite the integrity of his/her feelings, get dumped for a somewhat duplicious, deceitful little affair. Maybe, in some alternate MGM universe, these two unfortunate people found each other and got their own happy ending. I sure hope so. "},{"Title":"The perfect musical.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"33 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I saw An American in Paris on its first release when I was still at school and fell in love with it straightaway.    I went back to see it again the next day and have lost count of the number of times I have seen it since, both in the cinema and on TV.     It makes fantastic use of some of the best music and songs by the greatest popular composer of the twentieth century (George Gershwin) and features the greatest male (Gene Kelly) and female (Leslie Caron) dancers in Hollywood history.   The supporting cast of Oscar Levant (as quirky as ever), Georges Guetary (why didn't he make more movies ?) and Nina Foch (brilliant in an unsympathetic role) are at the top of their form.     The closing ballet, superbly choreographed to the title music, makes excellent use of the sights and sounds of Paris and of the images of impressionist and post-impressionist artists.     All the Gershwin songs are beautifully staged, but the most memorable are It's Very Clear (Caron and Kelly on the banks of the Seine) and I Got Rhythm (the kids of Paris joining Gene Kelly in Une Chanson Americaine).    If you love Paris, see this movie.    If you've never been to Paris in your life, see it. But see it ! "},{"Title":"Response to comments","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I felt it necessary to respond to the comments posted on the front page of this film's page because some of it was slightly misinformative.Originally I posted quotes from the original poster, but I wasn't sure if it was proper given that this is the comments index and not a message board (though we used to use 'em that way back before IMDb added the film message boards) so I will edit this to make it unnecessary.Well, first of all you may not be aware of this, but Gene Kelly first became famous for playing Pal Joey on Broadway in the original production. When Vincente Minnelli decided to make a Gershwin panorama film, he wanted Kelly's character to be more sophisticated than the goody two shoes roles he had been playing in most his films (with the exception of For Me and My Gal). Alan Jay Lerner was instructed to construct a new story set in Paris based on the story of Pal Joey. This gave Kelly a chance to play his famous role from Broadway even though Warners had outbid MGM for the rights to Pal Joey. In my opinion, the WB film Pal Joey is a wreck, though Sinatra was suitable for the role, but other problems sunk the film (script changes and poor direction. ===================================================You complain that Kelly's pictures are not well done, even citing your art education to prove the point. But you miss the fact that Kelly's bad art was clearly designed to be bad, and it is necessary for the story/characters. The pictures are so bad, the audience knows that Kelly isn't ready for an exhibition. Even he knows it, though Milo has sort of sugared him up to the point where he almost believes her. But it's important that the audience not be sitting there saying but, he's a great artist, if he only had the chance!. You want the audience to be fully aware of his deficiencies.Then you complain that he sabotages his interest in the show; again you are not understanding the structure of the story. He refuses because he doesn't want to feel like a gigolo, and because he knows he's not really ready for the exhibition. His enthusiasm for the exhibition is certainly not as great as Joey's enthusiasm to start a nightclub. But it serves the same function in the plot. Remember, it's essential in Pal Joey (the play) that Joey gives up his nightclub after he realizes that he doesn't deserve it. Same with the art show. If Kelly's paintings were actually good, it would undermine this whole point. ===================================================Then you complain that Caron and Kelly have no chemistry. I guess it's in the eye of the beholder. I agree, the chemistry between them is not as strong as it should be, but for me it was fine. Compare it to even worse forced romances like the one between Cary Grant and Sophia Loren in The Pride and the Passion. ====================================================When you say that the big dance finale has nothing to do with anything else in this film, it just shows that you haven't dug beneath the surface of the film into its symbolism. Many elements in the dance sequence relate to the story and characters, and through the dance the plot is resolved through images and symbolism. It's about finding love, enjoying love, then losing love (he looks around and his love is gone). The movements of the symphony are constructed so that part of each dance scene mirrors a separate phase of Parisian Art and also a separate phase of their relationships. If you didn't' see that, it's not the movie's fault. It's certainly not a load of crap. ================================================== "},{"Title":"He's got rhythm...","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so the plot is on shaky ground. Yeah, all right, so there are some randomly inserted song and/or dance sequences (for example Adam's concert and Henri's stage act). And Leslie Caron can't really, um, you know... act.But somehow, 'An American In Paris' manages to come through it all as a polished, first-rate musical--largely on the basis of Gene Kelly's incredible dancing talent and choreography, and the truckloads of charm he seems to be importing into each scene with Caron. (He needs to, because she seems to have a... problem with emoting.) The most accomplished and technically awe-inspiring number in this musical is obviously the 16-minute ballet towards the end of the film. It's stunningly filmed, and Kelly and Caron dance beautifully. But my favourite number would have to be Kelly's character singing 'I Got Rhythm' with a bunch of French school-children, then breaking into an array of American dances. It just goes to prove how you don't need special effects when you've got some real *talent*.Not on the 'classics' level with 'Singin' In The Rain', but pretty high up there nonetheless. Worth the watch! "},{"Title":"The best of the best!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Timeless musical gem, with Gene Kelly in top form, stylish direction by Vincente Minnelli, and wonderful musical numbers.  It is great entertainment from start to finish, one of those films that people watch with a smile and say they don't make 'em like they used to!  But they never did quite make them like this.  The climactic 25 minute musical sequence without any dialogue is among the most beautiful in film history.  Movie magic, clearly derived from the heart and soul of everyone involved.  A must see! "},{"Title":"My nomination for most miscast actor in AAIP goes to...","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  (various spoilers follow)Gene Kelly. Not Georges Guetary, who is sometimes criticized for being too young and un-French. Not Leslie Caron, who is sometimes criticized for her very green performance. Not even Oscar Levant, who more often than not annoys the dickens out of me.No, it would definitely be Gene Kelly. There's something about his screen persona that's too ambitious and focused for him to be convincing as a penniless artist in Paris, content to put off facing the critics indefinitely, frolicking with little kids and old ladies and painting in the streets. That's what made him so effective in SINGIN' IN THE RAIN and other movies where he played ambitious, focused characters. Jerry Mulligan is in some ways a cousin to Tommy Albright in BRIGADOON, another Lerner story with Kelly miscast as an American at loose ends who falls in love with a picturesque European place and an innocent female who embodies its virtues.Except that Jerry isn't as likeable as even poor dazed Tommy. That's another galling thing about this film. Jerry is sometimes a cad to Milo, and even worse to Lise. When he first sees the latter at a club, he pulls a dirty trick to get her to dance with him. When she sits down again he pulls an even dirtier trick to get her phone number. When he calls her the next day she hangs up on him, which he takes as a cue to drop in at her workplace. And throughout all this it's obvious she wants NOTHING to do with him. When she starts laughing at his jokes in the perfume shop, it's about as believable as Milo's interest in his paintings. Sure he's good-looking and playful, but why should that sway her when she's got Henri, who seems like a gentleman to boot?Admittedly it comes off so distasteful partly because of the actress. If a role like Lise was played by, say, Judy Garland, she would shower Jerry with indignant insults and glares. If she was played by Cyd Charisse, one would admire his guts. But when she's played by first-timer Leslie Caron she looks and acts like a shy, vulnerable teenager, and as a result Jerry just seems like a creep. And why DID they choose these other actors (though personally I'd rather they'd solved things by changing the lead) when the whole story hinges on the romance of these two young poor sweethearts disentangling themselves from their loveless commitments to older rich people? Not only is Gene Kelly a few years above Guetary and Foch, he's old enough to be Caron's father.In short I think it all would have been improved by casting some young comedic-relief type dancer as Jerry, the kind that usually turned up in musical supporting roles...e.g. Ray MacDonald in GOOD NEWS or Bobby Van in SMALL TOWN GIRL. Maybe not them necessarily but someone LIKE them. Someone who could have chased Lise and made it seem harmlessly playful; someone who would have appeared genuinely happy living in that Chaplinesque hole-in-the-wall; someone whose humor and naivete would have contrasted better with Oscar Levant's sarcastic grumpiness. It probably also would have made the ballet seem less ponderous. And it might have provided a voice that could sing Gershwin better.All this may give the impression that I don't like Gene Kelly. I do like him. He was terrific in most of his films, just not this one (well, and a few others). I don't despise AAIP itself, either; it has good points, like the art direction. And Leslie Caron, who despite her inexperience is rather charming, and really does look like she just stepped out of a painting. Georges Guetary does a fine job and his Stairway to Paradise is my favorite number in the movie. Nina Foch is beautiful and touching and should have ended up with SOMEBODY. But not Jerry Mulligan. I wouldn't wish that on her.  "}{"Title":"Pure, lovely entertainment","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this film. It was lighthearted, delightful, and very colorful. You can see that MGM was showing off Technicolor. There are hardly any colors that do not appear in this film. Every scene is packed full. The choreography was great. Gene Kelly is a wonder. He is so talented. The dance numbers in this film are all perfectly executed, and perfectly designed. He understands that the dances can tell the story as much as anything else. The last section of the film, the grand dance sequence, is very impressive. What makes this film very special is Gershwin's music. Few American composers have had a better gift for melody. I very much enjoy Gershwin's music. It is enchanting. Ira Gershwin is definitely one of the greatest lyric writers. He is so witty and charming. This was a highly entertaining film. "},{"Title":"That's quite a dress you almost have on.","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" There's no other way to say it I am disappointed. After absolutely falling in love with 'Singin' in the Rain (1952)' &#150; a film that singlehandedly ignited my newfound passion for musicals &#150; I, perhaps unreasonably, expected to enjoy Vincente Minnelli's 'An American in Paris (1951)' just as much. Gene Kelly? Music by George Gershwin? Winner of six Oscars, including Best Picture? A clear home-run&#133; or so I'd thought. For almost two hours I waited patiently for the film to hit its stride, but the moment never came, and I finished the film completely unsatisfied, feeling as though somehow it was my fault rather than the picture's. That there's merit in many of the film's musical numbers is undeniable, but, for some reason, all the pieces never quite came together for me, and the love story at the film's centre struck me as being rather generic and uninspired. Gene Kelly, of course, brings an incredible energy to his role as always, and his character exhibits a likable arrogance that gives way to unabashed exuberance once the music starts playing.As is unfortunately the case in many musicals, the filmmakers seem to have dedicated all their efforts towards the extravagant musical sequences and forgotten that there is ultimately a story to be told. The romance between Jerry Mulligan and Lise Bouvier (Leslie Caron) is one that we've seen many times before, and its mundaneness is amplified by the fact that nineteen-year-old Lise is neither as beautiful nor as charming as the film's characters appear to find her though, in Caron's defence, this was the French actress' debut performance, and she may be acting in a language with which she was uncomfortable. The awkward three-way relationship between Jerry, Lise and the charming Frenchman Hank Baurel (Georges Guétary) could easily have been played for enormous laughs, but the opportunity is abandoned after just two brief chuckles with Oscar Levant, the passive onlooker, clumsily spluttering drink all over his shirt. Such contempt is apparently shown for the story that entire subplots are shamelessly disregarded at the film's end &#150; does Jerry achieve success with his exhibition? Does Adam Cook ever achieve his dream of performing at a concert?This brings us to the musical numbers, which are thankfully the film's saving grace. Though none of the sequences begin to approach the timelessness of Singin' in the Rain, Make 'Em Laugh or Good Morning, they are obviously well-written and performed with bravura by the film's stars. My favourite number was probably Kelly's catchy rendition of Got Rhythm with the French street kids, which had a good beat and was fun to sing. This film's most ambitious sequence is undoubtedly a wordless, seventeen-minute ballet set to Gershwin's An American in Paris. Costing a staggering $500,000, the extended dance number is audacious, elaborate and extravagant, effectively earning my admiration despite my inclination towards singing over dance I typically prefer being able to sing along when I'm watching musicals, which is impossible when they are performing a ballet. Displaying Technicolor in all its flamboyant brilliance, it's no surprise that the film won Oscars for its cinematography, set decoration and costume design. Had it possessed a decent story, 'An American in Paris' might have been a terrific musical, but, as it stands, I'll continue to regard it as a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Not the sum of its parts","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The color is great, although the sets are greatly romanticized. Paris isn't quite that neat and clean. Gene Kelly was a magnificent dancer and a fair singer. He makes dancing look so easy that I could do it--and I can't dance at all. Oscar Levant's dream scene at the piano is simply brilliant and offsets his poor acting. The Gershwin music is magnificent--what more can one say about it? Leslie Caron is--well, Leslie Caron. I was in love with her the first time I saw her in a movie, more than 50 years ago. Nina Foch is quite pretty, but she plays a role that we've seen too often.There are many good things here, and yet somehow the very nice pieces never quite fit together. Perhaps the dumb love story is part of the difficulty. It's downright silly. Or perhaps it is the overdone artist's ball. Or perhaps it is the impossible ballet at the end with all those costume changes in mid-dance. All I know is that this remains in pieces and doesn't work for me as a whole. "},{"Title":"A Cardboard Paris in Hollywood","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Take an accomplished director, one of the world's most famous dancers, a dreamily romantic setting and music from none other than George Gershwin and what do you have? In the case of An American in Paris, you have a film which, for me, falls flat on its face. The winning combination of talent and reputation thrilled the critics, back in 1951 and the film was showered with awards including six Oscars. But, looked at coldly and in retrospect, it's difficult to understand why . Right from the opening scene, when Gene Kelly &#x96; who is supposed to be starving in a Paris garret &#x96; wakes up looking prosperous, over-confident and heavily made-up, you can already hear the turkey feathers starting to rustle. The story falters and bumbles its way through yawning intervals which separate the big numbers and the characters become less convincing with every scene. Leslie Caron, when she finally turns up, looks terrified and toothy and though she dances superbly, seems too timid to bring magic to any of her scenes. She and Kelly dance pretty well together, technically, but without the slightest sense of partnership. Watching them, I got the impression that each would rather have been somewhere else.The music, despite such great numbers, seems to have been shoe-horned into the narrative and often, doesn't fit. The scene where Gershwin's rattlingly wonderful Concerto in F is performed, for instance, has nothing to do with anything else in the film. It does, however, provide moments of sweet relief from the limping story and embarrassingly stilted scenes.It's hard to believe that Oklahoma was released only four years later, in 1955 and yet, seems to belong to a different era. Oklahoma succeeds in every respect where An American in Paris fails. The acting is convincing, the story works well, the casting is faultless, the choreography - apart from the disappointing dream sequence - is sublime. But above all, the characters in Oklahoma perform with zest and sparkle in overdrive. That makes the film overflow with a sense of freshness, excitement and overflowing 'joy de vivre'. What a difference! "},{"Title":"A barely interesting story cut short by inexplicable dancing","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Having just seen the Imperial Ice Stars Swan Lake on Ice, and The Sleeping Beauty on Ice, I'm getting rather tired of the whole well, we tried the story, now let's just dance around a bit thing. It didn't work for them, and it doesn't work for An American in Paris.Speaking just of the two main actors, Gene Kelly is frankly not pleasant to look at, and putting him in grandpa pants doesn't help. Having him mug for the camera while tap-dancing (the dance equivalent of mime) is like fingernails on a chalkboard. He's our hero? He can't even say the girl's name right. It's Lise, not Lisa. And Leslie Caron has what appears to be a freakish overbite that creeped me out for the rest of the night. I may have nightmares. I simply don't buy that she's the head-turner she's made out to be, unless that head is about to hurl -- which it might, given that we're supposed to celebrate this middle-aged man picking up a teenager, who we can read between the lines has already been getting it between the sheets regularly from her protector since during the war.The one interesting character in the entire film is Adam. He reads as a gay friend, unfortunately with no life of his own. If this hadn't been filmed during the heavy-handed Production Code era, he probably would have had a fuller role to play than fiddling with coffee and cigarettes and having narcissistic daydreams. But at least he was there at all.The much talked-about 18-minute dance sequence at the end is a good time to take a bathroom break, or perhaps drive to McDonald's for some fries and a Coke. You won't miss anything you can't already see, performed as well and by much better-looking people on So You Think You Can Dance.Many times, we confuse groundbreaking, which this film probably was, with good ,which it certainly was not. Sometimes you have to let go of the past, and this is one of those times. "},{"Title":"Too much singing, too much dancing--it's amazing this film took Oscar's top prize.","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Uggh! I really wasn't that impressed by this film, though I must admit that it is technically well made. It does get a 7 for very high production values, but as for entertainment values, it is rather poor. In fact, I consider this one of the most overrated films of the 50s. It won the Oscar for Best Picture, but the film is just boring at times with so much dancing and dancing and dancing. That's because unlike some musicals that have a reasonable number of songs along with a strong story and acting (such as MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS), this movie is almost all singing and dancing. In fact, this film has about the longest song and dance number in history and if you aren't into this, the film will quickly bore you. Give me more story! As a result, with overblown production numbers and a weak story, this film is like a steady diet of meringue--it just doesn't satisfy in the long run. To think...this is the film that beat out A Streetcar Named Desire and A Place in the Sun for Best Picture! And, to make matters worse, The African Queen and Ace in the Hole weren't even nominated in this category! Even more amazing to me is that Ace in the Hole lost for Best Writing, Screenplay to this film--even though An American in Paris had hardly any story to speak of and was mostly driven by dance and song. "},{"Title":"More notes than music ruin An American in Paris","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" As a lifelong Singin' in the Rain fan, I was really quite disappointed by An American in Paris the first time I saw it. After seeing it a few more times, I certainly love the Gershwin score and the ballet at the end, but those are the main redeeming features. Aside from the fact that it's way too long (114 minutes), it has a cast of forgettable characters and a creaky plot that was sprouting white hair even by 1951's standards. It's hard to believe that this won the Best Picture Academy Award over Streetcar Named Desire and The African Queen. There isn't much to say about the plot Struggling artist Jerry Mulligan (Gene Kelly) is sponsored by love and leave 'em Milo Roberts (Nina Foch). However, Jerry is in love with nubile young Parisian Lise (Leslie Caron), who's engaged to Jerry's friend Henri (Georges Guetary). Then there's cranky, aging child prodigy Adam (Oscar Levant), who acts as the story's&#133;. actually, I don't know why he's there. An American in Paris isn't terrible, per se, it's just that it plays the notes of a movie musical, but not the music. Even when you don't compare it to Singin' in the Rain, it just feels like there's something lacking. It has plenty going for it and you desperately want to love it, but it just falls short. Plus, I really found Jerry insufferable. He's just an opportunistic lecher who takes advantage of Milo (who he obviously dislikes) and relentlessly chases the much younger Lise (who initially dislikes him). Kelly seemed to enjoy playing decidedly unpleasant characters, but here he seems to play him a bit too well. Nina Foch does her best with a thankless part. Reserved and coldly beautiful (how did Hitchcock miss this woman??), she does a good job playing the icy older woman (Kelly was older by nearly a decade, but suspend your disbelief). Now, about Leslie Caron she's received heaps of criticism for her extremely unsophisticated debut performance. I say give the poor girl a break. Only 19 when handpicked by Gene Kelly, Caron was a ballerina for a French company and not even interested in acting (she's said she only took the part to satisfy her mother). Also, the part of Lise is so insipid and underwritten, Barbara Stanwyck or Bette Davis couldn't make it more interesting, much less a young novice. She was a splendid dancer, and Lise's introduction scenes to the song Embraceable You are among the film's most charming sequences. Minnelli should have fired the make-up artist for shellacking Caron's lips with shiny red lipstick and accentuating her overbite. Caron did have lovely features such as her beautiful eyes and flawless complexion, but the make-up artist doesn't highlight them at all. Caron eventually blossomed into a fine actress in later years (check her out in Lili, Gigi and The L-Shaped Room if you don't believe me). The musical numbers really save the film from becoming too tepid. I don't care how you feel about the Jerry/Lise romance Love is Here to Stay is still one of the most romantic scenes ever caught on film. And that ballet at the end!! Kelly at least deserved that special Oscar for conceiving and choreographing this epic number that pays tribute to French painters and it demonstrates how tirelessly creative Gene Kelly was. For lovely musical numbers only, check out An American in Paris. For the whole bag of tricks (songs, plots, great characters), Singin' in the Rain can't be beat. "},{"Title":"Leslie Caron?","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gene Kelly = legendary talent. But Leslie Caron? At times she manages to be sweet and endearing, and at most others all I want is to bean her in the head. Yes, she's a good dancer. And, yes, she's okay to look at, not gorgeous as Kelly's humdrum character seems to think, but acceptable. For some reason probably best left not understood, the makers of this film decided their audience would really benefit from a scene in which all Caron does is stare like a cow into the camera while she poses in a thousand positions somewhat reminiscent of the Kama Sutra. What's worse is I couldn't even like Gene Kelly in this film! I just found his character repetitive, uninteresting, crabby, and a little creepy, to be honest. (I mean, would you go through all that to date Leslie Caron?) Let's also not forget the out-of-work musician character who failed to be funny or entertaining on every level. Did that guy even have a point in the story other than to annoy?An American In Paris might be worth checking out for two reasons 1) Kelly's song and dance number with the little Parisian kids, and 2) the final flourishing dance sequence, which nicely encapsulates everything the movie had been trying to say up to that point but in less time. (The brass section is phenomenal.) I really wish I had more good to say but the film unfortunately falls flat in a lot of critical areas. It beats me how this won the Oscar for Best Picture (then again, a lot of sub par work has won Oscars). This is certainly a disappointment when compared to the awesome extravaganza of Singin' In the Rain. "},{"Title":"Time has gone past this film.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a film that belongs firmly to the 50's. Very surprising that American Film Institute has chosen this one for one for the best 100 American movies of all-time. I have seen practically all of the movies on that list, and this one is by far the most disappointing one of those. Musical numbers (and there many, many of them) are VERY overlong and boring, and have absolute no connection with the story. The end of the movie has horribly over-long ballet sequency, which naturally has no real relation to the story of the movie. It must be admitted, that it is very well made, the music is OK, and the dancing done with the highest professional standard - but there is no real reason why the sequence is included in the movie.The main character of the movie is extremely childlish and unlikeable and behaves in unpolite way. His mental age is about 14. If you want to see a good musical made on the golden age of musicals, go and see Singing in the Rain. "},{"Title":"We See A Fit and Fine Gene Kelly Painting and Romancing, Rather Than Jerry Mulligan, the Struggling Painter Contending and Romancing","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Jerry Mulligan (Gene Kelly) is a struggling American painter who quit his job in the army to pursue his passion in the sizzling Paris. His good friend includes Adam Cook (Oscar Levant) an unknown pianist who lives in an apartment nearby. Adam introduces Jerry to Henri Baurel (Georges Guetary) a popular local crooner, who is to marry a 'vivacious, modern, enchanting, fascinating, exciting, sweet, shy and scholarly' dancer Lise ( Jerry does not know about this, however). Jerry puts his landscape paintings on display along the brick walls in the streets of Paris, and makes a paltry living out of it. His character is somewhat nasty, but many struggling street artists whom I have met are actually nasty with their take-it-or-leave attitude. He meets Milo (Nina Foch) a middle-aged rich woman who takes fancy to his paintings and agrees to buy two of his works. However, it can be observed here how Milo is actually trying to woo Jerry, as she tells Jerry that she does not have enough money and invites him to her hotel room. Madonna of the 50s, I say! Jerry does not respond well to her advances and starts flirting unabashedly with a young girl at the pub aka Lise. Jerry gets her number and almost prowls her to fall in love with him, which she eventually does. Conversely, Lise sets out more traps for Jerry. The rest is well&#x85;. obvious. The Oscar and Golden Globes Associations have infamously awarded lesser deserving films, actors, actresses, supporting actors, supporting actresses, documentaries, music, screenplay&#x85;. For example, Sandra Bullock's tough white compassionate mother act that paled even in comparison to a similar tough mom act by Julia Roberts in Erin Brockovich. Or take the complete failure of recognition of 1952s 'Singin' in The Rain', a definitive musical masterpiece also starring Gene Kelly, and my personal choice for the greatest film of the 20th century. But to see 'An American in Paris' win Best Picture and Best Screenplay (!!!) is an unexpected and somewhat sour surprise. Why? Because An American in Paris is an incomplete film, lacking a thorough script, thin of memorable songs and dance sequences, short of convincing performances and devoid of a proper conclusion. How can this be rewarded the best script when the last twenty minutes did not receive enough momentum from the first ninety minutes, thus making the entire attempt somewhat flat?Gene Kelly's larger-than-life, showy persona proved an advantage in 'SITR' but here, where he has to downplay his character, it militates his likability. Also, his treatment of Jean Hagen's Lena Lamont in SITR was correct because of Lena's demanding diva personality. But to behave in the same way with Milo in AAIP made him a bit of a cad, especially when he drops her like a brick in the end without even considering her feelings for once, that too when he was acting in the same fashion albeit to woo Lise. He also has this slightly putting off habit of acting and moving in an affected way that is paradoxical to his role. Watch the first scene where he gets up fully aware that there is a camera in front of him, and then performs various movements in a rehearsed fashion. Works well at times, especially during the sing and dance numbers but lacks trueness otherwise. Hard to blame him though, since many actors 'act' this way.Leslie Caron does not live up to all the qualities mentioned about her by Henri. She seems shy, somewhat traditional and even reticent, like Talia Shire's character in Rocky. It is only when she dances that there comes some personality in her. But she still does not have the desired screen presence during the numbers, and cannot stand out when performing in a group. Also her chemistry with Gene is often bland and one-sided; Gene at least manages to show some fondness towards her while Leslie looks as if she is just playing along with him. Henri can sing well and act charmingly, but his character too is poorly given the chauffeur/dad-who-opposes-then-concedes treatment. They could have had some dialog between Henri and Lise, since love can't be so easily given up. And don't get me started on the ridiculous superhero-like costumes both Gene and Henri were wearing in the otherwise serious scene before the final performance!Oscar Levant was utterly wasted; he had a promising back-story or whatever you call it. They could have especially done more after his daydreaming concert act to draw attention upon his unfulfilled desires of becoming famous before the party scene. Oscar Levant, like many other actors, just parrots his lines without adding any gravity to it. Nina Foch was the only actor truly worth mentioning here; she conveys her dry charm, furtiveness and ultimately disappointment well. All of the songs are melodious but not catchy. However, they have the French charm that gives fervor to the movie. Even 'My Fair Lady' had fabulous numbers but I cannot remember any; it is because unlike Singing in the Rain or Marry Poppins or Sound of Music, they don't carry indelible hooks. So it isn't a fault, just a lacking. But the fault was to place all these numbers in this film; they failed to add up and boost the finale. Conversely, SITR placed its numbers so well that the 12 minute Broadway Melody spectacle at the end was just dazzling.I have to commend the unique filming techniques in the film Lise could not be described more wonderfully, the one-man band was clever and the theatrical finishing was ingenious. The performances, especially the one between Kelly and Guetary brought a smile to my face. But the movie itself disappointed me; it seems like a beta version when compared to Singing in the Rain, but as a standalone, it was underwhelming.My Rating 5.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"And, introducing ... Leslie Caron.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Leslie Caron was only 19 when AN AMERICAN IN PARIS was filmed, this her film debut. She has all the innocence and charm one would expect of a 19-year-old French girl. Fortunately her mother was an American, so she grew up speaking good English, with a decidedly French accent and, as a trained ballerina, is a fine accompaniment to Gene Kelly's dancing. Some say her acting is amateurish but I disagree - it is perfect for the role of the sheltered girl she plays. It helps that I am a big fan of hers, and like any film she is in.some SPOILERS, please read further at your own risk of disappointment.The film starts with Kelly's character announcing that I am an American, living in Paris ..., a budding painter who is broke, not many of his paintings sell, until an older woman becomes his patron, with romance as her real interest. But he is smitten with Caron's character, he pursues her, she apparently shares the affection, they meet often by the bridge at night, they get to know each other. But she was orphaned in the war, and a French entertainer helped raise her and, now that she is an adult plans to marry him. I owe him everything, for what he has done for me after my parents died.Near the end, at a party, she tells him she is to marry the next day, and travel to America with her new husband. But the French entertainer having a smoke by a column overhears the conversation, then we see them getting into a taxi and driving away.For 16 minutes, while they are in the taxi, Kelly's character has a fantasy dream sequence, a series of big dance production numbers featuring kelly and Caron, plus dozens of other dancers. When he comes out of it, the taxi shows up, apparently her beau frees her to go with Kelly, and the film ends, both of them with big grins. A really fun movie, a throwback to the musicals of the 1950s, the DVD has a very sharp video, but there are no extras except the theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Americans Stay Home, Please **1/2","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When An American in Paris won the coveted Oscar in 1951 as best picture, much controversy was generated.The dissatisfaction centered around the fact that the film had a very thin plot and I'm being kind at that. Yes, there was entertainment there, but in a year of A Streetcar Named Desire and A Place in the Sun, the Motion Picture Academy had much better material to work with.The basic story is a GI Kelly who stays in France after World War 11 ends. There he meets a young, captivating Leslie Caron. The two fall in love and their love is depicted by dancing all over gay Paris. They dance in the streets, they dance on tables-they are all over the place. Enough is enough already.Georges Guetary and Nina Foch are along for the ride as well as the usual zany Oscar Levant. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Paris is the place to be to enjoy beautiful art and music, and to fall madly in love - as is the case in this film. Boy meets girl, they fall in love, but something stands in their way of eternal happiness, the classic story.The wonderful music of George Gerschwin complements the great dancing by Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron. An American in Paris is a humorous, light-hearted, loving film well worth watching.8/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Released two years before I was born, this Oscar-winning movie has it all - lavish Technicolor sets and costumes, breathtaking cinematography, superb wall-to-wall Gershwin music, superior choreography, a lighter-than-air screenplay, and great performances by Kelly, Levant, Foch, Guetary, and Caron.  Hollywood doesn't make 'em like this anymore. Definitely, this is my favorite movie of all time, a standard by which I judge all other films.  ENJOY, ENJOY, ENJOY! "},{"Title":"not the best musical ever made, but still a marvelous one","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Charming, lovely, s'wonderful! While I wouldn't say it's the best ever, An American in Paris is still a great musical! I WOULD say it's the best dancing in a musical along with West Side Story (a different style!), definitely the best ballet ever in a film. The major ballet is perfect. Definitely see it if you're a musical or ballet fan. "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I dug out from my garage some old  musicals and this is another one of my favorites.  It was written by Jay Alan Lerner and directed by Vincent Minelli.  It won two Academy Awards for Best Picture of 1951 and Best Screenplay.  The story of an American painter in Paris who tries to make it big.  Nina Foch is a sophisticated lady of means and is very interested in helping him, but soon finds she loves the guy.  Meanwhile Gene Kelly falls for lovely damsel, Leslie Caron.  His main dancing partner, and I must say they are fantastic together on the floor and otherwise.  Famous French singer Georges Guietary sings, too.  So if you like good smooth dancing and fun filled scenes filled with Oscar Levant's nimble piano fingers, the songs of George Gershwyn will live on forever in this colorful gem.  8/10 "},{"Title":"DELIGHTFUL, BUT OVERRATED","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Vincente Minnelli's An American In Paris is routinely hailed as one of the greatest musicals ever made. While it is wonderful to watch, I hardly think this is the greatest musical ever made, or even Minnelli or Kelly's best musical. For my money, Minnelli's best musical remains The Bandwagon, with Fred Astaire, released in 1953. Kelly's best musical for me is Singin In the Rain, released after American. I think one of the problems with American is the final 20 minute ballet. While it may have been breathtaking in 1951, today it sparkles at times, but becomes rather tedious after a while. It could easily take a few cuts without any damage. Still, Minnelli and Kelly get points for even attempting such a feat.Another problem is the screenplay by Alan Jay Lerner, which seems to be just one circumstance on top of another in place of a solid story and likable characters. Even the usually likable Kelly is rather abrasive here.Yet another problem is Leslie Caron, who is terrible in her acting debut. She had yet to develop as an actress (her later films include Gigi and The L-Shaped Room, much better performances) but her dancing is great and that is enough for now.But there are several good things about An American in Paris. One thing is the wonderful Gershwin songs. With songs like  S'Wonderful, Our Love Is Here To Stay, and the final ballet, you would have to have a heart of stone NOT to love these. Another plus is the casting of pianist Oscar Levant, who steals every scene he appears in. He just brings the movie to life and it's a shame they didn't build the movie around him.Even though it won the Oscar for Best Picture in 1951, An American in Paris feels like a minor work in a minor key compared to other musicals that won the prize such as Gigi, My Fair Lady, The Sound of Music and Oliver!. But still, we sit back and enjoy what we see, despite our shortcomings. There have been worse musicals to grace the screen.*** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"A unique masterpiece","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  While the story is sweet, and the dancing and singing in the main part of the film are a joy, the uniqueness of the film (and what makes it a masterpiece) is the dream sequence.  It features the combination of the highest form of truly American music (Gershwin), the engaging beauty of French impressionistic art,  Kelly's enthralling choreography (including his rapturous pas de deux d'amour, really a separate genre), with the most magnificent palette of color ever devised for the set. Matching the surging music and the visual explosion with those dances was a true work of a creative genius and a great artist. "},{"Title":"Extremely dull.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"    I don't know what the Oscar voters saw in this movie, but they must of seen some pretty hard stuff to see in it to be able to award it with the best picture Oscar.  All I know is that fortunately there was Gene Kelly to play in it or this would have been twice as bad as I believe it is.  First of all, I don't think Leslie Caron was really fit to play such a role.  She isn't that talented, she isn't a great dancer and she's not good looking at all.  It's a shame that one actor or actress may ruin a movie just like by playing in it because if Leslie Caron hadn't been in this, it might have made a terrific movie.  The story was intelligent, the directing wasn't bad, and, as I said, Gene Kelly was pretty good.  Now I'm not saying all this stuff about Leslie Caron just to criticize her, I'm just saying it because I think that's what the worse part of the movie is.  She's probably a good actress but I can't tell because I haven't seen her in anything else but I think she was pretty bad in An American in Paris.  So if you want to see it, go ahead but I'm telling you, you're way better off watching Singin' in the rain. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst Oscar winner in history.....","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When AFI released it's list of the Top 100 films of all time, I decided to check out the ones I'd missed, and of all 100 films listed (except the silent films, which I didn't bother with), this is THE turkey of them all. It was an ordeal just sitting through it, and here's whyGene Kelly and Leslie Caron had no chemistry whatsoever...he was too old for the part, and she was very unattractive (though in later years she blossomed into a real looker, I admit).Oscar Levant was as humorous as a graveyard, and served no purpose, at all.This was obviously filmed on the back lot of the studios, and doesn't in any way resemble Paris.All in all, it's much-a-do about nothing, and remains (to me) the most overrated film of all time.Before avid fans start screaming that I must hate musicals, I don't. I loved Chicago, The Sound Of Music, South Pacific, and many others, but this one is not worth the time to endure sitting through it. I can't think of one good thing I gained from watching it "}{"Title":"Irritating story somewhat relieved by fine dance numbers","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  OK, there is no doubt that Gene Kelly can dance, and he can even sing and act passably well.  But never have I seen him play a less appealing character than in An American in Paris.  It's one thing to be a lovable rogue, so long as you retain a basic humanity and don't go out of your way to insult the viewer's decency.  In some ways An American in Paris is Kelly's Pal Joey, except Frank Sinatra managed to carry off that film by dint of his acting skills.Part of the plot revolves around his being a painter whose talent has been discovered by wealthy patroness Milo (the lovely Nina Foch in an unsympathetic role).  Unfortunately for the credibility of the plot, Kelly's paintings are are motel art at its worst.  (For anyone who questions my credibility I'm a professional artist and am quite familiar with the School of the City of Paris style his paintings ape)  And what does Kelly--who supposedly wants to have a solo show more than anything on earth--do when it is dropped into his lap by Milo?  He promptly does everything to sabotage her interest.Kelly's interest in Leslie Caron couldn't be more superficial and unbelievable.  Despite what others have written here, the scene with Kelly and Caron on the banks of the Seine (Our Love is Here to Stay) is like the rest of their relationship stiff, perfunctory and unconvincing.The story bogs down considerably half-way through, and finally, any semblance of plot or character development is thrown out the window. It's as if director Minelli said hey, we've got a bunch of great Gershwin Brothers music.  Let's stage a big dance finale that is set in Old Paris but has nothing to do with anything else in this film and leaves every story element unresolved.  Then, for no reason at all, we'll resolve the plot. What a load of crap.There is plenty that is visually and audibly appealing in An American in Paris.  The sets and costuming are good, the music is, with few exceptions, excellent.  Oscar Levant gives a great supporting performance.  But if you want to see Gene Kelly at his best, I recommend watching Invitation to the Dance instead, where his considerable dancing skills and charm are unhindered by the very things that cause An American in Paris to fail.  "},{"Title":"If you call a film a classic long enough, it just might become one in spite of itself","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An American in Paris seems to be the film that many people have billed a classic so prolifically and impulsively that the brand stuck with very little questioning. A fairly obvious Best Picture win in 1951 coupled with suave, acclaimed leading man Gene Kelly in the starring role of a musical and you have a film that was bound to be a feast for your eyes that you could enjoy with your ears, as well. This is a film so rooted in predictable Hollywood musical fare of the time that if you stare into the decorated setpieces and Kelly's meaningful smile you almost, almost forget how forgettable this film really is.The story revolves around Kelly's Jerry Mulligan, a former Army serviceman from America now trying to make it as an artist in the dreamlike land of Paris, selling portraits on sidewalks and streetcorners. One of the first people to really pay attention to his works is Milo Roberts (Nina Foch), a woman who falls for him and his attitude almost immediately, so much so that she rents a studio for him to sell his artwork in a more professional manner. Jerry, however, becomes more infatuated with Lise Bouvier (Leslie Caron), a French woman he meets at a nightclub that he begins to actively pursue, despite her repeated attempts to make him go away (a standoffish personality, a fake phone number, etc). As Milo still tries to assist him, Jerry is hellbent on getting Lise to love him.In addition to Jerry, we are introduced to two people in the beginning of the film in a manner that sort of overstates the importance of these characters. One is Adam Cook (Oscar Levant), a struggling concert pianist who often works alongside Henri Baurel (Georges Guétary), a French lounge-singer. These two men, despite being introduce din the opening minutes of the film with Jerry's long monologue about his love for Paris even though he is an American, don't hold much weight come the hour-mark of the film, when An American in Paris largely turns to embellishing the rather awkward relationship between Jerry and Lise.Jerry and Lise's relationship is made awkward not only because of the fact that Lise really lacks personality outside of a pretty face and doesn't give us much of a reason to really concern ourselves with her presence, a feat that was so ubiquitous during this time in Hollywood that you almost can't critique it, but the annoying way Jerry becomes entranced with her off of what is ultimately just a vessel of beauty. An American in Paris really shows how far we, as a society, have become with how we approach women; what was once seen as an effort of true charm and persistency is now seen as offputting and creepy by the majority of women, despite whatever intention was assumed by the male. Jerry's intentions have far wandered past romantic and are entering in the aforementioned latter territory, though that doesn't seem to particularly concern him nor anyone else in the film.Once more, it's almost meaningless to bring this up because so many films had the same kind of masculine attitude towards females (I just watched His Girl Friday and the same case can be made with that film). The real issue I take with An American in Paris, however, is the lack of substance in the film. This is a film with very flat, impossibly perky, and incredulous characters that act and operate like robots from the 1950's rather than actual people. Gene Kelly's Jerry character is about as monotone and uninteresting as you can get, in addition to being very square, and both Adam and Henri have a fraction of that personality and are largely defined by strange character tropes and mannerisms. Milo seems to be the only real character in the film, and even she is underwritten as soon as Lise comes in, almost mirroring how Jerry entirely loses interest and ditches her upon meeting Lise.If that wasn't enough, An American in Paris has one of the biggest cinematic cop-outs I've yet to see. The final twenty minutes of an already lengthy and taxing one-hundred and thirteen minutes is a breathless interpretive dance number that just throws away any kind of conflict resolution and character development that was built up until this point. The film doesn't seem to have any interest in concluding its story with any kind of assured statement or seriousness, and instead goes full Broadway for a slight and outrageously expensive (well over $500,000 apparently) dance number that grows tiresome after a few minutes.An American in Paris gets considerable points for costume and set design, as even a mediocre script can't eclipse the majestic look and feel Paris always seems to ooze. However, with everything this film had going for it, there's little evidence of anything in the way to make this admittedly safe and harmless musical anything other than standard fare that was fortunate enough to get praised a bit too much by far too many people.Starring Gene Kelly, Leslie Caron, Nina Foch, Oscar Levant, and Georges Guétary. Directed by Vincente Minnelli. "},{"Title":"Kelly in Paris.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An American in Paris (1951) Dir Vincente Minnelli / Cast Gene Kelly, Leslie Caron, Nina Foch, Oscar Levant, Georges Guetary Pleasant musical about culture. Gene Kelly plays Jerry Mulligan, a painter whose work becomes the conquest of an heiress whose intentions go beyond his work. While her intentions have promise, he becomes smitten with an attractive French woman, played by Leslie Caron. His pitch is creepy with his watchful eye from his table. Any other guy is up on charges but not Gene Kelly. Anyway they end up hooking up, which complicates things with the heiress who wrestles with jealousy. Another complication regards her engagement to a man whom she owes her life to. One issue regards corny musical numbers that seem placed just to fill time. Another issue regards an ending that is as obvious as day and night. What works is a detailed structure that thankfully doesn't introduce Caron until midway through. Kelly is exciting in his passion and dancing expressing his love for one woman while avoiding another. Caron is sunny as the object of his desire. Nina Foch does a fine job as the heiress whose loneliness is never overturned. Oscar Levant plays a struggling concert pianist who knows the ends and outs of the love triangles. Georges Guetary is featured as a French musician. A dashing portrait of Paris culture and the longing for acceptance. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bland and forgettable. Gives very little reasons to care.","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen much from Gene Kelly, but I do know it's a shame the Academy couldn't have waited one more year to bestow him with awards for Singin' In The Rain instead of An American In Paris. The film isn't too bad to start with and it begins with some promise of wit and personality. They're never developed and it feels like all the characters outside of Gene Kelly are a waste - though I did enjoy a certain fantasy scene, as extraneous as it may be. There's so very little reasons to invest in these characters, their relationships and their problems. The songs leave a lot to be desired and are often bland and forgettable. It just drags on and on. Pretty sets and costumes do not maketh the movie. Perhaps it was acclaimed at the time due to post-war international relations, but they should've just bitten the bullet and given the Best Picture award to A Streetcar Named Desire or A Place In The Sun. Either would have been fine. This is just one 100 minute long flatline. I dread Gigi now, I just wasn't looking forward to it before.5/10 "},{"Title":"Jambon Beurre..without butter but plenty of ham","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Everyone seems to love, love, love An American in Paris. For this viewer, I've never been able to sit through the entire movie in one sitting, so assembling the pieces in my head usually sends me running for a bottle of aspirine.MGM made a number of classic musicals, but AAIP isn't one of them, despite the best picture Oscar it garnered. One wonders if the award was really aimed at the post-war expatriate Americans who stayed behind to live the Bohemian lifestyle of the fabled starving artist. Gene Kelly's artiste seems to be well fed and well shod (with his trademark loafers) as he lives a life of artistic abandon in the slums of Paris. He taps, twirls, and gives his usual athletic spin on the male dance while hobnobbing with the poor people of Paris. He can't paint very well, but hey! let's sing a Gershwin tune and all the Parisians who wanted to knock him out for mispronouncing everything are suddenly his musical bon amis.Kelly's unrelenting guy from the States becomes annoying in the first half hour, and goes from there. Leslie Caron is pretty, but wooden in the extreme. Oscar Levant does his talented piano bum for the 1000th time, spreading seedy charm over absolutely nothing. Only Nina Foch, as a horny and predatory rich bitch with connections to the upper echelon of the 50s art world escapes with some dignity. All she really wanted was to get laid, which Kelly charmingly tapdances his way out of in his dogged pursuit of Caron.AAIP drags on for about two weeks, giving you terrible matte paintings and backlot versions of the City of Lights. These sets were used hundreds of times in the MGM pantheon of foreign settings and it shows.The climatic 17 minute ballet around an ugly fountain is nearly impossible to sit through, unless you think that Kelly's terpsichorean prowess is from the Ballet Des Artes. He's one note away from boogie-woogie and all his smarmy charm can't convince. He's only good in one sequence here, his tra-la-la-la duet with Levant. He's surprisingly hunky in his wife beater T and open shirt, acting like he's about to give Levant some afternoon delight for a few francs.AAIP is pretty threadbare at this point in time, and does nothing to really celebrate the travails of the artists who chose to stay behind in Paris to pursue a career in the arts. Jambon beurre is French for ham and butter sandwich, a treat sold in the streets of Paris. AAIP has no butter to smooth the rough edges, but plenty of ham to spare. "},{"Title":"One of the most inventive and exuberant musicals of its period","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A number of American musicals of the 1950s were set in Paris (April in Paris, Gentlemen Marry Brunettes, Lili, Funny Face, Gigi), so much so that the Parisian musical almost became a sub-genre in its own right. An American in Paris was one of the earliest examples of this sub-genre. Like most of the other Parisian musicals, it is set in a city which bears only a passing resemblance to the actual capital of France. The Paris of the Hollywood imagination is a highly idealised city of love, romance and culture, the sort of place where everyone is either a painter, a poet or a bohemian intellectual. (It is not just Paris which gets treated in this way; the Hollywood version of London is a place few Londoners would recognise. Moreover, French film-makers are equally capable of idealising their national capital, Amélie being a case in point). The geography of the city can be rearranged as well; in An American in Paris Jerry tells us that he lives on the Left Bank, even though the district where he lives is clearly Montmartre, which is on the Right Bank. (The mistake probably arose because Montmartre has a Bohemian reputation, similar to that of some Left Bank districts such as the Quartier Latin). An American in Paris was a piece of music long before it was a film musical, George Gershwin's piece having been written in 1928. The idea of basing a musical around a purely orchestral composition is an unusual one, and it is perhaps not surprising that the plot is rather sketchy. Like a number of other musicals from this period it consists of little more than a boy, a girl and a happy ending. The boy in this case is Jerry Mulligan, an American World War II veteran now trying to earn a living as a painter in Paris. The girl is Jerry's young French girlfriend Lise Bouvier. (He generally mispronounces her name as Lisa, but neither she not anyone else comments on this). What dramatic tension there is arises from the fact that both Jerry and Lise have other romantic interests, hers being Henri Baurel, a singer and an old family friend, and his being his wealthy patron, Milo Roberts, who seems interested in him for more than his art. (No, this is not the first gay Hollywood musical; Milo, named after the Venus de, is a woman). Some have complained that this structure results in an unhappy ending for two people, but I doubt if audiences at the time were too worried. Milo, pushy, possessive and domineering, is a rather unsympathetic character. Henri is more likable, but it is clear that although Lise loves him she only does so as a father-figure, not in a romantic way as a potential husband. Some of the casting seems rather odd; the plot implies that both Milo and Henri are considerably older than Jerry, but in fact Georges Guétary was three years younger than Gene Kelly and Nina Foch twelve. (Foch, a pretty twenty-something in 1951, seems particularly miscast as Milo). The film won the Academy Award for Best Picture, something which has also given rise to some controversy, especially as the competition included films as good as A Streetcar Named Desire and A Place in the Sun. (There were other excellent films from that year like The African Queen, The Red Badge of Courage and Show Boat which were not even nominated). Yet I think that the Academy's decision can be defended. An American in Paris has many virtues. Gene Kelly may have been wrong for the part of Jerry in terms of age, but in every other respect he was right for it, as the film appears to have been specifically designed to suit his talents. As a singer he was perhaps nothing special- in his duet with Guétary it is the Frenchman who has the better voice- but as a dancer he had few, if any, equals. He could make the most difficult dance moves look effortless and nonchalant, and the dance sequences in this film, especially his final ballet, set to Gershwin's piece from which the film takes its name, exploit this ability to the maximum. Leslie Caron also gets the chance here to show that she was a fine dancer in her own right. (She was to star in two further Parisian musicals, Lili and Gigi. The second of these had the same director as An American in Paris, Vincente Minnelli, and also won Best Picture). The film's other two strengths are the music and the look of the film. Besides Gershwin's famous orchestral piece there are also a number of well-known songs by him (I Got Rhythm, 'S Wonderful, Our Love is Here to Stay, etc). The sets for the final ballet are particularly striking, being influenced by various Impressionist and Post-Impressionist painters. (The most direct references are to Toulouse-Lautrec, but there are also hints that this sequence was influenced by Seurat, Renoir and others). Another notable sequence is the costume ball with everyone in black-and-white costumes, which inspired a similar scene in My Fair Lady.Contrary to what some might think (and others might prefer), there is no rule which says that the Best Picture award has to go to a serious film each year rather a light-hearted one. An American in Paris may lack the serious purpose of A Streetcar Named Desire or A Place in the Sun, but it is a fine film, one of the most inventive and exuberant musicals of its period. This is certainly not one of the Academy's egregious mistakes like the one they were to make the following year, when they somehow managed to give the award to The Greatest Show on Earth ahead of High Noon and failed even to nominate that other fine Gene Kelly musical, Singin' in the Rain. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An American In Paris makes me feel good!","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An American In Paris is an integrated musical, meaning that the songs and dances blend perfectly with the story. The film was inspired by the 1928 orchestral composition by George Gershwin. The story of the film is interspersed with show-stopping dance numbers choreographed by Gene Kelly and set to popular Gershwin tunes. Songs and music include I Got Rhythm, 'S Wonderful, and Our Love is Here to Stay. It set a new standard for the subgenre known as the songbook musical with dozens of Gershwin tunes buried in the underscore. The climax is The American in Paris ballet, an 18 minute dance featuring Kelly and Caron set to Gershwin's An American in Paris, featuring an Impressionistic period daydream in the style of various painters, is one of the longest uninterrupted dance sequences of any Hollywood film. The ballet alone cost more than half a million dollars, a staggering sum at the time.It's funny to think of such a work of art being born over a pool game between film producer Arthur Freed (SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, WIZARD OF OZ, ON THE TOWN, MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS and THE BAND WAGON) and Ira Gershwin. It was Freed's idea to buy the title so he could use if in a film about Paris and Gershwin's idea that it would only use Gershwin music.Original cast was to have Cyd Charisse but she discovered she was pregnant before shooting began. A major reason Gene Kelly suggested Leslie Caron as the female lead was because he felt this movie needed a real French girl playing Lise, not just an American actress playing one. Gene Kelly discovered Leslie Caron while vacationing in Paris where he saw her perform in a ballet. When she got the call to audition, she said, Who's Gene Kelly? According to Leslie Caron, her introductory dance sequence, which included a seductive dance with a chair, was considered too suggestive by some censors. Gene Kelly directed the brief fantasy dance sequences shown as Lise is introduced.Vincente Minnelli first wanted Maurice Chevalier in the Georges Guétary part, and 'Celeste Holm' in the 'Nina Foch' part.Minnelli was a groundbreaking director of musicals with Meet Me in St. Louis (1944), An American in Paris, and The Band Wagon (1953). He used color and songs in ways they hadn't been used before. He used space and time imaginatively. Best of all, though, he allowed himself to cut loose for the long ballet sequences that end all his movies. The ballet in An American in Paris may be his best work.Even though Vincente Minnelli is credited as the sole director, he was sometimes tied up with his divorce from Judy Garland and other directing projects, leaving Gene Kelly to take over the directing duties.Other highlights include Guetary's rendition of Stairway to Paradise; Oscar Levant's fantasy of conducting and performing Gershwin's Concerto in F (see why it was Oscar Levant's favorite.)The ballet sequence, now that we know it was successful everybody now wants to take credit for it, Freed, Minnelli, Kelly&#x85; but before the film was completed the New York office of MGM said no to spending a half million dollars on a ballet. So Freed went to studio head Louis B. Mayer himself and got him to agree, New York said no. Finally Gene Kelly showed the New York office how a British film, THE RED SHOES used a long ballet sequence and that film became a world wide hit &#x96; and is still considered today the premium example of a successful art film. Well the financial guys finally gave in and signed the checks.There was a break in production after 1 November 1950, at which point Gene Kelly began rehearsing the ballet choreography. By the time production for that final sequence resumed on 6 December, Vincente Minnelli had finished directing another film - Father's Little Dividend (1951).Irene Sharaff designed a style for each of the ballet sequence sets, reflecting various French impressionist painters 'Raoul Dufy' (the Place de la Concorde), Edouard Manet (the flower market), Maurice Utrillo (a Paris street), Henri Rousseau (the fair), 'Vincent Van Gogh' (the Place de l'Opera), and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec (the Moulin Rouge). The backgrounds took six weeks to build, with 30 painters working nonstop.Roger Ebert said after viewing the recent restoration, An American in Paris has many qualities, not least its famous ballet production number, with Kelly and Leslie Caron symbolizing the entire story of their courtship in dance. An American In Paris is often compared to SINGIN' IN THE RAIN as to which it the greatest musical ever made, and one critic put it best when he said, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN makes me happy and An American In Paris makes me feel good. The ballet represents Kelly's fantasies as depicted by the great French artists (Renoir, Rousseau, Lautrec, Dufy) he admires. Arranging a screening for the then ailing Raoul Dufy, the actor and producer ducked out until the end credits. There, relieved, they found the artist, moved to tears, requesting a second helping of the sumptuous finale.The film was also the first to win a Golden Globe award for Best Motion Picture (comedy or musical.)Gene Kelly received an honorary Academy Award that year for his versatility as an actor, singer, director and dancer, and specifically for his brilliant achievements in the art of choreography on film. It was his only Oscar. "},{"Title":"A bit overlong for a genre movie but still one of the great ones out there.","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is your typical cheerful and colorful MGM musical from the early '50's and it's definitely on of the better ones to watch out there.The movie got directed by the genre expert Vincente Minnelli and stars Gene Kelly in the main lead. Both did quite a few movies together back in those days, of which this one is probably their best known one. The movie itself actually managed to win the best picture Oscar over the year, which meant it beat out movies such as A Place in the Sun, A Streetcar Named Desire, The African Queen, Quo Vadis, The Blue Veil, Death of a Salesman that year. A real accomplishment of course but at the same time also a bit too much credit for this delightful, bright and entertaining movie.When you watch this movie you surely will be entertained by it all, which is also thanks to the movie its beautiful color look and the many nice characters within this movie. The musical numbers are also all nicely done, which is no big surprise when you have people such as Vincente Minnelli and Gene Kelly at work. But really, couldn't had everything that got told in this movie been done in halve an hour less or so? I mean, we already know where the movie is heading to but yet it manages to stretch it out all for as long as possible. Not that it makes the movie drag in any parts, it just makes it a bit overlong. The movie could had also definitely been done with a few less musical numbers in it.One of the better MGM musicals, that is not without its flaws though.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Familiar Gershwin Tunes and Masterful Finale of Color and Dance Still the Main Attractions Here","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The dazzling seventeen-minute dance sequence of George Gershwin's 1928 orchestral piece, An American in Paris, is an indisputable masterwork. Choreographed with precision and unparalleled flair by Gene Kelly, the vibrant combination of color, music and dance is still eye-poppingly startling as the piece is broken down into scenes inspired by selected master artists - Dufy in the opening Place de la Concorde piece, Manet in the flower market, Utrillo in a Paris street, Rousseau at the fair, Vincent Van Gogh in the spectacular Place de l'Opera piece, and Toulouse-Lautrec for the Moulin Rouge where Kelly wears his famous white bodysuit. The 97 minutes that precede this finale are not as exciting, not by a long shot, but there are certain charms to be had in viewing the entire 1951 Oscar-winning musical.Director Vincente Minnelli and screenwriter Alan Jay Lerner have fashioned a surprisingly sophisticated if rather slight romantic story focused on Jerry Mulligan, a former G.I. who has remained in Paris after the end of WWII trying to make a living as a painter. With his braggadocio manner and athletic dancing style, Gene Kelly can be concurrently ingratiating and irritating as a screen personality, but he seems to find his oeuvre as the carefree Jerry. The love-triangle plot is focused on Jerry's involvement with Milo Roberts, a self-proclaimed art patron but a sexual predator when it comes to young artists. On their first date in a crowded Montmartre nightclub, Jerry unapologetically falls for Lise, a young woman who turns out to be the fiancée of Henri, a professional entertainer and friend of Jerry's pal, Adam, an out-of-work concert pianist. Romantic complications ensue until the inevitable ending but not before several classic Gershwin songs are performed.The best of these is the most imitated - a swooningly romantic song and dance to Our Love Is Here to Stay along a faux-Seine River in a blue hazy mist with yellow fog lights. The way Kelly and Leslie Caron circle each other is transcendent as they approach each other tentatively at first and then synchronize beautifully to the music leading to the final clinch. Few films have so elegantly and succinctly shown two people falling in love. I Got Rhythm and S'Wonderful spotlight Kelly's nimble tap-dancing and agreeable singing, while Embraceable You is danced impressively by Caron in a five-scene montage of Henri's all-over-the-map description of Lise to Adam. Designed to show off Caron's dancing versatility, the sequence is similar to the one in On the Town where Vera-Ellen showed off her considerable dancing skills when Kelly's sailor character described his multi-faceted vision of Miss Turnstiles.As Lise, the nineteen year-old Caron (in her first film) dances superbly throughout and handles her role with unformed charm with her acting talent not to bloom for several years. Looking quite glamorous, Nina Foch plays older as the manipulative Milo and manages to be likable enough for us to care about her fate, while Oscar Levant is just his sardonic self as Adam. Performing an elegant I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise, George Guétary plays Henri so agreeably that you feel bad that he does lose the girl at the end. This is not the best all-around MGM musical, but there is certainly enough movie magic to make this quite worthwhile. The 2000 DVD contains a fairly pristine print but little else in terms of extras. "},{"Title":"Great but over-rated","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I had very high expectations on this movie. Not only was it one of Gene Kelly's best I also loved SINGIN' IN THE RAIN. It is a very good musical.But AN AMERICAN IN PARIS is not really cutting the standards. Sure it is a funny movie, Gene Kelly is amazing and some of the sing & dance-numbers are great, but the love-story is, well, not flat, but un-interesting and I simply didn't belive it. And compared to SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, this movie had no passion and joy. Well, it had passion and joy but not in a 1000 miles close to the love-to-life SINGIN' IN THE RAIN seemed to have.So I'm a bit dissapointed at this movie, but it still was good.7/10    "}{"Title":"Fine musical indeed","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a fine musical with a timeless score by one of my favorite composers (Gershwin) and a nice 'Parisien' atmosphere which gives the movie a lot of charm, but in terms of a story.. well it's not really there. Or at least, not very well worked out. The acting is also not so smooth by Caron. But I liked some of the dialogues, I liked the scene at the Seine, I liked the character played by Levant, the colors; and the dancing of course, which is quite magnificent.A 7.5 - 8 seems on the dot to me. "},{"Title":"Very Charming, Colorful MGM Magic","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It has an excellent, old-fashioned premise, with a slight twist which lands Gene Kelly as a starving artist in Paris. As in many of Kelly's musicals, Kelly wins over a girl through his charming arrogance, running into eventual complications (in this case, the girl's marriage and his patron's feelings for him that go beyond his paintings). The movie is all fun, with spontaneous dancing and singing that makes itself a grand old time at the movies. Some of my favorite scenes are in this film, including `I Got Rhythm' and `Tra-la-la', and yet there are still some minor elements that bother me watching it.The movie does fall apart in the last two scenes it never really ends completely. The `American in Paris' number at the end does sum up the whole movie and does look at the character's dilemma over losing the girl to her fiancé, but it was a bit too nightmarish and too strange for an otherwise lightweight movie (very Carousel). The other surreal interruptions I did enjoy, such as the one where the pianist sees himself playing all of the instruments in the orchestra, but this one comes too little and too late. The bittersweet happy ending which follows it is also very &#145;tacked-on'. "},{"Title":"You'd be better off with Singin' in the Rain","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'e been a huge fan of Singin' in the Rain for quite some time now. I loved the songs, costumes, story, and actors in that one. I had heard of AAIP for a while, too. I've heard it was spectacular and decided to give it a whirl.It's not the worst I've ever seen, oh no. But definitely one of the most disappointing movies I've seen.First of all, Gene Kelly wasn't my favorite in SITR (I prefer Donald O'Connor). But I still thought he was alright. But he wasn't nearly as good in AAIP. His singing is okay here and there. But he doesn't do anything that makes me stare with wide eyes. I've always thought he was overrated. Not bad. But definitely overrated. And I didn't like his character much in this one, either. Also, his chemistry with Leslie Caron is not very believable, in my opinion.Speaking of Leslie, this was her first film. So I understand how she might be uncomfortable. But, am I the only one who doesn't think she's that pretty in this one? I thought she was fabulous in Gigi (1958). She was gorgeous and very talented in that one. But this one, she was missing something. But it was fun to watch her dance on pointe.Kelly's pal, Oscar Levant, is supposed to be the comic relief. Well, he wasn't at all comical, or at all a relief, for that matter. I loved his piano playing and I hope to be as good as him someday. But he was about as humorous as a brick and not a good actor, either. If you want a real good Gene Kelly pal, watch Donald O'Connor in SITR. He's actually funny and talented in many ways.So, I only gave this a 5 because of Levant's piano playing (which was magnificent), Kelly's I Got Rhythmn number with the little kids (but I do still prefer Judy Garland's version of the song), and the ballet at the end. As much as I love SITR, it's ballet was not as exciting. I did like the ballet in AAIP very much.So, all in all, it's a so-so movie. If you like that sort of thing, go ahead and watch it. But I'm warning you. You'd be much better off with watching Singin' in the Rain. "},{"Title":"Who could ask for anything more?","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" What makes for Best Picture material? The Oscars have come in for a lot of stick for rewarding overblown spectacles that have aged poorly, and ignoring the auteurs who would be deified in decades to come. It wasn't because Hollywood was against art or creativity. The Academy Awards are the selections made by the industry itself, and that is why, at least in the classic era, they tended to reward the greatest collaborations, the most sensational meetings of creative minds.The Arthur Freed unit at MGM had been bound for Oscar-winning glory for several years by this point; it was only a matter of time before Freed, aided by his strongest director Vincente Minnelli and some the finest musical stars in the business, would land a Best Picture. Freed had arguably done more to raise the status of the musical than anyone else, crafting pictures which wove story and song together without losing the dynamic spectacle of the 30s musicals. The point about Freed musicals, is that the lyrics of the songs, unlike those of Hammerstein or Lerner, don't have to tell or even relate to the stories. What's important is that the tone of the song and the way it is presented fit into the structure of the film.An American in Paris was the first of three Freed musicals (the other two being Singin' in the Rain and The Band Wagon) which took existing classic numbers out of their original context and made them work in a completely unrelated story. The words don't fit the plot, but the routines fit the show. So, when Gene Kelly sings I Got Rhythm, he hasn't even got a girl yet, but the way it's done with the French kids joining in is a great bit of characterisation, and the upbeat tune and dance gives the movie the little lift it needs at this point. An American in Paris also uses the rule-breaking allowed in the genre to add little unconventional flights of fancy to tell the story, such as the series of dances which accompany the description of Leslie Caron's character.And what better director for this project than Minnelli, himself a painter and a pianist? At this time there wasn't really anyone who had a better feel for Technicolor. While some directors would saturate each scene in one colour or fill the screen with clashing shades, Minnelli's colour schemes are tightly controlled but never look forced. In the opening scenes the tones are fairly muted, but not drab, and in particular there is an absence of red. During Oscar Levant and Georges Guetary's meeting in the café, a few more vibrant shades are introduced. Then, during the first musical number, By Strauss Minnelli gradually brings in splashes of red &#x96; a table cloth, a bunch of roses &#x96; until it eventually dominates, as if the song has awoken the picture's colour scheme. For most of the songs, the colours are choreographed as intricately as the people. However, in some numbers, such as Tra-la-la he keeps the shades the same and instead opens out the space as the song swells up and the characters become more animated.The Achilles' heel of An American in Paris is its story. I personally find the romantic angle particularly unpalatable, playing as it does like a last hurrah for the misogynistic love stories that reigned supreme in the 30s; the headstrong, independent woman gets rejected while the meek, delicate girl is harassed into loving the hero. Even if you don't mind that, it is difficult to connect emotionally with the story because it is constantly overshadowed by the songs and dances. Compare this to Singin' in the Rain, which doesn't really have as many great routines or memorable set-pieces as An American in Paris, but it has a winning storyline. Singin' in the Rain was overlooked at the 1952 Oscars, yet it is regarded as a classic of the genre today. But I think people sometimes forget that cinema is an all-encompassing form of visual entertainment, not just a means of telling a story. An American in Paris is not deep or engaging or tear-jerking but, like a certain DeMille picture that won the top award the following year, it certainly is a great show. "},{"Title":"It must have been that ballet that did it!","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This Minnelli musical won the Oscar as the year's Best Picture, (much to everyone's surprise; A Streetcar Named Desire or A Place in the Sun had been tipped to win). It's a highly colourful entertainment and it has a Gershwin score, (and it has that ballet), but it's not Minnelli's best musical, even with the Gershwin score. As the leads, Gene Kelly and that toothsome gamin Leslie Caron are much too lightweight and it lays on the faux-Gallic charm with a trowel; no, not a trowel, a spade. On the plus side there is that much under-valued and under-used actress Nina Foch as the rich American who takes Kelly under her wing. (She's his 'benefactoress'; please, don't even think it). Otherwise it's pleasant enough, (though the sugar content could rot your teeth), but Best Picture? It must have been that ballet! "},{"Title":"Awesome Performance-Fest, Overrated as a Movie","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The performers in this movie are a top-notch tap dancer / singer (Gene Kelley), top-notch ballerina (Leslie Caron), awesome pianist (Oscar Levant) and a great singer (Georges Guétary). They will entertain you. This is a top MGM musical.A few bits of choreography were unbelievable. Gene Kelley setting up breakfast reminded me of a Jackie Chan kung fu episode and i was laughing on the floor. The introduction for Leslie Caron was very cute. Piano Performances by Oscar Levant were great (although one scene was completely gratuitous.) The Duo between Gene Kelley and Oscar Levant was, for me, the high point of the movie.The movie sinks, however, when considered as a love story. The love story is unconvincing, and its probably because the female lead - partly because of her role, and partly because of her acting, does not convince the audience to fall in love with her. 4 stars here. Better writing and acting could have made this a 9 - much like Before Sunset.As a situation comedy it pretty darned funny at times, 6 stars as a comedy. I don't want to give away spoilers but the 4-way love triangle and the resultant situations are worthy of a Lucille Ball episode or better.The weaknesses of the movie are exposed near the end where there is a low performance to showcase the talent. Apparently the writes and directors realized the story was not going to carry the movie over the top and so they had to do something to compensate for that.Overall score is 20/30 so i rounded it up to a 7 overall score. "},{"Title":"Musical Comedy's Crown Jewel","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An American In Paris is not only the crown jewel of the MGM musical pantheon--it is quite simply the greatest musical ever filmed! The music of George Gershwin is staged and performed so magnificently and memorably that it is hard to imagine a greater production unit who could bring such majesty to the screen. So many famous stories surround the filming of an An American In Paris that most of them now are legend. From studio boss Dore Shary's uncertainty over the financing of the project to the groundbreaking final ballet running an unprecedented 18 minutes, An American In Paris remains the most incomparable musical of the 20th Century.The MGM troupe of actors, producers, directors, and choreographers known as the Fried Unit (named after producer Arthur Freid) reached their zenith when An American In Paris was made. Yet how ironic that the musical was produced after studio mogul Louis B. Mayer had been axed by Loew's executives and replaced by Dory Shary in 1951. For Mayer's tastes fell heavily upon musicals while Shary preferred the stark realism of his first studio offerings THE ASPHALT JUNGLE and BATTLEGROUND. It was Gene Kelly himself who went to Shary and pleaded with him to go forward with production. Though Shary said he understood little of what Kelly and choreographer Stanley Donan were talking about, he nevertheless gave the green light.Kelly's selection and personal mentoring of the dazzling Leslie Caron was a stroke of genius. Caron had been an 18 yr. old ballerina in France and resisted coming to Hollywood to make any movie. But bowing to her mother's influence, Caron did come to America and was cast in the role of Lisa Bourvier, the appealing young French woman engaged to Georges Guetary, who, at the time the film was made, was a musical performer at the Follies Bergier. And how lucky we are that she was cast. She falls for Kelly immediately, an ex-GI living in post-war Paris who takes up painting and is supported by his rich mistress (Nina Foch). The on-screen chemistry between Kelly and Caron is electric from start to finish. And their dance of Gershwin's Our Love Is Here To Stay, performed in the Parisian moonlight, is one of the most unforgettable of musical moments.Nina Foch is sharply effective as Kelly's acerbic lover who finances his artistic endeavors while keeping him in check. And Oscar Levant? Who better to wash over the piano keyboard playing the music of George Gershwin than the man who knew him best and who once performed Concerto in F so well that some said he did it better than Gershwin himself. Guetary was a splendid choice as Caron's fiancé who sees the light near the end and realizes that Caron can never be his. As for Vincente Minelli's direction the final ballet stands as his masterpiece and has been cemented into Hollywood history forever.Of course, Kelly shoots through the film like a meteor. From his wonderful interaction with the children in I GOT RHYTHM to the stunning finale where he switches moods, tempos, and costumes to fit the changing rhythms of Gershwin's immortal symphony, it is simply Kelly's most memorable performance. You can enjoy the wonderful soft shoe in SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, the deft newspaper dance in SUMMER STOCK, or shake your head at the roller skates number in IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER, but even those fantastic efforts pale in comparison to the finale of An American In Paris. Ironic that the entire ballet occurs in Kelly's mind as a dream fantasy--for who knows how long it may have been Kelly's dream to team the music of George Gershwin with the backdrop of Paris and the artistic images of Loutrec.Everyone should be treated at one time or another to An American In Paris. And if the opportunity arises, it must be seen on the screen, not television. Like CITIZEN KANE or THE WIZARD OF OZ, it towers as one of filmdom's grandest experiences---and qualifies easily for inclusion in the top 10 of Hollywood's highest artistic achievements.Trivia Only two movie musicals won the Academy Award for Best Picture of the Year in the 1950's An American In Paris and GIGI-- both MGM productions and both orchestrated within the 'Fried Unit.'...Leslie Caron has said she wanted nothing to do with Hollywood when she was contacted to make a screen test at the age of 18. But her mother finally persuaded her to go to America and be cast in the film...Movie censors were very concerned about Caron's dance with a chair that was seen to be too suggestive. Caron has said What could you possibly do with a chair?....Gene Kelly researched not only the art and images of Toulouse Loutrec for the final ballet, but the life of Chocolate--the African dancer who Loutrec painted at the Follies Begier whom Kelly brings to life in the ballet...Many have said that Oscar Levant's fantasy sequence where he plays Concerto In F, then conducts the orchestra, and finally applauds his own efforts wildly from the audience when it's over, was representative of his hunger for the approval he felt escaped him all his musical career...In Levant's autobiography one of the chapters is titled My Autobiography Or The Life Of George Gershwin.....The sidewalk café scene in which Levant brings his coffee cup up to his mouth and smashes his cigarette after he realizes both Kelly and Guetary are in love with the same woman, was completely spontaneous...In 1974 THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT, an anthology of MGM musical greatness, was produced by Jack Haily, Jr. as a wave of musical nostalgia swept over the entertainment world. The climax and final portion of the film, introduced by Frank Sinatra, was a tribute to AN American IN Paris with excerpts from the ballet finale. Standing in front of the Thallberg Building, Sinatra begins by saying, We've saved the best for last......Dennis Caracciolo "},{"Title":"Colorful, Entertaining, & At Times Quite Creative","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The colorful settings and costumes and some good musical numbers help make An American in Paris an entertaining movie despite some noticeable weaknesses in the plot and the characters. It is often quite creative as well, especially in the music and dance sequences, with Gene Kelly, Leslie Caron, and Oscar Levant all getting some good chances to use their talents.Kelly makes Jerry, his rather shallow character, work all right just by more or less being himself, and letting his talent take over. It would have been more satisfying if Jerry were a little easier to like, but Kelly makes up for a lot of that. Levant is enjoyable as Kelly's side-kick, and it's nice to see him get a number to himself. His orchestra routine is a creative, entertaining sequence that's not entirely unworthy of comparison with the amazing sequence in Buster Keaton's The Playhouse. Caron is low-key, but engaging and talented.The variety numbers are, of course, the highlights, and most of them are very good. It's topped off by an especially intricate sequence that uses color, settings, and the talents of the cast to good effect. It's easy to appreciate and enjoy, yet it's also clear that plenty of care and thought had to go into it.In a similar way, the movie as a whole leaves a light, carefree impression, yet a fair amount of talent went into making it that way. It never quite comes together in the way that the finest musicals (such as Singin' in the Rain) do, but it still has plenty to offer.  "},{"Title":"Full of effort and ambition","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have a lot of patience for this type of film. Yes, it may have been a little over-ambitious and there are questions of competence for the supporting cast and crew, but for me, it satisfies. The film's intent is rather clear to create a layered and self-referential parallel between two different artforms, painting and the musical. It dabbles with ideas of abstraction which were really beyond both Kelly and Minnelli's capabilities (resorting to mere fancy colours and extravagant sets), but there is much to be admired in their attempts. It's no Red Shoes, Meet Me in St. Louis, and certainly no Singin' in the Rain, but as an experiment and as sheer enjoyment, it pulls it off.3 out of 5 - Some strong elements "},{"Title":"Deeply flawed Ambition","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What people tend to forget is that Gershwin's orchestral works were incredibly modern in their day and far from as popularly accessible when compared to his songs. Equally, as far as I understand it, the painting of the period was experimenting with modernism too.We can't fault Gene Kelly and Vincent Minelli's ambition but its no surprise that this attempt to combine modern art and music with good old fashioned showbiz fails. The famous twenty minute ballet finale looses its way in a mess of pretentiousness and lets be honest - the dancing technique is not as strong as we'd come to expect from Kelly. Still accepting it's faults it remains one of my favourite Hollywood experiments of the period, which lets face it are few and far between.  "}{"Title":"Beautiful dancing","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Gene Kelly, who was a magnificent tap-dancer, also shows his balletic skills in An American in Paris.  One example of this is in the dance at the fountain scene, one of the most famous from the movie.  And Leslie Caron, perhaps most famous for her role as Gigi, holds her own alongside Kelly with her own dancing ability.  If you don't like dancing, I wouldn't recommend this movie.  But if you do, as I do, I really recommend this classic musical.  Watch it and judge for yourself why it's considered one of the greatest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Why don't they make movies like this any more?","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I grew up on MGM musicals. In the 60's I worked in the script department at MGM. I consider MGM my alma mater...the greatest studio the world has ever known, or ever will... and it saddens me to see only one viewer comment on this magnificent film. If the kids today were to watch it, perhaps they'd realize how sad it is that they don't have this kind of film, this kind of immortal music, this kind of great performers to enjoy week after week.. I am only thankful that in my era Hollywood made good decent films... before computer effects, before the so-called music called rock and rap, before all the gratuitous violence and needless explicitness that has made many besides myself prefer renting classic films at Blockbusters to enduring the gross tasteless garbage that pollutes most cinema screens these days.  Ooops..I didn't mean to climb on my soapbox, but after watching An American in Paris on PBS tonight, I was reminded of the sorry state of the movies today and how wonderful the golden age of Hollywood was.  God bless Vincente Minnelli, Gene Kelly, Leslie Caron...wherever you are now...We miss you! Let's hope PBS gives us more of the classics to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Good Musical, But Somewhat Over-Rated","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An American in Paris is a pretty good film, but has always been over-rated in my opinion.  The film deals with a young American artist (Gene Kelly) in post-World War II France who falls in love with a very young woman (Leslie Caron) during his stay there.  The Oscar-winning screenplay is not very smart (very seldom does a musical have a good screenplay) at all to me.  None of the performances are overly impressive either.  It is the flawless direction and the amazing set decorations that save An American in Paris.  This film won the Best Picture Oscar in 1951 (it was only the second film in color to win the award, Gone With the Wind was first).  However, it is little more than a curiosity today.  There are numerous musicals that are overall better than this one.  4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"To me this movie is a true American classic.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you are like me and love the music written by George Gershwin and the lyrics by Ira Gershwin you should love this movie. To me this movie is a true American classic. The movie was directed by none other than Vincente Minnelli (On a Clear Day You Can See Forever, Gigi) who was also the father of Lisa Minnelli.  I like musicals and cannot understand why musicals are no longer big despite the small success of Evita. Those musicals of the fifties are very enjoyable. I have the tape of the movie Rhapsody in Blue which is the biography of the Gershwin brothers and was comparing the similarities in the two movies. George Girshwin lived in Paris for a period of time and was involved with an American woman who lived also in Paris, and who also painted. There are definitely some elements of an autobiography in An American in Paris, perhaps focusing more on the life of George in Paris, where Rhapsody in Blue did not go into many details. My husband was just reminding me that someone once told Scorsese to write about things that he knew. This movie seems that way.   Gene Kelly Jerry Mulligan was so natural and wonderful in what he did and that adds much to this movie.  Leslie Caron (Father Goose) Lise Bouvier the woman that Jerry Mulligan falls in love was also a great dancer. That scene where she dances with the chair is beautiful. Oscar Levant (Rhapsody in Blue) was great pianist and composer besides been and actor. He also plays a pianist along with Robert Alda (Imitation of Life) who played George Gershwin in Rhapsody in Blue.  Robert Alda was also the father of brilliant actor Alan Alda.  I recommend this movie, the music is great, I just love musicals. Favorite Scenes That dance where Leslie Caron dances with the chair is beautiful.  Favorite Quotes Jerry Mulligan That's... quite a dress you almost have on. Milo Roberts Thanks. Jerry Mulligan What holds it up? Milo Roberts Modesty.                                              "},{"Title":"Gershwin + Minelli + Kelly + Caron + Levant = Masterpiece","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The musicals of the 1940s and 1950s produced by Arthur Freed's unit at MGM gave director Vincent Minelli his claims to being a major film talent of that period. With his background on Broadway, Minelli knew more than simply super choreography (like his predecessor of the 1930s, Busby Berkeley) but how to frame his shots, and create memorable performances from his actors. His best musical is hard to choose, but it is among these films Meet Me In St. Louis, An American In Paris, Gigi, The Band Wagon (and this overlooks such interesting works as Yolanda And The Thief, The Pirate, Brigadoon, and In The Good Old Summertime). Minelli was not afraid to take chances if he knew he had the staff to carry it off. When he made An American In Paris he had the right staff.Movies about or dealing with ballet had been around for decades. These included melodramas like The Mad Genius with John Barrymore and Donald Cook (supposedly suggested by a twisted view of the relations between Diaghilev and Nijinski) and The Spectre Of The Rose, and then the British masterpiece The Red Shoes. The latter film had shown one could make a compelling movie about the ballet including a complete ballet sequence. There had been films with ballet - type sequences in American musicals, the most notable being Minelli's own film with Kelly, The Pirate (when they show the pirate Macoco's sack of a city), and in the musical Words and Music about Rodgers and Hart, where Kelly did Slaughter On Tenth Avenue. But the latter was actually based on a ballet from the Rodgers and Hart musical On Your Toes, and the sequence in The Pirate is a piece of imagination of how Kelly (pretending to be Macoco) envisions himself as that legendary pirate. The concluding ballet in An American In Paris is an integral part of the story, summarizing the emotional agony that Kelly's Jerry Mulligan is facing at that moment by the loss of his girlfriend Lisa Bouvier (Leslie Caron).An American In Paris has a simple story line - Kelly is an ex-GI who stayed in France to study art, and who lives near his friend Adam Cook (Oscar Levant), a pianist/composer studying music in Paris. Kelly meets a wealthy woman (Milo Roberts - Nina Foch) who offers patronage assistance, but only if Kelly considers having a serious romantic affair with her. While trying to maintain his self-respect despite Foch's enticing offers, Kelly sees Caron at a nightclub, and tries to attract her attention. He does not know that she is the fiancé of another friend of his and Levant, the entertainer (Henri Baurel - Georges Guetery), and she is hesitant about seeing him, but gradually falls to his charms and loves him. But she is loyal to Guetery, and will not stop plans for marrying him, despite Kelly's feelings. As he sees them drive off, he imagines the An American In Paris ballet sequence. Minelli pulled out all his artistic ideas here (with Kelly's assistance) basing the various settings and characters on impressionist artists of the late 19th Century (in fact, in the Moulin Rouge section you can see a diminutive Toulouse Lautrec seated at a table). The film uses plenty of Gershwin tunes, besides the An American In Paris. I've Got Rhythm, 'Swonderful!, By Strauss, and other tunes pop up, including Guetery doing a show-stopper, I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise One of the curious ironies of the film, by the way, is that Guetery never made any other American movie after this. He had been in films in France since 1938, and should have had a longer career in our films too, but - unlike Maurice Chevalier or Charles Boyer - stayed in France. In the long run it did no harm to him - his recordings of tunes and stage work made him a millionaire success in France before his death in 1997.Levant too does well, playing his caustic, smarter-than-the-hero type. His show-stopper is a three or four minute spot where he sees himself giving a concerto performance in a concert hall, where all the musicians (including the conductor, the drummer, the string section) are himself. It turns out the audience also includes him. If not thoroughly original (Buster Keaton did a short like this in the 1920s), it is well done, especially when we see Levant's handling of the keyboard. His witty repartee and neurotic problems aside, people tend to forget that Levant was a highly gifted pianist, and a close friend (and interpreter) of George Gershwin. As for his repartee, his best line is when he quietly deflates Nina Foch at a party towards the end of the film.Leslie Caron had been seen in a production in France by Kelly, who suggested her for his dancing partner in the ballet as a result. Her gamin like qualities showed through, leading to her later 1950s successes in Lili and Gigi. But her best moments here are in the ballet, dancing well with Kelly - he as a boulevardier type and she as a fashionable young woman. Later they both change costumes to fit the styles of the different painters the sets mirror.An American In Paris became the first musical film to win the Oscar for best picture. Minelli would repeat this success (with Caron) seven years later with Gigi. As for Kelly, his interest in ballet based movies would reach it's high point a few years later with his Invitation To The Dance. "},{"Title":"Kelly Provides the Dance...But What About the Rest?","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gene Kelly was so interested in putting groundbreaking dance on screen in this 1951 musical extravaganza that he forgot to include a story or characters while he was at it. The Gotta Dance fantasy ballet sequence in Singin' in the Rain is considered by many to be the only thing wrong with that movie; the entire running time of An American in Paris feels like that ballet. Gene Kelly runs amok, and the result is colorful but tiresome when stretched out to this length.It doesn't help matters any that Rain had the perky Debbie Reynolds and comic antics of Donald O'Connor, while Paris has, well, Leslie Caron. This little gamine is as bland as an unsalted pretzel, and I just simply didn't care a whiff about her or Kelly or whether they were going to get it on or not.Some memorable musical numbers distinguish this film, but I think people are wrong to consider it Gene Kelly's choreographic masterpiece.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Gene Kelly's perfect moment","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The best part of An American In Paris is the lengthy ballet sequence at the end, where Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron are the living personification of several major painters.  Kelly has earlier been established as a pavement artist in Paris, so the sequence is the logical ending to a musical bursting with life and energy, Gershwin tunes, and cast members like Georges Guetary and Oscar Levant.  Kelly was at his best here - it's a little different to Singin' in the Rain, and the effect of all the film as one topped with the ballet gives it a definite wow factor.  No wonder the sequence ended 'That's Entertainment' after all other MGM musical highlights had gone by! "},{"Title":"S' Wonderful? Not entirely..","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Although the word megalmania is used a lot to describe Gene Kelly, and sometimes his dancing is way too stiff, you have to admit the guy knows how to put on a show. In American In Paris, he choreographs some outstanding numbers, some which stall the plot, but are nonetheless amazing to look at. (Check out Gene Kelly's Getting Out Of Bed Routine for starters)Gene Kelly stars as a GI who is based out of Paris, he stayed there to paint, soon he is a rich woman's gigolo, but he really LOVES SOMEONE ELSE! Hoary story sure, but the musical numbers save the show here! I really loved Georges Gu¨¦tary's voice work in this one. His 'Stairway to Paradise' and his duet with Le Gene on 'S Wonderful' is 's marvelous'. Oscar Levant and Leslie Caron I can take or leave. All in all, a pretty good, but not dynamite movie. "},{"Title":"You'll ALWAYS be standing next to me, Lise","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Sixty-five years after its release, this film still has a number of things to recommend it.Gene Kelly as Jerry Mulligan, a WWII GI who decides to remain in Paris to pursue the life of a painter, is a joy to watch as a dancer. No surprise! Kelly captured insouciant hoofing like no one else and I particularly enjoyed his soft-shoe routines. I also liked the scenes early in the film in which he seamlessly glides into partnerships with a couple of charming elderly women.In addition there is the idealized backdrop of the colorful French capital. Director Vincente Minnelli conjures all of its romance, from café and bar scenes to romantic idylls by the Seine to the picturesque artsiness of Montmartre.I also liked Nina Foch as Milo Roberts, a rich American heiress who doesn't want to believe that money can't buy her love.I had some trouble with the casting of Lesie Caron as Lise Bouvier. I did not find her attractive and the extreme age difference between her and Kelly (almost 20 years), left me struggling to sense authentic chemistry. (As the mother of two boys who both needed braces, I could not help but be greatly distracted by her overbite!) I agree with some past reviewers that this film is egregiously padded. Too many of the song and dance sequences are unnecessary, though one can't quibble with the excellence of Gershwin's music. Scenes like the art students' masquerade needed far tighter editing.I caught snippets of this film earlier this month, when it was airing on TCM Nordic and I had little else to do in my albeit delightful hotel room in remote Isafjordur, Iceland. I was glad to have been able to see the film in its entirety once I returned to New York. "},{"Title":"A near-perfect Technicolor dream","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The musical is a genre that has seen its better days, honestly, but back in the glory days of Hollywood they could churn them out like nobody's business. AN American IN Paris, while not the best of them (or my favorite), certainly ranks up there as one of the all-time greats. The story is a bit on the ordinary/cliché side, but everything else that holds the film together is spectacular and quite a sight to see. There is amazing sets and production design, beautiful music, and of course some of the best choreographed dancing I've ever seen. Gene Kelly is the star of this movie and he makes it all seem so effortless. Of course, the supporting cast is no slouch either and more than pull their weight when it comes to the song and dance numbers. Another plus is the soundtrack and score, composed largely of tunes by George Gershwin (who also happens to be one of my favorite composers). Of course there is the title song which is played numerous times over the course of the film, but also other familiar songs like 'S Wonderful and I Got Rhythm, to name a couple. In a couple of instances, the appearance of certain tunes seem a little bit shoehorned, but it doesn't take very long for you to be swept up in the magic on screen and forget about everything else. One of my favorite moments in the film actually didn't involve singing or dancing. It was a fantasy sequence in which Jerry's (Gene Kelly) friend and fellow artist, Adam (Oscar Levant) imagines himself giving a concert of Gershwin's Concerto in F...except that he's also the conductor, the orchestra, and the audience who gives himself applause at the end. As a pianist myself, this sequence was very entertaining and humorous. The only problem is that it doesn't really fit into the larger framework of the film, and messes up the pacing a bit. Directly after this sequence, the pacing goes by a little too quick to catch up with itself. The only other issue I have with the film is the ending not the magnificent song and dance sequence set to An American in Paris, but the very end. Without spoiling it, I kind of wish the ending had been kept a little more ambiguous instead of going for the usual, crowd-pleasing happy one. That being said, I absolutely enjoyed watching this. It was a like a Technicolor dream full of vivacious energy, vibrant color and soul-stirring music. In my opinion, it's not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Vincent Minelli gets on the bandwagon for a dance movie","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Although director Minelli's work is generally considered Hollywood gold his experiment with an early 1950's dance oriented film won an academy award for best picture without translating well to millennium audiences today. Among the five leads Nina Foch was ill for most of the shooting, Georges Giuterry was a relative unknown in America, Leslie Caron and Oscar Levant became infamous as difficult to direct and Gene Kelly as the choreographer of a dance film was more a line boss than a performer on the set. The tap sequences are exquisite and there is a full performance of a one act ballet during the running time, all positives for dance fans. Despite Minelli's obvious talents shining through casting three leads who are not dancers in a dance film - Foch, Giuterry and Levant, gives the romantic leads, Kelly and Caron more to dance than to sing and does Caron really have a song in the film? "},{"Title":"American In Paris is not for everyone","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The plot and story-line are just a vehicle for some incredible choreography and visual composition. It was so abstract and way ahead of it's time. Watch this on a giant screen to get the full impact. Taking a painting by Toulouse-Lautrec and morphing it into a dance rendition was genius. It is so much like creating a painting. One layer on top of another. The movie itself is like a flow of scenes overlapping. The music is crescendo on crescendo. It's an odd combination of old-fashioned tap dancing and innovative modern dance from the fifties. Gene Kelly is in top form. The only bad thing I can say about this movie is it can overload your senses. If you don't like dance or visual art, this isn't for you. "},{"Title":"Paris mania","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is about a dozen or so film adhering Hollywood's umbilical cord to Paris. It must have been the most sought after city during the period. Our Love is Here to Stay, I Got Rhythm, S Wonderful are phenomenal reasons to watch this film. Gene Kelly has a respectable voice crooning those classics and leads Caron's dancing to perfection.Embraceable You, and I've Got a Crush on You can be enjoyed from the dancing sequences. Musicals are entertaining and fun to watch. No love interest can be expressed to the hilt without a perfect song and a dance to match. Winning a woman's heart in an elaborate serenade lightens up the effort and reaps equal response from both the woman and the audience. Caron's dancing wags the tail of love she willingly expresses.Anybody who enjoys the classic songs from this period will enjoy more of this music in all the musicals featuring Judy Garland, Doris Day, Fred Astaire, Frank Sinatra, and much more. From 1961 to 1965 3 out of 5 movies were musicals! Catch them. "},{"Title":"Artistic triumph, but a bit of a bore in the romantic department.","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the weakest choices for the Best Picture Oscar Winner, An American in Paris today is still considered one of the great dance musicals of all times, and certainly with the lengthy An American in Paris ballet, plus some of George and Ira Gershwin's greatest songs, it certainly is great-musically. However, the romance between kept man Gene Kelly and the young ballet hopeful Leslie Caron bogs the plot down and at times, it does become a bit sleep inducing. But when Kelly sings or when Georges Geutary prepares to come down those Folies Bergere steps, or Caron puts on her ballet shoes, it moves into the world of cinematic magic.Kelly is being kept by the wealthy American Nina Foch, but of course, that arrangement is doomed once he meets the French waif Caron. That is basically all that goes on plotwise, and fortunately, a good majority of the film is song and dance. Whether it is Kelly asking for I Gots from a group of French kiddies (all he does is repeat Rhythm) or dancing to Our Love is Here to Stay with Caron, Guetary insisting that I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise, or shots of the magical city of Paris in the glorious ballet, that aspect of this movie is both touching and timeless, and background music of all Gershwin standards (much of it unsung) makes this worth catching, even if you must fast-forward through the non-musical sequences. Producer Arthur Freed and Vincent Minnelli do paint a postcard of one of the most romantic cities in world history, and the photography, costumes, choreography and editing are all top drawer. "},{"Title":"A 3-star movie with a 4-star ballet staring Leslie Caron","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Is this one of the most over-rated movies of all time? Some people think so. Shot at MGM's Hollywood Studios with only some exterior Paris footage, yet very effectively done. Gene Kelly is Jerry Mulligan, the ex-G.I. painter who never left Paris after the war. His two main friends are Adam, (Oscar Levant) a frustrated musical pianist-genius, and Henri, (Georges Guetay) a brilliant song-and-dance man in the style of Maurice Cavalier. Georges' showcase musical number is Stairway to Paradise with several gorgeous showgirls.These three men all live in the same building and share cafe downstairs. Jerry Mulligan falls in love with two women, although one (Nina Foch as Milo Roberts) tries to buy his affection by sponsoring his paintings. Lise (Lisa) as played by Leslie Caron, is his true love, so naturally she is engaged to Henri. Oscar Levant has a brilliant sequence wherein he performs one of Gershwin's great concertos. Quite humorous as he plays most of the musical instruments himself through effects photography. He was a deeply troubled man, but a great pianist. The entire movie is a set-up for the 20-minute 4-star An American in Paris ballet. Curiously, this finale was almost not filmed, but Gershwin and Mayer insisted on it--they were right. Without it, this would have been a 2nd-rate musical with old recycled Gershwin material. Leslie Caron is a magnificent ballerina, and exactly half the age of Kelley at age 19. So petite and yet so powerful a dancer! A wonderful fairy tale ending, as Lise and Gene run toward each other, embrace, and kiss. "},{"Title":"Paris has ways of making people forget.","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Movie musicals aren't my strong suit, but most of the time when I see one it manages to be entertaining enough. Gene Kelly has a way of making all of his dance moves seem effortlessly easy, and watching Leslie Caron keep in step with him is one of the highlights of the film. I wasn't too crazy about the romantic entanglements in the story, as Jerry Mulligan (Kelly) seemed better suited to end up with his sponsor Milo Roberts (Nina Foch); while Caron's character didn't seem to be a match for either Jerry or her fiancée. I never could quite understand how a jilted lover, in this case Henri (Georges Guetary), manages to be so gallant in the end when his girlfriend goes off with another man.The main attraction here is the song and dance. Kelly is fun to watch in every one of his numbers, and the sequence featuring his pianist buddy Adam (Oscar Levant) was fairly innovative and entertaining. I got a kick out of the way Levant reacted to Henri's counsel for Jerry in matters of love and romance.Even though the picture relied heavily on extravagant use of color, it was interesting to see the gala black and white Mardi Gras style party in costumed splendor. As befitting the title of the picture, a couple more of the lavish dance sequences relied heavily on red, white and blue, an appropriate statement considering Kelly's character an ex-GI.This film made AFI's original Top 100 Movies of all time in 1997, but dropped off a decade later when the listing was revised in 2007. Considering it's competition for the Best Picture Oscar in 1952, namely A Streetcar Named Desire and A Place in the Sun, it's curious to me how this one would have taken top honors, but I've stopped fretting about these things a long time ago. For my money, I'll take Kelly's follow up a year later, Singin' in the Rain, but if you're a fan of movie musicals, there's enough entertainment value in both to keep one satisfied. "},{"Title":"Overlong and rather slight in the story, but the music and choreography more than makes up for it","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am a fan of musicals, and while I don't consider An American in Paris as a direct favourite of mine I still enjoyed it regardless. I agree it is overlong, and the story is very slight here and plays second-fiddle to the music, choreography and such, thankfully all of which make up for it. The cinematography is beautiful, as are the luscious costumes, while the Technicolour is simply marvellous. The choreography is very clever and well-staged, Gene Kelly dances with real athleticism and the 17 minute long ballet sequence while criticised for being overlong and dated is very balletic and I think interesting. And George Gershwin's(Porgy and Bess) score is superb, particularly the charming I Got Rhythm sequence and I'll Build a Staircase to Paradise. Gene Kelly is fine in his role, and Leslie Caron's debut actually is pretty good. Vincente Minelli does well directing. All in all, not a favourite but I still really liked it. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Collection Musicals (2/6)","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie was a really pleasant, funny and poetic moment.It was refreshing to come back at a time when shameless sex or gratuitous violence was kept out the screen. I was happily surprised to see that values as honesty, sincerity were affirmed. The character played by Gene is symbolic in that way when he receives lavish gifts from his sponsor, he intends to pay. When his girl admits that she sees another man, he quits her immediately. In that way, films can be really helpful to their audience by lifting their doubts or answering their questions.In addition, the musical sequences are used here in a dreamy thus compelling way. The dance and the music illustrate the characters' feelings and don't stop the story. Better, this choice enhances the pleasure. Minelli has a taste similar to Lynch as they prefer to direct mood than shot a linear, straight movie. And they achieve their accomplishments with surprising basic camera moves when the characters dance, it's almost shot continuously, with no cuts or zoom.On the other hand, Gene and her partner are charming, the colors are vivid it's really a dedication to what is the best in life. Surely, Paris is a great place for romance and it was funny to see that french are depicted as wearing berets (as in a later Simpsons episode). In all cases, it's true that french places and inside furniture haven't changed a lot and that's maybe our antic taste that makes the spell.In conclusion, this movie worths all the awards and much more! "},{"Title":"dancers dream","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Dancing is the most important part of this movie, Gershwin has never been better choreographed. there are many set pieces , but one must view this as a dance movie and not a musical. It is also very symphonic. It stands alone as probably the greatest tribute to Gershwin, besides porgy and Bess, but includes gene Kelley's dancing. Thus it is one of the most unique movies of the early fifties, and perhaps of the whole musical-dance genre. The Technicolor has held up well and the movie seems as fresh today as when it was first exhibited. It is one of my niece's favorite movies and she is only 17. There is enough drama in the movie although story is not what one watches this movie for , it is nevertheless a great love story and reminds me of my pursuit of my wife. "},{"Title":"'S Wonderful!","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I fell in love with this film on its first run.I've seen it many times since.The most recent viewing was on television in January of 2010.Obviously it's just as it was.No film, once released in a final cut, can be either better or worse than ever it was.But my enjoyment of An American in Paris is greater every time I see it.Other films I've seen many times Citizen Kane Orfeo Negro (never again the dubbed version) Fantasia Gone With The WindSwingCha's site ABOUT DANCING http//AboutDancing.info/ "}{"Title":"The taste of life is not haunting that film","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Another film I had never seen and that had become a myth. For the time it was a pretty good film with a lot of dancing, a small lot of singing, a great lot of romanticism, divided loyalties, but no jealousy, just love and gallant attitudes better yield to the love of a lady than to marry her out of some forced gratitude. Then a sprinkle of French and good nice spots in Paris. A good touristic vision of that Paris that has probably never existed. and there we are we have a fairy tale in a satin shrine, but life is so much more different. Americans and bubble gum. The kids and everyone loves them. A real dream on and in a cloud. And yet it is charming even if with the charm of an absolutely surreal and unreal vision. In other words it is a perfect musical for Broadway, and that kind of show is perfect on a stage, and on a stage it is too often acted. The big gigantic staircases going down to the embankments of the Seine sound like some wooden sound stage because they are a wooden sound stage. It would have been so much better in the real setting. But I guess no camera or cameraman ever set one tip of a foot in Paris. That's what I regret about this mythic film it does not carry nor convey the feeling and smell of reality. But a rather funny entertainment if you like forgetting about the real world.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Great showcase for the talent that was Gene Kelly.","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When you watch An American in Paris,you will not be in awe of its' story.It is your basic boy meets girl story and not unlike many films of its day in that regard.What you will be in awe of is Gene Kelly.Few could sing and dance as well as this man.The makers of this film knew this and the result is a grand showcase of Gene Kelly's talent.Again,you will be in awe as you watch Kelly pull off the hardest of dance moves without even breaking one bead of sweat,and to top it off,he sang like a bird.Naturally,you would want songs written by the best of composers to support such a voice.You can't go wrong with George and Ira Gershwin.Don't look for a strong plot here,just a whole lot of great singing and dancing. "},{"Title":"Gorgeously designed showcase for Gene Kelly, who is better than usual...","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Though rightfully regarded as one of the top musical-comedy talents of the 1940s and '50s, Gene Kelly's performances as an actor never get much notice--and that's because as an actor he makes a terrific dancer. Partly due to his insistence on playing much the same role over and over again (sort of an overripe, adult Andy Hardy, always on the make and always expressing it grandly), Kelly is rather hard to take seriously when a girl breaks his heart. Although his whispered vocals just pass muster in the song department, Kelly's skill as a choreographer and his uncanny and graceful abilities as a hoofer are faultless. Here he's a former soldier in post-WWII Paris who is hoping to gain attention for his artistic abilities; a rich benefactor (Nina Foch) seems to want romance in exchange for helping him along, but Kelly's heart belongs to a French salesgirl (Leslie Caron, in a sparkling debut). The plot-thread with Foch never satisfies because nobody's heart was in it (not director Vincente Minnelli's, nor Kelly's), and I was feeling more for her than I was probably supposed to. Still, the George and Ira Gershwin songs are used to great effect (except I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise, shoehorned in along with a lighted staircase) and the closing ballet is eye-candy in motion. Some of Gene's extreme close-ups are quite breathtaking (he can be charming when he wants to be), but one senses that both he and Minnelli were out to bowl us over with razzle-dazzle, and that doesn't leave much room for real substance. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Symbolic names?","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" There is not much I need to add to the reviews already posted, but I wonder if anyone has ever commented on the way the two female characters seem to be named after two of the most famous works in Paris' Louvre museum? Milo Roberts, when introducing herself to Jerry, even points out to him that her name is like the 'Venus de Milo, and although beautiful, he finds her about as alluring as a cold marble statue. But Lise Bouvier is as mysterious and fascinating for him as the Mona Lisa.And in case anyone is interested, I am with those who prefer Singing in the Rain. Still, Gene Kelly dancing for the French children, or singing Our Love is Here to Stay, Leslie Caron's charming smile, Oscar Levant's freaky orchestra scene, and those fabulous light-up stairs in Stairway to Paradise are all highlights! "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  First saw the first half on television, then the last few minutes on an airplane movie. With satisfaction from just the beginning and end, I bought the movie, (also because of me being a big fan of Gene Kelly) and was not disappointed. The absolute best part of the movie is the American in Paris 18 minutes dance which Gene Kelly is at his best. The plot is cute and charming as well are the actors, 'Jerry Mulligan',Gene Kelly and 'Henri'Georges Guétary. Leslie Caron also gives a great first movie performance.Another part in the movie, which is also rather long, is the part where Oscar Levent(the struggling pianist) performs his concert in a daydream. George Gershwin, who supplied most if not all the music, and him create great music, meaning a great soundtrack.A wonderfully entertaining classic film that everyone should see. 10/10 "},{"Title":"great musical, bad ending","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  i thought the movie was pretty good, great dancing and singing, very beautiful sets.  Gene Kelly is one of the greatest stars ever to appear on screen.  However, the ending made absolutely no sense and seemed added on. "},{"Title":"Great Musical Numbers","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film a lot but I was not impressed with the leading lady, Leslie Caron. She and Gene danced well together (in the Our Love is Here to Stay)but her acting ability was lacking. I know it was her film debut but... I did enjoy Georges Guétary. I sing I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise in the shower. He, Gene, and Oscar made the movie for me. They were a terrific trio. As I said before the musical numbers were great. Minnelli's direction really lead the way. A nice Freed Unit musical. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MUSICAL EVER!!!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  You've gotta see this! Gene Kelly was never better It's one musical scene from the next.... The music is all by George Gershwin (yipee!) and includes 8 musical numbers...including, Embraceable You, By Strauss, I Got Rhythm (couldn't be any cuter!), Love is Here to Stay (you know, Gene and Leslie dancing on the bridge?), Stairway to Paradise, Concerto in F, S'Wonderful (if ya don't know that one, I feel sorry for ya!), and of course, THE BALLET!!!!!  the An American In Paris suite (well, duh) and at the end... an 18-miute ballet ) I'm telling you... the ballet is the best part! Gene does his Wigglebutt Dance (in a white bodysuit!*swoon*), the dance on the fountain with Leslie Caron...and many other parts...and it's just plain beautiful. Oscar Levant is in it too... and he's....I  dunno ...priceless? yes, that's the word! I was born in '84...SO, it's obviously not just for adults.... I know many, many kids that love this movie, and tons of adults... So, I hope you get or rent or love this movie or something, cuz it's the best!! "},{"Title":"Okay, for a musical","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" More-or-less okay movie, by musicals standards. Then again, the bar is set very low in that genre. Plot is decent, though basic. Once you remove all the singing and dancing, there is actually very little plot development. It's a very simple guy-meets-girl story, just with a great setting, padded with heaps of song and dance numbers.Pity is that the more the movie goes on, the more the music takes over from the plot. The initial plot was interesting, but its rate of development slows the longer you go on, as the musical numbers get bigger and more frequent.Music is bearable, which is more than one can say for many musicals (yes, Les Miserables, I'm looking at you).Performances are fine, though, as with the plot, strip out all the singing and dancing and there is little acting going on, time-wise. "},{"Title":"A romantic and gay Paris","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fans of the movie genres known as Musical, Classic, and Romance and pure true lovers, lend me your ear. If you looking for the perfect romance musical, then the Oscar-winning An American in Paris is really the right movie for you. From the first minute, you, fellow viewer and reader, has been transformed into a cinematic world of lavishing color, enchanting magic and endless delights. After the end, even the whole movie stays with you for long as you can remember. This is the story of Jerry Mulligan Gene Kelly, a former American GI living in Paris making paintings and making friends with pianist Adam Cook Oscar Levant and singer Henri Baurel Georges Guetary. He soon finds love in the form of Lise Bouvier Leslie Caron, but soon romantic problems develop and Lise is not sure of what to do with her future with Jerry.This is one of the most delicious and most shining musicals around, and the superb score and choreography shows why this film feels not really dated. George and Ira Gershwin has mastered a genius of a lovely score right here, filled with so much many hummable songs such as I Got Rhythm, Our Love is Here to Stay, Stairway to Paradise and so much more. This is really and truly better than most of the music we have today. The choreography by Kelly is and truly a revelation. The most memorable of these, the ballet in the end, is one of the most ingenious and wondrous musical numbers we have ever seen in the history of the American musical.Kelly gives an everyday guy persona to Jerry. Once he becomes a character, we stay with him that way. The way he acts, the way he really dances, the way he sings, he really is a different type of a character. Caron really delivers in her first film role as Lise. She gives a lighting spark of radiance and power to the character. The moments that Kelly and Caron are together, the heart of romance goes aflutter and the viewer suddenly has gone love struck, rooting for them all the way.Even the supporting cast is feeling the magic as we speak. Levant is very funny and sensational. He delivers the film's comic moment when he conducts his own orchestra performing his own piece in a hilarious dream. Guetary is all dapper and gay. He is truly a wonder performing Stairway to Paradise. Nina Foch also delivers as Jerry's society friend, Milo. She delivers one of the film's best one liners when waiting for a date with Jerry and another girl, Jerry asks Who is the other girl? Milo says Me.Vincente Minnelli delivers a fantastic film here. Alan Jay Lerner's script is nothing short of delightful. The costumes and the sets by Orry-Kelly, Preston Kelly and Cedric Gibbons, respectively, are full of splendor and life.This is really a magnificent and can't miss film to watch not just by yourself, but for the whole entire family, even your pet. Rarely has a musical felt so much lovely and perfectly as this.My Pick Green Light See It "}{"Title":"Defending the many parts of a classic Gershwin-fest","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a film, I've found, about which nobody can ever be persuaded. It's too much an example of its various genres (musical, dance-fest, inevitable romance, exotic setting) to ever transcend them. That locks one's reaction to this undeniable classic of the studio system &#x97; Made in Hollywood, U.S.A., indeed &#x97; into whether one likes those genres.If you love any or all of George (and Ira) Gershwin's work, intricate choreography, ballet taken to literally Impressionistic heights, Paris long-shots (yes, the second unit did go there, it wasn't all done in Culver City), and happy endings, you'll dote on this film.If you can't stand plots that mainly tie musical performances together, actors who are chosen for dance or singing talent more than thespian skills, or back-lot artifice (yes, the brilliant 17-minute ballet at the end is the ultimate example), you won't see it twice.That makes one smoothly written appraisal difficult. It's full of elements popping up from each genre. It's the studio system at its most and least successful. (Not worst. Nothing with the Gershwins' work can EVER be a worst.)So I'll jump in to defend several elements against some strong criticisms. Some of this depends on remembering the elephant on those Parisian streets There'd been a war on.~ Gene Kelly (Jerry Mulligan) He's frequently derided as too old, either in absolute terms or relative to the rest of the cast. Not at all! Exuberant skill undercuts his physical age by at least 15 years here. It also makes Jerry's pursuit of Lise far more plausible. I'm sorry, but it's just not stalking, then or now. It's elegantly converted from machismo, the kind that many women have complained about when seeing it ... and even more when they don't see it.Nor is Kelly so overambitious as to fit uncomfortably in a penniless-painter role, as some have said. It's too easy to forget that Jerry's been in Paris since the Second World War ended. That tore spirits or bodies apart for nearly all the Americans who fought in it, sooner or later, partly from most being forced into a crusader role they didn't want. This G.I. could need a few years to reawaken his capacity for talented work and fervent love.~ Leslie Caron (Lise) She didn't show earnest or assertive acting until Gigi, true enough. She was a brilliant dancing partner for Kelly, and not much more. (Those eyes and that smile, though, were to die for even at that age.) Yet consider Lise's back story, such as it is &#x97; losing her parents, Resistance fighters, before adolescence, and growing up with mentors instead. Wouldn't that have made her less confident about what the world would bring to her? She, as well as Mulligan, blossoms slowly after a dry spell.~ Georges Guétary (Henri) He's the grounded contrast to Jerry's shallower-rooted American. His confidence and resilience aren't at all overblown. He's had a performing career and he's sticking to making the most of it, which will include Lise if it can, but will ultimately go on without her if it must. This boulevardier has a quiet persistence that isn't immediately evident.~ Oscar Levant (Adam) No, he is not at all superfluous to the story, nor to the romantic entanglements. Just look at the scene in the café where he's sitting between Henri and Jerry, and only he knows that the others love the same girl. His frantic reactions, when the men unknowingly talk about the same object of affection, show priceless comic timing and subtly discharge any over-emotion.Levant was a brilliant pianist, and this friend of the composer had to have a Gershwin showcase. (The last movement of the Concerto in F, where he's imagining himself also as orchestra, conductor, and audience.) Yet he's not a survivor, as Jerry and Lise are, and he's not above it all, as Henri is. He has unfulfilled ambition and imagination, yet stays involved enough in life to appreciate enthusiasm and stay connected to friends. His deflation of Jerry's sponsor at the end is not just a bon mot, but an act of loyalty.~ Nina Foch (Milo) Okay, she's a bit too young and beautiful to be entirely convincing as Jerry's older patron. Yet she has the most acting skills of any of the main characters, and she takes a thankless position in the story and makes it both dignified and funny. Her possessiveness about Jerry is understandable and is offset by considerable good humor and charm. She has ambitions, romantic and otherwise, but she's not insincere about them, as out-sized as they may be. Milo's rising interest and final withdrawal are both quietly skilled and acted out in a minimum of screen time.~ The plot Yes, it mainly ties the music together and compresses events to make room. Yes, at times it makes Jerry too persistent, Adam too acerbic, Milo too grasping, Lise too unquestioning, Henri too accepting. Yet it remains remarkable for making so many genres work together at all! Alan Jay Lerner knew it was just functional (Oscar notwithstanding). It was meant to turn an artistic salad, with Gershwin lettuce, into a tasty meal for the viewer, and it more than succeeded in doing so.... So is this, even for a lover of the Gershwins' music, anywhere near perfect? It comes very close. The plot more than exceeds the burdens put upon it, but it still has little resonance, so I take away one star. Yet the actors rise to their situations and show their strengths beautifully.It really comes down to one truth, as a lyric says Our love is here to stay. Not necessarily for the studio confectionery, or the mannered acting, or the utility plot. But for the incomparable Gershwins, and for what could be so ably strung upon their brilliance. "},{"Title":"Despite A Great Ballet Sequence, Not Worth a Best Picture","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Jerry Mulligan (Gene Kelly), an American World War II veteran, is trying to make a reputation as a painter. His friend, Adam (Oscar Levant), is a struggling concert pianist who is a long time associate of a French singer, Henri Baurel (Georges Guétary). Milo Roberts (Nina Foch) takes Jerry under her wing and supports him, but is more interested in Jerry than his art. Jerry remains oblivious to her feelings and falls in love with Lise (Leslie Caron), a French girl he meets at a restaurant. Lise loves him as well but she is already in a relationship with Henri, whom she feels indebted to for having saved her family during World War II.Gene Kelly never disappoints with his dance routines, most notably here with the kids scene, with various impressions (a soldier, a train, etc.) put to dance. The piano and music in general is good, but taken from a previous work by Gershwin, so one cannot really give it much credit for originality.And what's with his pants? What do his legs look like? His muscles on top are always rippling, but his legs are securely hidden under the blanket of baggy pants -- is Gene Kelly a stick man? The black and white costume party scene is stylish, and looks great in technicolor. And who can talk badly of the extensive, 25-minute wordless extravagant ballet... with lots of talented unknowns all dancing their Paris-loving hearts out.An American in Paris is a great film if you like watching Gene Kelly dance. Beyond that, though, it's hard to say -- the plot and characters aren't anything special. It's still a shame that this film won best picture (while A Streetcar Named Desire did not), and the following year Singin' in the Rain wasn't even nominated, despite obviously being the superior film. But, again, if you like seeing Gene Kelly dance, this probably won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Musical masterpiece","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is probably my favorite Best Picture winner of all time, with its only competition being The English Patient. It's hard to say exactly what makes this one so good for me, because its flaws are pretty obvious. Gene Kelly is way too aggressive when he first pursues Leslie Caron, almost in a creepy sort of way. It doesn't help that he's over twice her age. And the way Nina Foch is treated is pretty cruel. Most of that I attribute to the culture under which it was made. Plus, combined with the ecstatic feeling I get with the reunion of Jerry and Lise, I think the sadness I feel for Milo as well as Henri gives the film a wonderful bittersweet tone. The musical numbers are uniformly fantastic. The standout is Kelly's I've Got Rhythm with the little kids - I love Singin' in the Rain, but this one blows it out of the water. And of course the 18 minute ballet that ends the film is the tour de force of tours de force. To me, it's the epitome of dance, music and cinema. "},{"Title":"An untraditional musical that will last as a model for all to come.","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I had never seen a movie of Gene Or Leslie, but after seeing this I fell in love with both actors. First of all, the casting director was a genius! On their first date, when Gene said she was beautiful and Leslie didn't really believe him, I didn't say oh that's stupid of course she knows she's beautiful!. I believed her, she has an interesting look about her. She seems so sincere and beautiful but in a very unique way that I could believe everything about her in this film was true.Both Gene and Leslie are AMAZING dancers! I loved the tap dance with Gene and the little kids and I loved the ballet Leslie did in her introduction! The ending was amazing too! 17 minutes of wonderful music, dancing, symbolism, art, and it all captured Paris and love perfectly.One of my favorite scenes is when Gene's friend, the pianist is imagining his own concert. I laughed so hard and also loved his skills as a piano player. I would also like to add that he and Gene have great chemistry together!!!I love how Gene's art isn't very good, that adds a nice depth to the film.All the music was amazing! Every single part of it had energy but different kinds of energy. It really captured every emotion that was expressed in the film. Even if Gene was just walking to Leslie's perfume store, there was music that matched perfectly.All together this film was a masterpiece and every time I see it I see something new inside the film. "},{"Title":"Still some nice moments, but a film best kept treasured in our memories","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" When I first saw An American in Paris, years ago, I thought it was great and I agreed with all the rave reviews. Now...well, let's say I don't think it has aged well. For me, more than any other factor, it's Gershwin's music that gives the film the charm it retains. Even then, the music has to fight against Minnelli's and Kelly's desire to establish that the film is significant and that Jerry Mulligan is a heckuva guy. The result, looking at the film fifty-five years later, is to be caught a little off guard at how pretentious it feels. Prominent in the credits are the words And Presenting The American In Paris Ballet. How much nicer and more trusting of the audience if they'd let us discover the ballet for ourselves. That air of look at what we're doing; aren't we great? creeps in far too often. S'wonderful, for instance, is in my opinion a number which reeks of being precious...all those little French tykes and Mulligan's grinning byplay with them comes across now as a calculated effort to provide a wow number for Kelly. That wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing except for the Kelly persona of a man who flips a switch for charm and looks like he flips the switch off as soon as the number is in the can. Julie Andrews in The Sound of Music deals with a lot of equally over-adorable little children when she sings Do Re Mi, but there it doesn't appear quite so calculated because Andrews' charm and enjoyment seem genuine. However, when Minnelli and Kelly are willing to take a step back and trust the audience, the results can be high quality. Love Is Here to Stay, for instance, is sung and danced quietly. It becomes a moment of genuine feeling without a hint of pretension. I suppose nowadays most of us come to the movie looking forward mainly to the American in Paris ballet. It still can hold our attention with all that style (the look of Dufy, Toulouse- Lautrec and such), the action and the color...and, above all, the music. I'm not one who thinks Kelly was an outstanding choreographer. I think he was a first-class dancer but not the person or the choreographer he thought he was and wanted to be. It's the spectacle of the ballet that is still worth watching. The one place where Kelly's choreography and talent as a dancer meet perfectly is in the Toulouse-Lautrec sequence. Here's Kelly in a tight apache outfit taking a pose, then strutting with his butt out, shaking his shoulders, staring at the camera. It's a great moment and I wish the rest of the dance numbers measured up to it. For the rest of it, I think Caron is unformed but a likable gamin. Levant gets a little tiresome. I'm never quite sure whether to smile at him or call 911. His Concerto in F sequence seems to be just more of Minnelli and Kelly wanting to make sure we all know the movie is high quality stuff. George Guetary may be a light weight talent, but he's good natured and good company. His Stairway to Paradise number is is a highlight. And although Nina Foch plays a maneater, she's one of the best things about the movie. She was a fine and under-rated actress. An American in Paris still has a number of things to enjoy, but I think it's at its best in our memory. "},{"Title":"Beautiful musical fantasy about Paris and love","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gene Kelly is Jerry, an American in Paris in this 1951 film directed by Vincente Minnelli and also starring Leslie Caron, Oscar Levant, Nina Foch and Georges Guetary. Jerry is one of Paris' many starving artists though he's a happy one, in a neighborhood where he knows everyone and has formed many friendships with fellow artists. Then he is discovered by an older patron (Nina Foch) who wants him for more than his art. Jerry, however, has fallen in love with his friend Henri's (Guetary) girl Lise (Caron), though he doesn't realize that she is involved with Henri. Lise falls for Jerry, too, but feels a strong commitment to Henri. The beauty of Paris begins to fade.This is a beautifully directed film photographed in color, and some of it is really eye-popping. With Kelly and Caron as the leads, there is lots of great dancing to the Gershwin tunes, with Kelly at his exuberant, athletic best and Caron, introduced in this film, shown dancing a variety of styles from sexy to sublime. Levant is there with his dry quips and wonderful concertizing on the piano, and Guetary, an exciting singer, performs Stairway to Paradise and gives out with some great high notes in By Strauss. As the glamorous, lonely patron, Nina Foch is excellent, managing to evoke sympathy in a normally unsympathetic role.Reading through some of the comments on the board, I find them disturbing. An American in Paris is a vibrant, colorful musical with magnificent dancing and songs that capture the way of life everyone believes exists in France - the romance, the cafés, the fun of poverty and the beauty of the city of Paris itself. It isn't Ibsen. It isn't meant to be realistic; it is meant to be charming, and in that, it succeeds. It doesn't need a script like The Grapes of Wrath; it needs a script to get from song to song and give us feeling for the characters, and in that, it succeeds. There is a complaint that Jerry's interest in Lise is shallow. In film noir, a woman and a man's eyes meet, and they're instantly joined at the hip, and we accept it. We can't accept in a musical that Jerry saw Lise and fell for her? My suggestion? Take a film on the level it's presented and don't try to make it something it's not. So often on this board, people complain that a film didn't do this and didn't do that when it was never supposed to do this or that. Maybe it was supposed to do just one thing - entertain. And in that, American in Paris succeeds as well or better than just about anything else. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I like this musical. The art direction is first-rate; not surprising with Minnelli as director. Stairway to Paradise is my favorite number because it emanates from a stage number, not from forced emotions. The ballet is overblown, unfortunately, which leads me to my main criticism of this film- the lack of soul or spirit. Every detail is realized, sometimes impressively, but it lacks spontaneity and vigor to make it really fly.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When I  first saw this movie, in 1952, I liked it so much I stayed in the theater and watched a second time. I repeated this behavior three more times, so I saw it eight times the  first year,  The music, the dancing, the look -- enchanting.I live in London, but Paris is my  favorite city. One time my wife, two children and aunt spend a day touring Paris by private limo. I brought along a  cassette of the marvelous Gershwin music and we played 'An American in Paris' as we drove through the city.What a wonderful experience that was! The chauffeur was so impressed with the effect, I gave him the tape and he promised to make good use of it in future tours.I have the video and watch it whenever I feel the need for extra joy. "},{"Title":"Astounding musical","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Speaking as one who usually finds the genre of musical dull, this film blew me away.  The performances are totally engaging, the music original, and the direction daring.  It amazed me to see a 20 minute dance piece at the end with no dialogue that enthralled me as much now as it did audiences in 1951.  "},{"Title":"You must see this.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love An American in Paris.  That is especially true about the Gershwin musical score for the movie.  Gene Kelly dances with the kids to I Got Rhythm.  What a funny scene.  That one I like the best, in this particular film.Another favorite line of mine is the one said by Adam Cook, who Oscar Levant plays.  He uses a figure of speech.  That is so hilarious.Leslie Caron's debut performance, as well as the American in Paris ballet, are also great.  Everything is.  You absolutely must see this film.  "}{"Title":"One of my favourite films of all time","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It has always amazed me that this film, made at roughly the same time as Singing in the Rain and also starring Gene Kelly, is generally rated below the latter.  When I first saw AAIP (when it came out, which tells you how ancient I am!) I was absolutely captivated, and proceeded to see it five or six times more in the next few years.  Time has not changed my opinion, and from the wonderful opening sequence to the astonishing closing ballet it is sheer bliss.  The enchanting Leslie Caron was a revelation when the film first appeared - gamine innocence mixed with vibrant sexiness. "},{"Title":"Who Could Ask For Anything More?","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Gene Kelly had made hit movies before this. He was well respected and his name was often found in the same sentence as the great Fred Astaire, but An American in Paris created a new Gene Kelly. A legend. A SUPERSTAR.This movie was unlike anything ever attempted before. It was expensive. It was daring. It was extravagant. Luckily, Gene Kelly and director Vincent Minelli rose to the challenge. . . and made it work. In fact, it worked so well that Gene Kelly received an honorary Academy Award for his brilliant achievements in the art of choreography on film, as the movie itself was awarded several Oscars, including the honorable Best Picture award.What makes this movie so out of the ordinary? What separates this film from the common backstage musical? No, I will not answer these interest-arousing questions, because I want you to find out for yourself. You wont be sorry.  "},{"Title":"Musical Art in Motion","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that a great movie like this has only a 7.6.. Some of the users here must be mentally challenged to give this great musical such low ratings.. The music and the choreography is top notch and the script itself is pretty good for a musical.. This would be the french Singin In the Rain.. "},{"Title":"Major Nelson, how did I end up in a movie that features borderline statutory rape?","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's ironic that An American in Paris features US citizens speaking glowingly of France. Half a century later Donald Rumsfeld called it Old Europe when Jacques Chirac refused to help the US invade Iraq. Of course, France wasn't without its own misdeeds. Anyone who's studied a little history knows that the French were merciless to the Algerians, and tortured Algerian prisoners during Algeria's war for independence.But anyway, the movie is unpleasant to watch, knowing that Gene Kelly was twice Leslie Caron's age. Seriously, their relationship comes across as statutory rape. If you've read my reviews of musicals, then you probably know that I watch them for the purpose of heckling them like Mike, Servo and Crow do to the crummy movies that Dr. Forrester and TV's Frank send them on Mystery Science Theater 3000. Most of my comments during AAiP are not ones that I'll be allowed to repeat in this review. I will, however, say that the 16-minute dance sequence at the end looks like something that they came up with after eating too much sugar. A lot of people would probably call it an acid trip.One thing that I noticed was the appearance of Hayden Rorke, best known as Dr. Bellows on I Dream of Jeannie. My satirical explanation of his appearance here is that Jeannie accidentally blinked him to Paris, and so he calls his wife and says Amanda, Maj. Nelson has somehow sent me to Paris! There's bound to be a conspiracy at work here!, causing mass hysteria in Coco Beach, leading to an accidental launch of a rocket. Oh Jeannie, will you ever learn? Long story short, this is not a movie that I can take seriously, and it didn't deserve Best Picture in a year that gave us A Streetcar Named Desire. "},{"Title":"sweet for its time but unrealistic","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I really like musicals. And in particular the ones that are mostly acting but then at random times break into songs. An American In Paris is one that is entertaining throughout but at times can doze too far into a dreamworld rather than staying true to realism.Gene Kelly is great and so is the stunningly beautiful Lesie Caron. Though their chemistry is top notch I think sometimes the writing for the characters didn't fit their end result. The songs aren't as catchy as Singin In the Rain but I think the dancing and choreography are superior. The supporting cast is also a big bright spot. I did not see the twist of Lise and Henri being in a relationship. But they also never really sold me on either relationship. If they had written those relationships better than it would have made me get much more emotionally invested in each character.Also, lets be honest there is no way in real life that Henri lets his love of his life just leave him knowing shes going to another man. He didn't even look mad, I was quite disappointed thats the way they ended it. I was also nearly put to sleep by the 15 minute dream like sequence right before the end. Nevertheless its a good film that isn't near the quality of Singin In the Rain but I'm sure many people will find joy in this musical.+songs and choreography+Gene Kelly is awesome-dream like sequences-disappointing end7.3/10 "},{"Title":"We'll Always Have Paris","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" After service in World War II, singer-dancer and struggling painter Gene Kelly (as Jerry Mulligan) settles on the Left Bank of Paris. His handsome features attract heiress Nina Foch (as Milo Roberts) and Mr. Kelly quickly becomes her escort. While out nightclubbing with his sponsor, Kelly sets he his sights on pretty young Leslie Caron (as Lise Bouvier). However, she is seeing local entertainer Georges Guetary (as Henri Baurel). Another American in Paris, pianist Oscar Levant (as Adam Cook), connects the lovers. Outstanding singing, dancing, impressions and setting in a too long and flimsy story; the art remains.******** An American in Paris (8/26/51) Vincente Minnelli ~ Gene Kelly, Leslie Caron, Oscar Levant, Georges Guetary "},{"Title":"The story is surprisingly intense.","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The story is surprisingly intense and actually eclipses the dancing sequences which are impressive. As much as the movies's plot may seem hokey and contrived, it really isn't. The story is plausible; people can fall in love immediately and get swept up in their emotions. Gene Kelly gives a great performance as an expatriate American and Leslie Caron proves to be dynamic in her role. The final dance sequence is incredible, combining several different dance forms. What makes this movie even stronger is that the story is simple, the characters likable and the music outstanding. The dream sequence with Oscar Levant was brilliant. There is nothing wrong with an upbeat movie featuring wonderfully talented actors who actually entertain. They sing, they dance, there is music and a happy ending. What's wrong with that? Nothing. This movie deserved the honors it received. Street Car and A Place in the Sun were marvelous movies, but a quality musical will trump a bleak, black-and-white drama anytime, like it did in 1951. Who would an audience rather watch Gene Kelly laughing and dancing with Leslie Caron to the music of George Gershwin or gloomy Montgomery Clift plotting to kill a hapless Shelly Winters? "},{"Title":"Back home everyone said I didn't have any talent. They might be saying the same thing over here but it sounds better in French.","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Jerry Mulligan is a struggling American artist in Paris, he gets coveted by a rich heiress who can help his struggling career. However, a visit to a night club and a meeting with a delicate young, but spoken for, French girl, leads him into a battle with himself.Winner of seven Academy Awards, An American In Paris is of course a delightful and breezy picture from the MGM vault. Said to be the personal favourite movie of Gene Kelly, it boasts wonderful tunes from George & Ira Gershwin, brilliant art direction from Cedric Gibbons, vivid Technicolor that fills the eyes, and quite stunning choreography from Gene Kelly. The film, all told, is high on production value and entertaining enough from start to finish. Yet the film's plot is showing definite age problems now, and it also lacks the ode to joy sense of purpose that, for example, Singing In The Rain has. I also feel it's a missed opportunity to actually film the picture entirely on location in Paris instead of on the MGM lot, because a bit of earthy core feels missing from the unfolding story. Leslie Caron as the love rival to the smokingly hot older woman played by Nina Foch, is majestic dance wise, but acting she's very staid, and this too is an irritation.However, I still adore this film very much, just not as much as Gene and the Academy did, apparently! Come the grand finale it's hard to be too critical when so much energy and deftness of feet has been constructed for our entertainment. With such a production it's suffice to say that now, with all the technological advances made in home entertainment, An American in Paris is an High Definition essential. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great MGM Musical","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" American in Paris, An (1951) **** (out of 4) Marvelous MGM feature has Gene Kelly playing a poor American painter living in Paris. A rich woman (Nina Foch) soon takes an interest in him and his paintings but his heart is with another woman (Leslie Caron). This is the type of film a negative person could walk into wanting to hate it and just rip it to shreds but by the ten-minute mark they'd be captivated by what they're seeing. This film certainly isn't flawless and I'd question it winning the Best Picture Oscar but there's no question this is quite an achievement. I'll get the biggest flaw out of the way first and that's the screenplay, which shockingly also won an Oscar. I thought the love story was all too familiar and really wasn't original any step of the way. I thought the dialogue was decent but it was really the great performances that brought the words to life and gave them some juice. With that out of the way, there's plenty to love here and one can't help but feel the passion director Minnelli paints for the screen. I know he and Kelly were highly upset that MGM wouldn't let them film in Paris but I thought the sets were excellent and the director really captured a French tone that is missing some from actual French movies! The movie has one great dance sequence after another but my favorite was probably the already used I Got Rhythm. This sequence, in front of the flower shop and with a bunch of children, is a real beauty on the eyes and the ears. S Wonderful and Our Love is Here to Stay are two more highlights. The one thing I don't think gets enough credit are the performances, which I found very rich and exciting. Needless to say, Kelly steals the film with his wonderful dancing and singing but also that comic timing that appeared to be staged and planned out to perfection just like the dancing. He really makes a very believable character that mixes well with the two leading ladies. I was really impressed with Foch's acting here and thought she too delivered a great character even though the screenplay didn't throw her anything overly great. Caron is perfect as well with that amazing face and her chemistry with Kelly is top-notch. Even though the first 100-minutes are beautiful, the real genius comes in the final fifteen where we get an amazing ballet that words really can't describe. It's certainly one of the highlights of the genre. Even with the flawed screenplay, there's so much to enjoy here that it's hard to imagine anyone not falling for the charm on display. "},{"Title":"It's Wonderful","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A rich, lonely woman helps a struggling artist in Paris. In the title role of a reluctant gigolo, Kelly is in top dancing form, displaying a remarkable combination of grace and athleticism. Caron makes her film debut as the love interest while Foch is touching as the woman who sponsors Kelly. Levant is hilarious as a pianist who dreams of making it big on the concert stage. It is amazing that Kelly made On the Town, Singin' in the Rain, and this Oscar winner in a four-year span. While this one ranks behind the other two, it is...well, 's wonderful, thanks mostly to the music of Gershwin, including the long, lavish concluding ballet. Minnelli infuses the film with charm. "}{"Title":"A beautiful tribute to the City of Lights.","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Even though it was shot on a sound stage at MGM Studios in southern California, An American in Paris is a wonderful tribute to the immortal city that is Paris, France. The sets are obviously fake, but the characters and dance evoke such emotion that it doesn't matter if it looks real, rather that it feels real. Gene Kelly is wonderful, of course, as Jerry Mulligan, a painter in Paris who becomes the companion of a rich, American socialite who wants to make him a big-time painter in Paris. She wants more than just his work, however, but Jerry falls for Lise, played by Leslie Caron. They each have their secrets, but they don't let that keep from seeing each other. Oscar Levant plays Jerry's depressed pianist friend still trying to make a huge breakthrough and Georges Guetary plays a French singer with a part to play in all of this. Here, what is most important, as with most Gene Kelly musicals, is the dancing. And there is plenty of it. Everything leads up to the final 18 minute sequence that does drag on a bit too long, but still is gorgeous to look at. If there is anything to take from this musical, it is the final dance number. It is every bit memorable as one has ever been filmed. Overall, this film shines with love; for its characters and of course Paris. "},{"Title":"You only find the right woman once.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Before they struck gold with Gigi, Vincente Minelli and Alan Jay Lerner teamed up to write and direct this other story of Paris and love. It didn't win nine Oscars, but it did win six out of eight nominations including Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Color; Best Cinematography; Best Costume Design, Color; Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture; another Best Picture for Arthur Freed; another screenplay award for Alan Jay Lerner; a Best Director nomination for Vincente Minnelli; and a Best Film Editing nomination.Leslie Caron was once again in the forefront of this film displaying her considerable dancing talents along with Gene Kelley who mesmerized us with his fancy footwork, and his singing alone and with Georges Guétary.Oscar-nominated Nina Foch (Executive Suite) thrilled us as the woman who kept artists.Great sets and a brilliant production number at the end, along with memorable tunes such as Our Love Is Here To Stay, I Got Rhythm, and 'S Wonderful. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. Though I don't think that it is Gene Kelly's best movie. I have to say that I liked the best friend the best. When the three men are at the café and he friend finds out that Gene and the other guy are talking about loving the same girl the best friend's face and reactions are great and funny. It is a movie for the musical lover's soul and a movie that anyone would enjoy. A great movie about love, friendship, true to one's heart and sacrifice for another one's happiness. It is one of a kind and should never be remade (I've heard rumor hat there is talks to). If you haven't seen it yet, what are you waiting for? Go see it now. "},{"Title":"A lifetime of memories and music","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Utterly memorable - first saw it on release in Dublin and tried to sit through the screening a second time, but was kicked out of the cinema.The music of George Gershwin set me on track for life - just a love affair with the chords and jazz suggestions on which he obviously based his music. One goof - On completion of Our Love is Here to Stay, Leslie Caron asks Gene Kelly the time - he tells her, just before he looks at his watch !Apart from that, a lifelong love with this movie and the music of George Gershwin, as I sit here in Paris over 50 years later, with the music still ringing in my ears.Ciaran O'Carroll "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the best movie musicals ever made, and absolutely worth seeing (on a big screen, if you have one) with the whole family.The plot- well, it's a musical. And yes, there are songs inserted that don't really do much except give us a chance to run and get some food. But the whole adds up to a magical evening that Hollywood just doesn't even attempt anymore, nor could they even if they had the Gershwin/Kelly/Minelli team together again.There's never been a better version of 'I GOT RHYTHM' on film or stage, bar none. This number, Kelly with the school kids, will have you singing it for days on end.And the ending has without a doubt the most stunning 16-minute ballet ever filmed, which Kelly and Caron dance beautifully. A magical evening. "},{"Title":"A fun and entertaining spectacle.","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I may be biased in my opinion on this, but for the time this movie was made, I do believe that it was well acted, written, and edited just right.Most US born Americans, especially those alive when this came out, know of Gene Kelly's work as a dancer, singer and actor. Leslie Caron on the other hand was in a transition from acting in France, to making her way on the big screen here in the U.S.This movie is a love story with more twists in it than you will expect for such an old movie. Most people who have been in love can relate with certain actors in this, and may even enjoy the few songs sung in it as well. This was during the Musical Movie era of filmology.I'd like to tell you more about this movie, but dare not spoil it for you. What scenery you get to see is absolutely stunning. "},{"Title":"I have to take exception to your comments","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. I don't know what your problem with Ms. Caron is, nor how you could ever suggest she's not good-looking at all, as you did. Sure, she's not the finest singer or dancer, but she sure ain't chopped liver! The woman who plays Milo is just too sad, reminds me very much of a woman I had a very brief affair with. Her situation is so well sketched that you pick up on her character in a very few scenes- especially the scene driving back from the cafe in Montmartre where she is obviously quite hurt by Jerry's callous disregard for her.The only problem I have with this film at all is that Gene Kelley is referred to as a young man when he is most certainly not. Or only relatively, at any rate. The music is some of the finest jazz I've ever heard. (Funny that Kelly plays a character named Jerry Mulligan, since Gerry Mulligan is a very well-known jazz artist!) If I were rating this, it would receive four out of five stars.It's only to be hoped that Musicals will one day return to the screen in large numbers...but I rather doubt they will! "},{"Title":"Classic Pretentious Art","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yes, AAIP is a film classic. Yes, it's got the Gershwins' wonderful music. Yes it's got Gene Kelly, and Vincente Minnelli directing. Yes, it introduces Leslie Caron. And the show-stopping I Got Rhythm with Kelly and the kids. And the interminable ballet at the end. Yes, it's supposed to pass for High Art.So was The Pirate -- another Kelly / Minnelli collaboration that sank under its own pretension.Delightful moments, beautiful music and sets and costumes do not a movie make.Despite everybody's best intentions, AAIP plods along from one set piece to another, with Caron and Kelly self-consciously depicting young love as if that exalted state had ANYTHING to do with semi-formal ballet. They can't even walk hand-in-hand along the Seine without looking like recent graduates of the French National Ballet Academy.Their every move is choreographed to within an inch of its life -- leaving no room for genuine spontaneity or surprise.Minnelli's direction here is derivative -- and nowhere approaches the genius of The Red Shoes, which he and Kelly reportedly screened to convince the studio to finance this dance picture.Take his introduction of Leslie Caron to films. Camera pans to a mirror on a cafe wall, where Miss Caron basically reprises Vera-Ellen's introduction as Miss Turnstyles in On the Town -- to less effect, despite the number's concluding split-screen wave-at-the-camera cutesiness. Despite this segment's supposed display of Lise's (Caron's) many facets, she still comes off like a ballet dancer wearing different costumes instead of actually dancing differently. Dance styles -- ballet, jazz, ballroom -- are completely different, and require completely different attitudes and muscles. Few are able to master them all. Kelly could and did. Caron couldn't and didn't. Even the brilliant Cyd Charisse, in her jazz and romantic numbers, appeared to be more a classically trained dancer who was slumming. Neither she nor, certainly, Caron, can cut loose with the uninhibited joie-de-vivre of, say Ginger Rogers. Then again, Miss Rogers was no ballerina. (Which may explain why she was more popular and enduring, both as dancer and actress, than either Charisse or Caron. Try imagining Charisse or Caron dancing The Carioca or The Continental with Astaire -- still today far more riveting showpieces than the equally lengthy yet stilted and lifeless ballet that ends AAIP.) If it's High Art in a dance film you're seeking, that's The Red Shoes.If it's electrifying dance entertainment you want, that's Astaire and Rogers in anything.If it's moments of wonderful dance sequences you're after, cull through the careers of Kelly (particularly Singin' in the Rain) or Charisse (especially Silk Stockings).All are terrific dancers. Comparing them is like comparing apples and oranges.Yet there's something to be said for popular taste, particularly in movies. And there's a reason Astaire and Rogers will forever outshine all the others. They were SO GOOD that they made their intricate dance routines seem completely spur-of-the-moment. They were never self-conscious, either as actors or dancers. They weren't trying to impress themselves or us, unlike everybody else mentioned.They just did. They couldn't help themselves (or so they made it seem.)There's nothing wrong with highbrow. See The Red Shoes. But AAIP is simply not in the same league.No audience member ever checked his wristwatch during The Carioca.AAIP's concluding ballet utterly fails to be as emotionally involving or relevant. Instead, it's an exercise in flawless choreography and execution by two supremely controlled dancers. Astaire and Rogers, on the other hand, were equally supremely controlled dancers talented and savvy enough to subordinate their flawless choreography and execution to the sheer JOY their characters (and they) felt. Human beings first dancers second. Or so they made it seem.All the technical achievements of Kelly and Caron dancing against artistic hand-drawn backgrounds and sets can't begin to compare with the jolt Astair and Rogers first delivered on that gigantic art-deco nightclub set in Flying Down to Rio some 20 years earlier.There's art and there's art. "},{"Title":"Slightly overrated musical","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An American in Paris is another great showcase for Gene Kelly's wonderful talents. He doesn't disappoint. His dancing and singing (whether solo or in duet) are some of the best ever captured on film. The story, as is often the case in musicals, is not much more than a diversion until the next song and dance number comes up. A big problem I had with this film is Leslie Caron. She looked quite boyish and her big teeth and slight overbite don't exactly make her as glamourous as the role would suggest. Then again it's all in the eye of the beholder. The supporting cast is more than competent though except for occasionally dueting with Kelly they don't really do much. Overall, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Gene Kelly-Leslie Caron dance up a storm in Paris, France","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An American In Paris (1951)Alan Jay Lerner wrote a classic simple story  Boy meets girl.  Boy falls in love with girl.  Girl loves boy.  Girl is engaged to cabaret entertainer.  Boy and fiance know each other but don't know that they love the same girl.  Boy's vagabond friend knows predicament.  Wealthy socialite is attracted to boy for professional and personal reasons.  Who gets the girl?Have you seen movies like this before?  The reason to see this film that won the Academy Award for Best Picture, Best Story, Best Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Scoring, Best Art Direction, and Best Costume Design is for the dancing of Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron, and the colorful sets and costumes.  Kelly rivals fellow dancer Fred Astaire and seems to put more dancing into all his films than Astaire.  Astaire looks good in tails and top hat and plays a socialite well.  Kelly is best as a regular guy in street dancing clothes that resemble French/Italian sailors on shore leave.Eugene Curran Kelly was 39 years old when he meets Paris-born Leslie Claire Margaret Caron who was 20 years old.  Kelly actually discovered her in Paris and placed her in her first film.  In the story, Kelly was discharged from the US Army after WWII and stayed behind in Paris, France to become discovered as a painter.  Leslie Caron is Lise, a perfume shop sales attendant who loves 36-year-old Egyptian-born Georges Guetary (real name Lambros Worldou) who is a well-known stage performer al a Maurice Chevalier style.  It's convenient that Guetary hid young Leslie from the Nazis for five years during WWII because her parents were French Resistance fighters.  So, Caron feels she owes a debt of gratitude and consents to repay that debt by marrying Guetary.  Does she really love Guetary or is it just misguided gratefulness?Did all Frenchmen marry girls 20 years younger than themselves back during the 19th and 20th Century?  Hollywood movies of the era seem to echo the Chevalier theme song, Thank Heavens for Little Girls!Nina Foch (Netherlands-born Nina Consuelo Maud Fock) was 27 years old but plays a role of a rich socialite probably in her early 40s.  Ms. Foch is also known as Pharaoh's sister Bithiah who raises Moses as her own in the 1956 epic, The Ten Commandments. She has designs on painter Jerry Mulligan (Gene Kelly) and will be his benefactor and sponsor his painting but expects residuals in return.Pianist, composer, sharp-witted sarcastic comedy player Oscar Levant was 45 years old.  He dreams of being a concert pianist but is lingering in Paris in a dream world.  He plays great piano but some of his comedy between himself and Kelly is dated and corny.  Noel Neill was 31 years old when Kelly scripted her to play an art student admiring Kelly's painting for sale on the streets of Paris.  She has an uncredited role as all the other contract players have.  You will remember Ms. Neill as the TV Lois Lane for the George Reeves Superman series.  Ms. Neill replaced Phyllis Coates as Lois Lane and left acting when the Superman series ended in 1957.Watch this film for the marvelous dancing of Leslie Caron.  She is pretty, limber, and dances in solo and duet well.  She speaks English well for being French-born and only 20 years old.  Today, she is 71 and still has that cutie face! Cinematography is by Gene Kelly.  He directed all the dancing numbers for this film.  Notice that he mostly wears 4-inch high water trousers during most of his dancing.  This helps show off his white socks and dancing shoes.  It also seems to give Kelly the appearance of being taller than his is.Director Vincente Minnelli was 33 years old and is reputed to put a Dream Scene in all his movies.  Minnelli married July (The Wizard of Oz) Garland and is the real-life father of singer-dancer-actress Liza (Cabaret/New York, New York) Minnelli.The final dance production number (An American in Paris) is a dream sequence show casing Kelly and Caron in multiple costumes set against stereotypical and colorful backgrounds of Paris, France.  The dancing is great and serves to put motion to George Gershwin's rhapsody, An American in Paris, that ends the film.  Caron dances on her toes as a ballerina as well as in interpretive sequences.  Wonderful.This is a good movie.  I saw this film on a big movie house screen.  Television does not do justice to the colorful costumes and background sets as the Technicolor movie film permits.  That's why at least one old-fashioned single screen movie theater must be rebuilt in each metropolitan area.  A box cinema multiplex just can't do justice to these classical films. "}{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies ever.  You don't even have to watch it, just buy the DVD/tape, play it and just listen to the music.  The more I watch this movie, the better it is.  I can find no fault with this film whatsoever, other than the fact that the DVD version I have is not in letterbox (widescreen), but I don't think the original movie was filmed that way. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Musical","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If I were to pick my favorite film genre, musicals would not be it, but I really enjoyed this movie. It was funny, entertaining and full of expertly done music and dance sequences. In this film, Jerry Mulligan, played by Gene Kelly, is a struggling artist in Paris. He attracts the attention of a wealthy older women who offers to be his patron. She's interested in his work but takes an even stronger interest in him personally. Jerry goes along with this arrangement until he falls in love with another women, who also happens to be dating one of his friend's acquaintances.This is a good movie, but some of the day dream sequences seem like filler material that don't add to the plot or the overall enjoyment of the film. The ending sequence in particular is too long and should have been shortened. Overall, this is a very good movie that has a lot of entertainment value and other than a few sequences, I can't really find much fault with it. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys musicals or classic films. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was in high school when this movie came out and I think I saw it 5 times the first year. I thought it was terrific. No one like Gene Kelly! Leslie Caron was the first movie star I had a crush on! Its been a while since I've seen it on TV, but I would see it again. I don't usually care for musicals, but this one I loved! "},{"Title":"Good, but why an overly long dance sequence?","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Don't get me wrong by this title, I LOVED most of the dancing in this movie. I was very impressed by Lesie Caron's dancing (I still think she is not very pretty... but she has grown on me. Apart from her dancing, I don't really see the attraction with her. She's quite elf life), of course Gene Kelly's dancing (as usual) and all the singing and musical numbers. Apart from one. That one being the overly long and absolutely tedious dance number. My Mother and I were completely disinterested at it, so we fast forwarded it. It sounds so critical, but that's the way I felt! It was quite artsy-fartsy and far too long. Perhaps it would have been better split into parts. I much preferred the shorter ones like 'I Got Rhythm' and 'Stairway to Paradise' (one of my favourite songs now!). Despite the time and the monotony of it, I enjoyed watching the lavish costumes dance by me. But like I said, I found it unnecessary. I'm sure they wanted to show off - and they did - but it just didn't press my buttons. I know that I am not the only one.Anyway, onto the positives. I really love how the movie starts - it just seemed so familiar, warm and friendly. Like Gene was actually talking to you.. a very good technique. It was an easy way of explaining the dialog. Gene Kelly's character is a poor painter living in Paris when his work gets discovered by a rich woman who offers to put them in a show. She falls for him but she has made a habit of 'taking in' artists etc and falling in love with them. Gene finds inspiration in a dancer (Leslie Caron) and falls for her - love at first sight. I don't think she's that attractive, but hey.It's a good film, and yet the only thing I can think of is me fast forwarding that long, overdone dance sequence. But I did enjoy this movie. Recommended to everybody. "},{"Title":"Oh wow!!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Great dance numbers!!! I love this film!! It is really, really great. When I first saw it, I thought you know the typicals, but this really does follow a complete same story line besides, boy meets girl, they can't be together, and despite that, they are together.Great great music. The composer did an amazing job, for I have yet to find music that is as great as this one did. Heads up to the composer.Wonderful voice dynamics, they work together wonderfully. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful!!!!I have to say that I wished Gene Kelly's works were more avaialable to the public, cause it's worth seeing every time!! "},{"Title":"A Bored American","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Riding high on the thrill of a major crush on Gene Kelly after seeing two of his films consecutively - the vivid, unforgettable Singin' in the Rain and the low-key drama Marjorie Morningstar, the next logical step in my infatuation was to rent An American in Paris and revel in Kelly's handsome grin, smooth, romantic voice and amazing footwork. Right? Right. Kelly is handsome in this movie; his sentimental voice, intact - but make no mistake, this film simply doesn't measure up to what can be expected of a star like Gene Kelly, and it does not come close to utilizing his talents nor those of Leslie Caron, not to mention the opportunities afforded of a film set in vibrant, post-WWII Paris. Aesthetically, AAiP is a disappointment. The costumes aren't bright, memorable or striking in any way, despite the slew of opportunities to introduce kicky skirts, sharp slacks or elaborate, colorful getups for larger dance sequences. The costume party that our protagonists attend is downright scary and quite distracting (and other than the satin jester suit - just plain wrong - Kelly does look fantastic throughout.) In terms of visual pleasure, we don't see much of Paris aside from a glimpse of the Sacre Coeur and some generic street scenes and cafe fronts. Musically, there is little to glean from this film besides the ever-catchy I've Got Music to which Kelly frolics in his usual flawless and endearing way. But as soon as this scene closes and the street children scatter, so does the credibility of the movie, along with the viewer's interest. None of these songs are infectious, memorable, or expressive of what's happening in the movie; instead, most are little detours comprised of pretentious lyrics sung in unamusing accents, as though the directors had a quota of cheap, forgettable songs to fill in the allotted time frame.Beyond that - and more importantly - the dance numbers fail to ignite; some simply seem discordant with the music they are set to, and most end in an overly dramatic, corny embrace, which succeeds in not heightening the romance or sentimentality of the movie, but in making the central love story - on which much is supposed to hinge - just as overly dramatic and corny.While Kelly is a natural at his craft and is talented enough to slide into a complicated dance routine at a moment's notice (and pull it off in the scheme of things,) his supporting cast is lame, unamusing, and generally unsupportive, as far as secondary or 'static' characters go. Henri Baurel (Georges Gautery) is virtually unintelligible throughout, leaving one straining and struggling to comprehend the lyrics he's belting out - and Adam Cook (Oscar Levant) is ugly, depressing, pitiful at comic relief and quite frankly, an awful singer, even if he is an extremely talented pianist. His seemingly endless dream sequence in the concert hall is unnecessary, irrelevant and irritating.1951 Newcomer Leslie Caron, despite immense unattractiveness, does not have enough scenes - nor is her character, Lise, given enough depth - to make her name beside Kelly. We never get to know her or to come to understand her affection for Kelly's charming Jerry Mulligan, or even if there is any. And while she plays a romantic lead, we basically only witness her giggling forcedly or waddling awkwardly en pointe, never expanding on Lise's significance in the plot line and so rendering herself somewhat inconsequential in the whole of the plot. Few of the numbers showcase her skill and versatility as a dancer, and no scenes at all are able to paint her as a talented actress.All in all, I am a girl who loves musicals I do not shy away from vibrant technicolor dance scenes; I don't oppose film dialogue making a segue into catchy songs or silly, dramatic soliloquies; I am even happy to trade a scrappy and somewhat uninteresting script for an unforgettable theme song, some fabulous chorus lines or involved dance numbers. An American in Paris, however, can't sate me on any level - musically, visually, storywise. The film makes decent use of Kelly's charm and sex appeal, but it never gives Leslie Caron a chance to shine, nor does it truly explore life as an American in Paris. While it does have a memorable scene or two, AAiP fails to come to greatness or even achieve rewatchability-status. None of its separate elements - the music, the dance routines, the plot - measure up to the greatness that is Gene Kelly in an MGM Musical. If you want France, go to Europe. If you want dance, rent Gene Kelly in practically any other movie (try 1952's Singin' in the Rain.) An American in Paris decidedly offers you neither - Gene Kelly at his finest nor the brilliant, alluring Parisian life. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The digitally remastered version shows the glory of the cinematography which fully deserves the Oscar it subsequently won. Paris provided a picturesque backdrop throughout the movie - the small room Gene Kelly lived, the café he frequented, the cobbled streets children danced on. Leslie Caron is at her best in her dancing sequences. Surprisingly, I find the first solo dance she had in the film the least appealing among all the dances she gave in the movie. However as the plot unfolds, the duet performance she and Gene Kelly gave is pleasing to the eyes and her ballet training lends a lightness in the moves she makes. It is a treat just to watch her dance, especially the one she danced with Gene Kelly under the bridge. Simple and yet captivating. She also gave a very convincing performance as a sweet young girl who is supposed to marry out of responsibility rather than love.The movie also demonstrates the luxury of meticulous artistic design, costumes, coloured sets, great dancing scenes, numerous dancers and musicians offered by MGM. Just to relive what the Hollywood musicals are in the old days.Nina Foch is poised and elegant as the rich lady who wants to sponsor Gene Kelly's paintings. I wished as the story ends, something can be said about Nina Roch, the singer Georges Gutery and the concert pianist Oscar Levant. It would then be able to complete the story where not only the leading couple can have a good ending. "},{"Title":"This is a perfect movie; a perfect musical.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An American in Paris is THE perfect movie musical.  It doesn't matter whether it is your favorite or not, or whether you even like it; it's still perfect.  The dream dance sequence at the end of the movie is the greatest in film and is lasting testimony to the genius of Gene Kelly. "},{"Title":"The greatest musical of all time!!!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"   Singin' in the Rain receives the highest praise for it's unique comedy and perfect union of story with song and West Side Story is a landmark in choreography, but it's the Oscar-winning best picture of 1951, An American in Paris that towers above all others with it's brilliant choreography put together by the film's star, the incomparable Mr. Gene Kelly--the greatest male dancer of all time--it's stunning costumes and it's beautiful sets. And then there's the talent! Gene teams up with the beautiful and fresh newcomer Leslie Caron-in her very first movie role and the one that would make her an immediate star. Also joining the cast is pianist genius Oscar Levant, Parisian favourite Georges Guetary and glamour queen Nina Foch. They all come together in a glorious story set in the City of Lights--the diamond of the world--the most romantic place in all the world... PARIS!!! See this unforgettable masterpiece if you hav'nt yet! No human being should consider themselves well-versed in the movie-going department until they see this incredible piece of timeless motion picture history-an epic in every happy, joie de vivre way!  "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Though it does miss the top honor of best musical movie, it's still quite good.  The Dance of the Fountain is well-staged and envisioned.  I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise, the enchanting Love Is Here to Stay, the fun I Got Rhythm, and my favorite, the joyous S'Wonderful are all great musical numbers.  Gene Kelly is good.  Leslie Caron is a good partner to him, though her acting falls far short, and you can't tell just what attracts him to her, either in looks or personality.  Oscar Levant is funny, though his number where he sees himself playing all the parts in the orchestra comes out of left field and doesn't make any sense.  There's plenty more to enjoy; I just can't think of all the good stuff right now.  I do recommend this film.  "}{"Title":"Great musical but some poor acting and stiff dancing bring it down","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Gershwin's music was phenomenal, the scenes colorful. Eye candy for sure and very artsy. Two things I think make this a 7.5 and I have to agree with the rating.Gene Kelly, although a great dancer, in my opinion, is no Fred Astaire.He is a tap dancer without compare for his time, but he tries to perform too modern a dance and he is not really suited for it. He seems stiff and contrived. I also lay the blame on the choreographer. You can tell that when he taps, he is really in his element. But the modern, (At that time) dance, he does not flow in his steps. He was so much more relaxed and fluid in Dancing in the rain.Leslie Caron, again, a fantastic dancer and does so excellently in the film, but her acting leaves much to be desired. I think the word poor actor is poignant here. I think her and Gene go together well, but her acting threw off quite a few scenes. All and all the Live painting look and feel of Toulouse and others, they were going for, worked very well, but the film does not quite pull one in.I have always said, the great movies make you forget you are watching one, you are so engrossed. "},{"Title":"This won an Oscar?????","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am sorry to all those that were wowed by this film.  While I concede Gene Kelly is a great dancer and is so smooth and in control of his body it is like he dances on ice, the film itself is painfully weak in nearly all story telling respects.  First off, Jerry Mulligan is an a$$hole.  He treats both women poorly and deserves to be penniless and alone.  He comes off like a modern-day 40 year old pervert who lurks around bars hitting on women half his age by being aggressive and demanding.  No women fall for this pathetic midlife crisis routine, unless the man has money and/or class.  Mr. Mulligan has neither.  He also does not have the intellect of an artist, which might at least make him an interesting sophisticate.  He essentially has nothing to offer.As for the female wealthy sponsor, why on earth would she take an interest in this loser?  She meets him by witnessing his pretentious attack of a young American woman trying to enjoy her summer trip to Paris.  Excuse me Jerry, but when did you become such a wise man of the world?  He then insults the girl as a typical American know-it-all...but Jerry, have you forgotten your roots?  You too are an American.  Get over yourself, you hack overblown house painter.  I still don't get why the wealthy woman would find his boorish behavior interesting.  Then, his manners (drinks before she is served, doesn't say thank you, makes a blatant ass of himself oodling over the young woman at the bar in front of company he does not know well, etc, etc, etc) are disdainful.  She may be lonely, but she is clearly slumming it with this jerk and deserves much more.  A major problem with the film is she should know this.  They try to play it off by having her male friend, while dancing with her, imply she is a sucker for what she considers to be talented artists, but Jerry is way out of her league and her character would know this given how they portray her otherwise.Which brings me to my main point and main problem with this movie.  I honestly hoped everyone we met during the movie ended up happy but Jerry. He is the worst of all those people.  An unappreciative, self-absorbed ignoramous with no consideration for those around him.  Let's recap.  He uses the wealthy woman's feelings for him to get what he wants.  He does nothing to help his friend Adam nor takes an interest in his life.  He steals the young woman from Henri, even after finding out that he was with Lisse.  He never once talked to Henri or explained the situation, then when it went his way in the end that was all fine to him.  I was absolutely put off by this character.  He is dispicable...and the fact that he ends up happy while having destroyed everyone around him yet he is completely unaffected by the destruction he has caused makes me ill.Therefore, I conclude this movie to be terrible.  The characters respond to Jerry unrealistically while he arrogantly struts through the movie as if he's untouchable.If the director intended to be unbelievably subtle and ironic by creating a setting of happiness and creativity where it is almost impossible to be unhappy while placing a huge jerk in the center, then I give him the highest applause in the world.  He has convinced the world this movie has a happy ending and is cheery, yet meanwhile the worst character of them all ends up happy by lying to get rich (via art show) and bullies love out of a young, naive girl.  If that is the real intent, then the director is a genius and I highly respect his fooling the world and painting a false picture (intentional painting reference here) that viewers of the film thought was beautiful.  The irony continues...the director on the surface painted a love story, but reality is that it was an ugly story (just like Jerry's painting which we were to believe showed talent but in reality was terrible and we all knew it).Aside from the character issue, the plot is bland and the movie moves disjointedly.  It is a poor film unless the irony was intended...then, it is an arthouse classic with major cinematic issues. "},{"Title":"Sienna Shoes","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`The Red Shoes' changed the world of film. It was deeply self-referential (a performance about a performance with the two enfolded) and had the extra advance of sometimes making the camera a dancer. So Gene Kelly tried his own `Shoes.' MGM refused to horse around with the camera but let him try on his notion of dance within a painting.It is actually a very clever idea to contrive a story where a painter can enter his paintings and dance. By setting it in Paris and making the paintings `impressionistic' (it was thought) the sets and costumes could come alive - be hyper-real - moreso than in `Shoes.'But it takes a huge effort to set up this situation. For almost an hour and a half we have the tedious setup, interrupted only by an excuse for an instrumental presentation of `Rhapsody.' If there is a payoff, it is in the last eighteen minutes. That is the only reason for this film to exist.Unfortunately, that last ballet is a huge failure. The fault lies in the misinterpretations of the painting metaphors. Someone thought that impressionism was about color and vibrance. The result is outrageous but impressively unpleasing costumes, and some splashes of color on backdrops. Gene Kelly was an entertaining dancer and he could choreograph a vaudeville tapdance, but this is far beyond his abilities.The dance-in-a-painting metaphor doesn't work. The clever manner of the paintings never emerges. The dance choreography is lackluster. The costumes are ugly. Caron is okay, but Cyd Charisse could have been wonderful.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"not my best picture","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An art house maven's dream.  Overrated, overpraised, overdone; a pretentious melange that not only did not deserve Best Picture of 1951 on its own merits, it was dwarfed by the competition from the start.  Place in the Sun, Detective Story, Streetcar Named Desire, Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man; you name it, if it came out in '51, it's better than this arthouse crapola.  The closing ballet is claptrap for the intellectual crowd, out of place and in the wrong movie.  Few actors in their time were less capable (at acting) or less charismatic than Kelly and Caron.  My #12 Worst of '51 (I saw 201 movies), and among the 5 worst Best Picture Oscar winners.  "},{"Title":"Buckets of charm and some serious culture shock.","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie 59 years after it was released (God bless technology) and what struck me most was the difference in the culture. The love connection that drives the story is created when he literally stalks her until she laughingly concedes after which point, their love is assumed as a given. And for the other guy to deliver his cheating fiancée to him at the end of the movie WITH A SMILE(!!??!!) is so far beyond ridiculous, I'm not even sure I saw it right. There were other instances but I think I've made my point.I don't think the story was intended to be the real draw here. At least I hope not. The music and dancing were so good (Gene Kelly has more charm and charisma in any single scene than most Hollywood studios can dream of cramming into their products these days), that despite the story line and the relationships portrayed being mind-boggling, the movie is fun and engaging. What motivated the characters to make some of the decisions they made is simply beyond me but I guess it was just a different time with different social norms and since the real selling points of the movie (the Gershwins music and Gene Kelly's screen presence) needed the plot to go a certain way in order to do their thing, it just did and all told, that's fine with me. If it wasn't for Gene Kelly and the Gershwins, this movie would have been a non-starter but with their immeasurable talent, it is a movie worth watching. Leslie Caron as a leading lady was an epic fail but I'm sure a lot of the blame for that lies in the story itself. It cannot be easy to play a lady who switches from angrily saying You are downright annoying! to giggling and agreeing to meet for a date a split second later because he refused to take no for an answer. But that's just my two scents. ;) "},{"Title":"Another Great MGM Musical","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An American in Paris is a showcase of Gene Kelly. Watch as Gene sings, acts and dances his way through Paris in any number of situations. Some purely majestic, others pure corn. One can imagine just what Kelly was made of as he made this film only a year before Singin' In The Rain. He is definately one of the all time greats. It is interesting to look at the parallels between the two films, especially in Kelly's characters, the only main difference being that one is based in Paris, the other in L.A.Some have said that Leslie Caron's acting was less than pure. Perhaps Cyd Charisse, who was originally intended for the role could have done better, however Caron is quite believable in the role and has chemistry with Kelly. Oscar Levant's short role in this film gave it just what it needed, someone who doesn't look like Gene Kelly. Filling the role as the everyman isn't an easy task, yet Levant did it with as much class as any other lead.The song and dance routines are all perfection. Even the overlong ballet at the end of the film makes it a better film with it than without. Seeing that there really wasn't much screen time to make such a loving relationship believable, Minnelli used this sequence to make it seem as if you'd spent four hours with them. Ingenious!I would have to rate this film up with Singin' since it is very similar in story and song. Singin' would barely get the nod because of Debbie Reynolds uplifting performance.Full recommendation.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"George Gershwin","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The composer's name George Gershwin for the music of this musical should jump out at you on your site. It is really hard to find and other names are being intimated as the composer. Your site should honor George Gershin's genius with a more high-profile acknowledgment in your site. Gershwin died at an early age, but, he still left many great music compositions. He is a classical as his music has withstood the test of time. If you omitted the music of Gershwin from An American in Paris, there would not be much left of the movie. The music makes the movie. We have few genuine 20th century composers from America. His is the most recognizable music of the 0th century composers.Thank you-Janet Jones "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The story and music (George Gershwin!) are wonderful, as are Levant, Guetary, Foch, and, of course, Kelly. One thing's missing, and that thing is a good leading lady. I'm sorry, Leslie Caron bothers me. Anyway, despite her, the plot moves along nicely with the famous (and deservedly so) Ballet. Oh the colours, the dazzling reds, blues, greens, and yellows. Musn't forget the beiges as well.  ; )  I just adore the contrast between the Beaux Arts Ball (completely black and white costumes) and the ever-so-brilliant Ballet.So I suppose what I'm trying to say is this Please, by all means see it, and enjoy it, because though it isn't the best, it is MARVELOUS. But be sure not to forget that other Gene Kelly musical with the 20 year old girl that was catapulted to stardom just afterward. "},{"Title":"It Beats A Yank At Oxford ...","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" ... Oxford, Mississippi, at least. Okay, the Paris we get is Paris, Culver City apart from the Establishing library footage of the real McCoy but it IS Paris in spirit than which nothing, nowhere, is better. Okay, Kelly is no Astaire but then who is and Caron is no Hepburn, ditto but Alan Lerner is light years ahead of the vastly overrated Comden and Green who scripted Kelly's other 'big' 50s musical Singin' In The Rain (a curious replication of lyricists writing screenplays featuring songs by OTHER lyricists and just to balance things the Gershwin numbers are far superior to the Arthur Freed/Nacio Herb Brown numbers so Alan Lerner didn't have to feel too outclassed). The story needn't detain us any more than the anomalies -Kelly hasn't got change of a match and is a painter, i.e. bohemian, yet he is able to scare up a perfectly good suit at a few hours notice when Foch invites him to dinner at her hotel; in the well-documented Love Is Here To Stay sequence the lovers are strangely unmolested by passers-by, other lovers and the bridge in the background is totally free of both pedestrian and vehicular traffic - this is, after all, a feelgood musical so it stands or falls by the score and in this case it stands four square. As feel good musicals go it's definitely in the top 10. "},{"Title":"A fine selection of Gershwin but a somewhat dated movie musical.","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" If I remember, Ira Gershwin, the lyricist and brother of George, offered the Gershwin catalog for this film and it was snapped up by the producers. In many respects, it was a typical 50's movie musical by the Freed Unit at MGM and directed by Vincente Minelli with a lot of help from Gene Kelly.The Gershwins were, of course, among the greatest of all Broadway musical teams but, in my opinion, George himself was among the greatest of all American composers, period!!! Gene Kelly was, of course, one of the two greatest male dancers of the movie musical (One guess as to the other?) and I don't imagine his casting was ever in doubt. But, I think the rest of the cast needs some explanation Oscar Levant was a noted personality in his time and, as an actual friend of George Gershwin, he had to be in this film. He was a talented pianist and even a moderately talented composer as well as a noted neurotic and hypochondriac and here, as always, he plays himself.Leslie Caron was an unknown at this time and she was of the French gamin type. A talented dancer, she was never a real beauty. George Guétary who plays the part of Maurice Chavalier, oops, I mean Henri Baurel, was Greek and not French but he certainly is more than OK as a French boulevardier even if a little too young for the part.Gene's hoofer's voice is serviceable here but Guétary has much the better vocal equipment. Though Gene was better cast elsewhere as, obviously, in Singin' in the Rain where his character is much more calculating, even here he shows himself to be something of a heel at times (He was, not for nothing, cast as the original heel Joey in Pal Joey, the Broadway musical.) I was not so enchanted with his I Got Rhythm scene with the children which does not appear as spontaneous as was intended in my opinion.I also found Nina Foch's character Milo to be rather irritating.But the highlight of the film is obviously the lengthy ballet at the end of the film based on the title music with sets and costumes in the styles of the great French Impressionist painters.I found it difficult to believe Gene and Oscar, as struggling artists, and I don't think the musical numbers are as well set up as they might be but, on balance, the Gershwin music is very well served in this film.The DVD is well-done with fine clear graphics (when they are supposed to be) and the mono sound is good but a trifle shallow. "}{"Title":"An American in Paris","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An American in Paris is a wonderful musical about an American painter living in Paris for inspiration. He meets a rich woman who admires his paintings on the street and she believes she can get his work to be even more popular to the public, e.g. in a museum. Golden Globe nominated Gene Kelly as the artist Jerry Mulligan is just perfect at both singing and especially dancing. He also meets the main girl Lise Bouvier (Leslie Caron) who is engaged to his best friend. He can't help his feelings for this girl, even after he finds out who she is engaged to. Filled with nice romance and wonderful song and dance, this is a very good musical film. It may drag slightly with his dancing dream sequence, i.e. The American in Paris ballet, but there is a good happy ending. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture, Best Writing, Story and Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Director for Vincente Minnelli and Best Film Editing, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy, and it was nominated for Best Director for Vincente Millenni (Liza's father). Gene Kelly was number 66 on The 100 Movie Stars, and he was number 15 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, I Got Rhythm was number 32 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 9 on 100 Years of Musicals, it was number 39 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 68 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Very good! "},{"Title":"Without Serious Competition, The Greatest Musical Ever","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In 1952, Gene Kelly starred in, co-directed, and choreographed Singin' In The Rain, which has been called by many critics the best musical ever. One year earlier, Gene Kelly starred in and choreographed another film, An American in Paris. An American In Paris is far better than Singin' In The Rain. Although its plot is not original, it's fabulous dancing has remained unmatched for over 45 years. Gene Kelly is wonderful as Jerry Mulligan, the title character. His friend, played by the always delightful Oscar Levant is also American. He is romanced by Nina Foch, a rich American woman, but he is not in love with Nina, he loves lovely Leslie Caron. Although Leslie had not yet developed her fine acting skills, she is one of the rare actresses who could keep up with Gene Kelly while dancing. Judy Garland could not, Debbie Reynolds could not, even Ann Miller could not. A wonderful score only makes this five time academy award winner better. The score by George and Ira Gershwin includes S'Wonderful, Stairway To Paradise, By Strauss, and I've Got Rhythm and simply must be heard. This is director Vincente Minnelli's best film, and should be seen by everyone with a serious passion for movies. (10 out of 10) "},{"Title":"The most boring movie I have ever seen!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I'm never much for classic films. Movies like Patton, Going My Way, How Green was My Valley, The Godfather, Casablanca, Annie Hall, Gone with the Wind, Lawrence of Arabia, and Citizen Kane bore me. However, I would much rather watch any one of those films 3,469 times while being tied up on a chair than watch An American in Paris once in the most luxurious suite ever. If I did the latter, I'd probably be sleeping the entire time.The color art direction and the music didn't interest me, Gershwin or non-Gershwin. The dancing and the singing could help an insomniac fall to sleep. The dialogue doesn't match up to Singin' in the Rain. Basically, this movie is boring. The only other film that I fell asleep while watching was Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. But you can't blame me. I only slept 5 minutes the night before.1 star/10 (Too bad we can't give zeroes.) "},{"Title":"Too bad the women are not more attractive","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  An interesting effort and Gene Kelly is very good. Filmed in extremely unnatural colors that clearly indicate a circus atmosphere and not realism. Main drawback is that the leading ladies are not particularly winsome. One has thick ankles and big thighs, while the other is flat as a board. "}]