[{"Title":"A Serene Noble Epic, Masterfully Told","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know that much about the story of Captain Horatio Hornblower, so I can't vouch for the accuracy of this version. I saw it because I was interested in its director Raoul Walsh, who creates another of his roaring and high-spirited masterworks with this serene, honest, swiftly-paced adventure of the 19th-century British Fleet Captain, from the celebrated three novels by C. F. Forester. Walsh depicts Hornblower, fantastically incarnated by Gregory Peck, as a modest man characterized by a sense of duty and honor. Peck is perfect for the role. Aided by stunning Technicolor scenery and marvellous score, this simple epic on the high seas navigates through several battles in Spain, France, and South America. Walsh's staging of the battle scenes is flawless. But I was really impressed by the romantic moments by Hornblower and Virginia Mayo's Lady Barbara Wellesley. Their love scenes are wonderfully gentle and moving without being forcefully sentimental. Captain Horatio Hornblower is a great timeless classic from a master director.   "},{"Title":" I'm Not worried,   ' Long as Captain Hornblower is in command ","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Raoul Walsh has many great films to his credit and once you see his name as director, you know the man has imbued his work with all the panache of a great artist. To his credit and well placed among his best work is the sea epic  Captain Horatio Hornblower. This story comes from the fertile and imaginative mind of novelist C. S. Forester who's famed hero has spawned a dozen books, films and T.V. specials. In this particular movie, we have legendary actor Gregory Peck playing the gallant and dashing swashbuckler aboard His Majestys' ship Lydia, Her secret mission is placed in the mists of the Napoleonic wars, charged to deliver guns and ammunition to a pint-size delusional dictator Don Julian Alvarado (Alec Mango) who greets him as a ally but later becomes a belligerent adversary. To help him in his quest is, Lt. William Bush (Robert Beatty) an admirable and courageous second in command. Lt. Crystal (Moultrie Kelsall) an excellent navigator. 2nd Lt. Gerard, Gunnery Officer (Terence Morgan) and Mr. Longley, (James Kenny) Midshipman and junior ensign. Together, with James Justice as 'Seaman Quist' they spend five years on the high seas, braving hunger, thirst and war time experiences, including saving beautiful Lady Barbara Wellesley (Virginia Mayo). A fine story fit for re-telling to any generation **** "},{"Title":"Master and Commander","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's unfair that Raoul Walsh's name is labeled by the books as a second-level filmmaker in relation with, say, a Ford or a Hawks. He was an extraordinary crafted and prolific director, capable of incorporating standard studio material into his own personal worldview. `Captain Horatio Hornblower' is full of little moments that exceed any genre limitation. These `sparkles of Truth' may be the tracking shot along the empty room while Peck reads the letter of his deceased wife, or when Virginia Mayo kisses the youngster the way his mother used to did. So the adventure film becomes something bigger than life, just as `White Heat' used of the conventions of the gangster film to turn into metaphysics, or `Colorado Territory' departed the western into the depths of existentialism. This film is enjoyable from beginning to end, and it's a clear predecessor of Peter Weir's `Master and Commander', with which it shares a few tone, character and plot elements. "},{"Title":"Only in technicolor can you get a sky like that!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film has a great story  (C.S.Forester wrote the script from his novels), solid lead acting from Gregory Peck, Virginia Mayo as the romantic interest, super supporting cast, and that beautiful '50s technicolor!  Push the pause button on this film anywhere; the cinematography is lush, gaudy and gorgeous!  I don't know how historically accurate the battle scenes are, but they kept me glued. (Questions I had during the battle scene   doesn't it hurt when a mast falls on you?  How do they clean up after the battle?) I don't know a yardarm from a topsail, but Gregory Peck convinced me he knew every time he'd squint up at the top of the mast, or yell out clear for action!  I was a sucker for Midshipman Langley and Lady Wellsely's exchange after the battle but El Supremo's makeup man should have been whipped with the cat'o'nine tails!  The ending was way too convenient   Let's hope A & E's rendition is a winner! "},{"Title":"In the Age Of Sail, there was no one better . . . .","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Adapted from C.S. Forester's saga, this movie condenses three of his novels from the Napoleonic era into a fine movie well worth watching.  From the first few minutes of music and opening narrative where we first meet Hornblower (a captain of steel who uses his brains to defeat his enemies), the audience is hooked. Peck, in one of his best performances, plays the lead role to perfection in every way, right down to Hornblower's trademark Ha - h'm.  Mayo is well cast as Lady Barbara (the Duke of Wellington's sister) who manages to get under Hornblower's skin with the help of Cupid's arrows.  This film deftly blends an array of fine performances, excellent camerawork, beautiful scenery, Robert Farnon's spirited musical score, and well- choreographed ship battle sequences into a brilliant work of art that will leave audiences - and fans of Forester's series - wanting to see it again.  An excellent choice! "},{"Title":"Unstructured but Stirring Adventure Tale","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" C. S. Forester was the Patrick O'Brian of his day. Like O'Brian, he was the author of a series of novels which had as their hero a British naval commander of the Napoleonic Wars and, like O'Brian, he was highly popular with the reading public. Although the exploits of Forester's hero, Horatio Hornblower, have recently been made into a television series, they have only served as the basis for one feature film.I have not read all the Hornblower novels, and it is a long time since I read any of them. It is, however, quite clear that the film was based upon episodes cobbled together from at least two different novels. During the first half of the film, Captain Hornblower is commanding a British ship off the coast of Central America, where he tangles with a local ruler who has declared independence from Spain and made himself dictator. In the second half, Hornblower leads a daring raid on a French naval base and is taken prisoner by the enemy, but manages to escape back to Britain. The lack of any real connection between the two halves of the film means that it is not completely satisfactory in terms of structure; it might have worked better as two separate films.There is one thread that links the two halves; the love affair between Hornblower and Lady Barbara Wellesley, the sister of the Duke of Wellington. The two fall in love after the unhappily married Hornblower rescues Lady Barbara, the fiancée of his superior officer Admiral Leighton, during his Latin American adventure. Following their return to Britain, Lady Barbara and Leighton are married, but Hornblower's wife and the Admiral both conveniently die before the end, leaving the lovers free to marry. Hornblower's wife does not appear in the film, so there is nothing to suggest what sort of a woman she was and why he was so unhappy with her. Again, I found this ending unsatisfactory for two reasons, both because it was too neat and because it seemed heartless to kill off two people to provide a happy ending for two others. The scriptwriters seem to have been following the plot of the novels too slavishly; it might have made for a better film if they had felt free to depart from Forester's text and make one, or both, of the lovers single.This was the first of two successive films in which Gregory Peck played an officer in the armed forces; the other was Captain Richard Lance in Only the Valiant. The two characters, however, are quite different, with very different styles of leadership. Whereas Lance is a strict disciplinarian, Hornblower is more liberal. We do see one seaman being flogged, but the order for this punishment is given by a junior officer. Hornblower reluctantly allows the flogging to go ahead on the grounds that to countermand an order given by a subordinate would undermine discipline, and in the hope that the barbarity of the procedure will persuade the young man to be more humane in future. Although there were exceptions such as his excellent Ahab in Moby Dick, Peck was often at his best playing rational, liberal men of integrity, and I found this a better performance than the one he gave in Only the Valiant. Most people will not, however, watch this film either as a love story or as a study in leadership, but as a swashbuckling historical adventure, and on this level it works well. Although they are not quite as realistic as those in a modern film such as Master and Commander, the battle scenes are well done. Forester was capable of writing stirring tales of adventure, and, at its best, this film succeeds in capturing his spirit of excitement. 6/10 "},{"Title":"British swashbuckling heroics.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Raul Walsh directs this action packed adventure, based on three novels by C.S. Forester. Captain Horatio Hornblower(Gregory Peck) is a stern 19th-century seafarer during the Napoleonic wars. He sometimes hides the truth from the hands on the ship Lydia in order to survive battles with Spain and France in Central American waters. Eight months into his mission he takes on board Lady Barbara Wellesley(Virgina Mayo) and her hand-maid for the return trip to England. Their love is professed, but will not continue for she is promised to a Rear Admiral soon to be Hornblower's commander. Along the way back to British shores Lady Barbara comes down ill and Hornblower nurses her back to health. This is a prelude to a serious situation in his own home. He arrives and finds that his wife has died in childbirth. His thoughts return to Lady Barbara, but she has already married. Plenty of action with cannon laden majestic ships in battle. The supporting cast features Robert Beatty, James Kenney, Alec Mango, Denis O'Dea and Christopher Lee. Almost two hours of sea-going adventure in beautiful Technicolor. "},{"Title":"Adventures, battles, and gentle romance","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this splendid movie many times and it just gets better. There's such a good balance between the spectacles of graceful tall ships at sea, then moments of battle, cannon roars exploding, crashing masts when all h... breaks loose onboard, shipwrecks -- so many exciting exploits of war in the Napoleonic era. Interspersed in all this are the tender interludes of romance, anguished moments of caring for dying crew members, homecomings that are too late, and it goes on.Gregory Peck as Capt. Horatio Hornblower fills the role superbly, and Virginia Mayo as Lady Barbara is exquisite, tender and sincere. I almost wished those two had really married after the film was completed, but I'm dreaming of course. Denis O'Dea, as Rear Admiral Leighton, is a substantial supporting actor and a favorite of mine. As a rugged seaman, there's a young James Robertson Justice who is also destined for greater roles to come. I particularly liked him in The Sword and the Rose (1953), as King Henry VIII, a lighthearted adventure.Enjoy this Capt. Horatio action-filled movie. Ah, the days of seafaring adventures!  "},{"Title":"A true classic,even in Spain","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is not frequently shown in  Spanish television,but even with a clumsy Spanish dubbing-in which our heroic Hornblower changes his voice two times!one can see why it must be considered  a classic of entertainment-Gregory Peck in  his best  years,ships, troubled romance,heroic sacrifice, the very Forester behind, and even a baby!And for me,its an extra pleasure checking a very young Christopher Lee trying to speak Spanish. This film is the perfect introduction for the still better, if possible, series starring Ioan Gruffudd which came so many years later.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining sea epic with Peck at the helm","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a superior technicolor sea epic with Gregory Peck as a British Fleet captain during the Napoleonic Wars. Fine sea battle sequences top off this entertaining story of this Captain away from his wife at sea who also meets a beautiful British lady (Virginia Mayo) whom he must return to England in safety.   "}{"Title":"Good, late, typical Raoul Walsh movie.","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yeah, sure I missed Errol Flynn, but Gregory Peck is of course a more than great substitute. He plays a great and compelling character and I way only he could do. And just leave it up to director Raoul Walsh to make a good entertaining swashbuckler!The movie has a great adventurous historic story, about life on the sea. It isn't constantly action but still the movie constantly maintains a pleasant atmosphere. But still the movie also has some good action moments in it as well. The sea battles are truly great! But unfortunately the movie also feels the need to put in a love interest and love-story of course. The movie starts to go a bit downhill after the love-story kicks in, since it takes away lots of the pace and adventurous atmosphere of the movie. Luckily after that the movie soon starts to become fast and entertaining again. Because there are many different things happening in the movie, with changing characters and enemies, the movie feels much longer than its 'merely' 117 minutes, which is a real positive thing to say in this case. No, this movie really ain't no swashbuckler like the used to make in the '30's but nevertheless the movie has different qualities and is great to watch on its own, mainly because it's such a well made movie.The directing is great and so is the overall pace. You can really tell director Raoul Walsh is really comfortable within the genre. The effects are also very good and convincing looking for its time. Only problem is that the movie too often makes sudden leaps in time. The time-line of the movie doesn't always feel sensible.The movie truly benefits from Gregory Peck's presence. He uplifts the movie and he fits the role surprisingly well. It's fun that the movie also features a still young Christopher Lee as well, in one of his first small movie roles. At least he can say that he once crossed swords with Gregory Peck. Most other actors in the movie aren't really much impressive, including Virginia Mayo (who?).All in all a great movie to watch!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Hornblower almost at his best","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The books of Cecil Scott Forrester were brought to my attention by my first English teacher and I am still thankful for that. The books about Hornblower are in a series of 12 volumes and they are all great. The strength of the 8 episodes (TV movies) with Ion Gruffith are very very well in there description of the characteristic doubtfulness of the character Horatio Hornblower. In this movie, however, there is not as much time as in the latter TV series... where the TV series only describe part of a book, this movie is the story of 3 books in all. Keeping that in mind, Gregory Peck makes quite a good Hornblower in a great story, that more takes the action from the books then the doubts of the main character. But what great actions! This movie is really, even after more then 50 years worth to watch. It hardly has aged.... it is an excellent movie... and I wonder why is it so hard to get? I had expected that this movie would be for sale on DVD in all regions. Pity it is only a hard to get movie on NTSC VHS tape, because the movie is of such quality that it can most certainly be compared with the TV series, and... of course keeping in mind it is 50 years older, with Master and commander, the far side of the world from that other great novelist in this topic Patrick O' Brian. "},{"Title":"Just terrific--they don't make adventure films like this anymore!","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No, I have not read the Hornblower novels by C. M. Forrester, nor have I seen the recent mini-series, so keep this in mind when reading the following review.This is a wonderful old adventure movie and highly reminiscent of the old swashbuckling films of Errol Flynn--though a lot more realistic. Gregory Peck plays the title character, a British naval officer during the Napoleonic Wars. When the film begins, you find Peck's ship in difficult straits--they are on a secret mission and nothing seems to be going right--there is no wind, they've not seen land in seven months AND they're practically out of food and water! Fortunately, the good captain is an expert seaman and navigator and they find the fortress of El Supremo---a totally megalomaniacal and incompetent revolutionary. The plan is apparently to give him a huge supply of guns and ammunition in order to destabilize the Spanish colonies in the Americas (since Spain is at this point an ally of France). I need to mention that during all this daring-do, he meets up with lovely Virginia Mayo and wins her heart because of his bravery, compassion and overall sense of decency--too bad she's already engaged to Peck's commanding officer! What exactly happens next to is just something you'll have to see for yourself. However, there are some inspiring but realistic adventures through which Hornblower gains the reputation as a great officer.This is a wonderful film--the sort of adventure film they just don't make anymore. And, it's no surprise then that this was directed by Raoul Walsh--the same man that directed many of Flynn's greatest films. On top of excellent adventure, Peck's hero is a little bit more complex and human than those played by Flynn. Plus, the writing and acting are superb--not a film to be missed. "},{"Title":"Raoul Walsh shows how an excellent adventure movie must be...","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Raoul Walsh shows how an excellent adventure movie has to be made Take two Hollywood stars (Gregory Peck and Virginia Mayo), send them to Eng- land, take British character actors for the supporting roles (Robert Beatty, James Robertson Justice) and take finally a good English stunt team. For me it is one of the best adventure movies at all, with excellent battle sequences, visual effects and a good cinematography by Oscar-winner (for GREAT EXPECTATIONS, 1946)Guy Green (1913-2005). I recorded that movie from the TV, and I was not pleased about removing the clips, so I'm asking When will the DVD in Germany appear? Regards, Hans-Dieter "},{"Title":"Captain Horatio Hornblower (Raoul Walsh, 1951) ***","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Though it’s been a staple on Italian TV ever since childhood, for some reason I never got around to watching this seafaring epic – given its popular source material (C.S. Forester penned a series of novels about this fictional British naval hero), not to mention the imposing director and star (Gregory Peck) credentials. Anyway, going through a mini-swashbuckling marathon, it seemed the ideal opportunity to check it out; having said that, this is another film to which the epithet shouldn’t perhaps be attached – due to the fact that cannons are the sole weapons that are adopted during the various sea battles (after all, it’s closer to “Mutiny On The Bounty” than, say, the Errol Flynn vehicles made by the same studio, Warner Bros.)! Unsurprisingly, however, the end result still proved to be extremely typical of its kind and era a colorful spectacle full of adventure, drama and romance, to say nothing of a stalwart cast. In fact, many a future British star is featured in this Anglo-American production, among them James Robertson Justice (a role he would virtually recreate that same year in another pirate romp, ANNE OF THE INDIES, which I’ve also just watched for the first time), Stanley Baker and Christopher Lee! The film basically resolves itself into a series of vignettes, designed to showcase the many facets of Hornblower’s personality able navigator, disciplined commander and clever strategist. However, it takes care as well (albeit less successfully) to promote his human side – not merely through the all-too-predictable romantic complications involving the Virginia Mayo character, but the Captain’s rather silly idiosyncrasy of clearing his throat whenever he finds himself at a disadvantage!CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER, therefore, is an incident-packed and generally entertaining ride – albeit longish at nearly two hours; for the record, Walsh and Peck would collaborate on another adventure film with the same milieu – THE WORLD IN HIS ARMS (1952) – while the star had one of his most atypical and challenging roles in the best cinematic adaptation of an equally famed seafaring source, Herman Melville’s MOBY DICK (1956)… "},{"Title":"Stuffed shirt British sea cap'n fights and loves his way across the 7 seas","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The good cap'n does battle with the evil Napoleon Bonaparte, while wooing the lovely Lady Wellesley. Lots of canvas fell on folks heads as the cannon roared, but Cap'n H. and his lusty lads prevailed. This was a good show with colorful costumes and some nice action sequences, but some of the dialogue was a tad hokey. For my money they could have left Lady W. on shore and had a couple more fights - too much confounded smoochin'. 3 stars. "},{"Title":"A Good Sea Yarn, Two Of Them In Fact","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't think the good citizens of the United Kingdom with their proud tradition of sea power could complain too much about the American leads in a film about one of their popular fictional heroes. You can't get too much more heroic than Gregory Peck on screen and he certainly does fit C.S. Forrester's conception of Captain Horatio Hornblower, R.N.In fact even recently with Russell Crowe's Master and Commander kind of reinvigorating this genre of literature, I still kind of like what Gregory Peck did with the role. The age of Napoleon where Great Britain stood for a time very much alone against his domination of Europe was another their finest hours. The film is taken from two of the Hornblower novels and sad to say the film's weakness is that the first part of it is much the superior of the second. Personally I think they should have padded out the first part and dealt with it alone. Recurring characters from the Hornblower novels appear here such as the Duke of Wellington's fictional sister Lady Barbara Wellesley played by Virginia Mayo and members of Hornblowers crew played by Robert Beatty, James Robertson Justice, and Terence Morgan among others. There's also a very touching performance by young James Kenney as the midshipman on board the HMS Lydia.The first part of the film deals with Hornblower sailing the Lydia to the western coast of Central America in secret to reach a potential rebel ally against Spain which has joined with France. Hornblower makes contact with Don Julian Alvarado, the self-styled El Supremo. Hornblower captures a Spanish ship of the line and gives it to his new ally.Then he learns that Spain has switched sides in the Napoleonic War while he's been at sea and now this heavily armed vessel is in the hands of a real psycho. Now he has to undo what he did.If you don't see Captain Horatio Hornblower, R.N. for any other reason, than see it for Alec Mango's over the top performance as the psychotic El Supremo. It's a piece of scenery chewing for the ages and it fits with the character. You take your allies in war where you find them and Spain was not the first or the last country that ever switched sides during a conflict.The second half concerns Peck and the crew in action off the Bay of Biscay and the vessel Lydia runs aground. Peck and the crew are taken prisoner and the rest of the film concerns with their escape. These are in fact two different Hornblower stories and the first is much the superior of the second.Of course another viewer might feel differently and the film is recommended for all of you who like a good sea yarn. "},{"Title":"Splendid and Stirring; C.S. Forester's Hero Brought to Vivid Life","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Hornblower series of sea novels, written by C.S. Forester, are among the most admired adventures in the English language. There are eleven in all, which can be read independently or in series (although they were written out of sequence). In this attractive, rousing and well-acted compilation of two of the novels, the screenwriter, Aeneas Mackenzie, has taken liberties of course. But what we have, substituting U.S. accents for some upper class British types, is I assert a faithful and exciting realization of the Forester vision. Having read the series more than once, I suggest that Gregory Peck was almost a perfect choice for the hero's part apart from not being British. Others in the cast include Robert Beatty, virile as Mr. Bush, First Mate and Terence Morgan. As Lady Barbara Wellesley, pretty Virginia Mayo is equally un-Britannic and acquits herself with beauty and understanding of her role. The central character of these adventures is given in this film his most difficult assignment. He sails around the Cape of Good Hope and by use of a sextant alone contacts England's ally in the Pacific; only by the time he arrives, Don Julio Alavarado has renamed himself El Supremo and is demanding divine honors, while setting up a reign of terror. Obtaining the supplies he needs from the madman, Hornblower proceeds to capture a French ship much larger than his own; then when peace is declared between France and England and her allies, he has to attack El Supremo, in that larger vessel, to whom he delivered the vessel as his orders read; he Mundt do this to avert having made an enemy of England's new friend, France, into a dangerous force. What happens then, how he falls--hopelessly--in love with the Duke of Wellington's sister and what happens when he is captured, escapes the guillotine in France and brings home a lost ship and many impressed English seamen forms the bulk of the film. The direction by action film legend Raoul Walsh is often splendid; so are the battle scenes. The music, sets, costumes and lighting all deserve mention; the art director for the film was excellent also. This is a very intelligent film, with wonderful Forester dialogue, a triumph for all concerned. The climax actually takes place at the Admiralty when Hornblower reports to his superiors; the ending is satisfying and memorable. The only shame is no sequel was ever made. The underplot of Hornblower being a lower-class servant of upper-class masters and hiding his fears in battle by simply fighting through them is handled here in subtle fashion; but the idea of being a captain in the Royal Navy of the Empire poorly paid, without personal wealth and at the whim of fortune and Admiralty enemies adds to the goings-on enormously. This is splendid adventure film-making by any standard. "},{"Title":"Wonderful timeless classic","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I admit on this particular story I'm not so au fait with they exact facts, so I am just reviewing this film based on what it is. A Truly wonderful timeless classic film. I am a big fan of Raul Walsh whom directed this film, in this film he has created another masterpiece. A 19th Century Captain of a British Fleet, the film is taken from the books of C. F. Forester. Gregory Peck is just amazing in his role of Captain Horatio Hornblower, Hornblower is a simple honest man who believes in his duty and honour. The scenery and film score add to the quality of this film, there are some superb wonderful truly romantic scenes with Lady Barbara Wellesley and also superbly acted by Virginia Mayo. This is just another great time classic film with a truly majestic director. "},{"Title":"Iron men in wooden ships, with Gregory Peck as Captain Horatio Hornblower","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Make sail, men! cries Horatio Hornblower, We're on our way to England! But before we arrive at this point in the movie we've taken part in a rousing boy's own adventure of the naval wars pitting the Royal Navy against Napoleon. We're with Captain Hornblower (Gregory Peck) on the 38-gun frigate H.M.S. Lydia as he deals with a Central American megalomaniac who calls himself El Supremo, then battles and beats -- twice -- the 60-gun Spanish ship- of-the-line Natividad. When he returns to England and assumes command of the 74-gun H.M.S. Sutherland, we're right there as he takes on four French ships-of-the-line, nearly destroys them and, as his ship sinks, deliberately holes her so she bottles up a vital French port. And then, captured by the French and on his way to Paris to be tried as a pirate, we're with him as he and his two companions escape, make it to a Dutch port, manage to steal a captured sloop, man it with English prisoners-of-war and then sails it across the channel to England. And what had seemed a doomed romance with the brave and beautiful Barbara Wellesley (Virginia Mayo), sister of the Duke of Wellington, comes to a happy conclusion due to various deaths in battle or to small pox. Movies about iron men in wooden ships, who battle scurvy and thirst as well as the French, are for me always stirring occasions. Grape shot, flogging, amputations without anesthesia and oaken splinters flying into one's face would be enough to convince me that even accounting would be a better profession than the navy in those times. Captain Horatio Hornblower, the movie, is an audience-pleasing romantic adventure where the battles are packed with lots of action but little gore, and that's not a bad thing. The two-hour movie slows down only in the middle when Hornblower and Lady Barbara, sailing back from Central America to England, realize their deepening feelings for each other. But he is married, and she is not only above his station in life, but engaged to a suspicious prig of an admiral under whom Hornblower will find himself assigned. Peck manages not to embarrass himself. He wisely avoids trying an English accent. Hornblower is a smart, decent man, harrumphing now and then when he's caught off guard or at a loss for words, respected by his crew, a skilled navigator, a gifted battle tactician, a captain who inspires love and loyalty. Peck's own great gift as an actor of projecting decency serves him well. Mayo may not have a lot to do, but she's gorgeous to look. The one amusing aspect of the movie is the propensity for the officers to wear dress uniforms during their everyday duties. We're treated to them sailing on the hot Central American waters in their best wool uniforms, complete with white weskits, cocked hats and shiny swords dangling from their waists. One assumes the Hollywood producers had no confidence that the audience could distinguish officers from the men without the equivalent of signs around the officers' necks. Lady Barbara also has a habit on board of wearing gowns that risk sunburn and peeling on some sensitive parts of her upper anatomy. The movie features fine performances from familiar faces and names, including Robert Beatty, James Robertson Justice, Terence Morgan and Denis O'Day. In smaller roles are faces that later became much better known, those of Stanley Baker and Christopher Lee. Alec Mango gives us an over-ripe and enjoyable turn as the strutting, sweating El Supremo. The movie is drawn primarily from C. S. Forester's Beat to Quarters, with the later half of the movie pulled from episodes from Ship of the Line and Flying Colors. These are the first three Hornblower novels Forester wrote. The Hornblower series still holds up as exciting adventures in the age of sail and the life-and-death struggle pitting Britain against Napoleon. "}{"Title":"Run Out Your Larboard Guns!","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" C. S. Forester's Captain must have been part of the global collective consciousness at one time. Lyndon Johnson's Vice President was once mistakenly introduced at a public gathering as Hubert Horatio Hornblower. I'm not sure anything like that could happen today since the art of reading novels has all but died and this film isn't shown so often on television.This is an above-average adventure film, a salubrious blend of sea battles, romance, politics, and history. It lies somewhere between the comic fantasy of The Crimson Pirate and the earnest drama of Damn the Defiant -- maybe in the suite next to The Sea Hawk. Hornblower, a stern but fair captain, somewhat stiff, takes the British frigate Lydia to the coast of central America to deliver arms to a would-be dictator whose ambitions will draw ships of Spain -- Napolean's ally -- away from Europe. Well, I'll tell you, the dictator, who calls himself El Supremo (The Supreme) is one nasty banana eater. Half mad, he crucifies dissidents, tries to order the very proper Hornblower around, and is made up to look like he just crawled out of a vat of grease. He fairly drips with it.Fortunately, Spain switches sides in the wars and Hornblower discovers that El Supremo is now an enemy, which gives Hornblower a chance to take his small frigate and blow the much larger Natividad, and her captain, El Supremo, to smithereens in a well-staged and exciting battle.Hornblower is forced by adventitious circumstance to take aboard the sweet but tangy Virginia Mayo. She's supposed to be the sister of the Duke of Wellington but she looks and speaks as if she's been raised on Midwestern corn and cream. Come to think of it, amid all the rest of the English cast, Gregory Peck as Hornblower doesn't try for an English accent, which is just as well, if his pronunciation of French is any indication of his talent with dialects. Anyway, pfui with the romance. It's just thrown in there as a sop to the women in the 1953 audience. This is an adventure movie.The Lydia arrives back in England where Hornblower is treated as a hero and given a ship of the line to command. Against orders he sails her into the harbor at Nantes or someplace, under the guns of the French fort, sinks four of Napolean's ships, which by a chain of contingencies too circuitous to detail would have supplied Napolean with the arms he needed to fight Wellington. (In other words, Hornblower more or less saves the continent of Europe.) He sinks his punctured ship of the line in the main channel, bottling up the entire French fleet. The French are ridiculed too, but not nearly as much as El Supremo.For his sins, he is captured and he and two subordinates are being sent to Paris for trial as pirates. They escape, disguise themselves as Dutchmen, capture another ship, and sail her out of France to England, where all is resolved, including the nascent romance with the Duke of Wellington's sister. I almost wrote Duke of Ellington.The whole thing is done breezily and with few serious moments. Peck seems to be enjoying himself during some of the action scenes but is otherwise his rather wooden professional persona. In this case, as in some of his other films, it fits the character well. Just enough attention in paid to period detail to mask any carelessness. The outdoor scenes were shot on the French Riviera (which may in part account for Peck's seeming to enjoy himself) and every scene, whether in Central America or England or France's Atlantic coast, is bright, sunny, and very temperate. The sailors never even have to wear coats or change their wardrobe. In the romantic scenes aboard ship -- on the weather deck, with the wind billowing the sails above -- Peck's hair is jelled to perfection with not a strand out of place.I gather that Forester's novels were more dramatic in tone and full of details about seamanship. But that doesn't matter. The movie is easily digested. Sit back and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Maritime shenanigans","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Raoul Walsh has directed this film in glorious Technicolour with great sets and costumes. An adaptation of the books from C S Forester, it cast Gregory Peck as the steely, calm and cerebral Horatio Hornblower aboard His Majesty's ship, 'Lydia.'The film is a combination of swashbuckling high seas adventure, a study of leadership and romance as Hornblower meets Lady Barbara Wellesley, the sister of the Duke of Wellington and fall for each other when she has been rescued by his ship.The film has a broad scope but is very much of its time. Its limitation are that the story is told in a rather dry way and does not always sustain your interest. I did not feel that the film was exciting enough. Its beautiful to look at but I saw Peter Weir's more modern film, 'Master and Commander' first which told a complex (and in ways a similar tale) in a more riveting manner. "},{"Title":"super fun sea yarn","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" you can complain all you want about holes in the story, inconsistencies in continuity or lack of adherence to the novel.but you cannot complain about the stunning cinematography, ships and sea battles.Hornblower is a great piece of entertainment.the sea battles alone with the cunning and agility of the British ship's contests against its foes are worth the price of admission.Peck makes the character very likable and you won't be sorry for tuning into this tale.do not pass this by! "},{"Title":"Come blow your horn","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Highly watchable and entertaining old fashioned actioner directed by one of the best action directors of them all, Raoul Walsh. So don't expect much characterisation or romance, rather you'll get plenty of excitement, camaraderie, duty and danger.There is a touch of romance to be sure, in the person of the lovely Virginia Mayo, an admiral's intended bride, who coincidentally ends up on Hornblower's boat and soon enough in his arms, but even here, you sense Walsh is just paying lip-service to the plot device devoting about ten minutes screen time to it and then abruptly providing a rushed and contrived but completely expected finish between the two of them.Better then to consider the remainder, a largely rip-roaring tale of the heroic but humble Hornblower's exploits in the Napoleonic Wars as he dispenses with firstly the Spanish and then the French in quick succession, against all the odds naturally.Walsh demonstrates his age-old flair for battle sequences and crowd scenes, the only let-down being some of the model-work of the ships which occasionally comes across as unconvincing. The acting is fine, Peck excellent as the title character although hardly the most physical of leads, with good support from a largely British crew,Stanley Baker and James Robertson Justice prominent amongst them. The navy terminology spoken at length throughout adds credibility and the sets and cinematography add colour add atmosphere to the whole.Some of the narrative turns are predictable and even clichéd and you never truly believe it's true to life but it's great fun and as easy on the eye as it is light on the brain, not quite a swashbuckler but more than just another navy lark. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sunday Matinée adventure!","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was far better than I expected for it's time, given they had no access to cgi and had to rely on ship models and shots of existing tall masters to recreate the naval battles. I loved it from start to finish, how can you go wrong with Gregory Peck at the helm! He was an awesome actor at 35 too! I wish they would re-do the hornblower movies with modern technology.The naval battle scenes are excellent, and demonstrate the correct sailing tactics near flawlessly. The outcomes are realistic, for example after sailing into an enemy port and blowing up 4 enemy ships at anchor, it is shown just how suicide this would have been as the fort quickly destroys them as they try to escape.The damage these old ships took when in battle is shown well, the only thing not properly shown, likely due to censorship rules at the time, is the blood. This makes the movie enjoyable for the girlfriend though, and the nice thread of a love story through the movie keeps her entertained while I watch the kewl ship battles. "},{"Title":"Pure Enjoyment!","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A great story, fine actors, a rousing score, lots of action and great costumes and sets-the key ingredients to a fantastic action/adventure movie. Captain Horatio Hornblower,RN has it all. Gregory Peck is terrific as the captain, Virginia Mayo is great as the lovely Lady Barbara. It even has Christopher Lee in a small part fencing with Gregory Peck! I have to give special recognition to the music score. Well done! The loud heroic battle music is counterbalanced with the soft wistful music that is played as Horatio reads his wife's last letter. The music score is the soul of a movie. It conveys what mere words or images cannot. Whenever I rate a movie, I rate it on how I feel after watching it. This movie gets a 10 from me because I feel energetic after seeing it. At long last this film will be out on DVD on March 6th. I'm there! "},{"Title":"What a nice feeling it is to be part of the villains....","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" .... mainly for a French,who ,like me,is not really a fan of Napoleon! Hornblower is a great adventures movie where so many things happen that it's hard to believe the film only  lasts two hours.It has everything that kind of movie demands -action the naval battles are among the best you can see in a movie.-humour Peck's face when he learns he has handed over an allies ship to his new enemy is worth the price of admission.-and above all,emotion;two scenes are unforgettable the first one takes place on the shipthe middie is dying and Lady Wellesley kisses him farewell the way his mother did when he sailed away;the second is the scene of the letter Hornblower's wife wrote just before her death as the officer finds his house empty , a voice-over reads the whole message .Captain Horatio Hornblower is the perfect show for the whole family on a Xmas evening "},{"Title":"A Good Adaptation","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film is adaptation of the C.S. Foresters first novel in the Hornblower series The Happy Return, in the USA this was titled Beat To Quarters with a little added plot from a Ship of The Line (not three novels as other reviewers have stated). The Happy Return was originally written as a stand alone book and C.S. forester conceived the idea whilst on a voyage home after a stint writing a film scripts in Hollywood. Although a very British subject Gregory Peck portrays the part of the stiff Hornblower very well. Forester himself wrote he was very happy with the results and in many ways this version is closer to the original idea than the later TV versions. Gregory Peck plays the man alone in charge of vessels a long way from home. Forester conceived the story not so much a story of ships, heroes and battles but of class barriers and the loneliness of command. The story is about throwing together of Hornblower a Captain of middle class background and Lady Barbara, sister of Duke of Wellington, well played by Virginia Mayo, I regret however that her accent does not bear up to scrutiny very well. He is already married so is not free and in any event he is too low a social class to jump the great social divide. In he close fines of a small vessel a long way form home passions and temptations are strong. The story does depart from the original novel in one important aspect by making Lady Barbara ill on the voyage home so Captain Hornblower can care for sick lady in the already confined circumstance. Apart from that I have very little to argue with. Forester went on to write ten Hornblower novels with this film sitting in the middle of the completed sequence. If you fond of the character then this is very good starting point and to my mind gets to the heart of what the writer originally conceived. I only hope that a good DVD version is put out soon.As a footnote many goof spotters mention the story refers to the 1807 and that the Duke of Wellington did not gain that title until 1808. If however they had checked further the story is set in 1808 and is only mentions 1807 as the date the mission started. All I can say is that these goof spotters should check their own facts before publishing their great finds. "},{"Title":"the real Hornblower","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The series of 8 TV movies with Ioan Gruffudd in the late 90's/ early 2000 are very famous. They show us the Hornblower from midshipman to his first command. All diamonds for those who love the works of Cecil Scott Forrester. (Among the enthusiasts was also Sir Winston Churchill). In this 1951 movie Gergory Peck is Hornblower. He plays the roll very well, as described in the trilogy Captain Horatio Hornblower, the 3 books that are the most well known Hornblower books Happy return /aka Beat to quarters; Ship of the line and Flying Colours. Of course to tell the 3 stories in about 116 minutes is difficult, but they did a good job.... at least for the Hornblower fan's. I am so lucky to have the movie myself, what is, in fact, a rare and lucky occasion, as the movie is hardly to get. But I enjoy it as a great movie. I even, when younger, called my sailing vessel after one of the ships the wich of Endor, translated in my own language. What fan's don't do, eh? "},{"Title":"Typical, yet enjoyable","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A reasonably accurate screen adaptation of BEAT TO QUARTERS by C.S. Forester - this is only partially true as the story is actually taken from THREE novels of CS Forester - Happy Return (American title Beat to quarters), Ship of The Line and Flying Colours. However, I agree with reasonably accurate. A must-have for Hornblower fans although I suppose that some or even most of them are waiting for reasoinably accurate remake with Ioan Gruffud. Peck is efficient as usual but Ms Mayo is acting sometimes in the worst Hollywood manner and second line characters are faded to gray. Nevertheless, the sets and camera work is up to the standard. I only wish that Mr Walsh had had better script - this one, after reading the novels is a Hollywood spoof to me. But of course this may be a result of being Hornblower hardliner - hardly anything but the lines of the Master himself are adequate. "}{"Title":"an honourable man sees fate move the goalposts.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Horatio Hornblower was a very complex man and although it isn't actually necessary to know his life story to enjoy Mr R.Walsh's fine film,Mr G.Peck's excellent performance is even more impressive when you appreciate how he has grasped the small print - as it were - behind his character.Whether or not Mr Peck was familiar with the canon I do not know,but behind Hornblower's facade of confidence was a wariness befitting a relatively poor man in a navy run principally by very rich men.Unless he was actually engaged in running a ship,a Captain in good old King George's day was put on half - pay,a financial burden men like Hornblower could not afford to bear for long. Although marked as a coming man from his first midshipman's post,his progress was only grudgingly conceded by the upper - class Admiralty Sea Lords.To end up as he did - an Admiral - was a truly remarkable achievement. Being in charge of one of His Majesty's ships was not a job for a bleeding heart.The majority of the crew would have been press - ganged and were - to say the least - unwilling sailors.In order to maintain discipline it was necessary to employ the carrot and stick;and if the stick was threatened it had to be applied. Thus,at the beginning of the film a seaman is flogged because a young and inexperienced officer had threatened him with a flogging and Hornblower,although he finds the punishment abhorrent,points out to his junior that if he watches the flogging he may not be so cavalier in using it as a threat in future. Engaged on a secret mission from The Admiralty HMS Lydia is ordered to give aid and assistance to a megalomaniac dictator - an ally in the war against Napoleon.Hornblower captures a Spanish ship and hands it over to this madman only to subsequently discover that Spain has in fact changed sides and the captured ship will be used against the British navy. At the same time he is forced to take as a passenger the sister of the Duke of Wellington and return her to England. The consequences of both these actions turn his comfortable world upside down. I saw the movie when I was 12 years old and thoroughly enjoyed it as a rousing sea adventure.60 years on I can still enjoy for the same reason,but also as a study of an honourable man trying to act in an honourable fashion as fate moves the goalposts around him.A typical Gregory Peck role,in fact.I can only remain thankful that Mr E.Flynn was too drunk to play it.It certainly would have ended up a totally different movie. "},{"Title":"British Fighting Sail action with a tender love story","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the very best traditions of the British Royal Navy, this is a story of a Captain, Horatio Hornblower and square rigged Warships (Ships of the Line) fighting at the time of Napoleon. Plenty of action and the special effects work extremely well. The film encompasses a truly delightful love story between Virginia Mayo and Gregory Peck (Hornblower) who are thrown together not by their choosing. Filmed in colour and part shot on location in Rye East Sussex England. Look out for 'HMS Victory' in Portsmouth near the end. A superb film for all ages with a great cast, not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion it's a little more than just a romance. No doubt the relationship Captain Hornblower (Gregory Peck) and Lady Barbara Wellesley (Virginia Mayo) have is beautiful and important for the movie, but I just can't forget citing the great ship battles we see in this movie. They're really well done, and we must remember this film was made in early 50's!My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Fun Hollywood Version of the Classic Novels","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Outstripped by the recent BBC adaptations, this is still a very enjoyable movie with one of the best Gregory Peck performances around.  The Hornblower character is a natural for film (creator C.S. Forester was the author of _The African Queen_ and also a screenwriter), and the movie has a welcome sense of sweep and grandeur.  Yes, there's a lot of that old-fashioned Technicolor-and-backlot feeling to it at times, but so what?  You'll have a good time anyway! "},{"Title":"A trip back to being a lad of ten!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can still recall seeing this movie in the old Capital movie theatre in Ottawa Canada. It is much appreciated that it shows up occasionally on TV.The names come back so easily...El Supremo, The Witch of Endor, The Lydia, The Sutherland, Lady Barbara, Bush, etc., if only my memory was as good re what I had for lunch today! I was fortunate to purchase the entire series at a garage sale, in paperback format (8 vol) for $1, I have many months worth of reading in my recently-retired state.The Gryffud (sp) series is also a noteworthy and first-class series that is part of the lore. May younger students have as many memories! "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  An all-time classic, an absolute must the battleship scenes, the gentle and intelligent Horatio (Gregory Peck in one of his most endearing characters), the love story, the costumes, the ships. One of those films you will never forget if you like Hollywood at its best. "},{"Title":"The best tall Ships EVER","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love Gregory Peck and Virginia Mayo and Tall ships.How could I NOT love this flick.Well made and doesn't seem dated by todays special effects.I haven't seen the Art and Entertainment series but how can it surpass this film?You get the British fighting the Spanish/Rebels/French all in one.Don't miss it!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best high seas adventure","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Until the mega million dollar production of Pirates of the Caribbean, good high seas adventure were all made in the '40s to '60s. Out of all of them, this one stands out as one of the best. Gregory Peck stars as the capt. Horatio Hornblower. His acting is superb in this movie. Of all the years I've watched sea adventures, this one still stands out as one of the best. The influence of this movie is far reaching as Gene Roddenberry took part of his Star Trek idea from this movie. In the book The Making of Star Trek (by Stephen E. Whitfield and Gene Roddenberry (Jul 1, 1970)), Roddenberry mentions about the concept of Star Trek in the early days was to create an adventure like Capt. Horatio Hornblower in space. Even the horn theme that this movie has sound's a bit like the one used in Star Trek TOS.Capt. Horatio confounds the Mexican tyrant, French navy, and steals a Dutch ship to make it back to his home port. All with esprit like never seen in other movies.Certainly one of the best if not the very best sea adventure movie ever produced. "},{"Title":"Tooting his own horn","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Lavish production of the famous British Navy captain inspired by writer C.S Forester Horitio Hornblower played by Gregory Peck who got the part when the actor slated to play Captain Hornblower Errol Flynn blew it by being both too drunk and out of shape to be believable in the role.In the movie British Capt. Hornblower on his ship Lydia sails or blows around the South American continent into the Pacific Ocean to link up with South American rebel leader El Supremo, Alec Mongo. Together with El Supremo Hornblower plans to attack the Spanish Army who's in South America who at the time are allied with France's Napoleon whom Great Britan is a war with. Capturing a Spanish man of war the El Nitividad after a brief battle Hornblower against his better judgment hand the ship over to El Supremo who insists on having it. As things turn out El Supremo turns against Hornblower with it's learned that Spain became allies with Great Britian! This leads to an exciting sea battle between the British ship Lydia and the captured Spanish ship El Nitivda where El Supremo and his motley crew are blown away and end up at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean!It's when Honblower runs into, and later saves her life, Lady Barbara, Virginia Mayo, the sister of the Duke of Wellington that things get somewhat complicated for him. With Hornblwoer and Lady Barbara madly in love with each other it turns out that marriage is an impossibility for both of them! Hornblower is already happily married and Lady Barbara is slated to marry Hornblower's boss in the British Navy Admiral Leighton, Dennis O'Dea!***SPOILERS*** This of course is soon ironed out, by the movie screenwriters, with Hornblower's wife Marie dying while giving birth and Admiral Leighton, who hated Hornbower's guts, getting killed at sea when his flag ship was sunk by the French in the battle of Lateste! Hornblower who himself was captured during the battle by the French after sinking their entire fleet at Lateste escaped and made his way back, with the remainder of his crew, to England. It's there that Hornblower got the good news about Admiral Leighton's death and was now free to marry Lady Barbara, who didn't seem that distraught about losing her future husband, and live happily after after with her as both his wife and step-mother to his new born son.P.S Captain Hornblower almost blew it all by giving El Supremo the captured Spanish war ship that he later turned on the British Navy. But he soon vindicated himself by his heroic exploits at Lateste that more then made up for it. "},{"Title":"Beat To Quarters!","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's fun, it's exciting, and it looks fabulous at times, it is however far from being a great movie. In the absence of Errol Flynn, Gregory Peck steps in to Hornblower's shoes and as much as he gives it his all rumoured to have been one of his favourite performances, it's a spot of miscasting that thankfully doesn't kill the picture dead, he's just sadly a tad too straight laced to really make the role work. The same can be said for the casting of Virginia Mayo as Lady Barbara Wellesley, pretty as she is, it's an odd bit of casting that never quite comes off, yet as daft as it may sound, neither case of miscasting hurts the picture, and this comes down to the astute direction from Raoul Walsh.The pace never flags so we are never over concerned with the central actors struggles to make the characters work, backed up by Guy Green's camera work and Robert Farnon's jaunty score, the technical aspects of the piece steer the viewer on to safe waters ahem. The sets are excellent and the recreation of the ships is first rate, with the final quarter of the movie giving us a blood pumping battle that's full of heroic bluster. It's a film that is easily recommended to adventure fans, tho far from perfect and it remains a wasted opportunity in my eyes, it's still a very enjoyable film for all the family. 6/10 "}{"Title":"A good, old fashioned roller coaster of action.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this film when I was about 10 years of age on our black and white telly. I thought it was the best thing since sliced bread but had to wait for ages and ages for it to be shown again (no videos in those days!) When it finally came on, there was a bit of a gale blowing and our aerial was blown off the roof half way through the film. You can imagine how I felt. I have seen it many times since and it has stood the test of time,a good old fashioned adventure story with excellent actors, tons of excitement and loads happening from beginning to end. There are no false accents from Gregory Peck or Robert Beatty and we even have Richard Hearne (Mr Pastry, remember him, people of my age?) as Pecks batman. Stanley Baker, James Robertson Justice, Terence Morgan (He played the lead in the series 'Sir Francis Drake' in the early sixties) and Christopher Lee also make fine appearances. I recommend it without reservation. "},{"Title":"Brittania, rule the waves","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As a big fan of CS Forester, having read many of the Hornblower stories, I was anxious to see this film. I was not disappointed. The able direction of Raoul Walsh kept the action moving at a rapid pace. Greg Peck was in his element as the laconic, heroic captain of a British man o'war. El Supremo was a worthy and hateful adversary. Virginia Mayo provides the love interest and looks her loveliest. One mid east potentate described her as tangible evidence for the existence of God. A young Christopher Lee has a small role as a Spanish sea captain. If you like period piece adventure stories this rollicking and well made movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Simply the Best Hornblower....","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The A and E films were quite good and took a few more liberties that obviously CS Forester who did write the 1951 screenplay would have allowed. As a child, now 36, all seafaring novels were judged by the Hornblower standard. Subsequently all films are now compared to this one. I rented this movie back in the early 1980's and it disappeared for several years... totally unavailable. I think I figured out why when I was watching an 80's era Napoleon TV movie(name since forgotten) with battle scenes from THIS MOVIE!! A couple of years later the film was yet again re-released on VHS (1990?) and I pre-ordered it. Its that good... but STILL unavailable on DVD!! Naturally, its not a mega blockbuster like Master and Commander. (BTW, O'briens writing is BORING in comparison to Forester...I don't REALLY care about his characters like I do Hornblower....O'Brien seems to write another book to make another buck...just better than other's like Alexander Kent's Bolitho novels) Master and Commander was quite frankly MUCH better than the Book!One scene to look for is Peck standing alone on his quarterdeck as Barbara leaves...he says nothing but conveys so much about his character through his brilliant ability. "},{"Title":"Great adventure film summarizes several novels.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First, let me make clear that I did not approve of Virginia Mayo as Lady Barbara - she is too pretty and not at all aristocratic.Given that, the film shows us the big action sequences of Lieutanant Hornblower, the book where the South American action takes place and some other books whose titles I don't recall.  In 1951 when this film was made, they were able to show us some convincing naval battles and the effect is very good.Gregory Peck is at his best as a Leader of Men.  That's the central theme of the film.Definitely worth seeing again. "},{"Title":"This Horn Blows for Horatio-Horatio Hornblower ***","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film could have been even greater had they spent more time with the escape of Horatio and his men from enemy France.The first part of the film was often tedious. Some momentum builds with the battle scenes. They really appeared to be quite authentic.Surprisingly, to me, Gregory Peck lacked the stamina for the part of Horatio Hornblower. It is only when the picture progresses that he really takes command of the title role. Virginia Mayo,as his love interest, first appears as if she is a dance hall queen. How surprising it is when Hornblower returns home to find out that he is widowed with a baby boy. There was never any hint whatsoever that he had been married while he cavorted with Mayo on board the ship.Too bad that Errol Flynn was regarded as too old for the part by 1951. While Peck wanted Margaret Leighton for his leading lady, she would have been entirely too regal. Susan Hayward, or Jean Crain should have been brought in. How about Deborah Kerr? After all, she was British. "},{"Title":"A good but not great Gregory Peck vehicle by old pro Raoul Walsh","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I viewed this recently. I thought I had never seen this before but some scenes I did remember that I must have seen as a boy. I recalled I was hearing Peck speaking French as an English naval officer but there were no subtitles.Raoul Walsh presented Peck as the stern but wise commander actually not too far different than the character Greg played in the then recent TWELE O'CLOCK HIGH. This was also a beautifully mounted color film that was not the normal case for this time period. Great scenery and action sequences.However, there is a lack of depth in the characters. The tribal king who revolts against Spain is an one note character. Peck is cordial but barely hides his contempt for such a man. When he frees Virginia Mayo who was held captive with Spanish officers, he gives a loud clearing of his throat that becomes a running gag throughout.He has two officers who wager on his exact words which make a bit one note as well. The joke just isn't that funny enough.I'm really not spoiling anything by letting people know that he will be victorious and win Mayo's heart in the end in spite of the fact both are married to others when they first meet.Peck also has an unusual sword fight that also retained in my memory as a boy. He wins only by sheer luck and hopes he will never use his sword for such purpose again.Perhaps it is as a boy one should watch this. However, the implied superiority of the white man and more specific the English man I did find a bit insidious. But generally, more pluses than minuses in this one. "},{"Title":"Heavy on the Salt, Hold the Ham and Mayo","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although directed by Raoul Walsh and adapted by C.S. Forester from his own work, Captain Horatio Hornblower will disappoint most who are familiar with the BBC series that starred Ioan Gruffudd. Admittedly the television series had more time to develop character and situations, but, early on, Walsh's film drifts into non-essential scenes that detail an unconvincing romance and the ego-maniacal rants of a madman with whom Hornblower must cooperate. However, after a faltering start, the film focuses on life aboard ship and thrilling sea battles and becomes gripping fun.When the ship's supplies run low after a long voyage around the Horn, fresh ham arrives in the persona of Alex Mango, who appears in full Latino makeup as the egotistical El Supremo. Once Mango has fully chewed the sets and viewers have become accustomed to the bronze gel that turned pale English extras into sun tanned South Americans, Christopher Lee emerges as a Spanish captain to dispel whatever credibility has crept into the film. But the silliness quotient reaches its zenith when Virginia Mayo boards the HMS Lydia fresh from the fastidious attentions of her hairdresser, makeup artist, and costume designer. Reportedly arriving from a small sailboat, where she and her maid were the only women, Mayo glides immaculately along the deck to greet the captain and trade witty asides. Untouched by the sea or the tropical sun, she appears regularly on deck baring her milky white décolletage and displaying her jewelry and silk finery for Peck and the crew, who have been woman-less at sea for months. Forester may have felt uncomfortable writing about women and emotions, because the scenes between Peck and Mayo are the weakest. Physically, Gregory Peck makes a fine Hornblower, but, while his performance is acceptable, perhaps Gruffudd's work has made him the definitive Hornblower.Fortunately, once the ham and Mayo are off the screen, the film regains its footing. The battles are well executed, and, even if most are models, the tall masted warships on the high seas are thrilling sights. When Hornblower attacks a French fortress, the film soars, and any lingering thoughts of Mango and Mayo fade with the smoking cannon, the falling masts, and the flashing swords. Guy Green's color cinematography is excellent, and, when the wind fills the sails and the canvas billows, any quibbles fade. Captain Horatio Hornblower becomes rousing entertainment, especially for younger viewers and those who love films from a less cynical time when sailors were chaste and loyal, women were pale and pure, villains wore mustaches and spoke with accents, and heroes looked like Gregory Peck. "},{"Title":"Broadside!","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Interesting as all getout to compare this to Master and Commander. Both rely on a simple romantic fantasy about the British navy, that it was the gold standard of nobility, honor and related things. Each has an exemplary captain whose seamanship (and a bit of trickery) is a sort of embedded allegory for goodness.So you have to do only two things to make the formula work. The first is to simply fill the puppet in a way that doesn't detract. I'm not a Gregory Peck fan, but he does well here because the character is supposed to be so cardboard, so simply constructed. Russell Crowe makes a huge mistake in trying to give his captain gravitas and depth. He's a better actor, but real acting doesn't fit the role.The other thing to do is convey the daily business of the working and warring of the ship. And here, this movie is so superior in doing that, it makes one wonder. This director is a second-rater. The movie was made when special effects meant models. But it hits a groove that works.It doesn't put you there. I'm not even sure what that would be like. What it does do is give some idea of the choreographed action, the hurried routines, The commitment to task, even when the task gets chaotic around death. You feel that, the order and the death here. You didn't get close with the Master and Commnader project.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Minor quibbles, but a great film","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK, so once again an American plays the lead in a wholly British-themed vehicle. Gregory Peck does a great job as Hornblower and thankfully doesn't try to fool us with a British accent.The major problem with this film is that it has yet to be released on DVD! Thank goodness my Laserdisc is holding up well. "},{"Title":"A period piece, but passes the time (spoilers)","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps the main interest in these old films nowadays is to see who you can spot at an early stage in their career.  Did you notice Christopher Lee in this for example?  There are several other examples. The script is a bit of a mishmash of several Hornblower books, but I understand the author approved it, perhaps to get away from Gregory Peck's throat-clearing mannerism.  Lady Barbara has more low cut frocks than you could shake a belaying pin at, I wonder where she was storing them?  The ceilings in the cabins are way too high and the cabins far too spacious, but let's not be picky. The film is too long, not in time, but in that it seems to reach a logical end and then to go on inexplicably into another story which is then rushed through.  The romance is rather disturbing if you expect emotional literacy Lady Barbara marries a man she does not love, having realised she actually loves our hero - who is already married to a woman he does not love.  They are then both widowed in quick succession and fall into each others arms with a sigh of relief and no sign of guilt or grief.  This seems rather too convenient and leaves a bad taste.   "}{"Title":"Hang Hornblower","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" C S Forester was my favourite author growing up (I have now switched to Patrick O'Brien) and A Ship of the Line (the middle part of the film) remains my favourite book. Films of favourite books seldom fare well but even without that issue this film is seriously flawed at its conclusion. In the book Hornblower places his ship between four enemy ships and their port at his Admiral's orders. Before surrendering (with half his crew dead or wounded and not a mast left standing) he damages the enemy seriously enough that they remain confined to port where three of the vessels are subsequently destroyed by fire ships. He lost his ship but cost the French much more. After escaping back to England he is court martialled for surrendering (a standard procedure) but honourably acquitted (as he should be). In the film he is ordered NOT to attack a port containing some French ships but does so anyway and loses his ship. He escapes and is told before his court martial that he will be acquitted and knighted. RUBBISH. He disobeyed a direct order. As a result his ship was lost and his crew captured. Hang the idiot. He has no right to live. It is ridiculous to have any other verdict. Even if he hadn't lost his ship he should still have been court martialled and, at best, dismissed from the service. Add to this arrant piece of nonsense the Americanisation of the terminology (the Royal Navy had midshipmen not ensigns) and the tinkering with all the characters and you have a film that severely disappoints a fan of the books. In comparison Master and Commander The Far Side of the World is even further removed from the plot and characters of the various books from which it borrows but it is possible to watch and enjoy. Not so with Hornblower, I fear. "},{"Title":"Take the rose-colored glasses off!","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Captain Horatio Hornblower RN is a 1951 tale of, well, the exploits of an impossibly perfect captain and his ship during the Napoleonic War era of big sail and cannons.By the standards of 1951, it was an exciting, technologically advanced, swashbuckler. Today, we as audiences are more mature and more demanding, and as such significant portions of the movie have aged very, very badly. Nevertheless, it remains a decent picture - far better than many of its era and is worth seeing by those such as myself who enjoy high seas adventure. However, modern films such as Master and Commander and the updated Hornblower mini-series are infinitely better. Here are some random observations - the accents are laughably bad. The Duke of Wellington's daughter in the move has a pure American accent - and that's probably the best accent of them all since this meant that the actress didn't even try to fake a British accent - something many other roles in the film did--and did very very very badly. Perhaps the worst accents I have ever heard on film. I'm amazed - I'm guessing this was a Hollywood picture. Were there no Mexicans around somewhere nearby to at least show them a Spanish (or Mexican, which for the purposes of this movie would have been infinitely better) accent. Were we really so backwards of a people in 1951 that our actors simply felt that they could affect whatever accent they wanted by rolling their Rs in some random way?- Related to the above, there is a lot of ridiculous ethnic stereotyping and several characters that don't act as real humans do. This movie pretends to be serious, but, it was from 1951. The British are human and basically everybody else is a cartoon. This seems inappropriate, even for 1951. I can excuse the blackface as a technical necessity (of sorts), but the actual characterizations were insulting to anybody with half a brain.- The basic plot is sound, and could be updated. However, if this movie were done today, the character of Hornblower would need to be completely revamped. He's unrealistically flawless in this movie, and the characters spend a heck of a lot of time standing around saying things like Hornblower is flawless!. High comedy.- Special effects are good.This movie today is a solid 5/10. Anybody who gives it more than that is adding extra stars out of nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Overrated poor adaptation of the decent novels","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not every movie that has been made in 50-s or 60-s is a classic movie and Captain Hornblower is such a case. This sea/war adventure is loosely based on three S.S.Forrester's novels (Beat to Quarters, Ship of the Line and Flying Colours) which for some inexplicable reason were united in one movie. Here's the first and the biggest mistake of the filmmakers. Such decision caused that the movie consist of numerous hardly related with each other scenes and episodes which change each other with kaleidoscopic speed. To fill up numerous gaps and unite the parts screenwriters were forced to invent several short ridiculous scenes (like one-minute journey through entire France and Dutch officers in Nant) and of course such substitutions couldn't save so much flawed script. In fact so many parts of the books have been missed in the movie that those omissions caused inevitable plot holes with many illogical or even preposterous scenes and story lines. Due to lack of screening time majority of characters from the books have been deleted and only three lieutenants, one midshipman and couple of sailors were personalized. The same happened with all the dialogs. They were completely re-written and instead of thoughtful and meaningful lines from the books in the movie appeared only one-lined silly dialogs like in formulaic modern action flicks. Finally, the main character, captain of the Royal Navy Horatio Hornblower has lost all of his charms and instead the excellent development of his character in the novels we got only terribly weak love story and repeated Ha-hmm line. I was so much surprised seeing the S.S.Forrester among the screenwriters. How the filmmakers could press him to make such terrible script from his novels? We can only guess about possible answers. Despite such a flawed idea and script I couldn't blame the actors. They did the best at they parts, though the galloping story didn't leave enough place for acting. The cinematography is the only really decent part of the movie as it bring to us the magic of old-fashioned Technicolor. But that's all. I have no idea why so many critics and viewers praised so much about reality and greatness of the sea battle scenes. Sorry but I've noticed there only absurdity, lack of simple logic and reality. Overall this movie is a very good lesson how critical flaws and mistakes of the movie script can cause in the result only a disappointed mediocrity. Especially it's easy to see now when we have such movie like Master & Commander, a perfect masterpiece of film-making. With any unprejudiced look the colossal difference in quality of these movies should be evident for everybody.My grade 5 out of 10. Not every old movie is a classic. "}]