[{"Title":"Why isn't this film better known?","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've only seen two other Fred Astaire vehicles Top Hat and Swing Time, the more recent of which was made 15 years before this. The improvement is remarkable. At some time perhaps in the 1940s Astaire appears to have been given a charm transplant; in Royal Wedding, instead of coming across, woodenly, as a bit of a cad, he's a perfectly decent fellow, with all of the human impulses it's easiest to like and intelligence to boot. It's as though he'd been taking lessons from Gene Kelly.If the earlier dance spectacles are not to be judged too harshly for merely marking time between the breath-taking dance sequences &#150; and I concur, they should not be judged too harshly for this &#150; how much less should this one be judged harshly, with at least four sequences likely to get applause (all four DID get applause, at the screening I attended) the bit where Astaire rehearses when his partner doesn't show up by dancing with and around the gym equipment (again, this is exactly the kind of thing Gene Kelly would do); the scene in which he dances on the wall, then the ceiling, then the other wall, then the ceiling again &#150; obviously within a set like the one used in 2001, but Astaire disguises this by finding a different, natural-looking transition from surface to surface each time; the over-the-top I Left My Hat in Haiti number; and the superbly performed (well acted and sung as well as well danced) How Could You Believe Me &#133; etc. routine. Any one of these would be reason enough to dust a mediocre film off and watch it at least once.But this isn't a mediocre film. It's not just that there are four strong numbers and no weak ones; it's that it DOESN'T merely mark time between them. One thing that this has in common with Donen's other films is its desire to entertain at every moment. It's a light film, even a facetious one&#133; yet we can feel for it, too. There's nothing contrived or pointless about the complication that threatens to thwart True Love. (Whether or not this really IS true love is of course beside the point.) Tom likes the lifestyle of a bachelor, Ellen wants to preserve her career; both characters are genuinely torn for perfectly legitimate reasons, and in fact, there's no way for them to resolve their difficulties except by simply choosing, which is why the sudden, simultaneous decision to get married to their respective partners at the end doesn't feel forced.I go to watch films I've never heard of and expect very little from, all the time. Why? Because every once in a while, I strike gold. "},{"Title":"More Fun Than Any Wedding I Have Ever Been To.","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  After their act is broken up in New York, a brother/sister tap dance team (Fred Astaire and Jane Powell) travel to England and immediately fall in love with new acquaintances. Powell goes after royalty in the form of Peter Lawford and Astaire sets his eyes on Sarah Churchill. Which will win out in the end, their old dance routine or their new romantic interests? Pure Hollywood fluff here, but enjoyable for the time period nonetheless. One of the more under-rated musicals of the early-1950s. Astaire, getting up in years here, still shows amazing athleticism through the dance sequences. Not a bad time passer. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"You must see these great dancing sequences...","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Of course, there is Fred Astaire's delightful, legendary, innovative dance on the ceiling and his dance with a hatrack in the gym, both of which are great.  But then there are also his delightful partnerings with Jane Powell, playing his Adele Astaire-esque sister and dancing partner.  These include the opening number, Every Night At Seven, their cute little attempt to dance aboard a rocky boat, and the dynamite How Could You Believe Me, etc. AND I Left My Hat in Haiti.  Powell, known mostly for her operetic soprano that never quite seems to match her speaking voice, (and which can also be heard in a few forgettable songs here) rivals Ginger Rogers in her ability to keep up with Astaire and match him every step of the way.  Not to be missed if you love musicals, dancing in musicals, and/or Fred Astaire dancing in musicals.As for the rest of the film, the plot is thin as expected but breezes along smoothly.  The characterizations of the English are silly caricatures.  (Alan Jay Lerner wrote the screenplay and lyrics, but remember, this was five years before My Fair Lady)  Keenan Wynn does okay with the double role of an American agent and his British twin counterpart, though.  Peter Lawford is Powell's English honey bun.  (In real life, Adele Astaire did leave dancing when she married an English lord) And yes, that is Sarah Churchill, Winston's daughter, as about the only romantic partner of Fred's on film that was his own age. "},{"Title":"Trite Script, Colorless Love Interests, But OH! THAT DANCING","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't waste the keystrokes to comment on the trite story in ROYAL WEDDING.  Worse, Sarah Churchill can't dance and has no chemistry with Fred Astaire.  HOWEVER, Jane Powell is WONDERFUL as Astaire's sister. She's even more impressive here than in the wonderful SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS.  And, OH! THOSE DANCE NUMBERS.  Astaire's singles numbers are the BEST dancing I've ever seen in a movie.  His numbers with Powell are equally marvelous.  Great music, great songs.  Forget the romance (and weak comedy with Keenan Wynn) and enjoy the music and dance.  SUPERFINE! "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Team","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Jane Powell (as Ellen Bowen) was a surprisingly adept partner for Fred Astaire for those of us who know her best as a brilliant soprano songstress. She kept up with him, step for step.  She's probably best known for her fabulous voice as showcased in SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS, but she brought in the wonderful tune, Too Late Now, here in ROYAL WEDDING. Astaire was his typical debonair self, and his role is reminiscent of that in THREE LITTLE WORDS.The plot of ROYAL WEDDING is easy to follow and serves as a great backdrop for Astaire and Powell and their respective musical talents.  And yes, Sarah Churchill is Winston's daughter.  Worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"Delightful musical","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Tom Bowen (Fred Astaire) and Ellen Bowen (Jane Powell) are singing and dancing siblings whose agent Irving Klinger (Keenan Wynn) sends them to do their musical act in Great Britain.Keenan Wynn plays also Irving's British twin brother Edgar.Ellen falls in love with a man she meets during the ship trip.This man is called Lord John Brindale (Peter Lawford).Tom finds his sweetheart from Britain.That lucky gal is Anne Ashmond (Sarah Churchill) who is dancing at Tom's musical.Royal Wedding from 1951 is a delightful romantic musical comedy.It is great entertainment from the beginning to the end.It has many memorable scenes.The most memorable scene may be the one where Freddy dances on the walls and on the ceiling.I am a big Fred Astaire fan.There isn't a bad musical with Fred Astaire.There isn't a dull moment in Royal Wedding. "},{"Title":"Jane Powell holds her own with the amazing Fred Astaire","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to pick one of Fred Astaire's movies as a favorite or as his best! But of course Royal Wedding has to hit the top of the classics simply for the famous dance on the ceiling.Jane Powell plays his sister and does a very nice job, considering she and Fred never practiced any dance routines together before shooting the film! A must-see for Astaire fans, and if you're not a fan, watch this film and you will be! "},{"Title":"A Lovely Wedding!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Royal Wedding is one of my family's favourite Astaire movies, next to Easter Parade. Jane Powell, as his sister, does a wonderful job with her beautiful operatic voice. Many people do not realize that she was also a singer, not just a dancer, until they watch Seven Brides for Seven Brothers, which she also starred in. Peter Lawford does his usual job as playboy-royale, but thankfully does not sing. Astaire's dancing feat of climbing all over his hotel room is unparralled. No one else could do it and still look good! A great family film. "},{"Title":"Astaironomically Brilliant!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire's gravity-be-damned four-wall dance solo was imbued with choreographic wonder and sprinkled judiciously with humor. He did it all because of a woman!!! Tom Bowen is a male dancer who is pure male but the most important woman in his life is not the one who had him defying gravity. It is his sister, Ellen his equal on the terpsichorean turf. Their Runyonesque number was pitch perfect with lyrical precision provided by Alan Jay Lerner, who obviously spent quality time (physically or spiritually) with Damon Runyon. For the script and acting per se&#150;with Keenan Wynn as a stupendous double agent &#150;A Royal Wedding is worth the price of admission. Fred Astaire and Jane Powell give award-winning performances but their dancing puts this film on the top shelf of cinematic history. The hat-rack dance, the turbulent ship dance and&#150;of course&#150;the ceiling dance owe a debt to Ernie Kovacs, the man who dovetailed comedy, art, and special effects before George Lucas was born. Too bad Kovackian is such a cumbersome word. A personal aside I was once invited to Alan Jay Lerner's Park Avenue home. The invitation came from the furniture company whose products Mrs. Lerner had ordered. AJ wasn't home. So be it. "},{"Title":"The Happiest Day In A Lifetime","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of Fred Astaire's most charming musicals is Royal Wedding where as if taken from his own real life, he's part of a brother and sister act with Jane Powell. We never did get to see Adele Astaire perform on screen, but rumor has it she was exquisite in her steps and lovely to see. And like Jane in this film she married into the aristocracy.In fact both brother and sister have their romances in Royal Wedding, Fred with none other than Sarah Churchill who was the daughter of a well known British politician. On shipboard Jane attracts the attention of Peter Lawford who was a member of the aristocracy and something of a skirt chaser.All this is against the background of the royal wedding that took place in 1947 between Mr. Phillip Mountbatten and Ms. Elizabeth Windsor. Another reviewer astutely remarked this film was on the MGM drawing boards for some time. In fact it was originally meant for Judy Garland, but she had her breakdown and Jane stepped into the part. Despite all the British locales, the cast never left the MGM lot, footage of the real royal wedding and other London establishing shots were used.Jane got three lovely numbers to sing, The Happiest Day in a Lifetime, Open Your Eyes, and Too Late Now, the last being nominated for Best Song. In fact Jane Powell had a unique distinction of having two film songs up in the same year for the Oscar, the other being Wonder Why from Rich, Young, And Pretty. I can't recollect another performer this ever happened to, not even her co-star Fred Astaire or Bing Crosby who did introduce the Oscar winning song for 1951, In The Cool Cool Cool of the Evening from Here Comes The Groom.Songwriters Burton Lane and Alan Jay Lerner didn't do too bad for Fred either. Royal Wedding is famous as the picture in which Fred Astaire did his surreal dance on the ceiling. Thinking about his lady love Sarah, Fred, alone in his hotel room starts to sing and dance You're All the World To Me and ends up dancing on the sides of the wall and ceiling of his room. This was accomplished by constructing a set that turned with the furniture and fixtures nailed down. I can't fathom the precision it took to get that number right and retain the spontaneous look that Astaire's dancing was noted for. Fred also sang and danced I Left My Hat in Haiti and Every Night at Seven.The duet that Powell and Astaire have is the longest song title on record to date. How Can You Believe Me When You Know I've Been A Liar All My Life has Fred and Jane as a gangster and his moll. Astaire was fabulous and Jane more than kept up with him in the number. When Judy Garland had her breakdown, her first public appearance after leaving the hospital was on a pair of Bing Crosby's Philco Radio Program where guest starred with Bob Hope as well. Judy did a rollicking version of the Liar song with Bing and it's the only instance where you can get an idea of what she might have been like in Powell's role. This film was a favorite of my mother's, when we watched on VHS about 20 years ago, she loved Fred Astaire's Sunday Jumps number. This is a sequence on board ship where Fred asks to use the ship's gym for rehearsal and does a marvelously inventive sequence with the gym equipment even including a coat hanger. If there's an example of Fred Astaire's ingenuity in making his material look spontaneous this is it. It's well known the number of man hours he rehearsed to get that spontaneous look, but it certainly pays off here.And this review is dedicated to my mother, a very big fan of this film. I can still hear her remark about how graceful Fred Astaire moved. "}{"Title":"Invitation to the Dance...","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Typically enjoyable Fred Astaire vehicle from the 50's and if not on a par with the wonderful The Bandwagon, Royal Wedding certainly deserves a podium position for its vibrant colours (in some scenes, you almost think you're seeing all seven colours of the rainbow in the shot!), fine cinematography (London is faithfully rendered with cobbled streets, red buses and postboxes, even a pea-souper before the Clean Air Act was passed later in the decade), topped of course by Astaire's superb dancing. Okay, he's way too old to be Jane Powell's brother and the plot is wafer thin as per usual with Fred's flicks, but his dancing both solo, including the celebrated Dancing on the Ceiling scene (later updated by director Donen in the 80's for pop star Lionel Richie's hit song of the same name), but including almost as good scenes dancing with the ship's gym equipment and in another scene, the room furniture, including his hatstand and in concert with the young vibrant Powell, he shines. She can dance by the way... The songs didn't quite connect with me apart from the riotously funny How Could you Believe Me When I Said Loved You when You Know I've been a Liar all my Life(surely a country and western song-title from heaven!), but then Fred hasn't the greatest voice and Powell's light operatic warblings don't move me much either. In the minor parts, a young Peter Lawford lords it up, improbably, as an - ahem - English lord, while Sarah Churchill, the great war leader's niece, no less, seems a tad plain both in appearance and her minimal dancing efforts. The humour, centring mainly on the different takes on the languages from the US and UK perspectives, is somewhat forced too but maestro Donen exerts a sure hand at the helm, from the stylish wedding invitation titles to the fly-away pan-out shot over London at the close. A pleasant underrated musical comedy with which to while away an afternoon or evening. "},{"Title":"The one with Fred Astaire dancing on the ceiling.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" So, basically everybody around the globe knows- and has seen the famous dancing sequence with Fred Astaire dancing on the walls and ceilings. But how many people actually know that, that sequence is from this movie? I'm surprised that a movie with such a famous sequence isn't better known.In essence Royal Wedding is your typical MGM musical, with still a couple of extra pluses, that makes this movie distinct itself from the average, formulaic movie musical, from the same time period. Obviously the famous sequence with Fred Astaire dancing on the ceiling is one of them but to me it also was the humor. Musicals really aren't best known for the well placed and original humor but this movie does a great job at providing a couple of genuine good and original laughs.The story is kept simple and formulaic and above all also of course very predictable. The movie doesn't offer an awful lot of surprises but yet the story serves its purpose and that fits the genre just right.There are a couple of great and likable characters in this movie, that help to make the movie an extra joy to watch. Fred Astaire of course steals the show with his acting and dancing but also Jane Powell as his sister was great. Not too happy about the casting of Sarah Churchill (Winston Churchill's daughter). No offense but she just isn't beautiful enough (she has got her daddy's looks, I'm afraid) for her part and also perhaps a tad too old. It just doesn't fit the genre.The musical numbers are all well executed, mainly those by Fred Astaire. The sequences were however a bit too 'stagey' for my taste, although I should admit that the musical genre has just never been my favorite movie genre.All in all an enjoyable to watch typical MGM musical, with a couple of more offerings in it than its fellow genre movies.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie is fantastic if you like singing and dancing. They have some great musical numbers, and not all love songs. They also have wonderful dance routines to go along. The comedy is there but its not funny throughout, only here and there. They make fun of the English vs. the Americans a little bit but its good humored. I also loved the costumes, especially the female ones. The ending is a bit predictable and it can drag on for those who do not enjoy musicals but I recommend it. The female lead's voice is very high in most of her spotlight songs, which I do not like but most female lead's voices are that way in old movies. My favorite part would have to be the two dance numbers that came from their show in england (the play within a play); the music is catchy and the dancing is great for the songs, and they are also just unusual songs. "},{"Title":"Astaire yes, Churchill No.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Royal Wedding seems to have it all, great dancing and music, a fun plot, and a somewhat great cast. I say somewhat, for reasons I will get into a little later (as if you haven't noticed by the title of my review). Fred Astaire and Jane Powell star as a brother and sister dance team who are tearing Broadway up and down with their ridiculous show 'Every Night At Seven (What IS that show about anyways?). Soon, London comes calling, and they want their show. Powell leaves her many boyfriends behind and instantly falls for Peter Lawford who is on the ship to London (wouldn't you?). Soon they're in London, and Astaire also falls in love, with a British dame played by Sarah Churchill. Soon, they're wondering if they should get married or not and sacrifice their careers! I mean, it's romantic trifle, but it's GOOD romantic trifle. I'm a little surprised that this movie is in the public domain! This film has two of Astaire's most famous dances on it, the one in the gym and the props, and the one where he's dancing on the ceiling. Both of these are very well done, and just cements further, as if it needed any more cementing, that Astaire was the greatest dancer the silver screen ever saw. Jane Powell is also surprisingly good here as the somewhat trampy sister act. I liked her a lot. The BIG problem I had with this movie though, was just the horsefaced Sarah Churchill as Fred Astaire's love interest. Can't dance, can't act, I mean, how does a guy fall in love with HER? This was the only thing that was keeping this movie down. "},{"Title":"Fred Astaire and Jane Powell sing and dance as brother and sister.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Simple little 1950s romantic musical comedy. Jane Powell was only 21 but this was her 10th film. She plays the little sister of Fred Astaire who was 52.  They are a brother/sister song and dance team that go to London to perform, and also find true love. The end of the movie is during a royal wedding taking place in London. The main reason to enjoy this film is the singing (passable) and dancing (superb) of Astaire and Powell. This is the movie where, by use of a rotating room with a fixed camera, Astaire does a routine where he starts on the floor, dances up a wall, dances on the ceiling, and back down the opposite wall, then reversing everything, because he is in love.Incidentally, it is striking how the young Powell looks like the current day actress, Reese Witherspoon.I rate this one 7 of 10, very enjoyable for any fan of 1950s musical comedies. "},{"Title":"Dancing Great; Story Stinks","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie features some of the most famous dance scenes by Fred Astaire, such as the one where he dances on the walls and ceiling.That particularly dance is impressive because the special-effects made it look realistic. Kudos to the filmmakers for doing that in a film that is 55 years old. Astaire also did a clever number earlier with a hat rack and did two entertaining dances with Jane Powell.The dancing was the only good thing in the film. Most of the story deals with romances between Powell and Peter Lawford and Astaire and Sarah Churchill. The latter look a little old for the normal young-romance type angles viewers are used to seeing in films. Facially, Fred looked like he had been ill. He just didn't look good. Powell looked fine but her soprano voice almost broke my TV tube. It was brutal.Since those famous Astaire dances can be seen on That's Entertainment tapes or DVDs, there was no reason to keep this film. "},{"Title":"More than Dancing on the Ceiling...","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ROYAL WEDDING was a colorful and splashy MGM musical that turned out to be one of Fred Astaire's best offerings, despite the initial trouble insuring a leading lady for the project. The film was originally planned for Fred and June Allyson, who had to drop out when she learned she was pregnant. Judy Garland was then approached, as the studio had been anxious to reunite her with Astaire since their triumph in EASTER PARADE, but Judy began her now-famous behavior patterns of showing up late on the set all the time or not at all, and Astaire was not having that, so Jane Powell was finally brought in to take the role. Astaire and Powell play Tom and Ellen Bowen, a brother and sister song and dance team who have been tapped to perform at a royal wedding in London (I believe it's the Queen who has requested they perform), so they take a cruise ship to London. On the ship Ellen meets a debonair playboy (Peter Lawford) and at the London auditions, Tom falls for a dancer (Sarah Churchill)who he casts in the chorus of his show. This breezy plot provides the backdrop for several showstopping numbers, the most famous of which is You're all the World to Me in which Astaire, while staring at a photo of Churchill, is so head over heels in love that he dances on the floor, the walls, and the ceiling. Movie historians have argued for years about how this scene was done and frankly, I don't care...it's such a joyous expression of love through dance that nothing else really matters. Astaire also has a solo called Sunday Jumps where his partner is a hat rack and, as always, Fred makes his partner look good. There's also a showstopping duet with Astaire and Powell called How Could you Believe me when I said I loved you when you know I've been a liar all my life? which features Fred as a slick gangster and a surprising Powell, as a brunette, gum-chewing floozy. Liner notes from the soundtrack album claim that this song was written by composers Alan Jay Lerner and Burton Lane in a limo on the way to the studio one day. Despite a wooden performance from Sarah Churchill, daughter of former Prime Minister Winston Churchill, this musical is a joy and one of the best from the MGM stable. "},{"Title":"A Clever, If Gimmicky Romantic Musical","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In 1947 Britain was looking forward to the marriage of the heir to the throne, Princess Elizabeth, to Philip Mountbattan. The marriage would be a lasting one (it still is going on) and a fruitful one (producing three sons and a daughter. This film, made four years later, is set during the period of the wedding events in London. Curiously the King (and all members of the royal family) are not shown in this film - although stock color film of the wedding procession to Westminster Abbey is shown.I suspect this musical must have gotten onto the MGM planning boards rather quickly - there had been no real royal family marriage for a long time, and the pageantry connected to this one was quite extensive. It was the first real attempt by the British Government to rekindle the advertising strength of the Royal Family since the Second World War. Oddly enough the government that pushed it was the Atlee Labor Government which had beaten Winston Churchill's Tory in the 1945 election. But by the time the film came out Churchill was back in power. Perhaps then it is not hard to understand the appearance of Sarah Chuchill (Sir Winston's daughter) in the film as a love interest for Fred Astaire. Jane Powell's love interest is Peter Lawford.This is a film with plenty of gimmicks In one dance number, Astaire dances with a clothing rack in a gym. He also is recalled (in this film) for dancing on the walls and ceiling of a hotel room. He and Jane Powell entertain the passengers on the French liner they are taking to England by dancing for them at dinner time, only to find the ship is rocking in turbulent seas, so they keeping losing their footing on the dance floor. In this film Keenan Wynn plays twin brothers who run a theatrical agency. One lives in the U.S. and his speech is full of American theatrical slang. The other is in London, and speaks in British slang. The humor of their phone conversations is that they find they barely understand each other. Finally, the screenplay romance and marriage of Powell into the British aristocracy is a gimmicky capitalization on the career of Fred Astaire's own sister and partner (in the 1920s) Adele Astaire, who also married into the British aristocracy.The film is a nice film despite the gimmicks in it's script and plot. Under the situation it is a nice little musical comedy which deserves some attention usually shown for bigger films and somewhat more outstanding casts than this one has. "},{"Title":"typical of one of America's great art forms","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Typical Fred Astaire,in other words great entertainment.Over the years the listing of favorite Astaire numbers has become a favorite pastime of many. This movie contains more than found in any other single show. The dance with clothes tree and using the wall and ceiling are precious. However there is another that is never mentioned that is on my list that delights me no end. How could you believe me when I said I loved you when you know I've been a liar all my life is one of the gems of American entertainment. To borrow an opinion from George Burns. the American musical composers and the theater and movie industry in which they showed their wares is America's greatest contribution to world culture.Royal Wedding is so typical of years of magnificent productions. "},{"Title":"Feel good fluffiness","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" If you like lighthearted, fluffy, feel-good films then this movie could be up your alley. The dancing is superb and very creative, and the singing from both Jane Powell and Fred Astaire is wonderful. Jane Powell is amazing in her role, very convincing. Fred Astaire shines as well. The only things wrong with this movie is a) as other people have commented, is the boring love interests. They seem very wooden, there's no chemistry, they don't sing and dance. Basically, they suck and could have been much better casted. The second thing is that a few of the songs are pretty boring, but I loved Too Late Now and How could I believe you.. Very clever. Great dancing, great stars, beautiful costumes, great acting (from Jane Powell and Fred Astaire) and lovely songs! I really enjoyed watching this movie. "}{"Title":"Frred at his best","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ROYAL WEDDING has been finally been remastered after the terrible public domain copy that's been out for years. An thank goodness, as this is one of Freds best. Cute story of brother and sister act who get caught up in nice romantic plots. This movie is highly underrated and should be seen by every musical lover. All the songs fit well into the story, even though the numbers within the show don't make sense. What is the show about, anyway? No matter. That's not the point. Fred is always great with no exception here. The big surprise is Jane Powell. She's terrific and it's her best film. Wonderful voice and her dancing is top notch. Watch them especially in HOW COULD YOU BELIEVE ME....number. Sensational. People have been very critical of Sarah Churchill. She was a good co-star for Fred as she was more his age. If she seemed a bit stiff perhaps that's the way she was directed. She was English and the English are very cool and collect. She reminded me a bit of Deborah Kerr. Anyway, she was just fine in her limited role. Peter Lawford, was...well Peter Lawford. Keenan Wynn was his usual self in his upteenth supporting role. I think he made more movies than any other actor at MGM. The DVD has two wonderful specials, an interview with Stanley Donnen and the casting of Ellen in the film. I know Judy Garland was supposed to have been Fred's sister, but to tell you the truth, as good as Garland was, she would not have been right for this role. I'm sure she was fired for good reasons. Now I'm a Judy Garland fan, but after SUMMER STOCK, she was through, and rightly so. The only drawback to this terrific musical is that the use of rear projection is quite jarring. Too bad they didn't make a trip to good old London. Regardlaess, this is a great, great show and don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Shut Up And Dance","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Royal Wedding boasts two great dance moments. In the first, Fred Astaire softshoes with a hatrack for a partner. In the other, he literally dances his way completely around a room, from floor to ceiling and back again.Alas, Astaire's A-game moments aren't enough to distract one from the pitfalls of Royal Wedding, a thinly-plotted musical with uninspired songs and a cast that ranges from game to gamey. Using the wedding of England's then-Princess Elizabeth as a backdrop, the movie seems to suffer from a terminal case of Anglophilia.Astaire and Jane Powell are Tom and Ellen Bowen, a brother-and-sister dance team who gladly jump on a boat to escape muggy New York for London, not quite swinging yet but pretty festive what with all this wedding business. Soon, romance is in the air for the dancers as well, as she meets a British lord and he a dancer hopelessly holding out for her fiancé in America.There's not much else going on here, which is too bad. For while a musical isn't expected to have complex characters or Mamet-style plots, it needs a little something beyond star power to get the audience interested in what's going on. Royal Wedding has Astaire and Powell, two terrific performers saddled with bland songs, uninvolving dance numbers, and romantic partners who make incest seem preferable for our heroes.That's especially true for Peter Lawford, whose last name should have been Principle for it certainly applied to him. He plays a caddish lord who sweeps Ellen off her feet. Given that she seems to enjoy the sport of making romantic overtures to men she then abandons, it would probably serve her right to find herself victimized by a non-noble imposter, yet Lawford's character is on the square (he couldn't have played it any other way). Their romance follows a smug and uninteresting course.Astaire's love interest Anne is played by Sarah Churchill, who dances pleasantly and doesn't look too bad but seems to be cast in an uncomfortably load-bearing role as a nod of American respect to her father Winston, a great man in my eyes but not exactly Michael Redgrave in the actress-siring department.There's also dull comedy, much of it in the form of Keenan Wynn's dual role as Transatlantic twins who talk past each other in their unconvincing slang. Dig? Pip! Director Stanley Donan tries to work some humor in the dance routines, but having the Bowens shipboard shimmy shattered by a shaky shipdeck just doesn't work either for laughs or hoofing. Nor do all the nods at stereotypical Brits who say things like Cheerio and only seem to live for the chance of waving at the Royal Carriage. While Powell and Astaire do dance well together, the numbers just don't grab you like they should, technically brilliant, perhaps, but unengaging.No, you basically have just two great solo dance moments in Royal Wedding. The remarkable thing about the ceiling-dancing number, now that we understand the how of it, is how well Astaire sells it by playing with audience expectation. No sooner are you comfortable with him dancing on one side of the frame then, with a subtle movement to disguise the fact the set has now been turned 90 degrees, he finds another side of the frame to jump upon, looking as natural as Spider-Man in the process. The hatrack dance is even better for my money, an engaging number all the brighter because its presented as a low-key workout even as Astaire manages some more gravity-defying, without the aid of camera tricks this time.Since one of these numbers later became a vacuum commercial and the other a Lionel Ritchie video, it's nice to see them here as they were originally intended. Even a bad film is redeemed when Astaire gets going, and he does. But otherwise this Royal Wedding is strictly a Camilla rather than a Diana affair. "},{"Title":"Fred Astaire and Jane Powell make this a must watch","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a movie loosely based on Fred Astaire and his sister who used to dance with Fred until she married royalty. Jane plays his sister in the movie. It is believable to me even though Fred was in his 50's and Jane was 21. Fred and Jane basically tour the world and entertain with their song and dance. Fred does some of the most memorable dances as a solo act in the film. He does the dance with the wooden coat rack. He also does my all time favorite where he dances on all sides of a room. He and Jane do a couple of really original song and dance scenes. The first one is where they sing and dance on a ship as it goes thru a storm. They slip and slide around in an entertaining scene. This scene actually happened to Fred and his real life sister. They also do a funny vaudeville-like scene where they stomp on each other. Winston Churchill's daughter plays Fred's love interest and Peter Lawford plays Jane's. Keenan Wynn is his usual funny self in a dual role. "},{"Title":"Royal Entertainment with A Royal Cast","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was in my teens when I first saw this movie. I was studying tap dancing so I was taken to movies to see Astaire, Kelly, and my favorite tap dancer James Cagney! Astaire was always at his best if someone like Hermes Pan created his dance numbers, but Astaire himself was not a good choreographer, and Gene Kelly always looked like a truck driver trying to tap dance, but Cagney was superb, but we're commenting on Royal Wedding which had so much going for it.The first partner for Astaire in this move was June Allyson, but soon into rehearsals, she became pregnant and had to bow out. Then out of desperation, they found out that Judy Garland was available, but then she went off on one of her drug-riddled nut case acts and went into the hospital, and then someone asked, Who's available? And someone said, Jane Powell and Astaire yelled out - Grab her! And they did, and even Astaire in his autobiography said that everyone was surprised at how well she handled the dance numbers even though, primarily, she wasn't a dancer, but then this was a good plus for Jane Powell.Jane Powell was not an adult and couldn't play teenage rolls anymore, and in her last film Two Weeks for Love she looked quite silly dressed up looking like a teenager, so when the chance to do Royal Wedding came along, this is what got her into adult rolls, and no matter, what anyone says, I thought her second film after this Rich, Young, and Pretty was a super-fine musical show and very much ignored! So, what was Royal Weeding about? The show was written loosely built around Fred Astaire and his sister Adele's life when they were a dance team, and yes, Adele, just as Ellen, Jane Powell's role, married a Lord in England and gave up her career which eventually led Fred to go into the movies, and, of course, the rest is history! There's been a lot of controversial discussion about how the number was done when Fred Astaire dances of the walls and ceiling of his hotel room. With todays technology, this would have been a snap, or would it? The fact is, the room was built in a revolving room with the camera bolted to the floor. As Astaire danced around the walls and ceiling the room revolved. When it was shown in a movie theater, the best place to see any of these old movies, it looked like Astaire was really dancing on the walls and ceilings, but not so the first time they tried it. The first time, all the pictures and furniture kept flying all over the place because they forgot to bolt everything down. Everything finally bolted down; they did the whole sequence in two takes although some say it was only one! The critics didn't take too kindly to this movie, but to show you that the critics are not always right, even though they hated it, the people loved it and went in droves to see the film, and the English adored it!Again, it's just a shame that great musicals like this one and others can't be enjoyed anymore on the big movie screens where they deserve to be seen and enjoyed! "},{"Title":"Unstable Surfaces","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Musicals sort of blend into a blur, especially those built around Fred Astair. All the stories are disposable, and you remember them more or less by who his partner was.This one is different. I does stick to the mature template of how the dances fit in half the dances are part of a show within a show. The other half spring from the story in that fantastic manner we accept as a matter of narrative convention.The dances, though, some of them are pretty darn memorable.To appreciate this, you need to understand the challenge of filming dance. We have the old convention in spots here the camera is in some sort of theater seat and watches a performance on a stage, sometimes a literal stage. There's nothing cinematic about it you could see the same thing is a live performance.The challenge is in what to do that works with the dance and at the same time leverages cinema, presumably to engage us. The production team here did some rather amazing things with space. I don't know who to credit, but there's some genius here.The idea is by steps bonding the dance to notions of artificial space, the actual containing space. It starts with a simple device Fred dancing with a hat rack. Its a strange thing, halfway between being a partner and an interaction with the world.Then on a ship, he and Jane dance on a floor that shifts. The notion of an unstable gravity is a pretty amazing notion because Fred's effects all depend on his relationship to the ground and what's on it. The floor shifts and he accommodates, amid moving pulls, rolling oranges and shifting furniture.Then the most memorable dance sequence shifts this on its head, mastering gravity he dances in a room starting on the floor. Then dances on the walls and ceiling. The effect is accomplished by having the room imperceptibly rotate and the camera with it. But its an extraordinary achievement the way he plays with it. It isn't as wild as Gene Kelly playing with and in the rain because it is more precise and intellectual. But it is a real thrill. You need to see it.Later, in the stage show, there's an acknowledgment of all this, a production number about place, with a map of a place that turns transparent to reveal the place itself.+++++++ There's a strange background here, the actual royal wedding of the period. The tone of that was supposed to be so obvious and strong that merely being immersed in it would overcome hesitations to wed. Its so flat today it shocks, especially the actual footage of the rather ridiculous pomp.(The woman playing Fred's paramour is Winston Churchill's daughter, an odd combination of mannish face, red hair, terrific legs, a studied grace and little charm. The man playing the beau of Fred's sister was one of Hollywood's most promiscuous empty souls &#151; he married a Kennedy.) Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Old Fred and young Jane make a wonderful musical and acting team, including several memorable dance numbers.","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The idea was to memorialize the long disbanded song and dance team of Fred and Adele Astaire, while taking advantage of the publicity associated with the recent marriage of Queen Elizabeth, to help dramatize the historic fact that Adele left the act, around age 35, to marry a British nobleman. Fred would play himself, and audiences would have to imagine that he was about 20 years younger. Who to cast as Adele? Vera-Ellen was briefly considered, but passed for June Allison, who soon discovered she was pregnant, thus replaced by the troubled Judy Garland, who was soon fired for being tardy. All these ladies were in their late 20s or early 30s, thus might be somewhat feasible younger sisters of Fred(Adele was actually older). But, the final choice became 21 y.o. Jane Powell 30 years Fred's junior. Jane, of course, had established herself as a significant MGM star by that time, had a great singing voice, which typically overshadowed her also substantial dancing talent. This was her first role playing a full adult, as opposed to a teen, and she turned out to be a great partner for Fred. But, it would have been much more believable if she had been characterized as Fred's daughter, rather than sister! Now, who to cast as Fred's new love in the UK? Fred's character was a confirmed old bachelor. Ideally, a member of the British aristocracy was wanted, to increase the film appeal to Brits. Sarah Churchill, Winston's daughter, was chosen. This reportedly did seem to help draw British audiences. Being in her late 30s, she was reasonably old to be a likely romantic partner for Fred. However, she had no film charisma and had a mannish-looking face. It's unbelievable that Fred would get so excited about her as to dance on the ceiling and walls of his room in celebration! Fred appeared to have much more romantic chemistry with Jane than Sarah! Also, the idea of her training with Fred to be a chorus girl, at near age 40, sounds unpromising. As the director, I probably would have opted for Vera-Ellen in her place, with whom Fred had very recently costarred, in Three Little Words, and would again costar the following year in The Belle of New York. She was good looking and a top dancing talent, to realistically make Fred dance on his ceiling (He would levitate in the future film with her!). She also had a rather regal demeanor, later playing a princess. She was young enough to be a believable dancing starter, yet perhaps old enough to have a plausible romantic interest in Fred.The 4th lead was Peter Lawford. On the positive, he was bred a Brit, as suggested by his speech, and was popular with women viewers. He made a good looking couple with Jane. Both he and Jane are scripted as having an endless supply of potential girl or boyfriends, thus a potential union of an alpha male and a queen bee. Despite only rudimentary singing and dancing skills, he had been cast in several prior musicals, although he reportedly hated to have to sing or dance in them. According to Jane, he was also only minimally dedicated to his acting career. He worked out OK in his minimally demanding role. Often, the supporting actors in musicals help supply additional musical or comedic talent. However, with the multitalented charismatic Fred and Jane, this wasn't so essential here.The director was the famous Stanley Donen, who devised the apparatus for creating the illusion that Fred was dancing on the ceiling and walls of his room, while singing You're All the World to Me. The cameraman had to be tied down, as he rotated with the room, in only 2 takes. Despite all the things going for this film, it languishes in relative obscurity compared to his previous hit On the Town, and subsequent film Singing in the Rain. Jane would again costar in his hit Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.The team of Burton Lane and Alan Lerner composed the musical numbers, which weren't hit parade grade, but serviceable, especially with emphasis on dance. Lane had been a long time, though minor, composer for MGM. This was Lerner's first film role as the lyricist, being hired mainly on the strength of his Brigadoon play. His frequent composer partner, Fredrick Loewe, would rejoin him for several notable musicals in the future.In addition to Fred's dancing on the ceiling, there are several other unusual dance numbers. The scene where Fred and Jane are attempting to dance on the ship during a severe storm, causing the furniture and themselves to slide around, is fun. Fred's solo dance with his expensive, custom-made, coat & hat rack is also unusual and skilled, although I find Kelly's prior dance with assorted mops and brooms, in Thousands Cheer, more interesting...The comedic vaudeville-styled number How could you believe me....., in which Jane plays a floozy to Fred's film flam man, is also quite good. Reminds us of A Couple of Swells with Fred and Judy, in Easter Parade. Jane especially liked this, as it was her first chance to play other than a sweet goody goody girl. Made up as a sensuous Latino, in the colorful I Left My Hat in Haiti, dancing with Fred, she is also out of her usual character, and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Iconic Astaire Dance Numbers","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Tom (Fred Astaire) and Ellen Bowen (Jane Powell) are a brother and sister song and dance act. They travel to London to do a show. They do fall for people along the way, but the story is almost unimportant.This is most noted for the dancing of Fred Astaire. He did a couple of iconic dances for the ages. In one, he's dancing with a coat rack in the exercise room. It's all about his gracefulness. The other dance happens in his room as it gets rotated. He's literally dancing on the ceiling. These go down in movie dance history. Astaire and Bowen do a pretty good ballroom dance on the ship as the giant floor starts tilting back and forth. It's pretty good but lesser known.Jane Powell does some real old fashion singing. It's from another age. Although I really liked one song sung by Powell and Astaire, 'HOW COULD YOU BELIEVE ME WHEN I SAID I LOVED YOU WHEN YOU KNOW I'VE BEEN A LIAR ALL MY LIFE'. It's a snappy little ditty. "},{"Title":"Fred Astaire Defying Gravity","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Every night at seven, brother and sister Broadway team Fred Astaire and Jane Powell (who are 30 years apart in age!) wow the audiences with their magical chemistry. Now, with the royal wedding gaining worldwide press in London, Fred and Jane are booked there in their latest show and find romance among the festivities. They are so accustomed to working together that the idea of breaking up is a difficult thought to consider.An enjoyable show biz musical originally created for Fred and June Allyson (and later Fred and Judy Garland), it ended up being the gorgeous Ms. Powell who slugged Astaire around in the unforgettable comedy number, How Could You Believe Me When I Said I Loved You When You Know I've Been a Liar All My Life?. (I'd like to see how they fit that onto sheet music!) Powell's daintiness disappears in her black wig, Jersey accent and gum-chewing while saying lines like You used to treat me like a high class dame (teeth clenched of course). Then there's their dance on a rocking cruise ship crossing the Atlantic where everything but the ship's wheel gets into the way of their routine. And of course, don't forget Fred looking for his hat in Haiti where none of the chorus people playing Haitian natives are black.So there's a great deal of minor things to gripe about here, but when you've got Fred dancing on the ceiling while singing You're all the World to Me (a song which sounds amazingly like I Want to be a Minstrel Man from the Eddie Cantor musical Kid Millions), you have a moment that in 1951 you know audiences were buzzing about even when they saw the original trailer before the film's release.The funniest bit though comes from Keenan Wynn in a dual role as Astaire and Powell's American agent and his British twin brother, their split screen phone conversations as funny as Ethel Merman's conversations with the unseen Harry Truman in Call Me Madam. This is without a doubt one of Wynn's best performances, stealing every moment he is on screen.As for Sarah Churchill as Astaire's love interest, she only dances with him briefly in one audition sequence, and comes off rather ordinary, moments of charm coming through here and there. Peter Lawford's obvious playboy love interest for Powell is barely explored, one sequence in an old British mansion giving you a glimpse into his family struggles which is never explored. As for the royal wedding itself, you definitely see the procession, but there is actually never any indication of who it is, the assumption being the then Princess Elizabeth who had married a few years before and by now was the mother of two children. "},{"Title":"Fred Astaire's dance on the ceiling is still the highlight of Royal Wedding","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Just rewatched this public domain M-G-M musical on Netflix Streaming. How disappointing I was to see a close to wretched print there instead of a restored one that I read was available on the Warner DVD. Still, I once again enjoyed seeing Fred Astaire dance on the ceiling in his declaring his love for Sarah Churchill. I loved seeing him dance with a hat rack. And I was overjoyed to see his dances with Jane Powell whether on a ship during a storm making for some hilarious encounters with inanimate objects, pretending to be a king and maid, employing some Latin rhythms in a Haiti sequence, or doing a roaring '20s number to How Can You Believe Me When I Said I Loved You When You Know I've Been a Liar All My Life. And while I've always known Fred to also be a pretty good singer, Powell isn't so bad either though her operatic voice isn't something I'm a big fan of. Keenan Wynn also provides some amusement as both their manager Irving Klinger and his English brother Edgar especially when a split screen is made when they call each other. The romantic subplots involving Astaire/Churchill and Powell/Peter Lawford didn't involve me too much so I'm glad they don't dominate too much of the story. And how awesome to see the footage of the wedding of then-Princess Elizabeth and Prince Phillip on this, her Diamond Jubilee year as Queen of England. So on that note, Royal Wedding gets a high recommendation from me. "},{"Title":"Predictable stuff, great highlights","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In the decade following his triumphal comeback in 1948's Easter Parade, Fred Astaire played a succession of slight variations on essentially the same character a lifelong bachelor and a successful Broadway hoofer putting on a show, who finds time for romance with a woman half his age. Here, he and Jane Powell play a brother-sister song and dance act who separately find romance while on tour in London. The parallel romantic story lines are pretty tame and familiar stuff, and anyway, this sort of movie flies or fails on its musical numbers and this movie has a few famous ones. Fred does an elaborate dance number using a hat rack for a partner when his sister fails to show up for a shipboard rehearsal; the two dance on a rocking ship to comedic effect in a parallel to an actual event in Astaire's life; and Astaire dances on the walls and ceiling of his hotel room in the most famous number in the movie. The latter was a technical marvel at the time, requiring the cameras and crew to be bolted to a rotating frame which moved with the room as it rotated, giving the illusion that the room and camera were standing still on the ground as Astaire went up the walls and across the ceiling! A few of the stage numbers are pretty good, too, although the film loses momentum when the dancing stops. Jane Powell holds her own alongside Astaire in their numbers together, although be warned her song numbers come from the Jeanette MacDonald school of film vocals and can leave your ears ringing from their shrillness. Enjoy the production numbers and don't expect much in between and you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Silver Wedding","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This just misses the Olypic Gold because despite Fred Astaire being on top of his game he is lumbered with an inept leading lady and a wooden 'second' leading man. On the other hand Alan Jay Lerner and Burton Lane (later to team again on the Broadway Show On A Clear Day You Can See Forever) deliver a standout score including all-time Great ballad Too Late Now totally thrown away on Jane Powell, an an equally Great 'patter' number in How Could You Believe Me When I Said I Loved You When You Know I've Been A Liar All My Life.The plot is wafer-thin and based loosely on Astaire's real life early partnership with his sister Adele, who actually did marry into the British peerage, and feature's a brother-sister song and dance team who travel to England at the time of the Royal Wedding, meet new partners and heigh-ho. If Sarah Churchill and Peter Lawford were passengers the compensations outweigh the cost of the freight in the shape of Astaire's two all-time great dance sequences first in the gym and later on the walls and ceiling of his London apartment. These sequences alone put this in the ten-star category and make it a Must for Astaire devotees. "},{"Title":"Half a great movie, half a bad one","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie divides almost 50/50 between the terrific elements and the abysmal ones, but still earns a 6 because of the extraordinary, dreamy dancing.First the good news The famous dance-on-the-ceiling and dance-with-the-coat-rack are both so terrific that other, equally terrific numbers have been forgotten. The rocking boat dance is funny and charming, and How Could You Believe Me When I Said I Loved You When You Know I've Been a Liar All My Life? is delightful. Astaire is his usual perfect self. Jane Powell is a delightful dancer and actress, with a sweet presence. The plot, using a brother/sister act to equally balance male and female philandering, is charming. Even the thinnest and fluffiest of plots needs some kind of believability, and the interplay between Astaire and Powell provides that; they make a nice pair of siblings, tolerant and bemused by each other and occasionally noticing they're exactly alike. Now the bad news Only two of the songs (How Could You Believe... and I Left My Hat in Haiti) are memorable or interesting as SONGS (as opposed to dances). Some of the songs are just awful, and the rest are dull. Jane Powell's singing doesn't help; her operatic style slows everything down, and doesn't fit with the rest of the movie's style. The worst problem is the romantic partners, neither of whom sings or dances. Lawford at least has a modicum of screen presence. Sarah Churchill is homely, and dances poorly, and is too tall to dance gracefully with Astaire in any event. She is such a bad dancer that, even though she's cast as a gypsy in the show that stars Astaire & Powell, she isn't seen dancing in the number that uses gypsies (...Haiti). I suppose this would all be forgivable if she was a decent actress during her love scenes with Astaire, but she's dreadful; stiff and expressionless. The thing to do is to fast forward through the love scenes with either Churchill or Lawford, and get back to the dancing.  "},{"Title":"A great musical that long languished in the public domain","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Royal Wedding is a great movie for anyone who loves those big MGM musicals of the 40's and 50's and the dancing of Fred Astaire. Of course, the big numbers in this film include Astaire dancing with a hat rack, which only goes to prove he could make any dance partner look good, as well as the famous number where Astaire dances on the walls and ceilings of his London hotel room. The trick here, well known by now, was that the room was actually set up to rotate. What is wondrous about this scene is that Astaire never seems to have any trouble keeping his balance as this rotation is going on. He just looks like someone who is so much in love he is just jumping with joy from floor to wall to ceiling and back. Less mentioned is the number where he dances with Jane Powell on board ship in choppy waters as furnishings roll about, but it is also a charming piece of choreography.The plot is fairly simple. Astaire and Powell play a brother and sister song and dance team, Tom and Ellen Bowen, both of whom claim to be against any long-term romantic entanglement. They are invited to perform in London during the period preceding the wedding of then Princess Elizabeth to Prince Philip. While in England they both fall in love, leading to a happy ending for both but breaking up the partnership in the process. It's rather interesting that art loosely imitated life in this case, since Fred Astaire's long-running dance partnership with his sister Adele was ended when she got married to a member of the English nobility in 1932. It's also strange that this film was actually made four years after the royal wedding took place. By that time the royal couple already had two children. As for good supporting performances, Keenan Wynn is quite funny playing twin brothers who are theatrical agents on opposite sides of the pond. They can't understand each other during their telephone conversations because, although both are speaking English, they are using the familiar expressions of their respective countries.From a technical standpoint, this film may either be in rather rough shape or completely restored if you see it, since it spent a long time in the public domain before Warner Brothers restored it in 2007. If you have the restored copy, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Even with its shortcomings, there are many delightful things here","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Royal Wedding may not be one of the classic musicals and everybody involved have been in and done better things, but any fans of great choreography and dancing and Fred Astaire will find plenty to like about it. It does have a good shortcomings, that are thankfully outweighed by the many things that are delightful.Starting with what didn't come off so well, the story is as thin as a wafer and occasionally loses momentum when there's no singing or dancing. The script is very commonplace, and while it mostly flows well, reads well tonally and has entertaining moments some of the comic moments fall limp and it's cringe-worthingly stereotypical in places(i.e. Keenan Wynn's slang). The songs and choreography are top notch, but the (slightly) clumsily staged finale was an exception. Two performances don't work. Peter Lawford has to work with a dully written character that often felt incidental to the plot, and he brings very little personality or charm to it. Even worse is Sarah Churchill, she is incredibly wooden here and doesn't ever look comfortable with what she's given. Her chemistry with Astaire completely lacks warmth, and veers on non-existent on occasions.The production values are very colourful however, not quite lavish but very beautiful nonetheless, and the photography shows adept technical skills and very good attention to detail. The songs are great, with three being particularly memorable. One is the Oscar-nominated Too Late Now, which has a lot of emotional resonance and is performed with just as much by Jane Powell(though maybe Judy Garland may have given it more heft if she was cast). Two is How Could You Believe Me..., which benefits from some of Lerner's funniest and cleverest lyric writing and a genuinely easy-going natural chemistry between Astaire and Powell. Last is the infectiously catchy I Left My Hat in Haiti. The choreography is even better, there is so much energy and sparkle to it and the two highlights both feature Astaire and are among his best and most iconic. One being Sunday Jumps, with the most inventive use of a duet with a hat-rack you'll ever find in a film, and the other being his dancing on the walls and ceiling in his hotel room in You're All the World to Me which is the epitome of jaw-dropping.Royal Wedding may not be perfect in the writing department, but it's not too slow-going(even those bits lacking momentum don't hurt the film that badly) and has an endearingly light-footed, good-humoured(though not always) and warm-hearted quality, in a way also that often entertains and never talks down. So while there are flaws in the writing, the spirit and tone are just right. The characters are not too original and Lawford and Churchill's are not interesting at all, but the rest of the characters are very likable and engaging. Stanley Donen's direction is very accomplished technically and in terms of pacing and balancing everything is very assured also. The performances on the whole are fine, Keenan Wynn is amusing and Jane Powell is a more than worthy partner for Astaire and plays her role with plenty of attractive spunk and graceful charm. But it is Astaire who is the main reason to see the film, he was one of the dance world's greatest and one of the all-time greats at interpreting songs in musicals. While he didn't have the best voice in the world, though it was still an above-pleasant one, his dancing is masterful and he exudes complete confidence.Overall, has shortcomings and falls short of being great(like it could have been considering it had Astaire and was directed by Donen). But these shortcomings are far outweighed by the good things, and the good things are delightful and a good many. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Dancing on the Ceiling","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" After a successful run on Broadway, sibling musical team Fred Astaire and Jane Powell (as Tom and Ellen Bowen) are invited to play London during the wedding season. This means participating in the 1947 Royal Wedding of Princess Elizabeth and her cousin Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark (presently known as Elizabeth II and Philip, Duke of Edinburgh). Romance is in the London air as Ms. Powell meets playboy Peter Lawford (as John Johnny Brindale) and Mr. Astaire meets showgirl Sarah Churchill (as Anne Ashmond). Sarah is the daughter of Winston Churchill (who, with Franklin D. Roosevelt and Joseph Stalin, was one of the Big Three winners of World War II). Churchill's daughter and the actual UK wedding are thematic, but less than overwhelming...It's a surprise to find so many of MGM's That's Entertainment! (1974) showstoppers were from average musicals. However, the soundtrack is grand and includes three of Astaire's best numbers. Without the Astaire highlights, Royal Wedding is sub-par stuff. The romances are dull and Powell, while lovely, seems too way young to be Astaire's sister. As reported here and in other sites' trivia, June Allyson was pregnant with Dick Powell Jr., and Judy Garland was bitten by the buzz bug; so, the role went to Jane Powell...First, watch as Astaire dances with a hat-rack in Sunday Jumps. This marvelous routine made headlines in 1997 when digitally altered to feature Astaire dancing with a Dirt Devil vacuum cleaner. Friends of the deceased star, and many TV viewers, were appalled. Happily, the commercial was removed. Next, watch for Astaire and Powell sing the interminably titled, but delightful, How Could You Believe Me When I Said I Love You When You Know I've Been a Liar All My Life? This song also returned Astaire to the record best-seller lists. Finally, Astaire and MGM's crew get him dancing on the ceiling in You're All the World to Me. As anyone with a laptop knows, it's not a difficult special effect; but it's really Astaire, not a spinning room, that makes it magical.***** Royal Wedding (3/8/51) Stanley Donen ~ Fred Astaire, Jane Powell, Peter Lawford, Sarah Churchill "},{"Title":"Not among Astaire's best, but it still is terrific...","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The print I saw for Royal Wedding was super-ugly and dark. Apparently the film is in the public domain and lots of lousy copies are out there--including the streaming version from Netflix. My advice is to see if the copy from MGM/Turner Entertainment is better--it should be.As for the film, the casting is quite odd. There is a 30 years difference in the age of Fred Astaire and his on-screen 'sister' Jane Powell. Because of this, the chemistry seems a bit odd and you can't help but being taken out of the moment. Too bad they couldn't have gotten Eleanor Powell out of retirement, as she was as close to Astaire's talents as any woman alive and she was much closer in age to him. Seeing these two amazing dancers together would have been a treat, as she was a match for his athleticism and ability to tap.The film is a re-written account of the life of Astaire and his real life sister, Adele. They were a huge act in the 20s and 30s and much of the film is taken from their lives--including her romance with a British Lord. Of course, being a Hollywood film, it's also stuffed with lots of polish and subplots--and the real story is only a starting point! But considering most folks watch films like this only to watch Fred dance, who cares?! As for the dancing, the film has some very nice numbers. My favorite is the very famous scene where he dances up the walls and on the ceiling in his hotel room--quite the stunt. He also had a nice dance with a hat tree! While the dancing isn't as spectacular, I also enjoyed How Could You Believe Me When I Said I Love You When You Know I've Been a Liar All My Life. This song and dance number with Powell had amazingly funny lyrics and is the complete antithesis of what you'd expect from the classy and polished Astaire. While it sure ain't subtle, it is entertaining. As for the rest of the songs and Powell's dancing, they are pleasant but unremarkable. Clearly, the focus is on Fred's dancing in this film.As for my summary, I certainly wouldn't consider this to be among Fred Astaire's best. This doesn't mean it's bad--but considering how amazingly perfect his films of the 30s were (such as Top Hot and The Gay Divorcée), this doesn't mean Royal Wedding is a bad film--it's quite enjoyable and has some great moments. Just don't watch it off Netflix or on a horrible public domain copy.By the way, this film has one of the creepiest lines in movie history when, near the end of the film, Fred and Jane tell their handler (Keenan Wynn) that We wanna get married. They don't, thank goodness, mean to EACH OTHER (ewww) but I could see someone thinking that! "},{"Title":"Song, dance and comedy.","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire and Jane Powell play a brother-and-sister dance team Tom and Ellen Bowen. The siblings get the chance of a lifetime gig; their manager(Keenan Wynn)books the team to perform in London during the royal wedding of Princess Elizabeth in 1947. On the way to England, carefree and naive Ellen falls head over heals for a dashing Lord Brindale(Peter Lawford). Nothing real new, because Ellen seems to fall in love as the wind blows. While holding dance auditions confirmed bachelor Tom finds a romance of his own in a young dancer Ann Ashmond (Sarah Churchill). Will the dance team be broken up because of the new love interest? This song and dance musical comedy is very typical until the ever nimble Astaire does his incredible dance number on the ceiling and walls. A few of the memorable songs Too Late Now, Ev'ry Night at Seven and What a lovely day for a Wedding. Kudos to director Stanley Donen and Alan J. Lerner doing his first screenplay. Can you imagine a royal wedding taking backseat to a dance team? "},{"Title":"Pure Soda Pop","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There's not even enough substance in this movie to call it champagne, its pure soda pop.Royal Wedding is a true classic Astaire movie. It contains the spectacular number where he dances on the walls and ceiling of his room, and its worth watching just for that.The plot is amusing if only because its so flimsy, even by the standards of movie musicals. Astaire and Powell play a brother and sister dance team who go to England to star in a show at about the same time as the royal wedding of (then) Princess Elizabeth II. They both fall in love. They decided (for like two minutes) that they don't want to get married, and then they change their minds and they both marry their loved ones. That's it, no wacky misunderstandings, no awkward situations, nothing. There are one or two other subplots, but they are resolved in equally effortless ways. Its like the shortest episode of Three's Company ever.Of course the plot is padded by like half a dozen dance numbers, which are nothing special (except the aforementioned dancing on the ceiling routine), but since its Fred Astaire, they are a joy to watch.Keenan Wynne has a really fun part, playing twin brothers, one from Brooklyn and one from London. He clearly has a wonderful time doing several routines where he plays both brothers having long distance phone calls with each other.Anyway, its a very fun more, but totally lacking in any kind of substance. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not essential","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In a plot echoing the real life breakup of his partnership with sister, Adele, Fred Astaire and Jane Powell are a brother/sister act performing in London at the time of Elizabeth II's wedding. There they each fall in love and dissolve the act. The plot is no more or less plausible than that of any other MGM musical - the problem here is that, in a bit of novelty casting, Astaire's love interest is played by Sarah Churchill, daughter of the prime minister. Miss Churchill is not conventionally pretty, but has a very natural charm; unfortunately, she can neither sing nor dance. The result is a movie without one of those great dance/love poems that highlight so many Astaire movies. In recompense, we get a cluster of novelty numbers - Fred and Jane as gum snapping vaudevillians; Fred and Jane trying to stay upright on a rolling ship; Fred dancing with a coat rack and, most famously, Fred dancing on the walls and ceiling. Any one or two of these numbers in one movie would be enough. All four in one movie is like a meal that is all ice cream, no meat and potatoes. Royal Wedding is enjoyable, but not nearly as satisfying as the truly great MGM musicals. "},{"Title":"Not too Royal (mild spoiler)","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Burton Lane, who created the music for Royal Wedding, wrote memorable music for Finian's Rainbow as well as On a Clear Day. So it is strange that there is little in this score that can be described as memorable.One might describe some of the dancing in those terms, however; mostly as done by Fred alone or with Jane Powell who showed herself to be both an accomplished singer and dancer.As has been pointed out by others, there is nearly no attempt to relate the musical numbers to the almost non-existent story. The opening number shows Fred with a crown on his head and Jane plays a chambermaid who is flirting with Fred. This is, I suppose, a half-hearted attempt to justify the Royal of the title.The real royal wedding, of course, was the slightly earlier 1947 one of Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip which is the background of the story. And being that this is a sort of film à clef, Jane, in effect, is playing the real Fred's sister and partner, Adele, who did marry nobility and did indeed break up the act.Peter Lawford's function was to look handsome and the forgettable Sarah Churchill (Yes, Winston's daughter.) was supposed to be, uh, supportive. Though Peter didn't sing in the final cut of Royal Wedding, his brief reprise of Every Night at Seven was filmed. (It is included twice in the extras) but Sarah did only a few dance steps even if she was supposed to be playing a dancer.Keenan Wynn is rahther wasted here in a double role as twins, both American and British stereotypes, which can best be described as cringe-making (cheerio, pip-pip etc.).It occurs to me that James Ashford (the father of Sarah Churchill's character.) played by Albert Sharpe, seems to be a close relative of Alfred P. Doolittle from Shaw's Pygmalion or it's musical version, My Fair Lady whose book was also, I think not coincidentally, written by Alan Jay Lerner. When he similarly dresses up in his formal wear, I half-expected him to break out into a chorus of Get Me to the Church On Time. Fred and Jane play lowlifes rather unconvincingly in the song How could you believe me, etc. which is not to be compared with the much better Couple of Swells number that he and Judy did in Easter Parade. (However, both songs remain in the standard repertory.)But Fred memorably dances on the walls and ceilings and with a clothes rack. And Jane dances and pipes prettily. The rest is pretty routine. "}{"Title":"The King Of Pomp Dances On The Ceiling.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  WARNING Mr. Lobo has been known to SPOIL from time to time.Royal Wedding is 1hr 33min of  BIG Technicolor MGM entertainment for a lonely late Saturday night! Fun loving Frederick Austerlitz Junior(AKA Fred Astaire) and his morally lax sister are a hot American dance duo who travel to Europe for the royal wedding. They meet extremely unattractive and uninteresting English mates who convince them that even THEY might be the marrying kind after all. Not to each other of course. That would be wrong. The plot is thin but the dance numbers are the best you'll ever see. Especially the hat rack, cruise ship ballroom in rough water and the dancing on the ceiling sequences. The musical number about Haiti is not to be missed(White people with perfect teeth in spotless Technicolor dress posing as Haiti locals).  DVD Release 7/15/97. Cinema Insomnia gave it 3 eyes 10/13/01!  "},{"Title":"This is a pretty box of pickles!","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" American brother and sister song-and-dance act sets sail for England after their manager gets them a London booking on the eve of Princess Elizabeth's royal nuptials. Stereotypical Brits litter the phony, contrived scenario (one waits--not in vain--for the first Jolly good show! or the proverbial walk in the fog). In the leads, Fred Astaire and Jane Powell are a perky, polite sibling pair; she puts her Yankee beaus on hold to be romanced by a bird-chasing Lord (Peter Lawford, as British a Lord as M-G-M could buy) while Fred fancies Sarah Churchill, a performer whose idea of romance is to dance on the ceiling (cue the next musical number!). Astaire dances (very well) and acts (not so well), while Jane hits the high notes. It's rather a dismaying picture without a single good song. Even Mr. Astaire's solo numbers look like flagrant chapter stops in the bland action. ** from **** "},{"Title":" Enjoyable Light Entertainment With a Couple of Impressive Numbers","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  While the story and characters are strictly lightweight, Royal Wedding is pleasant and enjoyable, and some of the dance numbers are quite impressive.  It's a little slow at times, but always watchable, and sometimes excellent.  The songs and dances are clearly meant to be the highlight, and Fred Astaire comes up with plenty of very good material, as usual.  Jane Powell is also pleasant as his sister/partner.  The supporting cast has less energy overall, but they (especially Albert Sharpe) have some good moments.The story focuses on some romantic dilemmas that arise when the dance partners travel to England to perform.  In itself, it's one of the blander stories in Astaire's musicals, but keeping it simple does allow the production numbers to stay in the spotlight.  Most of these are very good, and a couple of them are excellent.  The dancing-on-the-ceiling routine never loses its magnetism, the How Could You Believe Me ...  number is very entertaining, and the impromptu shipboard performances are amusing.There are ways it could perhaps have been better, and it's a bit surprising that more use was not made out of the English setting.  But it works just fine as light, pleasant entertainment, and in particular, if you appreciate Astaire's dancing magic, you won't want to pass up this one. "},{"Title":"This is a pretty box of pickles","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'll wager that most people track down 'Royal Wedding (1951)' solely for the scene in which Fred Astaire tap-dances across the walls and ceiling of his apartment, and it's a fantastic moment, the art of dance utilised &#x96; not as a simple stage performance &#x96; but for purely cinematic purposes, a distortion of space and reality. But Stanley Donen's film is more than a one-trick pony. 'Royal Wedding' boasts a number of enjoyable musical numbers, some played as conventional stage acts performed by the characters, and others &#x96; far more interesting, in my view &#x96; employing cinematic technique to produce musical numbers that would be nearly impossible to replicate onstage. Unfortunately, the exuberance of the songs is offset considerably by the lack of any interesting narrative, and a cast that (aside from Astaire, and Keenan Wynn as transatlantic twin brothers) is for the most part inconsequential and barely likable. Perhaps the mere notion of a royal wedding was then considered so exciting that sentiment alone was expected to substitute for a good story. Luckily, Donen's follow-up film, which I don't need to name, corrected this mistake.'Royal Wedding' follows the romantic exploits of brother-and-sister dancing team Tom and Ellen Bowen (Astaire and Jane Powell), both of whom have so far resisted all inclinations towards marriage and settling down, despite &#x96; in the lady's case, at least &#x96; no shortage of willing suitors. Notwithstanding the age gap between the pair, the film's story echoes Astaire's own vaudeville travels with sister Adele, who in 1932 retired from dancing to marry Lord Charles Cavendish. While serial sweetheart Ellen falls for a smooth-talking aristocrat (Peter Lawford), Tom rethinks his stance on love and marriage when he meets British dancer Anne (Sarah Churchill, daughter of Winston), who despite a colourless personality is at least closer to Astaire's age bracket than most of the leading ladies in his autumn years. Keenan Wynn, a funny supporting actor who I recently noticed in 'Song of the Thin Man (1947),' has a quaint double-role as two twins on the opposite side of the Atlantic, each of whom can't understand the regional slang of his sibling. Albert Sharpe plays a proud working-class British gent, the sort of role generally reserved for Stanley Holloway.The film's most interesting musical numbers are those that toy with reality. During Open Your Eyes, Astaire and Powell attempt to dance as their ship veers into choppy waters, and are frequently tossed about by the shifting inertia. Only when his character finds happiness in love, however, is Astaire able to master gravity itself, tappin' all over the walls and ceiling to You're All the World to Me with complete, blissful abandon. Though Astaire's dances occasionally strayed from reality &#x96; the Puttin' on the Ritz clones in 'Blue Skies (1946), ' the animated shoes in 'The Barkleys of Broadway (1949)' &#x96; never before (due largely to a contractual stipulation regarding how Astaire could be filmed) had the mechanics of dance been so joyously thrown on their head. The sequence was created by mounting a camera and its operator on a rotating set (a technique later used by Stanley Kubrick in '2001 A Space Odyssey (1968)'), and, aside from the technical ingenuity, it's a testament to Astaire's talents that he's even able to keep his feet as the ground under him continually shifted 360 degrees. "},{"Title":"Jane Powell's voice was dubbed? Are you kidding?","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I think you may never seen any Jane Powell's movie before. And you just can't believe that a great dancer can be an amazing singer at the same time. But you wrong. Jane Powell is such a talent actress, she can do everything!Great song, great dancing. A must see for every Fred Astaire and Jane Powell's fan.  "},{"Title":"Just to clear up a few points...","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I know this movie very well.  It's my sister's favorite musical, so everytime it's movie-time in the Garrett household, she pulls it out. Despite what the last commenter wrote, the leading lady's voice was not dubbed.  The leading lady was Jane Powell, famous for her rich, full voice and apple-pie looks.  This movie is cute, but it's only real pulls are the dancing scenes  this movie has two of Fred Astaire's more famous scenes. In the first, Fred's partner isn't his sister or his girlfriend, but a coatrack.  The second is the ever popular dancing on the ceiling number. Like I said cute, but not especially memorable. "},{"Title":"Fred joyously dances his way across jolly old England","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  You think Churchhill's daughter got her start in the biz without popsy's influence? This was not one of Astaire's better films, but nevertheless was fun to watch. I loved the dancing of Jane Powell, but found her voice on the shrill side. Nice outdoor areas used in the filming added much to the picture. As usual, Peter Lawford was a big waste...how'd this guy ever get into movies? "},{"Title":"There is no movie without Fred Astaire","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  All I need to see is Astaire dancing to make anything better.  The leading lady was a little annoying, and her voice that was dubbed in for singing was totally different than her own.  There is no way to beat the great dancing scenes.  Even though Astaire is now dancing with vacuum cleaners. "}]