[{"Title":"A final reflective masterpiece","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"71 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A washed-up, formerly-famous Music Hall comic, Charlie Chaplin, saves a suicidal ballerina, Claire Bloom.  In the process of giving her the hope to move on and succeed, he regains the confidence to return to the stage himself.Limelight is a moving and autobiographical film that works as both a bittersweet drama and a mirror into the soul of one of the world's greatest film makers.  I sometimes wondered if my affection for this film is based on my knowledge of Chaplin's life and career, and the parallels between Limelight and people and incidents in his own life.  When I watch this film I see an artist standing naked at a crossroads before his audience, unsure where to go and what to do.  However, I know the film does not require an advanced degree in Chaplin to enjoy.  My wife, who could probably do little more than identify the Tramp in a lineup before marrying me, loved this film before she met me.  I have also had the good fortune to see the film in a theater in New York and watch it work its wonders on an audience.  Stylistically, it might be dated, but the magic lingers.Limelight is best viewed as a drama with comedy rather than a comedy with drama.  Outwardly, it is the simple story of a vulnerable youth who mistakes her gratitude for love, and an older man wise enough to know the difference.  But it's more than that too.  It's about an artist's nature, and the addictive power of applause.  The Chaplin character, Calvero, knows how to make people laugh, but feels he has lost the ability to do so.  He realizes he is at the end of his career, but he still hungers for one final moment in the limelight.   The film is talky and philosophical, and, yes, a little pompous and pretentious at times too.  It's almost as if Chaplin is trying to impart through words the simple joys and mystery of life he was once able to express effortlessly through simple slapstick alone.  Does this flood of words mean Chaplin has lost his skills as a film maker?  No.  He still has the power to move.Limelight is Chaplin's final masterpiece.  It is one of my favorites.  I prefer to think of it as his last film.  Should this be your first Chaplin film?  No.  Start with films like The Gold Rush, City Lights, and The Great Dictator.  Come to know the comedian before you get to know the man.  "},{"Title":"The Spotlight Unfortunately Cannot Shine Forever.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"57 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Haunting and unforgettable piece from Charles Chaplin that was nearly lost in the American cinema all together. It played in very few cities within the U.S. in 1952 and was never shown in Los Angeles due to the suspicion that the House of Un-American Acts Committee had concerning Chaplin (making no sense to me as Chaplin, who was British, was the polar opposite of a Communist from all indications). The film disappeared from U.S. soil and did not re-surface until some 20 years later in 1972 and Chaplin actually won an Oscar, with fellow scorers Raymond Rasch and Larry Russell, for this movie's original dramatic score (this was the only competitive Oscar Chaplin ever won). Chaplin stars as a washed-up vaudeville performer. He is now an elderly man (in his 60s when the film was made) and the spotlight is gone forever, even though he still secretly yearns for it. Chaplin discovers a very young ballet dancer (Claire Bloom) who has attempted suicide because she cannot handle being a performer. Naturally Chaplin cannot believe that this young, beautiful and talented woman would rather take her life than be a ballet performer (the fact that Chaplin yearns for her youth and the ability to be an entertainer again makes him bound and determined to get her back on her feet). He tries with all his might to get her performance-ready again, all the while he is also trying to resurrect the career that he lost long ago. Chaplin has a dream of a stunning performance he has on the stage, but when his act ends there is no one there to acknowledge him (one of, if not the saddest sequences I have ever seen on film). Soon it becomes obvious that Chaplin's time is running out and his desperation to have that one last piece of action engulfs his mind, body, heart and soul. Limelight is one of the most dramatic and intense pictures I have ever encountered. Chaplin's life and career had changed dramatically by 1952. The Little Tramp was no more, all movies had sound, some films were being made in color and the subject matter of motion pictures was slowly starting to change. In many ways Chaplin was trying to show the viewing public his life in celluloid form and Limelight would be the vehicle used. This is a stunning work that once again shows the humanity and overall sensitivity that Chaplin had with his movies. Chaplin's long-time rival in real-life (Buster Keaton) even shows up late and acts as a partner in the duo's stage routine. The pairing is usually the most memorable part of this production to most, but the story and the deep emotional part that Chaplin plays are the things that make Limelight quite possibly Chaplin's greatest cinematic masterpiece. 5 stars out of 5.     "},{"Title":"Drama, Comedy, Tragedy, Philosophy and Nostalgia","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Chaplin could do anything as well or better than anyone else in movies acting, writing, directing, composing, producing, editing, even choreographing. He was world renown as a comedian, yet has placed some of the most poignant images on film that ever were. He was, even more than the great Orson Welles, a sort of one man band.He was as successful worldwide as anyone ever was in movies. Somehow in all this, he got the idea that he had something worthwhile to say about life and art. Which he did with this film.. and I for one am extremely grateful.The subjects of alcoholism... depression... aging... the fickle relationships of audiences and performers... these are all covered in a film that manages to fit in philosophical dialog, pantomime, dancing, and music. The multiple showings of the same comedy sequence (in a dream, in front of an unappreciative audience, in front of a wildly appreciative audience) gets one to thinking about the lemming-like nature of people in a way that someone like Chaplin would have had almost unique insight into.It may take a while to become accustomed to the odd pacing and cadence of a Chaplin movie; once you are, you find yourself in the middle of an artistic experience like no other.The music in this film is unusually haunting and deserving of the Academy award it belatedly received. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chaplin's Best Talkie. 9/10","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Charlie Chaplin is one of the undisputed masters of the cinema. He was one of the funniest actors of the cinema, and he was also one of the greatest directors. Of course, the films that he is most famous for are his silent comedies, especially The Gold Rush, City Lights, and Modern Times. The latter two were the product of Chaplin's stubborn clinging to the format and conventions of the silent cinema, though everyone else had gone to sound. This stubbornness was certainly sound. His contemporaries such as Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd lost popularity when they moved to sound. Chaplin's last two silent films were popular and made a lot of money. Audiences may have craved sound, but they craved Chaplin, too, and did not disdain his silence. He was one of the silent artists who thought that they were just achieving the peak of their medium when sound came in. He proved himself right, since City Lights (1931) and Modern Times (1936) are probably his two best films, and both are two of the best films ever made.Finally, in 1940, Chaplin directed and starred in his first talkie, The Great Dictator. Three more followed, Monsieur Verdoux, then Limelight, then King of New York, which happens to be the only one of these four I have not seen. The Great Dictator and Monsieur Verdoux were both good films in their own way, but perhaps Chaplin's in depth political commentary in these films detracted from them. The type of comedy that you find in his silent films did not mix well with this social commentary. The simple juxtapositions of the worlds of the poor and the rich in City Lights and Modern Times were far more powerful than what his first two talkies had to offer.Then came Limelight, one of the most bittersweet films ever made. It is not perfect, but it achieves a grand melodramatic beauty that few films have ever even approached. The story is simple a washed-up, old vaudvillian rescues a young ballet dancer from suicide. He takes care of her until she is healthy again, and even restores her confidence. The story may be simple, but the character dynamics are very complex. As the dancer, Theresa, is recovering, Calvero is not only rebuilding her confidence, but also his own. Theresa, because of his kindness towards her, finally believes she has fallen in love with him, even going so far as proposing marriage to him. Whether she actually loves him or not, and Calvero strongly asserts that she shouldn't and doesn't, these two characters have a constantly evolving relationship that does not end until the credits role. It is utterly fascinating, captivating, and dramatic.There are a couple of problems, and though they're small, they deserve attention. Perhaps the biggest problem is that Claire Bloom is quite guilty of overacting. Her line delivery is bizarre and overdramatic. This isn't a big deal, since you ought to be keenly aware that the film takes place in the world of melodrama, and is thus exaggerated. Another thing that irked me is Buster Keaton's role. It is little more than a cameo. In fact, his character doesn't even have a name in the credits. This is truly disappointing, seeing that he, although Chaplin may have had the most heart, was the all-around funniest silent comedian. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies by Chaplin","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Charlie Chaplin was without a doubt one of the most important pioneers of film-making, and through his life he saw the development of the cinema and its progress. Limelight is probably not as well known as most of his silent feature, but it is a very important film to understand the vivacious mind of this genius. It is a very personal film that showcases Chaplin's feelings about his own brand of comedy and how it slowly lost the public's attention as he grew older.Limelight is the story of an old comedian named Calvero (Chaplin), who one morning discovers that his young neighbor Thereza (Claire Bloom) attempted to commit suicide. He decides to take care of her and discovers that she is a dancer; knowing that both share a passion for performing he begins to cheer her up and prepares her to become a great dancer while at the same time he remembers his past glories.When one watches Limelight is impossible not to see the many autobiographical aspects of the plot, as in many ways, Calvero represents how Chaplin feels at the modernization of comedy on stage. Like Chaplin, Calvero also played the character of an optimist tramp who always saw the good side of life, and like Chaplin, Calvero faced many times the urge to modernize his act. It's kind of frightening to think about how much of Calvero's story could be based on Chaplin's real experiences as it is a sharp criticism (for its time) to the way performers are treated by both their managers and their public.As the last of his talkies made in America, Limelight is done with all the power Chaplin still had (although the film would be banned as Chaplin lost his power due to his political opinions) and it shows. The stage performances of the characters are sublime and in Calvero's memories Chaplin resurrects a way of comedy apparently dead by the early 50s and makes it fresh. The Keaton/Chaplin duo is a classic moment captured on film. However, Limelight is not a comedy in the strict sense of the word. Those expecting a laugh-riot like Modern Times or The Great Dictator will be disappointed, this is a very personal melodrama where Chaplin his emotions about his career.The acting is very good, Chaplin may be more remembered for his parts in silent films, but he delivers his lines with ease and ability. His physical comedy is superb and his overall performance is memorable (mainly because it feels as if he was playing himself). Claire Bloom is at times a bit too melodramatic for the movie's sake, but for the most part is very effective and makes a good counterpart to Chaplin's Calvero. Among the supporting cast Nigel Bruce as always chews the scenery and Buster Keaton is simply fabulous in his small yet classic role.Probably Limelight's main problem is its excess of melodrama, and its at times, excessively preachy attitude. The fact that is not a comedy may turn off people not used to Chaplin's more serious side, as while the movie has its fair share of laughs, it is obvious that Chaplin wanted to be recognized as more than a mere clown. The movie's slow pace and rhythm also put it closer to the melodrama of the 40s than to the image we are all used to see when we think of Chaplin.Despite all this, Limelight stands as a testament of Chaplin's enormous talent, and while not very well-known, it is one of the finest films he ever did. Fans of his work will definitely enjoy this film and fans of Keaton will appreciate his small yet terrific scene. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie about an old and washed-up clown who meets a young and troubled ballerina.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was the first and only Chaplin film I have ever seen -- and it wasn't at all what I was expecting.I was completely surprised that such a simple film could have so many layers of depth.  In fact it kept me thinking days afterwards!At it's core, I would say this movie is about the love of one's art, and the love that a couple share.The Ballerina loves to perform but is impeded by a psychosis that makes her legs inoperable.  I interpret success to be the root of the psychosis.The Clown loves to perform but is impeded by his fear of becoming a B or C-list star.  He is a legendary comedian and now that he's no longer in demand, he's convinced himself that he has to drink to be funny.There you have it; a clown afraid of failure and a ballerina afraid of success.  Together they help each other love their art more by removing those things that impede them.The best thing about the film is that the obviousness of the plot is completely lost in the depth of the film.  Chaplin uses such simple and common devices to draw the audience into his world.  I know it's hard to belive, but this is a must-see movie! "},{"Title":"A story of a ballerina and a clown","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Charles Chaplin plays Calvero, an aging clown who rescues a ballet dancer called Terry (Claire Bloom) from committing suicide.These two become friends and Calvero gets more meaning to his life.He desperately tries to make a come back to become the greatest clown again but it's hard to make people laugh anymore.Limelight from 1952 was Charles Chaplin's last American film.It was a flop but the film won an Academy Award for best score in 1972.That year the king of comedy got also a special Oscar for career achievement.This was Chaplin's most sentimental movie and it also was very touching.Chaplin is amazing as the aging clown.The man wasn't only a great comedian.He was also a terrific actor.It's hard to top his performance in this movie.Claire Bloom's performance as the ballet dancer is also brilliant.Chaplin's son Sydney plays Neville in the movie.There are also Chaplin's children Victoria, Michael, Josephine, Geraldine and Charles Chaplin Jr. in this film.This is truly a masterpiece.This proves that Chaplin didn't shine only in silent movies.He did that also in talkies.And this is one of his best talkies. The dialogue is just delicious in this comedic drama.In the end you can see another great comedian from the silent era;Buster Keaton.You can see Chaplin and Keaton clowning together in the end.And that is one great scene.A scene to remember.The message of Limelight is how wonderful life is.Enjoy it while you still can. "},{"Title":"Perfect. Brilliant. Tocuhing. Chaplin","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" All the terrible facts in his life during the 1940s made Chaplin realize he was a lucky artist, having for almost 3 decades both critics recognition as well as worldwide fame. His personal problems originated by his marriage with young Oona, added to the hate generated in the United States from the brilliant, anti-capitalism movie Monsieur Verdoux left him in a very dramatic situation, that made him look back at the past, only to realize how the art he made better was changing... characters, themes, directors and actors were now different. His eternal black and white pantomime was at the moment useless, and colored motion pictures were appearing...Limelight is the bittersweet movie that narrates the impossible love story between Calvero, the fading comedian, and Terry, the suicidal Dancer. Perhaps his final masterpiece, Limelight earns recognition and admiration for its philosophical thoughts about life, love, and the mix of comedy and drama. Considered as his will to artists and his homage to his three loves London, arts and women, the movie reflects Chaplin's worries about his audience, his marriage, society. Almost every aspect of Chaplin's life is represented in this motion picture. Just the tittle evokes his theatrical debut, in the late XIXth Century, Calvero is just a variation of Chaplin's eternal character, The Little Tramp, the story of Therry is the same as his mother (her sister also prostituted to make a living), and it goes on...There will be no movie that'll make me laugh and cry as much as Limelight. I consider it as the last Chaplin film. Enjoy the gag between Chaplin and Buster Keaton, long-time rival in the silent-film era, and the marvelous original score composed by Chaplin himself.Limelight is a perfect, brilliant, touching movie that'll make you know the person that hid 30 years under the Little Tramp character a great artist and unique man called Charles Spencer Chaplin. "},{"Title":"A touching story about a ballerina & a clown!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Charles Chaplin is, at least for me, the best film maker of all time. And Limelight is his best film. It is one of the 10 films I have given 100/100.The film is about this old comedian who can't find himself a job. He saves a young girl who tried to commit suicide. Well, they become friends and stuff.Simply the film is perfect. There is nothing bad I could say about it. Well, maybe the ballet scene was too long (but maybe I just can't concentrate enough). The script, the music, the actors, the whole philosophical structure of the film! They are all perfect. And the end of the film is something so beautiful that you really have to see it.If there is one thing you have to see, make sure it'll be Chaplin's Limelight! "},{"Title":"The curious twilight of a comedian long since abdicated.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Even for a fellow well-versed in Chaplin's sound films, 'Limelight' proved an odd viewing experience upon my perusal of it. Following on from 'The Great Dictator' and 'Monsieur Verdoux', Chaplin eschews his physical comedy for the most part, preferring to address 'big themes' and important issues. 'The Great Dictator', quite obviously tackles fascism and the demagoguery of a dictator indeed pretty pertinent in 1940. 'Verdoux' is an interesting one-off in its inherent darkness; the material, concerning a mannered serial killer, is treated with more sobriety and a blacker touch than had hence been the case with Chaplin's films. There is a startling effectiveness to the last reels of that film, with Chaplin's theme of society forming the individual's behaviour being emphatically and eerily conveyed by his well-spoken character. 'Limelight' focuses on the gold mine that is Chaplin's career and the decline of his sort of comedy. It should be got out of the way first, that considering the possibilities this stirs in the mind, the result will likely disappoint. But that does not affect my view that this is a very interesting film and broadly a successful entertainment. It could be argued that 'The Great Dictator' is a finer insight into Chaplin's art; the masterful pantomime is more vividly on show, and is Hitler is not especially the evil figure we know him to be, but more the manipulative, balletic Chaplin, commanding our attention.'Limelight' seems not to succeed in being a summation of Chaplin's career; perhaps as it distinctly lacks the raison d'être of his visual comedy. Okay, perhaps Calvero is a character based partly on other faded stars from the music hall tradition, but we are not convinced that this is quite the same Chaplin. Of course, this is bound to be the case this is sound cinema, nearly twenty years after the tramp's final sunset-bound trot. But, here Chaplin's character talks incessantly and unrepentantly quite the conversion for the silent clown. Unlike Laurel and Hardy, the adjustment to sound was never made in his original screen persona, so this truly will seem a different Chaplin to viewers. He pontificates in a somewhat lofty, generally admirable fashion; but it is the speech of a mannered, delicate, sentimental old English gentleman, and not a clown or philosopher. There are times his dialogue wades in some very interesting waters - such as that regarding his views on audiences and the rigors of performance - but often, too little of worth is said with too many words, in an overweening, self-satisfied manner. Where the film really succeeds is in the way Chaplin does take on a sort of tragic grandeur towards the close - or more rightly a rather sad grace; a man out of time and out of sympathy with most the world has to offer. It seems he was lucky to obtain the services of Claire Bloom to play the ballerina, Tereza, as she invests a crucial part with genuine feeling and warm brittleness - a good contrast with Chaplin's slightly wearing charm and ghostly drifting through the film. His contribution in bringing Bloom to the screen is to be appreciated, as she went on to a most impressive career in many mediums. Indeed, Bloom is rather histrionic at times, but at least it adds some genuine zest to proceedings. That she carries off this role, that from the evidence we see, is so unlikely &#150; a young girl completely in the thrall of a curiously cold and verbose old man &#150; is a testament to her skill. She really conveys more of Chaplin's appeal than is perhaps warranted by what occurs in the film.Touches like the visual flashbacks of Neville and Tereza's unspoken romance during her voice-over, narrating the story, really help the film. As do the inclusion of performance sequences early on, which are revealed to be in Calvero's subconscious. The second of those rather amused me, seeming atypically Chaplin in its bantering wordplay and slightly otherworldly air. The performing fleas routine is hardly vintage Chaplin (but pray remember, Calvero is a purely music hall performer, of pre-WW1 days) in its invention, but it is very precisely performed. I loved the little bits implying a wider tapestry the drunken musical recitations by Calvero and a few friends in his flat, the reminiscing in a bar. It may not be a picture focused on the details of London life in the era, but tantalizing glimpses are given.It is charming to see faces of old Hollywood, albeit briefly in this picture, that is so dominated by Chaplin's self-regard. Nigel Bruce is a splendid presence as &#150; you've guessed it &#150; a doddering, hapless old buffer with heart certainly in the desired place and dander constantly up. Buster Keaton adds some much needed comedic timing and experience to the film with his late appearance, performing with Chaplin in a decent final routine. He really outshines Chaplin, and it is a shame more isn't seen of his droll presence, far more tangible and concrete than the curiously elusive Chaplin is here. Whatever one's thoughts on the film's comedy, it must be recognized that this is more of a winsome, self-absorbed melodrama than it is anything like a comedy. That it works is surely down to the strange historical interest of the film and its undeniable melancholic resonance. This is a Chaplin at the end of his tether, seemingly unwilling or unable to go back to being a comedian. The film is sad, invested with a grand decay and propped up by perhaps a more &#145;real' Chaplin than was ever seen in his days of silence. It simply should not work &#150; it is a portrait over-egged to some degree - but this is somehow remarkably compelling stuff. The picture all the more mourns what isn't there. Rating - *** ½/*****  "}{"Title":"Chaplin's best movie!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This past week, I've been on a Charlie Chaplin kick. I watched Great Dictator(which is marvelous) and Modern Times(Also a classic). This morning, I watched Limelight. I knew that it was not going to be a ha ha laugh riot all the way through, but I found myself chuckling several times in the movie. This movie has an excellent storyline about an aging performer who knows he is not marketable anymore but wants one more chance to shine. He meets a ballet dancer, played wonderfully by Claire Bloom, who almost commits suicide before beings rescued by Chaplin's Calvero character. Throughout the 2 1/2 hours, they teach other to fight their demons and do what they love doing. This movie was so moving to me. I ended up crying the majority of the movie. This shows that Chaplin is a genius. You can watch his movies and laugh, cry, think. But at the same time, it's just genius work. Sadly, this was Chaplin's last film success in America. What a shame. Great talent. The Chaplin/Keaton sequence is the highlight of the whole movie. 2 great comedy geniuses working for one time only. Perfect. 10 out of 10. Go see Limelight and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"With it or without it","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" It is well known that this film was Chaplin's final bow in America, and in one way it could be said to be his final bow for England as well; that is, of course, the England which the comedian once knew. He'd left the country for money and fortune, and this is the end of it which never was. No, no, I'm not saying this was what Chaplin wanted to say with the film, because I don't think it is. But it's hard to not think in such terms when presented to Calvero, the sad, reflected, cheerful and extremely talented clown; the latter is particularly evident after he's had a drink. The clown is now washed-up and can't get work anywhere. Then one day he saves a young ballerina from committing suicide, and as he helps her along, eventually he comes to experience one final triumph in the limelight himself. Chaplin captures me completely in his obviously heartfelt role as Calvero, and the rest of the cast is excellent, including Claire Bloom as Terry, Chaplin's son Sydney as the young musician, Stapleton Kent's somewhat humorous portrayal of manager Claudius, and of course, The Other Biggest Big of The Silent Clowns, Buster Keaton; a special mention goes to Marjorie Bennett as Mrs. Alsop.Not only did Chaplin as always write and direct this film, he also composed the beautiful ballet to which Claire Bloom dances hypnotizingly. I am not much into ballet, but can't help the effect this one has on me, just as with the entire film. As Chaplin would say, words seem so futile, and indeed they do as I try to cover what it is which makes me re-visit this film over and over, always wanting it to last longer. When I was in a very desperate stage of my hitherto brief life (20 next autumn), Calvero's speech to paralyzed Terry truly saved me. Most of us do insane things to reach happiness, and even insaner things when we fail in our attempts. Calvero should be here to tell us to quit it, and go on. After all, as long as we're conscious, we can still be in hysterics of laughter at Chaplin's act with Buster Keaton towards the end of this film.Swedish critic and poet Lars Forssell has remarked that Chaplin with LIMELIGHT says little which he had not already expressed to greater effect in pantomime. I admire the work of Forssell, but think that he here overlooks a radical point; in fact, perhaps the major theme of the story. If we are to sum up the main elements provided in this film, we do indeed have a pretty typical Chaplin-film; a clown falls in love with a girl who in some way is superior to him, this time in the sense that she's got most of her future ahead, while he's old and ill. However, in previous films, Chaplin had been a clown with the mannerisms of a gentleman, always eager to explore further despite life's many defeats. Being a clown on the surface, the Tramp was playful, childish and acted pretty much by instinct. In this respect, Calvero represents his very counterpoint; he is not a fantasy figure able to survive anything as soon as he does a twist with his ankle, but a very real human being who has gained wisdom from the ups and, for the most part it seems, downs of life. We need to do nothing more complicated than viewing CITY LIGHTS as a contrast; whereas the Tramp had helped the blind by pretending to be someone else, Calvero accepted the world as it went, fighting back when he could, but admitting to be an old sinner. For his entire career, Chaplin had played a clown, and this is his turn to wipe out the make-up and speak to us from underneath. If you think it gets too chatty, that's your problem. A clown is supposed to do pantomime on the stage. Here he's left it.However, what is particularly fascinating with LIMELIGHT is that it not only speaks for Chaplin, but for the entire music hall-era in which the comedian laid the roots of his art; it is a work based upon a phenomenal life of first-hand experience, hence it does not feel more pretentious or self-centered than it should do. Calvero is the eternal sad clown, whose philosophy is carried through every performer who went the same way as him. (He does in fact bear characteristics of Chaplin's real-life father, who was once a top-bill performer on the stage himself, but eventually drank himself to death while Charlie was a boy.) Although at heart a tragedy, LIMELIGHT is, to me at least, one of the most uplifting films to watch when the clouds of life spread too much of shadow around; I can't say for sure if I'd have felt the same way if I was at Calvero's age, but I really believe there is some hope to be found for whoever needs it in this film. After all, Calvero finally made it, didn't he, even without happiness? "},{"Title":"the more Chaplin I see, the more I admire his work","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" If I had seen this film a couple months ago, I doubt if I would have scored the film above a 7. I must admit that I was not a fan of his movies and generally felt he was a bit overrated. However, after having seen many of his full-length movies recently (CITY LIGHTS, MODERN TIMES, THE CIRCUS, THE GOLD RUSH and several others), I realize that I indeed had a strong prejudice that was not completely justified. While I still think his movies relied too heavily on pathos to try to pull the heart strings of the audience, his amazing talents as an actor, writer, director, producer AND composer are unparalleled--plus, in this film at least, the pathos was necessary for the plot.The film is not a comedy, nor should anyone who reads this review begin watching it expect laughs. No, it's actually a very poignant drama that in some ways is quite philosophical. And, also in many ways the movie is like a combination of the films A STAR IS BORN and Chaplin's film THE CIRCUS.Charlie is a down and out vaudeville performer who is way past his prime and drinks much too heavily. When returning home to his apartment, he finds that the downstairs neighbor (Claire Bloom) has turned on her gas and taken pills. Though drunk, he breaks open the door and gets help. When she is rescued from the brink of death, she has no place to go (since she can't live in the old apartment), so he reluctantly lets her stay. However, he soon grows very fond of her and she of him, though she has a lot of emotional baggage and believes she cannot walk (it's a hysterical illness caused by emotional problems).Despite her practically being an invalid, he cares for her and he barely scratches out a living. Eventually, though, he pushes and pushes her--not out of cruelty but because she CAN physically walk and can't continue feeling sorry for herself. He's very upbeat and optimistic throughout this period, though, as she needs to have a reason to live. Eventually, she is able to walk and returns to her career as a stage dancer. At the same time, Chaplin's career continues to go from bad to worse. Now, she is much more optimistic and he is in a funk.Claire gets her big break thanks to the coaching of Chaplin. And, in the show, there is a small part for him as well. She goes on to stardom and then announces she wants to marry the very significantly older Chaplin. He is aghast, as he feels this desire of hers is really due to her being grateful and fraternal love between them. But, she will not be dissuaded, so he disappears from the show and she is forced to continue without him. At first it's tough, but she becomes a major star.A few years later, she returns to London and stumbles upon Chaplin. She continues to voice her desire to marry him, but he'll have none of it--especially since there is a nice young man on hand to marry her now (played by Chaplin's real-life son, Sidney). Despite this, she arranges a big comeback performance for Chaplin--as he WAS at one time a famous comedian. This comeback is part of a star-packed show and it's now Chaplin's chance to go out on top! The show goes on and in fact Chaplin is amazing. But, after putting his all into it, he has a heart attack and dies--thus freeing Claire to seek out a life for herself. Now THAT'S pathos! The total package, though a tiny bit slow and sentimental, worked for me. Chaplin's music, by the way, earned an Oscar when the movie was finally exhibited in the USA two decades later! A beautiful, sentimental and almost perfect film--a fitting end to a great career--too bad he went on to do two more lesser films in later years.By the way, since writing this review, I have found that this film haunts me and I often think back about it and how touching the film was. While it isn't one of his more famous films, I think other than THE GOLD RUSH it is actually his best film--maybe not the funniest, but among the very best. "},{"Title":"I'm Shameless, But I Can't Help It","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"       An ageing vaudeville comedian is well into his decline when he rescues a young ballerina from death and nurses her back to health.  Her combination of vulnerability, gratitude and unconditional adoration give the jaded Calvero a new lease of life.     Love, Love, Love is the title of a Calvero stage number, and it would serve as a subtitle for the film, with the young Claire Bloom as the jewish gamine, the Paulette Goddard of the next generation.  As usual, Chaplin does it all - acting, writing, directing, composing and choreography.  He also packs the film with Chaplins, with no fewer than seven members of the tribe appearing.  Sounds like a novelette, says Calvero when he hears Thereza's story, and the observation applies equally validly to this shallow and slightly tawdry love story.     What is this urge that makes us go on and on? asks Calvero.  The viewer can be forgiven for wondering the same thing.  This is Chaplin at his most self-indulgent (and that's saying something), with long rambling speeches about the secret of all happiness and horribly pretentious twaddle such as Desire is the theme of all life.  It's what makes a rose want to be a rose!     Desire is what makes Chaplin want to seem clever and profound, but these witterings are meaningless (The heart and the mind!  What an enigma!)  He cites Freud twice as he 'psychoanalyses' a girl he doesn't know, without any grounding in Freud's methods.  And the screenplay is horribly over-written.  The strivings towards a self-consciously literary style are embarrassing.  We get phrases like the elegant melancholy of twilight, and at one point Thereza is made to remonstrate with Calvero against his despondency because You're too great an artist!  She tells him that he is excruciatingly funny, when in fact he's just excruciating.  The overblown histrionic style had gone out of fashion forty years before this.  Thereza is given dreadful bits of speechifying to do (Truth! Truth!) and the newspaper review which gets read aloud is literary pomposity of the most grotesque kind.     I wasn't funny, admits Calvero.  Elsewhere he confesses, I lost contact with my audience.  How very true.  Calvero is offered to us as one of the great artists of vaudeville, but the simple truth is that the 'turns' which he performs onscreen are embarrassingly weak.  The patter is lacklustre and unfunny, and the wretched flea routine (which would not have survived the script consultation stage, had there been one) gets shown twice.  It is an emblem of the film itself - too long-winded and not nearly funny enough.  Calvero flirts with Mrs. Alsop, the tough old landlady, in what is meant to be a winning deployment of charm, but it fails because Calvero isn't charming.  Worst of all is the seemingly never-ending ballet, Chaplin's most extreme form of self-indulgence in a film mired in directionless ego.  As a pianist, Chaplin has dexterity without musicality as a writer, glibness without eloquence as a composer, facility without substance.  In all of his 'artistic' endeavours, he tootles and tinkers without really ever saying anything.  The clown demands to be taken seriously, but has nothing serious to say.     Plot articulations were never a Chaplin strongpoint (vide the train wheels in Monsieur Verdoux), and Limelight has some clumsy narrative apparatus.  The hoary old contrivance of the surprise telegram is lazy plotting, as is the inelegant question-answer dialogue by which Calvero elicits Thereza's life story.  Calvero has been on the verge of Skid Row for years, but suddenly high society rewards him for his artistic achievements with a benefit gala - and thus is Claire Bloom's ballet worked into the story.  After a long, slow build-up to the ballet, the film ends with puzzling abruptness.     Postant the impresario (Nigel Bruce) and Neville the composer (Sydney Chaplin) occupy a no man's land somewhere between being developed as characters and being irrelevant to the plot.  The suspicion has to be that Chaplin introduced Neville in order to render the film palatable to an American audience.  The core story, that Youth must break free of Age's tutelage in order to fulfil its own potential, doesn't need Neville.     Chaplin was fond of back-projection (eg, the never-quite-halting train in The Great Dictator).  Calvero and Thereza go for a stroll against a back-projection of the Thames Embankment, and it just doesn't work.  The artifice is simply too distracting.     Can anything positive be said about Limelight?  Well, the routine with Buster Keaton is delightful (but (1) was it really necessary to repeat the gags so blatantly? and (2) one hears ugly rumours that Chaplin butchered the scene at the editing stage because Keaton was so much funnier than he).  There is a reverse-motion segment in the clownage, a device Chaplin had previously used in the 'globe dance' passage of The Great Dictator).  Oh, and Eternally is a nice tune.      "},{"Title":"One of the Most Melancholic Films I Have Ever Seen","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" In 1914, in London, the former successful and presently decadent and alcoholic clown Calvero (Charles Chaplin) smells gas in the building where he lives and breaks in an apartment. He finds the suicidal Thereza 'Terry' Ambrose (Claire Bloom) laying down on her bed and he brings a doctor that saves her. They do not report to the police and Calvero nurses her in his apartment. He leans that Terry was a ballet dancer that had a problem in her legs that are paralyzed. However, the doctor tells to Calvero that she has not a physical, but actually a psychological problem with her legs. He emotionally supports her and she recovers her health and becomes a successful ballerina. Meanwhile Calvero is also affected by Terry and quits drinking. Calvero tries to rebuild his career in the show business and while Terry falls in love with him but age must pass as youth enters. Limelight is one of the most melancholic films that I have ever seen. I saw this movie for the first time when I was very young but watching Limelight older and older, I realized how depressive this tragic story is. The haunting music score was awarded with the Oscar of Best Music, Original Dramatic Score. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Luzes da Ribalta (Limelight) "},{"Title":"The Limelight is a Cruel Lover","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Charlie Chaplin moves into the 1950s with an unusual drama about an alcoholic old timer (Chaplin as Calvero) and suicidal young ballerina (Claire Bloom as Terry). The comedian Calvero is drunk as the film opens, and obviously in the twilight of his career. He rescues Ms. Bloom from a suicide attempt and helps her to get back on her feet (so to speak).The film seems almost like nothing, but becomes quite substantial. It's a very thoughtful film -- obviously, Chaplin in his 60s has lost none of his film-making skills the difference is that you come to Chaplin on His terms. No longer interested (capable?) of producing massive audience hits, Chaplin produces an indulgent, sentimental Limelight. It's an excellent work, but very hard to digest.Some impressions Comedy is ballet. Life is ballet. Young needs old. Old needs young. Comics need a drug. Perhaps the film needs a single focus? I found the sequences where Chaplin is told by the suits he's washed-up to be most memorable; along with the small scene where a comic goes in for Chaplin's job because he's heard the old clown is awful. The stuff with Buster Keaton is very nice, too, and makes you wish the would have done a full film together. I believe Keaton's role makes the film deliberately less autobiographical than many would believe, but you can never be sure&#x85; Chaplin is interesting to watch always; when he seems to be doing nothing, he's not. ******** Limelight (1952) Charles Chaplin ~ Charlie Chaplin, Claire Bloom, Buster Keaton "},{"Title":"reflection about the small things","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Calvero remands me the Chaplin taking the honorary Oscar in 1972. his words. his emotion. his presence as gallery of so many characters. not only for the links between the clown and its interpreter. but for the bitter delicacy who reflects the fight and passion and sacrifices of an entire career. Limelight could be perceived as artificial and prisoner of clichés. the comedy has not the force from another Chaplin's works. the speeches of the artist are more didacticism. but that is the purpose. to open a door who seems a wall. to present love in a different light and angle. to show the artist out of its art-cocoon. the virtue of Limelight is to be a precious naked honest confession. about life not about art. about force of decision. about joy and success and truth. about the other as part from you. the presence of Buster Keaton. the performance of Claire Bloom. the large slices of mannerism. each as piece not for a masterpiece because nothing need demonstrated. but as a precise look in heart of small things who defines each existence. it is not a film for applause or for great eulogies. it is bitter film using almost well known theme. but it has the force to imagine a way to remind the man and not the brilliant actor. Calvero has not exactly a character. it is a fragile confession from a great man about himself and about his vision about the existence. "},{"Title":"missed opportunity to bring back the tramp","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" It's 1914 London. A drunken Calvero (Charles Chaplin) finds Thereza Ambrose (Claire Bloom) passed out in her room from the gas. She had tried to kill herself. The doctor and Calvero take her up to his room where she recuperates. Calvero was once a successful vaudeville clown but now he's all washed up. His agent gets him a show but it goes horribly. Six months later, she has regained her confidence as a ballet dancer. She's in love with Calvero despite his drunkenness. She's reunited with composer Neville (Sydney Earl Chaplin) whom she had a crush on as a shopgirl. Calvero continues to dismiss Thereza's marriage proposals.I find Chaplin too stridden to be either romantic or as a kindly mentor. He's a little off-putting and his comedy isn't working that well. He's more of a physical comedian. When the audience walks out on him, it seems very autobiographical. This works a little better as a drama. Chaplin's son is a bit stiff. That role needs somebody better. The biggest missed opportunity is Chaplin's performances on stage. It seems like a great time for the tramp to reintroduce himself. It would be so much more powerful for the movie. At this point, Chaplin works better as a man passed his prime than a funny comedian. This movie asks him to be both. And then it's fun to see Buster Keaton share the same screen with Chaplin and they have some good scenes together. Imagine if they did their act as their old selves. "},{"Title":"Chaplin's most saddest, beautifully bittersweet film...Bloom is luminous....","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" One of Chaplins most moving film, and perhaps his most saddest yet hopeful (bittersweet?) one. It didn't get many laughs from me- I didn't find Phyllis and Henry quite as funny as I probably should have, or the Keaton sequence- yet it contains some beautifully acted emotional scenes.In his most personal role Chaplin plays Calvero, a faded comedian who believes he can longer make audiences laugh except when's drinking. He rescues a lovely, vulnerable young ballet dancer (Claire Bloom) from suicide, and finds in her his soul mate when he slowly nurses her back to health. It was Bloom's debut film, and any film that brought the lovely Claire to the screen is a good film in my opinion. She is graceful and ethereal, such a wonderful screen screen presence. She believes she has fallen in love with Calvero- despite her initial infatuation with a young composer called Neville (Sydney Chaplin, Charlie's son)-yet he tells her not to waste her love on him. Calvero is wise enough to know that Terry may love him for all the help he has given her, but is not in love with him. There follows a gradually inevitable second half in which Chaplin must face death, and Bloom must face life once again, grateful for Calvero's help yet not pining for him.Perhaps the film is overly long (most of Chaplin's talkies had this fault), and some of Chaplin's dialogue-especially about how Neville will find Terry once again in a magically romantic setting-is a little pretentious, but it's pretty powerful. Chaplin shows he is a great actor and Bloom just shines. "},{"Title":"Chaplin stands in the Limelight.","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight (1952) was Chaplin's curtain call whilst A King in New York was his encore. Such a melodramatic comedy that'll pull at your heart strings. Chaplin stars as a broken down drunken clown who lives his life in poverty and obscurity. One day he saves a young ballerina (Claire Boom) who tries to commit suicide. Feeling pity for the young woman, Chaplin takes her in and nurses her back to help. The two get to know each other better and he encourages her to get back into dancing. She becomes a huge star but that's just the beginning. Will the clown and ballerina become more than friends? Can the clown overcome his current failures and become a star once more? To find out you'll have to watch LIMELIGHT.Such a heartwarming film. Even though it's a bit on the weepy side, it's a great movie. Claire Bloom never looked prettier and Chaplin acts his butt off. Buster Keaton has a great guest starring role. I was surprised that Limelight has been reworked or referenced in several films. I strongly recommend this movie.A+ "}{"Title":"A Bit Long, But a Solid Wrap to Chaplin's Career","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Chaplin without the tramp costume is almost unrecognizable. Also, how often have you heard his voice and realized he was a British gentleman? (And not just talking -- he is quite the singer here.) The film itself was kind of slow and much too long, but the segments of Chaplin performing on stage were great... he could have just done that for 90 minutes! Calvero's partner was played by Buster Keaton. Keaton and Chaplin had never before appeared together in a feature film, and this was to be Chaplin's final American production. It is a fitting end to Chaplin's career, a nice farewell to the tramp, and by throwing in Buster Keaton it puts to rest the idea that the two were rivals (when, in fact, they admired each other). "},{"Title":"Time is the best author. It always writes the perfect ending.","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Even into the early 1950s, Charles Chaplin had never truly recovered from the cinematic conversion from silents to talkies, which took place in the late 1920s. As late as 1936, Chaplin continued to produce his trademark silent slapstick comedies, with great critical and commercial success. Even his much-lauded 1940 effort, 'The Great Dictator,' alternated between dialogue (mainly to satirise Adolf Hitler's manner of speech, and to deliver the Jewish barber's rousing final speech) and silent slapstick, the latter very much reminiscent of the Little Tramp. By 1947, with 'Monsieur Verdoux,' Chaplin had finally adapted to the times, but there's no doubt that he still believed the silent to be the purest form of film-making. 'Limelight' is Chaplin's almost-autobiographical reflection on a once-great artist who has fallen from grace, but who wishes to hear the passionate applause of an audience just one last time.Unlike his previous films, most of which found a delicate balance between pathos and humour, 'Limelight' pretty much disregards any major notions of slapstick comedy and focuses primarily on sentimentalism. With perhaps the exception of Frank Capra, Chaplin was the finest in Hollywood when it came to such things, and it's impossible not to feel for his Calvero, the aging comedy stage performer who is over-the-hill and struggling to adapt to changing times. Having descended into crippling bouts of alcoholism (he regularly claims that he needs to have alcohol in him to be funny on-stage), Calvero's life and career is slowly withering away, and his name &#150; despite being well-known and revered back in his day &#150; is now considered poison to organisers. The character is relatively autobiographical, offering an insight into the feelings and personalities of Chaplin, who was, just like Calvero, beginning to lose many of his once-devoted fans (in part, due to his attitudes toward World War II and America-Russia relations, which led to his being labeled a Communist sympathiser). These parallels were quite obviously intentional, with faded posters in Calvero's apartment declaring him to be the tramp comedian, and the character remarking at one point that he enjoys street performances, perhaps because of the tramp within me.When he rescues a depressed ballet dancer, Terry (Claire Bloom), from committing suicide, Calvero convinces her that life truly is worth living, inspiring himself in the process. While Terry eventually achieves great success as a dancer, Calvero determines himself to captivate the audience once more, though his comedy routines often end disastrously, and he is simply unable to capture the magic of a passed era. This time, as the aging performer sinks into bouts of heavy drinking, it is up to Terry to return the favour to the man who saved her life, and she ultimately falls in love with Calvero, despite a massive age difference (this particular scenario, once again, mirrors one of Chaplin's own relationships, his (fourth) marriage to Oona O'Neill, 37-years his junior). Calvero's final performance is before a packed-house, accompanied by an old partner (played by fellow silent comedy genius, Buster Keaton, in their first and only appearance on screen together), and the pair finally receive the enthusiastic reception that they had waited so long to experience just once more.There is something very bittersweet about Calvero's stage performances. They are so sweetly innocent that you can understand why an advancing society has shunned them in favour of more sophisticated entertainment, but they genuinely exhibit the performer's passion and enthusiasm. Most of them are played out before a completely silent audience, giving them an almost dream-like feel (indeed, several of the performances are played out as dreams), allowing us to focus entirely on the actual comedy routines, and also keeping us in suspense as to how the audience will actually react to what they are seeing. A very memorable routine has Calvero as a flea-trainer, an idea he recycled from an unfinished 1919 short, 'The Professor.' Buster Keaton's influence is really quite minimal &#150; Chaplin naturally gets most of the good gags &#150; but they work together so wonderfully that you wonder why they had never previously collaborated on any film projects. Chaplin's slow, mournful, sentimental score (also by Ray Rasch and Larry Russell) won him his only competitive Oscar, though it didn't come until 1973, one year after 'Limelight' finally made its Los Angeles debut. "},{"Title":"Indulgent, sentimental, but very uplifting","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Chaplin plays Calvero, the washed up music hall clown, who saves the life and attempts to restore the hope of a distraught ballerina, Terry, played by Claire Bloom.If ever there was a movie to give you hope and lift spirits in dark times, this is it. Calvero's monologues and scenes to help encourage Terry back on her feet(literally) are a perfect remedy for the times (like the ones we live in) when it easy to lose hope. Courage, imagination and a little dough, he tells her is all that is needed to get by.In Limelight Chaplin also gives great insight into the highs and the devastating lows an of artist's career. Calvero expresses his love\hate relationship towards the theatre, his audience and his almost spent life.Chaplin, as usual gives a suave, nimble, moving and funny performance and he allows Claire Bloom to totally blossom in the role of Terry.The films is even more special by featuring the only appearance together of Chaplin and Buster Keaton in a brief comedy routine. Their time together on screen is priceless and the routine, very funny The rest of the considerable supporting cast(including Nigel Bruce and Norman Lloyd) do their best but are bound by Chaplin's constricting direction. As is usually noticeable in a Chaplin talkie, the other actors only mechanically express what their director has instructed them to do. Even Keaton's character is only referred to as Calvero's partner and never even given a name. The brief time Keaton appears on screen Chaplin hardly acknowledges the character's precense. (One can't help feeling the cameo was a condescending piece of charity on Chaplin's part to his more humble screen rival.) Also; has any director ever granted themselves more self-glorifying and self-pitying close ups than Chaplin in this movie?But all this(and the fact that the movie runs way too long) is totally forgivable as only Chaplin could produce such a giant movie of inspiration and uplifting spirit. "},{"Title":"Charming, absorbing and just a bit overlong...","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  If CHARLES CHAPLIN can be said to be guilty of anything, it's telling a tale and not knowing when to say enough is enough. There are scenes in LIMELIGHT that go on for too long a time--and indeed the result is a movie that is 143 minutes long when it could have been told just as efficiently within 90 minutes.CLAIRE BLOOM is lovely as a ballerina contemplating suicide who has her life turned around by a caring old-time British Music Hall comic (CHARLES CHAPLIN) who tries to discourage her from falling in love when she becomes too serious about him. It's the kind of bittersweet romance that is further enhanced by some of Chaplin's finest music and a ballet sequence that is beautifully staged for maximum effect.As a young composer who first meets Bloom when he is struggling to pay for some meager music supplies, SYDNEY CHAPLIN gives a quietly effective performance as the young man in love with the ballerina. Their scenes together are played with great sensitivity and charm. NIGEL BRUCE as an understanding showman does an admirable job in what became his last screen appearance.Overall, the film is completely absorbing (except for a few sequences that are allowed to run too long) and will undoubtedly impress Chaplin's admirer's as one of his finest performances. The premise that aged talent must make way for newcomers in the theater is beautifully realized. A very satisfying film with Bloom and Chaplin both showcased brilliantly.  "},{"Title":"Chaplain's last song, offered his way without apology","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Most ordinary people fall into a role and a persona in their lives, and tend to not veer very far from it if it provides for them. Perhaps, due to extreme situations, they may find it necessary to reinvent themselves once or twice and rise to the occasion or fall into dissolution.An artist like Chaplain had to reinvent himself over and over again over four decades, particularly in a medium that was changing every few years. That's probably why he had so many failed marriages with younger woman; he had to feel like a player to keep the flow going and fight back the doubt and anxiety (and the terror of becoming irrelevant) that inevitably begins to haunt creative men in their twilight years. Don't underestimate the power of sex magic!Limelight is a film about those demons, and the immense courage (and yes, the love of a much younger woman, too, doesn't hurt), that is required to triumph over them. Still, everyone knows there is one specter that no man can outrun -- Death. Chaplain masks this existential dimension in layers of sentimental melodrama which you will have to decide for yourself is effective, but I think he does this intentionally to smuggle in some deep and darker themes that filmmakers like Bergman would become famous for continually exploring masterfully.I found myself going back and forth with Limelight; there are times when the melodrama overpowers the film, and the pedestrian cinematography doesn't help matters. A few times I felt like I was watching the old Abbot and Costello TV show, particularly the apartment scenes. However, Chaplain is such an immense presence you can't help be engaged and encouraged to keep watching because you want so much for his character Calvero to triumph. His co-star, Claire Bloom, is quite effective, too, and she has several looks in this film to contrast and mirror the ongoing struggle the old comedian in having internally.Getting on in years myself, and feeling washed up and without hope and purpose, Calvero's plight and faltering desire to once again command the Limelight was quite cathartic. I was amazed by his final performance with Keaton; when Calvero starts rocking that violin like Eddie Van Halen in his prime, I was in a state of sublime fascination. Here was a true artist giving everything up for his audience, feeling the peak thrill of having the audience at his command once again for a few fleeting moments; a thrill that, tragically, he will pay dearly for. We can only hope that we, too, can earn such an exalted death as Calvero's. Perhaps that is Chaplain's hidden message in this film; that life is, in the final analysis, about striving for a death that ennobles those you leave behind. "},{"Title":"Rides heavily on Chaplin's acting talents","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Charlie Chaplin is one of those figures that are so legendary in cinema nowadays that you're pretty much expected to know them. And also to love them. So is it wrong for me to say that I found this movie to be meandering and overly simplistic and long?I can still safely say that I liked it and I don't regret seeing it, but a lot of its running time is spent simply looking at Chaplin's clown routines on stage. Some of them are funny, most got me to smile, but none of them made me laugh. And I guess that's the problem. Humour is often heavily subjective and tied to culture, and thus to time. Some jokes and gags remain timeless, most do not.But luckily for me this is more than a comedy, though it is about comedy. It tells the story of one Calvero (Chaplin), a famous clown back in his glory days, who has now been reduced to a miserable drunk, reminiscing the days when a mere twitch of his eyebrow caused people to fall off their chairs. Enter Terry (Claire Bloom), a young dancer-to-be, who eventually, through miscellaneous happenstances, becomes something of a protégé for Calvero. It's a sweet little story, though it offers no surprises for a savvy viewer. Though that's not really the point. Its purpose is more reflective. Chaplin's own career was largely over at this point and it'd be hard not to draw comparisons, though the man himself claims it's not about him.In the end I'm in something of a bind. I like the reflective mood of the film, I like its thematics and I do like Bloom and Chaplin's chemistry together. But the overly long clown routines, the meandering dialogue scenes and the haphazard pacing mean that I can't call this a great movie. Still worth a watch though if you're into Chaplin. "},{"Title":"Poetic Chaplin","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Not Charlie Chaplin's final movie, but it feels like it should be. There is a symmetry and poetry to this movie, like Chaplin was writing his own epitaph. Life's cycle is there for all to see.The last few scenes are great, and would have been a fitting way for Chaplin to sign off his careerCertainly not your average Chaplin movie. While there are some humorous moments, this is a drama, and a very poignant one too.Good performance by Chaplin in the lead role. Maybe a bit too speech-filled and theatrical for a movie - though the fault there would be with Chaplin the writer, not Chaplin the actor. Claire Bloom is great as the female lead. Sweet, beautiful and very convincing.Good to see Buster Keaton, albeit in a minor role. Not perfect, however. As mentioned, some of Chaplin's dialogue is overly theatrical and verbose. Plus, the point of the movie is soon obvious, but Chaplin draws it out unnecessarily. This results in the movie seeming to drag in places, especially in the latter half of the movie.Chaplin at his most symbolic and poetic. "},{"Title":"Chaplin The Philosopher","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight is a philosophic dramatic tragedy as two entertainers find parallels both in their personal and professional lives. But it is also an intimate piece giving insight into Chaplin's psyche at this stage of his career as Chaplin presents Limelight in the style of an intelligent auteur.Calvero, a washed up clown becomes a figure of strength to young dancer Thereza after she attempts suicide. Through out her recovery Calvero builds up Thereza's mental strength by encouraging her to pursue her dreams as a dancer. This encouragement leads to philosophical teachings regarding the meaning of life, Life can be wonderful if you're not afraid of it states Calvero. Although it gives us food for thought in the same manner of Chaplin's previous film Mousier Verdoux, the dialogue continues to return to the subject of life in a philosophical context to the point of exaggeration.Once the over usage of philosophy is put aside Limelight gains pace as Thereza strides in her dancing career whereas Calvero's realisation of his own career hits home and silently becomes intimidated by Thereza's growing success. It could be argued that the audience are placed in Calvero's position in his intimidation of her as segments of Limelight are dedicated to Thereza's rehearsal and performance. But unlike Calvero, Chaplin does not want us to be intimidated by Thereza but mesmerised by her in order to see the beauty of her talent as she moves across the stage on cue. Calvero realises this himself and goes from intimidation to realisation, stepping out of the way of Thereza both personally and professionally in a symbolic gesture as stated in the credits, The glamour of limelight, from which age must pass as youth enters.Calvero may be a tragic figure but he is a man of wisdom who knows what is best in his situation and how he must follow his beliefs. One can conclude this is how Chaplin felt at this point in his career, vicariously bowing out with the character of Calvero as he had told his sons during production that he expected Limelight to be his swan song. So when we listen to Calvero make such statements as, That's all any of us are, amateurs. We don't live long enough to be anything else, Chaplin is vicariously announcing his beliefs to the audience going back to the opinion of Limelight being an auteur piece.Even when Limelight contrasts its fill of drama and tragedy by lightening the mood with comedy, more observant viewers could see it as Chaplin subverting comedy to reflect this period of his career. Calvero's recurring dreams of himself at his peak singing in the style of vaudeville about spring and love, being playful in his gestures are call backs to The Little Tramp. Yet they are only dreams, which is an aspect Calvero substituting for Chaplin sadly understands knowing his golden years have passed.In short Limelight is a reflective piece, Time is the best author. It always writes the perfect ending Calvero admitted. Time gone by seems to be how Chaplin saw his career in 1952 and initially signed off with the death of Calvero in the midst of Thereza performing signifying the transition of the times at Chaplin saw it. "},{"Title":"Chaplin in London","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight was released in 1952 and Charlie Chaplin was a victim of the McCarthy witch hunt of that time which kept him out of America for the next 20 years. In Limelight, Chaplin plays a former clown well past his former glory who takes solace in the bottle.He rescues Terry(Claire Bloom) from suicide and becomes her mentor, instilling confidence in the young dancer. She resumes a successful career while Calvero(Chaplin) attempts to revive his former act but encounters many struggles along the way. They fall in love but Calvero is disturbed by the age difference although Terry is not. Life is imitating art as Chaplin married Oona O'Neill, the daughter of play write, Eugene, with a huge age disparity. Limelight is a love story well told and Chaplin also composed the music. True genius is a rare thing and is on full display here. "},{"Title":"Limelight","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I do feel ashamed to acknowledge that this is the very first Chaplin's film I have ever seen (not including numerous shorts I watched during my childhood). It is also the first Buster Keaton film for me (including his numerous shorts). I know, it is a crime, I am so desperate to find great comedies from the golden age. However, Keaton is Charles' sidekick in the film, plus his screen time is rather limited, but still, my heart thumped hard when the two legends were sharing scenes together.Actually the film is not a pure comedy since the plot is about an old and has-been comedian to stand up for his last performance, the bitterness just pops out and a sincere love story between an old man and a young blooming dancer is perfectly manipulated by two leads Charles and Claire Bloom, the latter renders a performance of her lifetime, she should have been much more famous. The musical and the choreography part of the film is such a pleasure to watch and feel its power could surely establish itself as a pivotal film of Charles' career. The magnificent score is also worth mentioning, won an Oscar in 1973 despite of a 20 years delay of theatrical release in USA. I love the film so much because of its pathos conquers me, one cannot distinguish Calvero from Chaplin himself as I know the stage is the most ruthless place for a performer (especially when you are old and not popular anymore), meanwhile a true performer cannot bare the idea of leaving it, which is so-called the spirit and the dignity, I might not be able to fully understand it but I do respect it. "}{"Title":"Chaplin's last American film","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight was film great Charlie Chaplin's last American film, and it did not have a wide release in 1952. At that point, he was under suspicion of being a Communist. The film won an Oscar in 1972 because it didn't play a theater in Los Angeles when it was released.Chaplin plays a has-been clown, Calvero, who lives in a rooming house. He discovers one of the other residents, Terry, after she has attempted suicide. He learns that she's a ballerina who believes she can't walk and therefore can never dance again. Her ailment is more psychological than physical, and with his help, she starts walking and dancing once more. Since her room has been rented out, she continues to live with Calvero and, though she is much younger than he is, falls in love with him and wants to marry him. Calvero realizes her love is gratitude, and that if she'd let herself, she would realize that she is in love with a young composer (Sydney Chaplin). When a new ballet is produced, Terry plays a dying woman, and Calvero plays one of the clowns who entertains her. When Calvero mistakenly believes he's going to be replaced in the ballet, he disappears out of her life.This is a very lyrical film with a lovely performance by a young Clare Bloom and beautiful work by Chaplin. Calvero is a man whose time has passed, perhaps like Chaplin, an old clown who wants one more moment in the limelight. At age 63, the remarkable ballet-like ability of Chaplin's body is still present and can be seen during some of his clown bits. As an added treat, Calvero does an act with a partner played by Buster Keaton.Chaplin's heyday was the silent era, and the beginning of this film is silent - it was the genre where he was most comfortable, though he did some marvelous sound films. Limelight seems highly personal in its discussion of art and laughter and applause, and an older person observing someone whose life is before them and imparting what wisdom he can. It's a simple story, but Chaplin makes it something great. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing but undeniably flawed in some big aspects","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" A faded music-hall entertainer has found himself on hard times, living in a rough, one-room apartment on the wrong side of town. When he stumbles home drunk one afternoon he finds a woman attempting suicide and goes to her aid, putting her in his room till she comes to. However when the landlady jumps on this as her chance to evict the woman, Calvero finds himself stuck with looking after her. She is, he finds, a former ballerina who has lost not only the use of her legs but also the will to carry on living. While trying to cope with his faded fame, Calvero also tries to make her find a reason to carry on.I have been trying to watch some of Chaplin's later films to get a rounded feel for the man's career. My experiences have been mixed because, while of interest, it is hard not to use that Woody Allen phrase about preferring his earlier, funnier films. Limelight appealed to me because it seemed to offer a personal and perhaps honestly emotional film about two entertainers who have fallen from public favour and lost the very feelings that they loved on the stage when they were at their best. I thought that Chaplin (who once did so much without dialogue) could use his own insight to produce something particularly poignant. It has elements of this but they are mostly in the sweep of the scenarios and the characters. Where it needed to nail it is in the detail of the characters, in the moments where they come out from behind the facade and the bits about themselves that they betray without knowing it. Of course it is very difficult to do this but I was surprised by how far from the mark Chaplin feel in this regard.Instead of this what we get are speeches and over-cooked dialogue that are heavy and obvious where they needed to be subtle with the deftest of touches. It is a real shame but it does take away from the film and what is left is not strong enough to really make it stand up. I'm not saying that the film is terrible though, only that it is frustrating to see the idea not realised by the delivery. It has its moments which are funny, touching or engaging in other ways though, and many have rightly made reference to the value of the routine with Keaton and Chaplin and there is much in the material that did come out gradually that makes it better, but for me it was hard to get over the hard work that the first half represented.Chaplin is guilty of heavy delivery in his dialogue but then he also has great moments of emotion as well as impressing yet again in his role as little entertainer. Likewise Bloom has some terrible moments to deliver but yet also is good when the chance is given to her. The support cast fall in behind these two but it is nice to see Keaton, Bruce (he of Watson fame) and Purviance amongst others.Limelight has much to commend it for and it does have its moments but then it does also have terrible speeches combined with (understandably) heavy delivery that rather sucks the life out of it. Worth seeing as a Chaplin fan but also because it does have its moments but it is hard to ignore the flaws in key areas. "},{"Title":"Should have been Chaplin's swansong....","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" While The King Of New York is a decent enough movie, it is just that... a movie. Limelight is the final work to be touched by Chaplin's genius.Of course, it's never perhaps quite as good as you'd like it to be. It's just that little too long, the beauty of the poetic dialogue becomes a little too purple from time to time, and Chaplin and Bloom seem to be talking within a limited tone throughout. Most importantly, the stage performances of Chaplin - or Calvero - that bring the house down are painfully dated and unfunny.But despite never perhaps reaching its ultimate potential, it's an extremely satisfying movie. The performances owe little to Stanislavski and the sentiment is almost cloying, but seeing the past master as a washed up nobody with multiple failed marriages dying while new life waits to take over the spotlight is deeply moving. Somewhere in Limelight is a classic picture... the Limelight that got made is just merely a very good one. Perhaps most surprising is that it did such good business worldwide that, while virtually blacklisted in America for its release, it was Chaplin's most commercially successful film. "},{"Title":"Drawing on his own experiences in the English Music Hall, American Vaudeville and the Movies, Sir Charles brings us a most thoughtful, gentle and decent a Drama!","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Going from being the number one defender of the Silent Film Form to perhaps the most loquacious of Film Makers on either side of the Camera; Mr. Charles Chaplin displayed an ability to update and upgrade his own style and methodology. After bringing us the belated Silent Masterpieces of CITY LIGHTS (1931) and MODERN TIMES (1936), and doing his own re-edit job on and added musical & (of course) NARRATION by the former Little Tramp, himself, to the re-release of 1925's THE GOLD RUSH in 1942.And talk he did! Beginning with his first true talkie, THE GREAT DICATOR (1940) and continuing with his sardonic, black comedy and message film, MONSIEUR VERDOUX (1947); it became increasingly apparent that 'Chariot' was becoming more and more enamored with the sound of his own voice. Be it with increasingly wordy script and dialogue spoken by you know who; or even Producer/Writer/Director/Star Charlie's reciting poetic narration and even singing on the re-treaded GOLD RUSH, we got the message. Chaplin's vocals were World Class and on Parr with any of his Physical Comedy abilities. (At least that's what he was saying!)While maintaining the more talk kick, Mr. Chaplin made a decision to incorporate a reason to reprise the silent physical comedy that had served him so well in his next project. He also added a little more than a pinch of the autobiographical in the story. Hence, he gave the world LIMELIGHT (1952).OUR STORY&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;In a London Rooming House, the washed up, has been of a Music Hall Comedian, Calvero (Charlie Chaplin) befriends a troubled Ballerina, Terry (Claire Bloom) after saving her from a suicide attempt. The two are troubled souls, with Terry's having a mental block about her dancing and Calvero's being plagued with nightmares of his being totally inadequate in performing his Stage Act; the worst part is that he looks out into this dream world audience, finding it to be empty!The two manage to console each other, and become an item! (Why Charlie, you dirty old man!) The local Theatrical Impresario, Posdtant (Nigel Bruce) conceives of the idea of having a tribute to 'Old Man Calvero', in which so many of his Theatrical Colleagues would perform in a benefit for the Grand Old Man of the English Hall. By this point Calvero and Terry were engaged to be married; so the Ballet was included in the Play Bill. Calvero, who is re-united with his old partner, (Buster Keaton) and they bring down he House with what was about the funniest of a stage-act's recreation on film. It is both a wonderful moment and a sad occasion; in that, it is the one and only time that the two brilliant Silent Clowns appeared together on screen.The film winds up with a sort of double happy note. Calvero has his one last hurrah on the stage and Terry finds the courage to continue in her dancing career. As she dances gracefully on the stage, Calvero, who has suffered a heart attack during the finale of his presentation, watches her from the wings and dies.Sir Charles does some very fine things in the film. First of all, he makes it a point to include in the cast many of his fellow colleagues from the Silent Screen. In addition to his prominently featuring the one who had been his Peer in Mr. Buster Keaton, he went much further. He guest-starred his long time contractee, Miss Edna Purviance in a rare screen appearance; being she had sort of retired after the 1920's. He also used guys like 'Snub' Pollard (street musician), Charlie Hall (Newsboy) and Charley Rogers (man in saloon); Silent Screen funny-men, all. Whereas the direction by Chaplin is at least adequate and typical, the cinematography by one Karl Struss can be best described as functional for lacking any imaginative shots or any variation at all; strictly being a sort of Meat & Potatoes style of photography. Oh, to have had the services of Greg Toland!Chaplin did continue one of his established traditions; that being including his own musical compositions as Theme and Incidental Music on the soundtrack. Although musically untrained and unable to read a note, Sir Charles had been displaying his apparently natural gift on screen ever since 1931's CITY LIGHTS and had shown marked improvement ever since. He did a particularly good job in LIMELIGHT; which includes his most beautiful melody in Eternally as its theme.Interestingly, it was LIMELIGHT that had just gone into release when Charlie Chaplin was refused re-entry into the United States as an undesirable Alien. That must've prompted the ballsy Hollywood Moguls to keep his film out of any Los Angeles venues. That eliminated its eligibility for any Academy Awards consideration. But oddly enough, it was honored for The Best Musical Score in a Dramatic Film at the 1972 Oscars (following its general re-release that year to all precincts, including L.A.). That timing made it coincide with Mr. Chaplin's Triumphant Return to America. (Hmmm! That sure sounds suspicious!)It would be easy for one to get the impression that this writer disliked this film. Well, that just ain't true, Schultz! Although it got pretty critical on The Little Tramp in those paragraphs preceding, his work is numbered among my favourites; and that includes this semi-autobiographical, bittersweet look at life, acceptance and how fickle and fleeting are our moments in the LIMELIGHT. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic value","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" One subjective factor in movie reviews that we often cannot avoid is the state of mind the viewer is in when s/he sees the movie. I saw Limelight the first time on Valentine's Day with a girl I had never dated before and was puzzled as to why she was moved to tears at several instances during the show. Five years later and 2,000 miles away we again saw the movie, having left our 2 toddlers home with a baby-sitter. This time we both found it very emotional, and also paid a great deal more attention to the plot, the performances, etc. Now on February 14, I think of the film again, as we both still do every year, including 1962 when our 3rd child was born on that day.I suspect our mention of Limelight to others because of our peculiar circumstances has caused a number of them to see it, as when we mention Chaplin's name in the context of a serious role many people are surprised. Many apparently think of him only as a slapstick comedian, which any reader of these comments already knows is far from the truth. There should be some way of conveying this information in an intentional way to persons who have a similar mindset. Perhaps what I am saying is that if you really value this film, it behooves you to make that known to friends. We have seen many films that proved to be very meaningful to us only by recommendation of others, in many cases movies that we would never have seen on our own volition, because of a misleading title, or the inclusion of actors who were known more for their popularity in a genre we did not care for. The reason we saw Limelight the first time - remember we are talking about 1953 - was that we wanted to go to the movies and this was what was being shown Thank God it wasn't Dracula or King Kong. Nowadays people not only have multiple choices at the theaters, they have DVDs and VHS tapes galore. "},{"Title":"The Tramp in retrospect","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I don't know if this was Chaplin's greatest film, but I found it to be his most unique.More than any other Chaplin movie, Limelight integrates Chaplin's own astonishing physical expressiveness and sensitivity with the qualities of sound, dance, and movement. Indeed, this film is dominated by these - the hauntingly beautiful recurring musical motif, the melancholy sweetness of the street musicians, the plaintiveness of the violin and piano, the grace of the ballerinas, and the agreeable contention of Chaplin's and co-star Claire Bloom's warmly mellifluous voices. There is not a discordant voice among any of these.With regard to the performances, there is certainly a lot to talk about - Claire Bloom's great characterization, Sydney Chaplin's performance as the young composer, Buster Keaton's only skit with Chaplin, and Nigel Bruce's benevolent impresario. The simple but elegant direction, evocative set pieces, choreography, and general period/theater detail are all memorable.But, ultimately, one returns to Chaplin himself and his vision of a lifetime. We see the Tramp through recapitulation and re-examination for the human being that he is and always has been.Some might call this self-indulgence, but I call it greatness. 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"Slow, beautiful film.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Charles Chaplin's final American film, Limelight has often been blamed for being talkative and self-indulgent. While this may be true to some extent, these features are essential to a film that is supposed to be both openly autobiographical and philosophical, about Chaplin himself and to be his cinematic testament, if you like. Therefore I wouldn't use these features in a negative sense.The film proceeds rather slowly and melodramatically, the structure of the story is not as refined as in Chaplin's earlier films, and his direction is not as fluid as before, but neither is it as static as in his last two films. Despite all this, Limelight is highly effective emotionally.Among the most impressive points are an engaging performance by Bloom, a comic performance with Buster Keaton at the end and a beautiful music score which deservedly won an oscar when the film was reissued in 1972.Despite its minor flaws, Limelight is a beautiful, sad story with a vivid atmosphere. It is difficult to put into words, but this is one of the most emotionally engaging and touching films I have ever seen. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Drama/Com","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was the first time I experienced a Chaplin film that I could actually hear his voice.  It was also hard to recognize him, because most of the movie he is not in his tramp outfit.  I soon felt comfortable with the new style and really enjoyed the movie.It was definitely more of a drama than a comedy.  There were a few good comedy scenes towards the end.It was a wonderful story, the relationship between the main characters Calvero (Chaplin) and Terry (Claire Bloom) was very strong and brought out the best in both of them. "},{"Title":"Yet another Chaplin masterpiece","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  In Chaplin's final U.S. made film, he simply out-did himself again in creating a true comedy gem. The scene that he shares with another legend of the silent film era, Buster Keaton, is truly amazing and is one of the best comedy sketches that I have ever seen. Chaplin's endless energy and spark come to life in this film and it is these elements which really push the film from a great film into something of a higher level.The story of Chaplin as an ageing Vaudvillian star is almost autobiographical. His character, Calvero, saves a young ballerina from suicide, raises her back into shape and motivates her enough to get her performing again. Along the way, she falls in love with him although he will have no part of it. Eventually they go their separate ways only to be reunited before a benefit show is held in his name. All events after I won't reveal but have to say are cinematic gold.The first hour of the film is overlong and could have probably been shortened to about an hour, however, there are really no other downfalls during the remainder of the story. The story itself is delightful, acting is superb and Chaplin plays his character as lively as he ever did in any of his silent films. Claire Bloom must be mentioned for her tremendous performance as the aspiring ballerina that falls for Calvero even though a younger and more handsome man is courting her (Chaplin's real life son Sydney). The sombre ending adds the perfect finishing touch to the film as he so often does in his other classics.I would recommend this film to anyone who would like to see the greatness of Chaplin and for anyone who would like to see two of the greatest screen legends on the screen at the same time for the only time ever.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Chaplin goes existential","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is an atypical Chaplin movie. Though it has some of the touches from his earlier movies, overall it is quite unlike them. Though Chaplin still play a clown who is a tramp at heart.In the movie he seems to be playing himself as he is a clown who is nearly retired. Nobody laughs at him anymore. He has become old and lost his comedic touch. Then we meet the typical Chaplin heroine, a damsel in distress who is in love with another man. While the girl wants to end her life, the wise tramp is there to amuse her and give her lessons on life itself.The final act is the return of clown to limelight which is designed to appeal to nostalgia so that more people will come to see his show. Though he has lost confidence in himself, the clown astounds everybody with his performance, and audience is in fits of laughter. I think how you like this movie will depend on whether it can evoke the same nostalgia for Chaplin in you. I loved this movie, it is much more realistic as compared to his earlier films and proves that he was a versatile director and performer. Just don't go expecting a comedy film full of laughs. "}{"Title":"Age Must Make Way For Youth As The Limelight Passes","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Many admirers of the arts like to point to a work that defines an artist's career or summarizes it in a way which contains many of the artist's common characteristics, themes, and motifs with a smattering of autobiographical elements. Critics would include Shakespeare's The Tempest, Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby, and Bergman's Fanny & Alexander in this classification. For Charles Spencer Chaplin, Limelight would have to be the film recapitulating Chaplin's career. Following Monsieur Verdoux, Limelight was the second of three controversial, semi-autobiographical films Chaplin made in the post war era.Chaplin plays an aging music hall performer, Calvero, who has seen better days. Calvero comes across a young ballerina, Terry, who is just trying to make her mark at the beginning of her career. Terry has attempted suicide. Calvero steps in and saves the young girl from an ill-fated decision and proceeds to govern her recovery as a father figure, cheerleader, life coach, and a growing close friend. In so doing, Calvero regains the necessary confidence and optimism necessary to whether his own decline as he seeks one last opportunity to shine in the limelight in front of his public.Chaplin once again produced, directed, wrote, and starred in the film. He also choreographed the ballet sequences and composed the music for Limelight, winning the Oscar for best original dramatic film composition some twenty years after the film's initial release due to its failure to screen in the Los Angeles area upon its original release. United States immigration authorities refused Chaplin and his family re-entry back on U.S. soil on September 19, 1952. Chaplin fell victim to the H.U.A.C. hearings which were becoming increasingly common at the time. He had already become a publicly loathed figure for his three failed marriages to teen-aged girls and now a fourth to Oona O'Neill, an 18 year old. Overzealous redbaiters nationwide were successful at engineering Chaplin's unsuccessful return. As a result, Chaplin returned to England and released Limelight over a month later to much acclaim. He never returned to the United States, save for one brief appearance to receive a special Oscar at the 1971 Academy Awards. Chaplin eventually settled in Switzerland, and he would never make another film in the United States again. This despicable act in American History gives Limelight even more resonance in retrospect.Chaplin is very good as the multifaceted Calvero, a character who contains more than just a nod to the real Chaplain throughout the film. Claire Bloom, in only her third film, is radiant as the young Terry who gives Calvero misplaced devotion, triggering his resurgence. Nigel Bruce, in one of his last few films, is good as the impresario who hires Calvero. Oona Chaplin appears in a couple long shots as a double for Claire Bloom. Five of Chaplin's children appear in the film, and three are the street children at the beginning, with a young Geraldine Chaplin as the girl who speaks to Calvero upon his return to the rooming-house. His older sons Charles plays a clown, and Sydney plays Neville, the gentleman love interest for Terry.The film's many highlights include the brief appearances of Buster Keaton, Edna Purviance (Chaplin's early film muse), and a few other lesser silent film actors as street musicians Snub Pollard and Loyal Underwood, making his last film appearance. The film's music underscores the triumphant nature of the human spirit both in Chaplin's personal life and in the character of Calvero in the film. The metaphorical inferences between Calvero and Chaplin are not lost to a modern audience either. Chaplin responded to the world utilizing the best way he knew, through film. Some viewers may find some scenes overly sentimental or even preachy at times; however, the film stands the test of time after 56 years since its release. It's a grand film, and it's one of the few that tight-ropes successfully between good old-fashioned entertainment and artistic expression. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful. Charlie is a Genius.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I found Charlie a little over a year ago in my senior year of high school and since I saw my first clip of The Immigrant I have been absolutely fascinated with him. In a Charlie binge, I also saw The Kid, The Great Dictator, The Gold Rush, Modern Times, and 2 documentaries on him. Little did I know what greatness Limelight had to offer.You would really have to see at least 1 of his previous films in order to really grasp how valuable this one is. His charm and wit in other films with his Little Tramp get up is enough to put me in awe - most people can't imagine the suave and sophisticated Charlie beyond the Little Tramp. Now I'm no movie buff or anything, but I felt that Limelight really showed the Charlie underneath... that intelligent charming man with years of insight and experience through ups and downs. I didn't figure out until the middle of the movie that his SON Sydney was in it and not his brother, after looking around and not seeing his brother anywhere. This is a film that will stand the tests of time with its message. Wonderful acting and chemistry. Funny, romantic, and truthful with the harsh ironies of life. This might just be my most favorite movie of all time, definitely my favorite of his. "},{"Title":"a dance film or a lament of the British music hall?","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A lot of criticism has been written about Limelight and it seems to be a love/hate thing.  As it stands, it has its fun, it has its pathos, it is a ballet film and a love story, it has despair and futility and a tragic ending, a comic landlady and a clown.  And it is brilliant.  Chaplin and Claire Bloom are almost perfect as Calvero and Theresa, playing out the roles fate has cast them in to the bitter end.  The music by Chaplin is superb and the general atmosphere spot on for old London.  One to watch again and again and generally savour. "},{"Title":"Chaplin is an extraordinary true artist","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Sometimes it's your time to shine on the stage and sometimes it's not. I would say that this film is about Chaplin's career itself, if not totally. He had done it so emotional and affecting, because as a comedian he relates in this story that he had created here. Limelight showed us that Chaplin has a deeper meaning in life and in his personality. It's not just always about fun, we need love, we need life, that's what he's trying to say. He has all the perfect lines and in his final performance, his encore to the show together with his fellow comic actor and director, Buster Keaton (the only time the two great comedians shared the screen) he showed us that even at his age, he can still pull some tricks back in his days (when his foot is getting short and he tries to pull it several times) and make us laugh all over again. One of the saddest ending in his career, while Terry is dancing her best in the stage, he is covered by a white blanket and lifeless (one of the best shots in the film.) It's really hard to see him die for the first time, the only Chaplin movie that ever made me cry. This is a proof that Chaplin is a true artist, true artist. "},{"Title":"Chaplin's forgotten masterpiece","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Charlie Chaplin is undeniably one of the greatest and most influential directors of all time. And Limelight is probably his most personal and underrated film. While most of Chaplin's films or a satire of the current political state, (modern times is of course about the Great Depression, and the great dictator is obviously about the Nazi party and WWII). But Limelight is a satire about the entertainment industry and more importantly Chaplin himself. Though Limelight is one of his lesser known films, its influence can definitely be seen in films like, Birdman, and Hail Cesar, and Limelight also perfectly represents what the film industry was going through at time, (similarly to all about eve, and sunset blvd) Hollywood was moving from the old to the new, and the old was being forgotten. Limelight is about a washed-up former alcoholic clown, who rescues a young dancer from attempting suicide, after the incident is over, Calvero (the name of Chaplin's character, the clown) looks after until she is well again. The presence of the young dancer, reinvigorates Calvero, and he tries to restart his career under a fake name, while the dancer climbs to the top. Limelight is very clearly art imitating life. It had been five years since Chaplin made his last film, Monsieur Verdoux, and that film was received poorly in America, (though it did better in Europe), and Chaplin was beginning to be forgotten. He was a relic of the past, of the silent film era. He was turning into another Buster Keaton, who actually makes a short cameo in the film. And limelight perfectly represents his fears and anxieties. Limelight was a massive success at the time grossing over 5 times as much as Monsieur Verdoux, but it slowly faded from the public eye, and is typically forgotten when talking about Charlie Chaplin's greatest films, which is a shame. 8.7/10 "},{"Title":"Moving film about kindness, loneliness and hope","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Chaplin plays Calvero, a retired clown. Well, a clown who is no longer desired by the public. He saves a young ballerina from suicide and nurses her back to health. Shouldn't this old, obsolete entertainer be bitter and selfish? For whatever reason, he is kind and caring even though the world has thrown him away. Perhaps he is inspired by her beauty or innocence or moved by her hopelessness. He encourages her at every step. He listens to her detailed life story, asking then what happened a number of times. He is full of passionate, beautiful sayings about life. That desire is more important than meaning for example.The tone of Limelight is quite sad and contemplative. I felt very comfortable with it. We seem to often suppress sadness rather than try to understand it. But there are also funny moments and the movie never feels too dark or desperate. The music is very nice and I started to get used to it by the end. I think the script is also really good with so many interesting, meaningful lines.Calvero is so isolated and so selfless. I was moved to tears more than once. Chaplin is such a great entertainer, able to effortlessly make you laugh. So to see him performing in his mind to empty audiences, or having people casually walk out of a real performance is hard to take. You don't expect to see one of your heroes lose hope and cry because he is no longer wanted or can't be funny anymore. It makes me feel better to realise that even film legends might feel worthless from time to time and furthermore have the guts to share that fact.Claire Bloom has such lovely eyes. She seems so innocent and yet her character has already has lost the lust for life. Later, she falls in love with Calvero but maybe partially because she subconsciously feels she owes him or should pay him back. She depends on him as her inspiration. But he wants her to go out and flourish and marry the nice young composer she met. It's similar to Monsieur Verdoux where there was also a young woman that liked Chaplin but who he tried to avoid so he wouldn't drag her down.It was incredible seeing Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin in a film together. Buster only appears in the last 15 minutes or so but it's very enjoyable. He is as understated as ever, barely raising an eyebrow to the things that happen. And yet, you can tell he is constantly thinking, feeling, reacting. It's just very subtle.Few films have affected me the way Limelight did. The themes resonated with me very strongly. We're free to laugh or cry wherever we like, depending on how we look at what's happening. It's quite amazing that a silent film comedian went on to make such a great dramatic movie later on. There are numerous references to his old tramp character but the articulate, impassioned and kind older man is new. "},{"Title":"The Best artist of all time...","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Before seeing Limelight, I thought Chaplin's three masterpieces are 'The Gold Rush', 'City Lights', and 'Modern Times'. The Great Dictator makes me crying, in the last scene as well as 'The Kid'. Today, when I see Limelight, I was disturbed, I was ill-treated, I was very much disturbed. But after the film, I couldn't help but saying a word - The Greatest artist of all time. As a director, he is a master of misen-en-scene, in the beautiful scenes, interiors of Gold Rush, Modern Times - but Limelight, I can't think he couldn't make a film like this. As a director of Modern age, it is as tough to make a film like silent ages, and as a king of silent age, it was also very tough to make a film like Limelight. He was a king in music, and so was his theme. And one can feel what a true artist should be. Remember the very last scene, The king was dying, and then camera was slightly tracking back, then the close shot of his beloved...she was still dancing, seeing her king of heart dying...yet, as a artist her 1st preference was her art..Brilliant..not a clown..but the greatest Artist..Yes remembering all field..THE GREATEST ARTIST OF ALL TIME. "},{"Title":"The Chaplin six pack","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is a brief review of Charlie Chaplin's last six feature films.A comical take on Lang's Metropolis (1927), Chaplin's Modern Times opens with the words a story of industry and individual enterprise, humanity crusading in the pursuit of happiness!, an ironic jab at the mantras of industrial capitalism. The film then finds Chaplin reprising his iconic role as the tamp, a poverty-stricken but lovable outcast whose ill-fitting clothes epitomise, amongst other things, his inability to fit in.The film watches as the tramp struggles to survive in a depressed economy. Like Metropolis, it satirises labour, management and dehumanising working conditions. Elsewhere life for the worker is seen to be precarious, alternatives to playing the game are but death or prison, giant clocks speak to the daily grid of blue-collar workers, bosses are shown to be obsessed with speed and production, the property class relies on police brutality and all-encompassing surveillance, and the workplace itself is painted as an absurdest torture chamber. The film ends with the tramp on a road, America's future uncertain.Modern Times made waves when it was released. It was banned in fascist Germany and Italy, then allies of the West, and scorned by those in power in the United States. It was also heavily praised in the Soviet Union and France, particularly by philosophers Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir and Maurice Merlau-Pony. The film's middle section, which featured Chaplin waving a red flag and unwittingly leading communists and worker unions, would get Chaplin on several government watch-lists.Chaplin followed Times with The Great Dictator. Hollywood studios wanted the film scuttled, so Chaplin financed it himself. It contains two criss-crossing plots, one about a Jewish barber who is essentially persecuted by Nazis, the other about a brutal dictator, a stand in for Adolf Hitler. Funny, scary and sad, the film would rock the US establishment. Hitler was, at the time, a US ally and good for business. What's more, he was viewed by those in power as a tool to destroy communist Russia. For many, Chaplin was a subverisive who was inciting war with an ally. Deemed particularly offencive was a last act speech in which Chaplin urges the people of the world to love one another, throw away international barriers and foster an international brotherhood. Though deliberately vague, this speech was viewed as inflammatory. Was Chaplin extolling the virtues of the United States or the Soviet Union? Regardless, the US' approach to the conflicts in Europe promptly shifted. It became an ally with Russia, Hitler became the enemy and Germany attacked Russia. In the blink of an eye, Dictator went from being sacrilege to prophetic.Chaplin, British, was born into extreme poverty and often found himself sleeping on the streets of London. As such, he identified with his tramp character completely, as did millions word-wide, who saw themselves in the tramp desolate, poor and forever bumbling down life's highways. Prior to shooting Times, Chaplin would embark on a tour of the world, intent on seeing the effects of poverty. He'd talk to many prominent figures, most notably Churchill, George Bernard Shaw, Einstein and Gandhi.As Chaplin grew in consciousness, so would FBI files on Chaplin. He was put under government surveillance and forced to appear before a Senate subcommittee in 1941 where he was accused of being anti American and an unofficial communist. Many newspapers, including the Times, began a campaign attacking Chaplin, and called for his deportation. In the mid 1940s he was charged with the Mann Act and the FBI would collude with newspapers to smear Chaplin as a sex maniac who perverted American culture. From here on, conservative political pressure groups would attack each new Chaplin release. Some of his films would be boycotted or outright banned. In 1947 he'd be brought before the HUAC committee.Chaplin followed Dictator up with Monsieur Verdoux. A black comedy, the idea for which came from Orson Welles, the films stars Chaplin as a bank clerk who loses his job and so murders women for cash and land. The film's point is explicit if war is an extension of diplomacy, then murder is the logical extension of business. And so banking terminology is used to rationalise murder, weapons manufactures are idolised and the poor are condemned for trying to play by the rules of the wealthy. Numbers sanctify! Chaplain says, pointing to Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the ruthlessness of post-war capitalism; kill millions and you're a hero.Next came Limelight, Chaplin's ode to silent film. Elegiac and autobiographical, the film stars Chaplin and the legendary Buster Keaton as two fading comedians. A meditation on time's passing, the film's also relentlessly optimistic; man must assert his will, his desires, no matter how glum the times! The film would be banned from several US theatres. Chaplin himself was swiftly banned from entering the US and several of his assets were seized. He'd live in Switzerland henceforth.A King In New York followed. It finds Chaplin playing an usurped dictator who seeks refuge in America. Also autobiographical, the film pokes fun at various aspects of US culture, its irrational hatred of all things left-wing and the way in which humans are both always branding and refuse to look beyond the political, beyond superficial branding, to tolerate even the slightest bit of difference or dissent. Chaplin's son would play a hilarious anarcho-communist, but the film as whole messily mixed silent gags with sound comedy.Chaplin's A Countess from Hong Kong confirms that Chaplin's films were moving from the lower to the upper echelons of society. Here Sophia Loren plays a Russian tramp who is taken in by a wealthy politician (Marlon Brando). His worst feature, the film watches as humane capitalism benevolently absorbs the detritus of Russia and Asia. Chaplin accepted an honorary Oscar in 1972. He received the longest standing ovation in Oscar history.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific movie with a bittersweet historical context . . .","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" . . . as the American Legion watched some old footage of Hitler's pep rallies, and launched a nationwide boycott of LIMELIGHT. Apparently these legionnaires were not bright enough to realize that Charles Chaplin was SPOOFING Hitler when he made his GREAT DICTATOR flick, and they believed Chaplin WAS Hitler! If it wasn't for the war profiteer types (mostly the father\grandpa of two later U.S. presidents--who said crime doesn't pay?) who made a bundle selling Hitler the diesel fuel additive necessary for the Blitzkrieg to work, there would have been millions fewer legionnaires around in the 1950s, as WWII most likely would not have occurred, and the six million Jews gassed would have thrived to the point of quadrupling today's population level for their group. Charles Chaplin was a lonely voice in a wilderness of war profiteers gunning for battle when he spoofed Hitler before the war. The brave young boys--America's best and brightest--got slaughtered off during the subsequent conflict, and the worst and the dullest who survived became easily manipulated legionnaires goaded by the goons Ike christened the Military\Industrial Complex into persecuting the man who could have saved their comrades with his timely warning. But what else could you expect, from the sort of righteous folks who did in Jesus, too! "},{"Title":"Quite Profound for a clown","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" After almost half a century in the USA for whom among other things he sold war bonds in two World Wars, Charlie Chaplin got his walking papers from our government. And maybe the unkindest cut of all was that he got them as Limelight was premiering. Chaplin had retired his little tramp character after Modern Times and he conceded that sound was here to stay. But the tramp kind of made a comeback in this film. As for Chaplin this film is about the old age of a performer who knows nothing else and a last touch of romance in his senior years.Making her debut in Limelight is Claire Bloom and she plays a fragile young thing with hopes of being a prima ballerina who tries to take her own life with gas. Charlie who also rents a room in the same boardinghouse saves her and the two begin a relationship of sorts. He's a once famous comedian who has seen his best days as public tastes change and takes solace in alcohol as the fuel to keep him going. But she provides him a reason to live other than to drown his sorrows and Chaplin provides Bloom with hope and tenderness.Charlie who took a great deal of this story from A Star Is Born works some real wonders here. One thing about Chaplin films, they were his personal projects even more than Orson Welles. He wrote, produced, directed, did the music and starred in Limelight and unlike Welles never had to worry about who would release his films, he was a founding partner of United Artists. I was going to make a crack that he didn't do the choreography and then read as the film concluded he did have a hand in it. Was there no limit to this man's talents?Limelight is most famous for Charlie doing a once in a life time duo act with his silent comic rival Buster Keaton. The two do a very funny routine with a violin and piano. Chaplin worked on his projects only, Keaton however was starting to come back if not as a headliner, as a reliable character player in a lot of films that were way beneath what he had been before.The performance pieces were nice, but the real key to Limelight is Chaplin expressing his opinions on love and life and how precious both are. The only time I heard it expressed as well is by Burt Lancaster in Birdman Of Alcatraz. It's all quite profound for a clown. "}{"Title":"new stage for both the character and for Charlie Chaplin","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Throughout most of his early career, Charlie Chaplin reveled in wacky physical humor. As the years went by, his movies started to take on a more serious tone, as he looked at the plight of the working man in a cruel world. By the time that he got to The Great Dictator, he was openly lampooning tyranny while still showing a lot of funny stuff.But then Limelight went to the next step. It contains very little in the way of outright humor. Most of the funny stuff in this movie appears in the scenes where the characters are performing on stage. Mostly the movie is a serious look at how Chaplin's washed-up clown is trying to help a suicidal woman (Claire Bloom) make a career for herself.The obvious tone of the movie is that the old is making way for the new. Indeed, it's the first movie in which the man once known as the Tramp looks truly elderly. But what happened in real life reflected it the US government wouldn't let Chaplin reenter the country, and most of the country never even saw the movie for twenty years. Things will not be the same for the fictional clown or for the real one.The result is a very good movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The Limelight is an American movie of the production in 1952.This movie direction is Charles Chaplin and he had put out the real face for the first time by feature film. Main characters are middle aged man(Calvero)and young woman(Terry). Terry is a ballet dancer, but she attempted suicide. Because she knew that her old sister became prostitute for her lesson charges. One day,Calvero helped her and he is taking care of her life. His job is clown, and he used to call best clown in Britain. Then she begun to dance again,and she became wonderful dancer.Meanwhile,he is falling down his job, so she encouraged for him.She is loving him while they live together.However he compares of age deference,he talks foolish about marriage. Suddenly he left her and they go themselves respective way. After few years later,they come across and she hopes that he stands on the stage once again.He decided to stand on it...This movie is one of the favorite movies.It is old movie, but I'm very interesting in it. There are various feelings. For instance, the story is sad and funny.The sound track is classics, so you can feel elegant. The ending is predictable. I recommend 'Limelight'. "},{"Title":"Listen to the dialog","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is about Chaplin's personal thoughts on his life, his career and his loves. The dialog is what Chaplin really thought (for me anyway). For a silent movie star he has grasped the power of the spoken word very well. It is as if I were having a personal chat with him. Buster Keaton and Chaplin together for the only time is worth seeing, what a treat! Nice to see an actor hold the screen for long monologues rather than relying on quick cuts to make up for bad acting most common with later movies.He is the greatest film maker of all time. Producer, writer, director, actor and composer par-excellent! "},{"Title":"Without giving the game away... an amazing penultimate scene","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Have seen this movie several times and have always loved it.  The main film is pretty good, but what really steals the whole thing is the penultimate scene.Charlie Chaplin on stage for probably ten minutes being, well, Charlie Chaplin.  A magnificent performance of vaudeville slapstick that almost overshadows the whole film.  Has me laughing out loud every time I see it! "},{"Title":"would you laugh ??","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  a very moving film, describing the bitterness of a comic that no longer makes laugh, though he's able to make come back to life a young ballet dancer. I'd just like to say a few words about a scene that especially struck me, the famous duet with Buster Keaton at the end. Actually, the previous Calvero's solo performance had provoked a forced and non-authentic laugh from the audience in the theater, whereas, during the duet with Keaton, Chaplin the director had the idea to cut the sound of the audience off. so nobody is heard laughing and the one who watches the film has to decide himself whether he can laugh or not. And If he chooses to laugh, he'll laugh by himself, nobody will laugh with him. He'll have to assume this fact.  "},{"Title":"Chaplin is very reverential - to himself","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that, after reading the other comments, I feel like I'm the killjoy at the parade. Truly the best parts are where Chaplin just shuts up and does his silent routines. During the spoken segments, I was always aware that he was aware that he was creating a semi-biography. 'Here, I am making a film about me as a great actor.'On the other hand, Claire Bloom is always authentic and beautiful. "},{"Title":"This movie felt so true.","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I just saw Limelight for the first time, and all the emotions and dialogue seemed so heartfelt and sincere. Watching Mr. Chaplin struggle with the changes and personal problems in the life of a performer was painful. Knowing that the name of a great talent could be considered poison by theatre managers due only to the fact that this same talented actor had aged, seemed not only ignorant and crass, but thoroughly ungrateful. Funny doesn't get old.There was love and hope too. I thought the relationship between Mr. Chaplin and Miss Bloom was sensitively portrayed and I felt touched by it. It was easy to believe that she loved him because, through him, she learned how to love life and overcome her fear. And he did it with such great kindness.Mr. Chaplin gave us a movie that gives the distinct impression that it came straight from his own heart. "},{"Title":"I Wanna Live with Calvero","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I've seen a lot of Chaplin movies...early ones from before he had fully created the little tramp character...his two great silent pictures...and The Great Dictator, of course. Never had I seen Limelight. Like a lot of user reviewers, I had no idea what to expect.What sets this movie apart from others is its humanity. The conflict isn't between the characters; on the contrary, the two main characters love and cherish one another. Even the managers and producers, who might be a little harsh, have fondness for Calvero and Terry. Most of what is done in this movie is outright altruism A man takes in an invalid he thinks is a prostitute; a woman gives extra music sheets and change to a composer who is down on his luck; the same woman proposes and pursues marriage to a man forty years her senior; a successful composer goes off to war...The conflict is between the two main characters and their own doubts and self esteem. Alternately boosting each other at low periods of their lives, they are perfect for each other and doomed at the same time.Chaplin's dialog is wonderful and quotable. Bloom's dancing (if it is her doing the dancing) is magnificent. The music, composed partly by Chaplin, is sad and happy at the same time.I don't often give a ten to a movie...but this one is a must see...Now, back to the b-movie garbage I normally enjoy... "},{"Title":"Perhaps Chaplin's most personal film, but it is also his most reflective and one of his most touching","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I have very little to fault Limelight. Is it Charlie Chaplin's best movie? Probably not, but it is very beautiful as a film. While The Kid gets my vote as Chaplin's most touching film, Limelight is every bit its equal in poignancy.Limelight is exquisitely filmed, with the cinematography especially truly beautiful. The music is also gorgeous, the dialogue is beautifully written and the story is wonderful and is one of the main reasons why the film is as touching as it is. The acting is great, Claire Bloom I agree occasionally overdoes it but she is mostly very solid as the young dancer, while Chaplin handles the physical comedy faultlessly and manages the subtleties just as effectively. Nigel Bruce is terrific, and Buster Keaton is great in his small role. Seeing as five of his children featured here, Limelight is seemingly very personal for Chaplin and he puts a lot into this film and it shows.Overall, beautiful and reflective. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The master of Art","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" this was the finest piece of cinema ever made or you can say the finest work ever happened in Hollywood.This movie was actually the mirror showing Chaplin' face. The calvero's character was actually The Little Tramp going through the downfall in his professional life.I was completely shocked to see Charlie in this movie, He was just outstanding.He didn't get a chance to make movies in Hollywood after 1952 if he would then definitely he could have become the greatest phenomenon in talkies too.It was our bad luck that this men was exiled from America.My favorite quote from this movie is I hate the sight of blood but its in my veins.This single quote shows his endless love for cinema as well as his hatred from being out of the spotlight.Hats off to the greatest artist this universe ever have. "}{"Title":"Magnificent, poignant!!","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight (1952) 137 min., B&W, (a talky) is Chaplin's last American film and his last great one. As with many of his other films, Chaplin wrote the screenplay, the music; he sings and plays, as well as directing and starring in it.The narrative has many obvious (and less obvious) autobiographical parallels with Chaplin's life and heritage Chaplin/Calvero (stage name) is a British music hall comedian, at one time the most famous and widely loved throughout the land. But Calvero's now much older and British entertainment tastes have changed; he's often unemployed because now audiences consider his routines boring.Calvero often gets drunk to wipe out his taste of defeat, the loss of being in the limelight. Staggering home to his rooms one night (children watching him try to get his key in his apartment house door are Chaplin's own), he smells gas and breaks open the door where it's coming from.Inside he finds a young woman Claire Bloom/Theresa-Terry who is depressed and trying to commit suicide; she was a ballet dancer but lost the feeling in her legs and can no longer dance. Calvero takes Terry to his small apartment and gets a physician to treat her.Terry's at the beginning of her career, while Calvero's near the end of his. On the physician's advice, Calvero decides her leg problems are psychological rather than physical so he resolves to help her overcome her depression and her wish to die. He eventually succeeds and Terry's career blooms (FYI, Claire Bloom's ballet scenes are by a ballet dancer double; Chaplin's singing & playing are his alone). They each give hope and meaning to the other's life.Terry becomes famous and in a position to help Calvero whom she loves and wants to marry. Calvero loves Terry but, concerned at their age disparity, he thinks she should marry someone closer to her own age.The whole movie has very poignant scenes (the ending especially) interlaced with humor. Throughout, there are sprinkles of Chaplin's unique physical comedy which depends on his mix of remarkable athleticism, coordination, and facial expressions. Some are introduced as dreams he has of his acts in earlier, more successful days; a really great extended series, near the film's end, is with Buster Keaton.(FWIW, the young composer/Army officer that Calvero thinks is more suitable than he for Terry to marry is played by Sidney Chaplin, Charlie's son from one of his previous marriages.) I recently saw this at a KU Alum film series and there was sustained applause and very few dry eyes at the end. "},{"Title":"Sentimental & Special","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" LIMELIGHT is a special film - definitely the best of Chaplin's talkies (and even though there is sound and talk in The Great Dictator - i do not consider it a true talkie). Chaplin truly tried and write what it was like to be older (in his sixties) and to feel like he had lost that spark of creative genius.It is a simple story - some of the morality is dated of course - a girl in his room! Shock! But even for it's time and to be seen today - it packs an emotional punch - a sweet tender film about kindness, ego, loss of fame and riches and love. It is beautifully shot and the performances are tender and wonderful. When there are flashes s of the old Chaplin in the Music Hall scenes of Calvero performing - it is like running into an old dear friend. "},{"Title":"Chaplin Vs Keaton","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Considered to be Chaplin's last film, Limelight is not only the story of an aging showman, it is a fitting end to Chaplin's story as well. We see the great showman perform on stage with a routine that he has done for several years. A circus in his eyes, when the audience sees that he is performing for an empty auditorium, we begin to understand, this is his limelight and his final curtain call. By 1952, Charlie Chaplin had lost most of his audience to natural causes. His day had run out (to many) once The Jazz Singer had its opening night premiere. With the coming of 'talkies' Chaplin had to re-define himself time and time again without selling out. Chaplin and Keaton finally get to share the stage together after half a century of competing with one another. Limelight is justice to the end of his brilliant career. Like in reality, Chaplin's character dies after giving his final performance. A true and noble way for an actor to end his career.  "},{"Title":"A movie that splits the audience","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  All I can say is this one is absolutely charming. And no... I don't think it's too long... it's perfect to me.And no wonder a lot of people don't like it... it is certainly nothing for those with no brains... if you are interested in philosophy you are going to love it... otherwise you will hate everything apart from the few funny scenes... "},{"Title":"A Bitter Sweet Nostalgia","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Charlie Chaplin commemorated his past success in this film by portraying an aging clown who is no longer marketable. The silent comic of the teens could no longer make his comedy relevant to the 1950's. Like DeMille, Chaplin was somewhat Victorian and old fashioned in his style, and having been born eight years after DeMille (1889) it's not surprising that he picked up a few things from the 19th century. Claire Bloom appears in her second film by playing a dancer who is paralysed after committing suicide and being discovered by Chaplin. It mirrors his own fears of wanting to commit suicide as an aging artiste, and he plays this scenario out in Claire Bloom's character. The past is also brought into the present with the appearance of Buster Keaton with Chaplin in the dressing room. The two kings of silent comedy appear together for the first and only time on film. Nigel Bruce also makes his final appearance before he kicks the bucket the next year, and the sub-plot is carried off by Chaplin's own son, Sidney. "},{"Title":"A bittersweet and beautiful film","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Limelight is a revelation it shows that Chaplin's acting skills were not limited to silent films.  Calvero's soliloquies are deep and moving, and Chaplin creates a surprisingly complex character out of this stock sad clown.       Calvero tries constantly to convince himself that life is worth living and that his time in the limelight is far from over.  But his melancholy dreams reveal the truth, night after night; he is  driftwood.  It is tempting to label him a hypocrite; his speeches to Terry openly contradict the way he lives his life.  However, the tragedy of Calvero is that he is not really a hypocrite; he wishes that his life-affirming speeches were true.Chaplin is amazing in this film.  Calvero is a wonderful, realistic character; he is often melodramatic because he is accustomed to performing, but he never borders on being unbelievable or unsympathetic.  Chaplin's portrayal manages to transcend lines that would normally seem maudlin (such as the famous I guess it's the tramp in me), and makes them genuinely  moving. "},{"Title":"LIMELIGHT is another Chaplin masterpiece!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  For people who think that Chaplin's career ended with the coming of sound, LIMELIGHT is the film that disputes that theory. Not only is it one of Chaplin's best talkies, but probably one of his greatest films ever! The supporting cast is great (Claire Bloom, Buster Keaton, Nigel Bruce), plus a lot of the Chaplins in cameos, including children Michael, Josephine, Geraldine, Sydney, and Charles Jr. LIMELIGHT is another Chaplin masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Too much talking!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" After reaching a peak among his sound films with MONSIEUR VERDOUX, Chaplin was to wait five years before releasing his last half-way decent feature film, LIMELIGHT. They were increasingly difficult years for Chaplin, as he and the U.S. government grew increasingly distant and strained in their relationship because of his outspoken liberal and left wing opinions and the government's slide into the McCarthy period. It would end shortly after the release of LIMELIGHT with Chaplin going to Europe on a vacation with his wife and family, and finding that the U.S. government pulled his passport so he could not return (technically, Chaplin had never applied for citizenship here, and was still an English citizen, so the government could do this). A bitter Chaplin moved to Switzerland, and resided there for the rest of his life (which was for another quarter century).While not flawless, VERDOUX was one of the great black comedies, and it's point about the evils of modern society were actually quite solid. It's preceding talkie (Chaplin made only five real talkies, and included a brief talking scene in MODERN TIMES) had been THE GREAT DICTATOR, which too had flaws, but skewered Hitler's Nazi regime, and Mussolini's posturing, delightfully. But LIMELIGHT was a lesser work. I have given it a 7 out of 10 for those parts that are meant for pure entertainment - the music hall turns of Calvaro, such as the flea circus act (an idea Chaplin had been thinking about since 1919's THE PROFESSOR), his final sequence with Buster Keaton (a joint triumph), and his musical score (especially the memorable Theme from LIMELIGHT). Those are all worth watching and hearing.What is not worth watching is Chaplin's windy philosophizing about life and love. Somehow the criticism of society or the Nazis had been done with greater delicacy and accuracy in the two earlier talkies. But here Chaplin's dealing with the romance between old Calvaro and young Terry (Claire Bloom) seems over-expressed to the point of total awkwardness. Basically, Calvaro saves Terry, a girl just on the beginning of life, and nurses her back to health and to the proper start of her career as a dancer. She, in turn, tries to help restore the now poverty stricken man to his position as England's greatest music hall clown. There are moments (due to the acting abilities of the two stars) when their affection and mutual admiration comes through very nicely. But then Charlie talks!Years earlier Paulette Goddard made a comment about her former husband and friend which many critics have since latched onto There is one problem with Charlie. He thinks he thinks! Like Charles Foster Kane Chaplin had hundreds of opinions on every subject under the sun (including those political ones that finally blew up in his face). But most of his opinions were hot air. He didn't realize this. So when he starts giving Terry a pep talk about why life is worth living (comparing us with jelly fish), one can only think that if one was living with this windy old fool one would like to take some artificial method to shorten one's existence and end the torture.He doesn't have to over-talk that way either - he can make one cringe when complementing Terry at her first big dance solo in a pantomime that he is involved in. The soulful way he tells her (ironically the line is quite brief) how beautifully she did it is so overdone as to make one wish Eric Campbell were still around to throttle him.There are other production flaws. One that always got to me showed Chaplin, the producer watching costs to the penny, having Norman Lloyd (as the stage director) explaining the pantomime to the dancers before they start rehearsing it. When he begins the camera properly shows the cast (it includes Chaplin's ill fated oldest son and namesake, Charles Jr., who later committed suicide) on the stage listening intently. Then Chaplin has the camera concentrate on Lloyd's face while he addresses the cast, his back to the large, empty audience section of the theater. Fine - except we can see Lloyd's shadow on the back wall of that large empty audience section. We suddenly realize it is a backdrop (and not a really good one) and must be the size of a medium size oil painting! Chaplin, of course, would not have considered hiring an actual theater for the filming of the scene as it would have been more expensive.Perhaps these comments seem too harsh. Enough of the film is entertaining to merit recommending it - at least as the last Chaplin film worth watching. Also as the last film with Nigel Bruce, as a theatrical producer. However, if my comments seem too harsh, I will say that the final tableau of Terry dancing to great acclaim on stage at the tribute to Calvaro, as he lies dying surrounded by the others, is quite a memorable conclusion - one of the best in any of Chaplin's films. "},{"Title":"Excellent tragedy","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I was never a fan of Chaplin as the clown, though I could appreciate the ideas and execution of them. This film shows a stage clown on his way back down from the top, and the autobiographical touches give resonance and depth to Chaplin's character and situation and credibility to the film's plot. There is a touch of 'A Star Is Born' about the criss-crossing of the leads' careers as they each provide the other with strength and purpose. I found the whole story and its unfolding to be captivating and entertaining, with darkness and timeless humour woven through the love between the two providing a strong framework for the vehicle to take us to the inevitable conclusion. Chaplin plays his character almost perfectly; he's an emotional old trouper with his feet on the ground regarding his relationship with the girl whose life he saves over and again, but head firmly thrust through the clouds in his view of his position in the performing firmament. Worthy of mention - apart from Buster Keaton appearing as Cavalero's (Chaplin) 'partner' - is that the scenes showing the theatre and the way a show is built from ideas, through blocking and rehearsal to performance are satisfyingly realistic. The backstage shots during the various performances in particular prove genuine experience of live performance and the mechanics of theatrical productions. Chaplin is very natural for the camera but large for the stage performance sections, and Claire Bloom by turns neurotic and strong, lovable almost throughout as the pretty young dancer who falls deeply in love with the older man who rescues her and her career. On the whole quite beautiful and I may have to revisit some of Chaplin's silent clowning... "},{"Title":"This is a great movie? Huh?","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" First off, I am a huge fan of Chaplin. At least that of the silent movie idiom. I just bought and watched (for the first time) Limelight and it is the first Chaplin talkie I have watched. So, I have nothing to compare it to. Frankly I was astonished at how maudlin and depressing the overall feeling is throughout. The theme of the film could have developed into a powerful drama but in my eyes sunk into self-indulgent and a surprisingly poor story. Let's take Chaplin himself. He was well known for his ability to play a drunk and did so many times in films, hearkening back to his pre-film days in England. His drunken state in the film is always the same without drawing out much more than a cardboard rendition of a drunken state. His wobbling about never has anything humorous about it. If it was meant to appear dramatic or tragic than it did not even come close to suggesting this. I was left wondering, always wondering, where is he going with this? For me it went plodding along to nothingness.Let's examine Claire Bloom. In far too many scenes her acting is overwrought and over the top. I ended up wondering if she was creating a parody of a tragic heroine? The early romance with the composer that she was unable to fulfill re-appears later in the film, all of it manipulated over and over again by an ambivalent Chaplin who does not quite believe what he's doing with his machinations. Chaplin's character seems to be so washed up that the only time he comes to life is when he's saving someone else's. Claire Bloom is a fine actor but the script and the direction turn her into a rag doll that is pushed around the screen by Chaplin.There are some strengths in the film and it's a shame Chaplin didn't develop them further. The odd choice of Bloom's character falling in love with a man who could be her grandfather is not given enough twist or edge. Perhaps that would have been asking just a wee bit too much of an early 50's audience to stomach? Still, the platonic love she offers is spurned by Chaplin but at the first opportunity, six months later, she is right back where she started from, fully in love with Chaplin. Even though she says she's grown older and maybe wiser, her actions defy her words. There is a very shocking scene which jolted me and that is where just before Bloom is to dance before a huge crowd she cries to Chaplin that she's lost the feelings in her feet and legs and can't go on. He shouts at her and then when this is not good enough he slaps her on the face so hard he could have snapped her neck. The smacking sound in the movie is very pronounced and the effect on the viewer is very powerful. In keeping with the over the top elements of the drama, she goes on to dance her heart out and bring the house down. It's just way too exaggerated and unbelievable.Keaton I've read that some people think that Chaplin brought Keaton into this film as a gesture, albeit a very token one, to an old colleague from the good old days. Keaton is not introduced, we don't know why he's there (unless I missed something) and yet there he is at Chaplin's very important benefit concert. This scene leads me into another weakness in the film. The skit that Chaplin first puts on at the benefit is a repeat of what we've seen him do at least 2 or 3 times earlier in the film and it's a very bad version of a badly talented second rate hack from Vaudeville-type shows. Why he created this characterization was lost on me the first time but after 3 times I was more than a little perturbed. Was Chaplin insisting we believe that his character never had any talent in the first place? That would be contradictory to earlier information we are told about Calvero.So, we put up with Chaplin's terrible rendition and then Keaton joins him on the stage during the encore. At last the sparks begin to fly. Finally we have the two undisputed masters putting on a delicious sequence of slapstick. And I laughed out loud for the first time in the entire film. Keaton is hilarious and Chaplin is wonderful. These old guys never lost a single bit of their timing. What is so clear in this sequence is that what is funny (at least in this film) is two guys acting as if they were in a silent picture! They don't say anything but we are in stitches, just like we all were when we watched their many silent films.The movie comes to an over-the-top end just a few minutes later. I sat there with my mouth open wondering what on earth Chaplin was thinking? He could have made us cry but the drama in the film was overt, exaggerated, bathos in full, pathetic only in it's underdevelopment. This was a man who created the most memorable characters in silent movies; he knew how to write and to direct and for me this film was stillborn from the getgo. If he was in the mood for self-indulgent sighing about his past, like almost all late Jerry Lewis comedy, then he did it very badly. Honestly, I was astonished at how bad this film was and I do not know why others rave about it. I am still a fan but this film left me confused and dumbfounded. "}{"Title":"The heart and the mind - what an enigma...","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Ever since The Kid the British born Charles Chaplin had been a monument of American silent film making. Despite his refusal to concede to the inevitable wind of change in the business he stubbornly continued to make silents in the time of sound. But he finally had to say farewell to the little tramp - only to resurrect another version of him in the essential and daring satire The Great Dictator. With it Chaplin arrived in the new area, safe and with sound, genius undiminished. Limelight, made years later in 1952, however marks a crossroads for Chaplin and practically forestalls his swansong. Similar to his Dictator he was ahead of his time when he made the picture as it was the last film he managed to produce in the US before he became an unwanted person under the suspicion of supporting un-American intentions...Limelight in many ways tells Chaplin's own story about a former vaudeville star now on the path of decline, where the full weight of reality catches up with him. It's a melancholic film about the clown Calvero's struggle, but also one of hope and inspiration when he rescues a suicidal ballet dancer and helps her to regain new courage to face life despite he himself is in a downward spiral. But things are not as simply cut as they seem and triumph and tragedy are closely linked... Together with Chaplin stars an impressive Claire Bloom as the girl saved by Calvero, Nigel Dr. Watson Bruce as the impresario harking back to his days as Sherlock Holmes assistant, Chaplin's own son Sydney and last but not least the great former rival and by now completely broke Buster Keaton. The latter in a minor, but pivotal, crucially transcending role as assistant on the side of the great clown. All those autobiographical references are evident and become even stronger when we know that recognition for this masterpiece came only more than 20 years after the release of the film in Europe in form of an US Academy Oscar for best score, which - of course - Chaplin co-wrote. To speak with Calavero's own words Limelight is a story about the enigma of the heart and the mind... As was Chaplin a restlessly creative enigma with heart and mind. "},{"Title":"One Of Chaplin's Best Films","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I am a huge fan of Charles Chaplin. Despite his personal demons he had, he was a wonderful comedian and gifted actor. I managed to catch his film Limelight the other week on TCM, and I was reminded what a great film it was. Limelight is a 1952 comedy-drama film written, directed by and starring Charlie Chaplin, co-starring Claire Bloom, with an appearance by Buster Keaton. In dance scenes, Bloom is doubled by Melissa Hayden. The film score is composed by Chaplin and arranged by Ray Rasch.The film was released amidst scandal, since it was during touring to support the film that Chaplin was refused re-admittance to the United States. The film was subsequently passed over by many theaters. In 1972, the film was given a wide U.S. release and honored at the Academy Awards.The movie is set in London in 1914, on the eve of World War I. 1914 was the year Chaplin made his first movie. Calvero (Charles Chaplin), once a famous stage clown but now a washed-up drunk, saves a young dancer, Thereza Ambrose, alias Terry (Claire Bloom), from suicide. Nursing her back to health, Calvero helps Terry regain her self-esteem and resume her dancing career. In doing so he regains his own self-confidence, but his attempts to make a comeback are less successful. Terry says she wants to marry Calvero despite their age difference, although she has befriended Neville, a young composer Calvero believes would be better suited to her. In order to give them a chance Calvero leaves home and becomes a street entertainer. Terry, now starring in her own show, eventually finds Calvero and persuades him to return to the stage for a benefit concert. Reunited with an old partner (Keaton), Calvero gives a triumphant comeback performance but immediately suffers a heart attack and dies in the wings while just a few feet away Terry, the second act on the bill, dances on stage... "},{"Title":"Charlie Chaplin's love/hate relationship with entertainment writ large","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight's Calvero, as played by Charlie Chaplin, is a washed-up clown who only gets menial gigs here and there as an entertainer whose time has past. Mostly he thinks back to what his routine was (and, it being Chaplin and an old-fashioned clown, it's pretty funny pantomime) and the audience for it. What's interesting in the first flashback he has to performing on stage is that the audience doesn't laugh too much during the act, only near the end is the laughter really present and uproarious. Calvero thinks back to this more in dreams, and tries for a comeback, but has his ups and downs, not least of which due to drink (which, as many an entertainer- musician, actor, whatever- has said that they need a substance to do this or whatever). He has some support from a younger woman who genuinely loves him, though he resists it despite obviously caring for a poor young girl who tries to kill herself but recovers.The two characters are probably quite sad set apart, but together do their best to prop each other up with good words, ones that friends and such do. Their relationship is one of the best things about Limelight, despite sometimes Chaplin not being a writer with a lot of, how should I say, subtlety (as coming from the silent film world he's a good writer, but not always great when sidestepping sentimentality). I especially liked how convincing Claire Bloom was as the dancer, Terry, at making us understand what was so charming but heartbreaking about her, and Calvero too through both of their eyes. It's a tale that takes romance but at a cautious length due to personal feelings. It's not that Calvero can't love her, but should he? Can he be that close to someone when he's been so alone his life? While it could be easy for Chaplin to make it a self-indulgent cry-fest he side-steps that as he is so spot-on in every beat (and why not, he directs himself so well for the entirety of his career, kind of two hats on that Tramp) and makes his character unlikely endearing. He probably is a blow-hard, but he is still human and has faults of his own while some very endearing qualities. No wonder then we want him to come out on top, since he's more than paid his dues, but at the same time the looming presence of the end of the tunnel is there too. Limelight celebrates art and creation to a nice extent; alongside Calvero, Terry is a wonderful dancer, at one point auditioning in a room lit with such expression for the darkness of a room and the light coming in that it almost makes the movie on its own (Chaplin is in the scene too but in the background). Also incredible is when Terry has her big number to perform on stage... but she gets stage fright! How Calvero snaps her out of it is shocking but, maybe, just a little funny(?) Another perk with Limelight- matter of fact why some of us would seek it out- is that it pairs up Chaplin with Buster Keaton, the other masterful silent clown of his day. He actually is not in it for very long (maybe all of five minutes), but what minutes! You have to be patient and not be expecting it to be a Chaplin/Keaton thing like Hope and Crosby or something. It's at the climax of the film, when Calvero has something of a comeback after some luck, and they do a 'bit' together on stage. I wouldn't be able to spoil it if I tried suffice to say it would be almost enough reason to watch the film even if you had little to no interest in Chaplin and only in Keaton... but, yet, why wouldn't you? It's not a totally great film (that is to say on par with Modern Times of The Kid), admittedly, but it has a lot of great scenes, images, performances, and it bears out the soul of an artist in such a way that is illuminating there is subtext even to the big emotional high points, and seeing into it gives us a better notion of what the idea of Charlie Chaplin was/is as much as what he could do. It's a poignant, sincere comedy. "},{"Title":"written more than fifty years later","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Limelight with this performance of Charlie Chaplin and a marvelous casting is one of the must beautiful pictures of the past century and remembering the sweet music , his face and his expression this film remain always in my hearth. I have seen at first Limelight in the wonderful Neapel of the year 1952 and later at least 52 times. I converted the music to pianoforte of the song and I play it frequently. I think that Limelght should be a pillar of the History of all the pictures of the 1900 up today. I cant forgot it and his music make sweet many unhappiness times .Once more than 40 years ago I played the song with my piano in Finland and I have seen many old people but also young girls very touched and so on the next day we showed the movie in Juuka and more than 280 peoples came to see it and asked to receive a copy. "},{"Title":"Chaplin's charm","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of Chaplin's last films as his popularity has waned from its height in the 1920s and 1930s.  He portrays an aging clown who tries to help a suicidal dancer see the importance of her life and give her a moment in the limelight.  The two great silent stars, Chaplin and Keaton, have a nice scene near the end that homages the charm of the Tramp and the Great Stone Face characters they are known for.  This film seems to bring some closure to Chaplin's remarkable career. "},{"Title":"I never thought I should say this, but here's a movie that surpasses Breaking the waves!!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I usually refer to Breaking the waves as the best movie I've seen my entire life and Schindler's list as no. 2 and I didn't think I could ever find one that would be better, especially since Breaking the waves was kind of the kickstart for me to watch other things than the big Hollywood action blockbusters that are pretty similar, but here it is!!! I watch a fair amount of older films on TCM Europe (I saw this on Norwegian television though), but never found a movie before the 70's or 80's that got passed the Good mark, Casablanca being the best (which I gave an 8 here at imdb). I think some of the older films, like others has commented on other films, seem kind of slow, boring and outdated. I particularly think the 60's & 70's movies I've seen were a bit slow and boring. I prefer the Bogart movies of the 40's and other film-noir stuff (The postman always rings twice is another old favorite), especially because of the mood of the movie. Now, when I think Chaplin I usually think old comedies where his tramp character walks around, falls in a banana-peel, into a pothole or similar things that seem terribly outdated and something I would laugh of at the age of 5 (I'm 21 now). Of the movies of his I can actually recall, I've seen The great dictator which was good, Modern times which was also alright (mostly because of the mood and not the comedy) and now this one and I must say that this one blew anything else I've ever seen out of the water!!! Prior to this the oldest superb film I've seen was Awakenings from 1990, but this movie reassured me that it's worth watching all those old movies to find a treasure like this! I won't reveal anything, just watch it and enjoy!! As I said (several times by now) this is simply the best movie I've seen my entire life!!!! "},{"Title":"Very good, but missed opportunities","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film, and I thought Chaplin & Claire Bloom gave great performances.  I really wish that Charles could have made more use of Buster Keaton however.  It seems like a great opportunity to unite two comic geniuses was missed in their scene together.  It was akin to reuniting the Beatles in 1979 just to have them play one short song. "},{"Title":"A knowing self-delusion?","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Set mostly at the seedy end of the music hall world, the film has a pristine quality that's as unreal as Chaplin's own performance his room always seems like a stage set, and the drama that unfolds there between Bloom and he is more a vision of mutual redemption than a depiction of it. The flashbacks to his heyday are similarly shot in a cavernous, icy vacuum, soaked in loneliness - confirmed by the reverse shot to rows of empty seats; when he shows the audience during the ultimate triumphant benefit, their (insincere and forced) clapping is as soulless and distant as the earlier silence (even so, he grasps the illusion as his last best hope). A couple of brief disembodied scenes of Chaplin, and later the two of them, moving along the river bank, staring	ahead, embody the pervasive sense of dislocation. In this context, Chaplin's endless inspirational monologues and homilies can plausibly be taken as a knowing self-delusion, an almost pathological insistence on an underlying meaning of transforming, redemptive power, even as his own life so completely fails to yield it - the character's name (Calvero) bleeds religious pain every time it's uttered. Keaton's brief appearance is more emblematic of true loss and pain, but the film has little choice but to reject such realism, and keeps his involvement to a minimum. "},{"Title":"Truly a work of art","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" There was a time when actors and actresses couldn't appear before the camera unless they had prior, successful stage experience, they had native talent, and they had training. Native talent meant such things as having a unique, strong appearance and voice. Above all, it had to be clear to the audience that for the time being, you really were the personality you portrayed.Given all this, Charlie Chaplin and Claire Bloom showed us that Calvero and Terry really clicked together completely, and their chemistry was wonderfully perfect, and so how could they possibly be apart? Then, you can even start to wonder if external physical characteristics might sometimes be a mask, so that it is the inner personality that really matters.Even so, bravo for Charlie Chaplin for also showing us so delicately at the end that physical circumstances can nevertheless be such that sometimes it just isn't going to happen. "},{"Title":"The end of the line.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Afterward,there were only two movies ,and they were poor ,compared to Chaplin's early standards.Limelight is his last valuable opus ,although,at least to my eyes ,it's far from being a masterpiece.It spreads over two hours and sometimes it's really dull (the performing fleas act is featured twice on the menu and it's not that much hilarious in the first place).Some will complain about the melodramatic plot but such was the case of  works like city lights.What makes the movie really worthwhile is Claire Bloom's wonderful smileexcept for the scene when she's screaming I 'm walking!I'm walking!,she never overplays and she really makes up for the excessive sentimentality of the story.And what makes the story all in all moving is its connection to realityChaplin,then 63 ,knew his career was almost over and made this work his legacy and his famous last word the show must go on. "}{"Title":"The Declining Chaplin","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  25 years into the talking film era, Chaplin finally pulls off a film that successfully communicates a story in talking Hollywood, and although very old fashioned and personal, it presents an honest Chaplin whose glory days of appearing in music hall theatre has sunk into oblivion. He now tries to fan into flame that vision in the young actress, Claire Bloom. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Overall, With the Priceless Keaton/Chaplin Sequence","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Though it's a little long, Limelight is a mostly pleasant film with some good characters and a thoughtful story.  A lot of it was apparently intended by Chaplin as something of an explanation or defense of himself, but it's not that obvious, and usually avoids seeming forced.  Amongst other things, the movie has a priceless pair of scenes with Chaplin and Buster Keaton together, which would make any picture worth watching.  The basic story is not too involved, with Chaplin as an aging music hall performer and Claire Bloom as a young ballerina, trying to help each other deal with life and with their own inner demons.  There are times when it bogs down just a bit, but there are some good moments too, and you certainly want to know how things will come out for the characters.Seeing Keaton and Chaplin as a team is probably what the movie is most known for, and it's really great to see them together, even for a short time - anyone who is a fan of the silent films of either or both of these legends will want to watch Limelight for that part alone.  And the rest of the movie, while hardly in the class of Chaplin's best films, is pretty good too.  "},{"Title":"A Flawed Masterpiece","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Chaplin's LIMELIGHT has been described as autobiographical. I do not know for sure what Chaplin had in mind, but there is undoubtedly many similarities, parallels, and connections to Chaplin's youth in the London Music Halls, as well as to his own father (whom some say the character of Calvero was modeled after.) The final comedy act with Buster Keaton is the only time the two comic geniuses of the first half of the 20th century appeared together on screen.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Dim","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Charlie Chaplin continues his pedantic ways with this two and half hour sentimental journey / lecture on how we should embrace life even in the face of tragedy (cue Smile). Chaplin displays a healthy ego and a glaring lack of updated film skills as he tells his tale at a snails pace with a frozen camera. Less than halfway into the film you find yourself uncomfortably watching a clueless one time genius drowning in syrup and mawkish sentimentality with passe poses and pratfalls from the golden era. One time stage sensation Calvero has drunk himself to the bottom of the bill at most London music halls who are reluctant to hire the has been. When he comes to the aide of a young dancer suffering from a crippling hysteria he takes it upon himself to heal her and in doing so regains his self worth. The recovered dancer falls in love with the much elder Calvero wishing to marry him but the ever wise clown knows it will never work out. As in his earlier sound films Chaplin employs an overabundance of the the tired and repetitive silent genius. Claire Bloom is all tremulous hysteria as Terry the dancer, you think she's rehearsing for her part in Richard lll. In what should be a moment of bitter sweet melancholy Chaplin teams up with Buster Keaton on stage but the chemistry is non-existent and scene is so sloppy and formless you once again find yourself in the unfamiliar territory of wishing Charlie would get the hook and leave the stage to Buster who couldn't do any worse than Charlie already has.Chaplin's script does have a good deal of wit ( I don't like the sight of blood but it runs in my veins Life is the world's greatest author, it always knows when to end.) but there's a subterfuge of banal chatter delivered mostly by Chaplin and for so long he becomes the guest that won't leave. "},{"Title":"I love Chaplin, I hated this movie.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  After 140 minutes of suffering through stilted, often amateurish acting and directing, you will finally see the historic teaming of Chaplin with Buster Keaton in a wonderful comedy skit.  Unfortunately, the skit only lasts about five minutes which is just about the same length Chaplin gave himself every time he opens his mouth to speak.  I love Chaplin, I hated this movie. "},{"Title":"High melodrama","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Chaplin's story of a once-great, now-humble music hall comedian has a quality level which varies with each scene. Chaplin never really got accustomed to the advent of sound, and much of this film -- the comedy sequences, in particular -- is in the style of his earlier, better, funnier silents. I think it would be inappropriate to say that he descends into self-parody, but ...The dramatic scenes however, while not perfect, are certainly much better. Charlot often cannot avoid the urge to pontificate on broad philosophical issues, but when he returns to his main storyline there are often moments of pathos, which give him some of his best opportunities to express facial emotion since the final, indelible shot of City Lights. This film often feels like a re-evaluation of City Lights in fact.Limelight contains many echoes of earlier Chaplin themes. Calvero's longing to live in the country was fulfilled by the Little Tramp in A Dog's Life (1918).In her memoir, Leaving a Doll's House (1996), Claire Bloom writes that she feels too Jewish to be a comfortable English rose. I don't know; she seems appealingly roselike to me. Her performance however is overamplified at times, but I put that down to the influence of her director.The rest of the cast is like a bag of liquorice allsorts, lots of variety, nothing especially appetizing. Nigel Bruce plays Nigel Bruce, Norman Lloyd struggles with his English accent, Chaplin's son Sydney is here through the intercession of a doting father, Buster Keaton seems glad just to be working. Poor Buster.It is interesting to observe that this film evokes A Dog's Life, since that happens to be a Chaplin film with an unusual Keatonesque final joke. It's a pity that with their complementary styles, we never had more occasions to see the two together, just this once as twilight darkened into night.  "},{"Title":"Love Love Love? Or Hate Hate Hate?","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Limelight stinks, plain and simple. There are good things about it, most importantly the all too brief scene with my personal idol, Buster Keaton, and the great line Calvero utters (I suppose it's just the tramp in me), but other that that, stay away. I beg of you, if you want to watch a fine Chaplin talkie, rent The Great Dictator. "},{"Title":"Untransportable Time","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I'm interested in what makes movies work. I'm now acutely aware that success is a quickly moving, random target. Each film both tries and then becomes either an obstacle or a springboard for the films that follow.Here we have arguably one of the most successful filmmakers of all time producer, writer, director, actor and composer. And some of his films ring true today. I think there are two dynamics at work. The first is simple because those silent films are so radically different, we willingly leave much of our world behind when we view it. So we are making a double visit to the film and to the world of film.For some, the film doesn't even have to have merit. The journey to another world by mere association is enough.The second dynamic is more interesting to me. I think City Lights worked then, and it works now but for entirely different reasons. It is not that important things have stayed the same so much as that we have reinvented how we respond to things we think are timeless.That's why this film is interesting. We have Charlie creating a film using all the old values and techniques but in a modern context. And it fails miserably. The folding report is simple It is a performance about a performer with some of the inner performances shown as memories and dreams. One performer (Chaplin) is creating a performer (Calvero) who is creating a performer (Thereza). The performances within as noted follow Ted' s rule of abstraction they are abstracted from the story as the story is from us. The core one is itself a performance (a music hall show) that makes fun of a performance (an animal act) in the same way the movie makes fun of Chaplin's prior movies.In other words, Chaplin's manipulation and folding of narrative is up to his normal fine standard, better in some respects because he had so long to work on it.But the film still fails because he assumes a context, a viewer's receptiveness to a type of exaggeration we won't tolerate in a new film.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Not cinematic yet tribute to Chaplin's roots!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Above all else, Charlot was the product of his era. This film best exemplifies his shortcomings. It's actually (unfortunately) a double handicapp his music hall genius for gag humor has, naturally, dissipated in his talkies. But other handicap, the one seldom if ever discussed, is that - in retrospect of most of his oeuvre - Charlot has been primarily a music hall comedian. Even in his most succesful films, the Keystone comedies and later the great classics such as my favorite The Goldrush, Charlot was never able to use the film medium in a sense that a handful of true cinematic filmamakers (Griffith, Von Stroheim, Orson Welles)used it even in Hollywood. That is not to mention the most creative film-makers of France (Gance, Vigo, Bunuel), Germany (Murnau, Lang), Scandinavia (Dreyer, Sjoberg) or particularly Russia (the Soviet avant-garde). This, then, is a touching film but like near everything else of Chaplin's lacks the understanding of the film medium itself. It bespeaks his vaudeville background and in a sense it is a lovely, if depressing tribute to the vanished world of the British music halls.  "},{"Title":"Pauline Kael Called This Slimelight","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Though the late critic was often too negative in her movie reviews, unfortunately she was on target in this case. The movie is overlong, hammy, sentimental without being moving, and self-congratulatory.The story about a washed-up vaudevillian and a suicidal female dancer could have been good. But Chaplin has done everything wrong, from bad acting and directing to filling the dialog with clichés. Even the act with Buster Keaton is unfunny, and the final moment-Calvero has a heart attack after his act and dies as the ballet dancer performs hers, is absurdly mawkish. Charlie Chaplin really was washed up by then, and would never come back to his former glory. "}{"Title":"Maudlin Chaplin","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" A tippling ex-vaudeville performer in 1914 London takes in a suicidal young woman who longs to be a ballerina. Vanity project from writer-director-producer-star Charles Chaplin (who also composed the music score and actually won a belated Oscar for this in 1972, due to eligibility requirements!). The film itself is sadly unsuccessful hammy, sentiment-steeped, yet still unmoving, it uncomfortably catches Chaplin in a self-reverential mood (he's constantly playing to the camera). Claire Bloom is lovely in support, but Buster Keaton is left with little to do. A maudlin and rather sickly piece of fluff. *1/2 from **** "}]