[{"Title":"The definitive cinematic production","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"53 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oscar Wilde's celebrated masterpiece is a comedy on three levels. First there is the denotative level, one might say, the level in which the bourgeois are entertained après dîner. It is on this level that Oscar Wilde follows the great theatrical tradition of comedy from the time of the Greeks through Shakespeare and French farce into the twentieth century to the musical comedy of the London and New York stage. His play on this level is a comedy of manners, pleasant, charming and very clever. The class conscious jokes about the lower orders and the servants are double-edged and add just a touch of squirm to the laughter of the not completely discerning audience. It is on the second level that The Importance of Being Earnest becomes one of the greatest plays ever written. On this level, the comedy is a full blown satire of Victorian society, and in particular of its audience. Wilde had the very great pleasure of flattering and making fun of the audience while being applauded for doing so. His subtitle for the play, A Trivial Comedy for Serious People is an allusion to these two levels. It is on this second level that Wilde speaks through the voice of Lady Bracknell (and sometimes Algernon), whose ironic and unself-conscious cynicism is so like his own. It is on this level that all the fun is made of the hypocrisy of marriage and its mercenary nature, at least as practiced by the petite bourgeoisie of London town, circa 1895. But there is a third level, a level known of course to the cognoscenti of the time and to modern audiences, but for the most part never dreamed of by the London theater-goers of the day. In this regard I have recently read that Earnest was a slang euphemism for being gay, and I suspect this is true. Indeed, I can imagine a whole world of witticism based on being earnest and being Ernest, a world now (perhaps charitably) forgotten. Certainly this knowledge sheds some light on Jack's invention of his invalid friend Bunbury, whom he finds he must visit to escape unwanted social engagements.One of the best things about this great play is one can appreciate it on any one of the three levels and find delight on that level alone. One can see Worthy as John Worthy, or as Jack Worthy, or as Ernest Worthy, however one likes. This adaptation, starring the incomparable Dame Edith Evans as Lady Bracknell, and Michael Redgrave (father of Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave) as John Worthy is of course the justly celebrated, clearly definitive screen adaptation. It should be noted, however, that Lady Bracknell is the real star of the show, and when she enters a scene, she steals it. Edith Evans was brilliant and unforgettable and obviously having a wonderful time. Margaret Rutherford is a scream as Miss Prism and Miles Malleson as Chasuble is just, shall I say, darling. I should note that both the male leads were a touch too old for their parts. Redgrave was 42 and Michael Denison, who played Algernon, was 37 when the movie was released in 1952. Yet I think Oscar Wilde would have approved of the casting, probably finding it admirable and fitting that these two men about town would have avoided marriage for so many years. (I won't mention the ages of the actresses.) Joan Greenwood as Gwendolyn achieves just the right amount of flaky innocence and calculated whimsy, while Dorothy Tutin is the very definition of the spoiled, sweet and adorable, man-hunting Cecily Cardew. The direction by Anthony Asquith is unnecessarily directive in the sense that he moved some scenes around, but is essentially without harm.The best way to appreciate this play, and to pick up all the nuances, and there are nuances aplenty--and jokes upon jokes, sharp social and political observations, and witticisms within prevarications, and lies that are truths and vice-versa--is to view the video, just appreciating it on one level, then read the script, and then view the video again. You're in for a treat.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Best version of the play","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The most recent version of The Importance of Being Ernest changed the script!  Whoever thought that they could write better than Wilde was sorely mistaken.  This version, however, is superb!  Not only is the full text in tact, but Sir Michael Redgrave, known for his serious Shakespeare stage performances, shows how farce is best done when done seriously.  I love this version, and am ecstatic that it is now available on DVD. BRAVO! "},{"Title":"The importance of being Oscar","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oscar Wilde's language is exquisitely spoken by the English cast that made, what should be considered, the definitive version of the play. The most important thing is the poetry all these actors were able to bring to the film, which reflects a bygone era; it is music to one's ears.Anthony Asquith directed and adapted the play in ways that it never feels it's filmed theater. The director achieves a coup in casting Dame Edith Evans as Lady Bracknell, in one of her best appearances on the screen. Her Augusta is just what one expects a Victorian English lady to be like. Although Ms. Evans is not on screen all the time, she completely dominates the action. Even if one knows Ms. Evans is giving an exaggerated portrait of a society lady, she is delightful to watch as one stays riveted to her movements, facial expressions in making this woman come alive for us.Michael Redgrave and Michael Denison, two dashing young actors, at the time, are a joy to see. The fastidious Jack, and his friend, Algenon, have excellent opportunities in which to shine. The same goes for the two female leads, Joan Greenwood and Dorothy Tutin, are perfectly cast as Gwendoline and Cecily, the love interests of Jack and Algenon. The redoubtable Margaret Rutherford is seen as Miss Prism, who is the key to solving the mystery in the plot.The Importance of Being Earnest is a classic that was made at the legendary Pinewood studios and it shows the British cinema at its best. "},{"Title":"He who laughs at his own foibles, laughs longest","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Irish-born Oscar Wilde, who managed to die in Paris at only 46 years of age, formed part of that school of renegé novelists and poets from the Emerald Isle which included James Joyce. Indeed, these and other Irish writers were banned from publication in England and I seem to remember that James Joyce's earlier works were actually published in French before being allowed into print in English in the U.K. Tut, tut, such piquant and avant-garde ideas would be too much for the genteel Victorian aristocracy living safely tucked up in hypocracy-ladened gallantry. Fortunately, for the colony-enriched classes, the `plebianism' of Charles Dickens was too long ago for their short memories, or never made it onto their bookshelves. Notwithstanding, from such gentlemanly proceedings such wit is born and which was soon to become one of the outstanding achievements of finest British humour the ability to laugh at one's own foibles.To this effect we must be, in great part, indebted to Mr. Wilde in general, and to `The Importance of Being Earnest' in particular. No other play of this genre has been so enacted and so many times converted into film and in so many languages as this classic of upper-crust comportment. Among the numerous versions available on film, this one by the irreplaceable Dame Edith Evans goes down as being the model from which any other readings must inevitably be taken. Dame Edith Evans IS Lady Bracknell; even Judy Dench is only playing the rôle in comparison.The rising and setting of the curtain at the beginning and end of the film makes it totally clear that the play is to be seen on film but as if we &#150; the spectators &#150; were in the theatre. And so it should be any free hand at getting away from such concept might well be unstomacheable, as well as irritating to admirers of the classics or simply people like myself who try not to be too pedantic. There are plenty of modern examples of William Shakespeare's plays on film which faithfully adhere to the original concepts and which do not lose anything in the telling. In this respect we can say that this version of the play is on target what might seem exaggerated portrayals of the characters &#150; especially Dame Edith Evan's reading of Lady Bracknell &#150; indeed to my mind fulfills precisely what Oscar Wilde intended. Nobody else can ejaculate `F&#133;.o&#133;.u&#133;.n&#133;.d?' in five syllables as Dame Edith Evans does. Fifty years on, this is still the version from which any other attempts will be judged. I hope I am not being earnest in excess&#133;&#133;.  "},{"Title":"The very model of wit and whimsy, the likes of which we do not see often enough any more","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the country, Jack has a large home, an 18-year-old ward, Cecily, to look after and is very serious. But in the city he is Earnest &#150; a young wag with a dastardly reputation and a good friend in the shape of fellow bachelor Algy. However when he wants to marry his urban love Gwendolen he meets opposition from her guardian Lady Bracknell. Jack tells Gwendolen where his rural home is &#150; and Algy overhears. Enticed by Jack's description of his ward Cecily, Algy travels to Jack's home and poses as his made up brother Earnest. However the arrival of Gwendolen puts the cat among the pigeons in a most frightful way that can only be resolved with delightful charm and wit (and some good fortune).On the very day of Wilde's 150th birthday I decided that it seemed a perfectly reasonable time to rewatch one of his most famous works and sat to watch the most famous film version of Earnest. From the stage bound set up, this film opens up into proper sets, but it is not the background that opens up the film but the light and wonderful dialogue. I will not go into any more detail on the quality of the script because that stands for itself &#150; that, well over 100 years later, I can still watch it and laugh is testament to its quality. The delivery of the film does it justice, even if (ironically enough) the film does feel rather stuck on a stage &#150; certainly in comparison to the 2002 remake. This is understandable given the film's age but it does make the film feel a little constrained, but fortunately the wonderful dialogue gives it wings. Of course some people will not like the film for this reason as they prefer their humour to be more of the American Pie variety (nothing wrong with that) but for me I love the wit and fun it delivers.Of course the cast is a major part of the delivery and the majority of them really do well with their roles. Redgrave is enjoyable and delivers his lines well even if he has the least colourful of the main characters. Denison is much more colourful and enjoys his smooth and rather caddish role with some relish and is enjoyable in support. Evans provides a most memorable character and also has some of the most celebrated lines (including the immortal and well-delivered 'a handbag?'). Of course stealing the film is usually the job of Margaret Rutherford, but she doesn't do that here despite still playing to her usual form. Greenwood and Tutin are OK and have plenty of good lines between them; they are little stilted at times but in some regards this is part of who they are &#150; very proper and slightly absurd characters.Overall this is a wonderfully light little film but one that would sadly struggle to make an impact at the box office if it were to be re-released today. Many will find the lack of big obvious belly laughs to be a problem but if you do then I would simply say you're watching the wrong movie and should try something you're more accustom to. For me the script is a classic foundation for some nice direction (despite the set bound production) and some great delivery from a talented cast all combine to make this the very model of wit and whimsy, the likes of which we do not see often enough any more. "},{"Title":"A delicious box of bon mots!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I haven't yet seen the 2002 theatrical film version of Wilde's classic, perhaps because I can't see how anyone, not even Judi Dench, could improve upon Dame Edith Evans's immortal portrayal of that deathless battle-axe, Lady Bracknell.  And then there's Margaret Rutherford and Miles Malleson wittily playing characters that fitted them to a T.  Not to mention the unctuously delicious Joan Greenwood, whose line readings caress one's ears like the aural equivalent of a framboise liqueur.  Dorothy Tutin was a perfect wise-for-her-young-years ingenue.  But the men, in my view, were merely serviceable, with Michael Denison, especially, somewhat of an annoyance.  The Technicolor mounting, deliberately stagey, was eye candy of the best sort, like an extravagantly decorated old-fashioned box containing the sort of confections one would savor to the very last morsel.  Great fun! "},{"Title":"Wildely Funny","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a tremendous movie based on a tremendous play. Oscar Wilde, despite his personal quirks, or maybe because of them, was a master of wit and language. When he wished to be serious, his works are also well written.This movie, and others based upon his works (The Picture of Dorian Gray, etc.) are all masterpieces of art.The Importance of being Earnest has been remade successfully, the dialog cannot be better. The situation, while complicated, is hysterical, and everything fits into place, especially at the end. In the 1952 version the play by Wilde was well adapted by writer/director Anthony Asquith. The portrayals of all the case, of Redgrave, as Redgrave as Jack, of Evans as Lady Bracknell, even that of Malleson as Canon Chasuble are sparkling, and the movie could not have been more enjoyable. Recent remakes of Wilde's movies, including that of The Importance of Being Earnest, are well done. This original movie, however, should be seen by anyone appreciating comedy, and want to watch a great film. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this film adaptation (and Oliver Parker's 2002 version as well) of Oscar Wilde's classic play The Importance of Being Earnest to complement my study of it for a 19th century English drama course. First I want to say, no matter what version(s) you choose to see, I strongly suggest you read the play first (its not that long). In some cases, the casting in the later film (specifically Reese Witherspoon as Cecily and Rupert Everett as Algy), made fifty(!) years later to be exact, seemed more appropriate but in my opinion Asquith's version captured the spirit of the text more succinctly. I must also say as well, however that since Asquith's version is essentially a staged play, there is little in the form of visual dynamism from the camera; in other words the film rests almost entirely on the strength of the performances. Happily, they do not disappoint. "},{"Title":"a truly Wilde production","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oscar Wilde's most famous play is given an extremely stage-bound reading in this colour adaptation by Anthony Asquith.  It evens starts and ends with the raising and lowering of a theatre curtain!That aside this is probably the essential Wilde movie &#150; not only do we get the main four role perfectly cast (Michael Redgrave as Jack, Michael Denison as Algy, Dorothy Tutin as Cecily, Joan Greenwood as Gwendolen), we also have two of the most delightfully eccentric portrayals in the history of cinema with Margaret Rutherford as Miss Prism, and, of course, Edith Evans as Lady Bracknell.  Who could resist the way Dame Edith says &#145;a handbag!'A hugely enjoyable movie which makes sure none of the wit is lost in unnecessary padding or setting &#150; something the makers of the recent remake could learn from.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An hour and a half of sheer delightful Wildean wit and word play. Lush Technicolor, brilliant acting. Edith Evans steals the show by going over the top by carrying her 19th century style of stage acting just as far as it can go, i.e., to the point of parody.  I haven't yet seen the 2002 version, but i don't see how it can compare. "}{"Title":"The Importance of Being Edith Evans","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Delightful film adaptation of Oscar Wilde's superb play about Victorian-era English manners and mix-ups. The play and performances are so close to Mr. Wilde's original words, you really can't go wrong; although, on close inspection, there are clearly some logistical problems. For example, it is shot beautifully, but without a flourish or imagination worthy of Wilde. And, cameras emphasize things that wouldn't have mattered with the otherwise marvelous cast on stage. To be fair, the film acknowledges this in its execution.Everyone is exemplary, but elderly Aunt Edith Evans really demands to be seen. She possess the role of Lady Augusta Bracknell for all eternity, and would be famous for merely uttering the two words A handbag? but, every word and phoneme slips sardonically from the mind of Oscar Wilde to dame Edith's tongue. Ms. Evans should have received some Best Supporting Actress notice, but this was released in 1952, not 1948, and American voters were favoring homegrown material.Pity.******** The Importance of Being Earnest (6/2/52) Anthony Asquith ~ Michael Redgrave, Michael Denison, Edith Evans, Joan Greenwood "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Importance of Being Earnest is a funny movie derived from Oscar Wilde's best play. There are no clunkers in the cast and hardly a wrong step is made, even when Wilde is altered.Dame Edith Evans did not make her stage debut until fifteen years after Earnest first premiered, so Oscar Wilde could not have had her in mind when he created the role of Lady Bracknell; but she is so perfect it becomes difficult to imagine anyone else in the part, ever. She manages to squeeze every note of the music of human language into simple words like found and handbag. Margaret Rutherford and Miles Malleson, two famous and prolific actors of the British dotty school come very close to being ideal for their more minor parts of (respectfully) Miss Prism and Dr. Chasuble.For the young lovers, the women are well chosen and make a fine contrast. Sultry-voiced Joan Greenwood has had a solid film career to this point (including the Alec Guiness classic Man in a White Suit) and she knows how to deliver a comic line. Then new-comer Dorthy Tutin is so good with her lines, you'd think she was an old-hand, rather than a fresh-faced, twenty-two year old newcomer making her first major film appearance.The young men are sometimes thought of as more problematic. Michael Redgrave (unfortunately known these days more for being the father of Vanessa and Lynn than for his great acting) was in his forties. Mainly stage-bound actor Michael Denison was in his thirties. Denison wonderfully limns the all-important character of Algernon Moncrieff. He's young-looking and exuberant and delivers his lines with great care and consideration (Algernon is an easy character to go hammy with and Denison avoids that trap).For his part, Redgrave compensates for his age by an exquisitely-honed performance. Not only is his delivery spot-on, he practically gives a workshop on how to get a laugh with a slight twitch of a mustache or the roll of an eye. Redgrave and Denison seem to be having a high old time with their roles, while taking them seriously and never overacting.Also, be on the look-out for long-time supporting actor Richard Wattis as Seton. Blink, and you'll miss him, as he flits in to raise a supercilious eyebrow or two.Some Wilde purists may object to the expurgation of lines. Many of the lines cut are the sort of thing that probably just struck Wilde as a good idea at the time and no one will miss them. Other lines may have been cut to keep this movie short, light and frothy. Wilde could be very funny, but he could also be unnecessarily cruel. I don't think he would have been a nice man to know, the way he could sling around hurtful lines to humorous effect. All his characters have been accused of talking like Wilde -- which is true to different degrees. A few of the missing lines were genuine, polished gems and it was a pity they weren't included. Also, the sub-plot of Grisby, which only appears in longer versions of the play, does not rear its ugly head in this short version (and good riddance). I, for one, am glad they kept the movie light and without a mean bone in its body.The movie has also been changed subtly from the stage. The stage version has the action taking place on a minimum of sets. The movie remains bound to the sound-stage and never really ventures out of doors (even in the outdoors scenes) but it adds a few more sets and more mobility. For instance, it begins in Jack's flat rather than in Algernon's. For me, this works even better than the stage version and gives Jack a good reason to throw one of Algernon's lines back in his face.So, you have a good play shorn of overmuch dialogue and a solid cast acting their hearts out. I don't know why I call it Almost Perfect. "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy in the English language","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anthony Asquith makes no attempt to 'open out' Oscar Wilde's great comedy of manners, (the best ever written in the English language), so essentially what we are seeing is about the best performance you could possibly have of a very great play due entirely to Asquith's understated direction and the consummate playing of his cast. Edith Evan's Lady Bracknell is already legendary, (a radical reinterpretation of the part is what is required if anyone else is to make an impression in the role), but so too are Michael Redgrave's Jack Worthing and Michael Denison's Algernon Moncrieff. (Redgrave is prissy and fey and very Wildean while Denison has a wonderfully easy-going loucheness about him). Nor can one fault Joan Greenwood as Gwendolen, (more tiger than kitten), or Dorothy Tutin as Cecily, (fresh faced innocence betraying a steely core), while Margaret Rutherford as Miss Prism wobbles that great chin of hers like a marshmallow on a low heat, (it may be her best and most undervalued performance). Hardly cinema in any traditional sense of the word, then, but it is to be treasured all the same. "},{"Title":"Dodgson's Chapel","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dodgson's ChapelI've finally come around to this film of the famous play. The 2002 version wasn't done well and was the subject of one of my very first IMDb comments. The problem there was that the movie tried to be a movie instead of a play, and failed. This one tries only to be a non- distracting film of a play. In fact, I suppose the script is precisely that of the play with no muddling.It works marvelously and in the process becomes more of a workable movie than the later project which tried so hard.I think the reason is simple. The play had a coherent soul. (Oh, how I wonder how rare it is that we have someone that can do this, and what a tragedy that we torture them for being deviant. Or whether certain types or art demand this on both sides.) That soul is placed in the heart of language, not situation. Its the words that matter, in fact it is the word/name earnest, and the delicious notion that a baby can be mistaken for a book, in moment of mental abstraction.Much of the humor or words reflected against contemporary society is based on oblivious extension of phrases and is directly influenced by Lewis Carroll, a somewhat older member of the Oxford community. Its rather wonderful seeing how this meme evolved on the stage, jumping from one clever writer to another until being extinguished by silent films. Its far more interesting than Uranian matters.But we have it here again, unsullied. The speech of Lady Bracknell has to be one of the funniest and sharpest sequence of words ever woven.I should mention a device. The play starts as a play. We see the audience, who looks much like the characters. The curtain goes up and the reality moves to the stage.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Oscar's Greatest Play","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In January 1895 two plays were produced in London's West End, and the reactions of the theater going public was marked in both cases. The first was GUY DOMVILLE, a historical drama that was written by Henry James. James had spent the better part of a year writing this play, and it was to establish him (he hoped) as a great dramatist. It has never been revived (as far as I know) but it's opening night was a disaster. Despite being put into the hands of a leading actor manager (George Alexander), the play was considered so static and feeble that the audience was laughing at the actors throughout the performance. James, a nervous man, did not show up until the curtain was closing. In a moment of anger and meanness, Alexander (who had gotten his share of jeers that night) signaled the audience to be quiet, and said that it was his pleasure to introduce the author of the play. Poor James walked over to Alexander, imagining he would receive kudos of applause for brilliant work. Instead the audience jeered and laughed at him - and he fled the theater (and London). He never wrote another commercial play.A few weeks later Alexander regained his audience by appearing as Jack Worthing in the second play of that month Oscar Wilde's THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST. It was a hit comedy since that night, and though Wilde's personal disaster caused it to be closed prematurely it has remained (with LADY WINDEMERE'S FAN) permanently in world repertoire. But Wilde too, due to his legal disaster, never wrote another play for the British theater - he did write SALOME for foreign performances.Due to the Wilde Scandal of 1895 his stories and plays were not performed on stage or in the movies in Britain for years. It was different in the U.S. THE CANTERVILLE GHOST (brought up to date) was a successful film with Charles Laughton, Robert Young, and Margaret O'Brien during the war. In the film FLESH AND FANTASY a version of LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME was in one of the episodes with Edward G. Robinson, Sir C. Aubrey Smith, and Thomas Mitchell. And finally (in 1945) a film version of Oscar's sole novel, THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY, popped up with Hurd Hatfield, George Sanders, and Angela Lansbury.Inevitably there was a softening of the censor rules for Wilde's comedies. And in 1952 Anthony Asquith did a lovely colored version of THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST. I think Asquith was copying the way he presented the film from Olivier's earlier HISTORY OF KING HENRY V (1944), where we see the production at the Globe Theater in the 1590s transformed into the actual locals in England and France (actually Ireland). Here we see a wealthy couple sitting in a theater box in London, and looking at the program, and the curtain rises. But the scene immediately is more like John Worthing's rooms at the Albany hotel in London, with his servants giving him a bath. Then the scene changes as we meet Worthing's friend Algy Moncrieff in the dining room.Michael Redgrave is Jack, which is worth noting because Redgrave's film roles were usually dramatic parts, not comic ones. He is not the assured snob that John Gielgud played on stage (opposite Edith Evans), which one can still catch on recordings of his performance. But he is deft in his part, as the ultimate gentleman who is tragically bereft of normal parentage because he can only trace his ancestry to the handbag that he was abandoned in at Victoria Station. Evans is the perfect Lady Bracknell (a gorgon without a myth, which is quite sad, as Jack says). She is eminently supportive of the current status quo, willing to refuse Jack's desire to marry her daughter Gwendolyn (Joan Greenwood), while willing to accept his ward Cecily (Dorothy Tutin) for her relative Algy, as Cecily has a fortune of 130,000 pounds coming to her. Lady B is a snob, but a pragmatist. When asking Jack about his politics, he says he is a Liberal. She says that does not matter, at night she allows them to pretend they are Tories.The two young woman are fine, especially in the scene where they think the other is trying to steal their boyfriend. Tutin's comments back at Greenwood are met with the approving gaze of the family butler (Aubrey Mather). But when both find their boyfriends are lying about their name, they suddenly reject both Jack and Algy, and call each other sister. Earlier Algernon had said that before women call each other sister they call each other by many other names - and he is shown to be right here.One must also note the wonderful dual performance of Margaret Rutherford as Miss Prism and Miles Malleson as the diffident Canon Chausable. Both are past the age of real passion, but both are also attracted to each other - but their idea of a tryst is a walk in a garden, or Miss Prism going to the Vicarage. And Redgrave's final moments with Rutherford, when the mystery at the center of the play is almost solved, is a wonderful send-up of Victorian melodrama like EAST LYNNE about illegitimate children or shamed mothers.An elegant, amusing trifle to this day - and a hint of what Wilde might have given us more of had he not been wrecked by the law and his lifestyle. "},{"Title":"Truly definitive","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those very rare cases in which the entire production has a stamp of the definitive about it. Any other production you are ever to see on stage or screen will very likely pale in comparison. An exceptional cast was assembled from the cream of the British theater of the time and under Anthony Asquith's direction, they one and all deliver superb and definitive performances of Wilde's wittiest play. Pity the actor in future productions who has to obliterate the memory of this bunch.Michael Redgrave and Michael Dennison share a delightful chemistry and Joan Greenwood with her uniquely dulcet tones and Dorothy Tutin are the ideal Gwendolen and Cecily. Margaret Rutherford is, as always, a delight and of course there's Dame Edith Evans.Evans so totally embodies Lady Bracknell that even the likes of Judi Dench and Joan Plowwright, (particularly weak), were distinctly lacking in tackling the role. Evans' haughtiness betrays an occasional self knowing humorous twinkle of the eye. It's an hilarious and masterly performance and a treasure to behold.A production Wilde himself would no doubt have adored. "},{"Title":"Best version of this work","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen the 2002 remake of Earnest (very good), I have seen it performed on the stage (also very good), but this 1952 film version is now my favorite. I saw it for the first time only last night. Wonderful performances all around, with Edith Evans' presence being especially commanding. It doesn't hurt one bit that both Joan Greenwood and Dorothy Tutin look almost impossibly beautiful. There is not one word of wasted dialog. I don't know if the film was remastered or otherwise reprocessed, but the colors and picture were sharp (via cable TV). It looks like a DVD that cleaned up the the original was made in 2002 - I may have to have that! If you get a chance to see a stage production of this, do so. "},{"Title":"Best film version of a great play","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Returning to this classic 1952 version of Wilde's remarkable comedy of manners, and after viewing the new version with Dame Judy Dench, I was struck by how superior it is in every way to the newer version. Simply in terms of acting style alone, it cannot be faulted. According to the writer Sheridan Morley, Edith Evans' famous interpretation of Lady Bracknell was apparently developed in memory the many grand ladies that had kept her mother's family in domestic service for many years. One can well believe it. And director Anthony Asquith has not made the fatal error committed in many recent film versions of Wilde's plays, of 'inventing' extra material to take away their staginess. Their staginess is part of the way the pieces work. Now, all we need is a proper restoration of the Technicolor original and we'll all be happy. "},{"Title":"a delightful confection","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a film of what has long been considered the definitive version of the Oscar Wilde play. Edith Evan's performance was celebrated and very famous in its day. The production has the look of a candy box, entirely appropriate to the plot, which serves mainly to support the bon mots peppered throughout the dialog. This movie gets better with every viewing. The more mature you are, the more you understand what's being said. The only possible criticism I have is that perhaps Michael Redgrave is a tad too old for his role, but it's MICHAEL REDGRAVE, so it's impossible to complain. The casting is perfect and the performances are flawless. This film is required viewing for anyone who claims to be civilized. "},{"Title":"very witty,wilde!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" what can one say.. Michael Redgrave,Michael Denison,and the great Edith Evans in Wilde's greatest play...PERFECTION! "}{"Title":"The best film of a great English satire","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As with all categories of movies, and their many subgroups, satire isn't for everyone. And, judging from a few reviews on IMDb, if one doesn't get the satire, the humor may be lost as well. But many of us do relish satire &#x96; especially the wit and farcical spoofing in great works such as The Importance of Being Earnest. So, the humor isn't lost on us in the satire, but is brought home boisterously and subtly, straightforward and by innuendo, in words and in looks. Make no bones about it &#x96; this is a satire on high society of England in the late 19th century. The language, dress, customs and mores of the time are all part of the story. So, they are dated, as they should be. Any retelling of this work that eschews the time-specific of the story, will naturally lose the satire. For, placed in a modern setting, or otherwise changed, the satire of Wilde's play loses its bite and sarcasm; and the script then becomes just a running dialog of jokes or puns. This 1952 rendition of Oscar Wilde's play is the best of any movie made for presenting this satire as one would hear and see it live on stage. I think the film even gives us an advantage over the stage. We can see actor's expressions quite vividly. Director Anthony Asquith uses his excellent camera work in many instances to show us close-ups of a range of expressions in the reactions between actors. These instances enhance the wit and humor of the barbs or bon mots just delivered.All aspects of this 1952 film are superior. The screenplay, cinematography, costumes, makeup, sets, and directing and editing are superb. But most of all, this film has an outstanding cast of actors &#x96; from all the leads to the smallest supporting roles. Each person gives something special to his or her character. The key focus of Wilde's satire here is in the person of Lady Bracknell. Edith Evans excels in the role of the domineering, nonsensical society matriarch. She gives hubris to the contemptible icon of high English society of the late 19th century. Her exaggerated portrayal fits well the obnoxious, autocrat that Wilde puts at the center of his mockery of upper English society of the time.The Michaels &#x96; Redgrave and Dennison, excel in their roles as Jack Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff. They play perfectly off each other throughout the film. It's with Redgrave especially, that the humor of some of the witty lines is made all the more laughable by the expressions we see on his face. Dennison adds a very pleasing bounciness that gives life to the otherwise idle lifestyle of Algy. But I think the ladies again steal center stage in this wonderful spoof. Joan Greenwood plays the best possible snobbish, pretentious, hilarious Gwendolen that I can imagine has ever been done live or on film. She is riotously funny as the snooty, arrogant and pompous object of Jack's romantic affections. And Dorothy Tutin gives an excellent portrayal of the demure, innocent but silly Cecily. She just isn't quite the snob, nor is she quite as pompous, for her youth and lack of experience that Gwendolen has had.The wonderful Margaret Rutherford is Miss Prism. She brings smiles to our faces with her humorous lines and expressions. And Miles Malleson is a nice match for her as Canon Chasuble. Was Wilde giving us a touch of his wit also in the choice of some of the names of his characters? A chasuble is the outer vestment worn by clergy in the Anglican and Catholic churches. And a prism is a type of lens through which objects take on many different shapes and colors. The actors who play the butlers and man-servants are very funny in their roles as well. One other thing that bears comment is Redgrave's age. A couple of reviewers said he was too old for the part &#x96; although they liked him in it. Modern movie buffs would do well to note that people &#x96; men, especially -- 100 and more years ago generally looked much older than they do today. Since the mid-20th century, the physical appearances of Western men have gotten younger. Look at old high school photos to see that most teenagers a century or more ago looked more mature than they do today. Most 65-year-old men today don't show as much age as did 50-year- old men in the past. So, the 44-year old Redgrave in 1952 could very likely pass for a man 28 or 35 in the previous century. The Importance of Being Earnest is one of the finest satires on society ever written and put on film. And this 1952 movie is the best ever made of the great Oscar Wilde farce. It's a wonderful treat from start to finish. But I warn anyone who may not enjoy satire &#x96; you may find yourself laughing at lines you don't think should be funny. "},{"Title":"Acme, peak, pinnacle of wit","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The incarnation of perfection. It had been many, many years since I'd last seen this zenith, this quintessence of dramatic art and composition. Besides the handbag, I especially recalled the exquisite dialogue during the al fresco tea-party of the divine little sisters, and even more especially the immortal line I asked for bread-and-butter, and you have given me cake. Nothing since has ever come close to equalling that expression of reproach, tinged with pain and sorrow. Sixty years had passed, and I still remembered those uniquely thrilling tones of Greenwood, as they re-echoed in the ear of memory.I was just about to express an opinion on this site, when I discovered that Youtube had posted the entire masterpiece, as recently as 27 May, this year as ever is! And I have now re-watched it, courtesy that tube, quite gratis, with immeasurable enjoyment.It is laugh out loud funny, to use a vulgar modern term. I was frequently in stitches. Directed with an impeccably light touch by Asquith, it is a triumphant celebration of verbal fireworks. They coruscate and scintillate. The settings are matchless. This is a work in the tradition of sparkling English theatre, from Shakespeare, through Sheridan to the late C19th, after which, though briefly revived by Coward, it shrivels, droops and dies. It is quite incredible to me that anyone could be so deplorably dull as to award it fewer stars than any of the near-ubiquitous trash contained in the IMDb top 250 list. Compare it with Lump, Stump and Two Stinking Balderdashes, to see Britain's precipitous national decline "},{"Title":"Fantastic version of  Wilde's play","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first got into 'the Importance of being Earnest' last summer when my teacher cast me as Jack for my A-level exam production of it. Me and my classmate did the first scene with Jack and Algernon and we loved every bit of it. I read the whole play, loved it and then i hunted round looking for dvds of it. I first got the 2002 version of it which i enjoyed but i was disappointed that they had changed the script which i think is an insult. I should have expected it though, with American money invested it was inevitable. Relying on the reviews i had read of this old version, i went so far as to order it from Amazon as i was told all copies have sold in the UK and they aren't making any more. I was not disappointed with it at all, i loved every minute of it.Directed by the great Anthony Asquith, this fantastic version stars Sir Michael Redgrave as Jack, Michael Dennison as Algernon, Dame Edith Evans as Lady Bracknell, Dame Margerate Rutherford as Miss Prism, Milles Malleson as Dr Chasuble, Joan Greenwood as Gwendolen and the lovely Dorothy Tutin as Cecily, this version is perfect.Micheal Redgrave is the best Jack and Joan Greenwood captures one's heart with her plummy-voiced Gwendolen. Of course, stealing the show is Edith Evans as the tyrannical Lady Bracknell 'A HANDBAG!', Dame Judi dench was good in the role, but however she wasn't the Lady Bracknell i had pictured in my head, whereas Dame Edith was. And of course, nobody could ever forget the hilarious performance of Miss Prism by Magarate Rutherford. However, i did enjoy the new version's algernon (Ruppert Everrett), Dr Chasuble (Tom Wilkinson) and Lane (Edward Fox) a bit more than i did here. In a very short space of time, this has become one of my favourite films. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that has me laughing so hard I am in tears. Wilde's witty language is delivered beautifully by everyone in the movie. I've seen several versions of Earnest and I believe this one to be the best.  Michael Redgrave has just the right attitude; the supporting cast is superb.  Timing is excellent.  Even the butler is great. This is British wit at its best! "},{"Title":"The ultimate theatre experience","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've given this 10 out of 10, because it doesn't matter how many times I watch it, I can't think of any way you could improve it. The original play is a classic, and this is a fairly good interpretation of the second, slightly shorter, version of Wilde's masterpiece. The cast is to die for, every role seems to have been written for the cast members, not the other way round! I've seen many stage versions, and although many have been excellent, I always find myself comparing them to this gem, and this always comes out on top. Probably only Hobson's Choice, with Charles Laughton, comes close to this level of perfection. Redgrave is brilliant, and shows an acting style not seen in any of his other films, contrasting wildly with the dull grey Crocker-Harris or studiously obsessive Barnes Wallace. Denison is a revelation as Algernon, a stage expert at his best, Tutin, in her film debut, is as close to an English Rose as ever portrayed on film, Greenwood, with her distinctive voice the perfect foil. Malleson and Rutherford are a match for any famous screen couple, and even Richard Wattis, Aubrey Mather and Walter Hudd as the 3 butlers are just right for their cameos. And then there's Edith Evans, in her most famous role, rightly so, delivering one of the most famous quotes ever on screen. Am I biased towards this film ? Yes, stuck on a desert island this would be my number one pick. "},{"Title":"Don't Ignore This Older Film","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Importance of Being Earnest is, was and always will be a one character play. That one character is Lady Augusta Bracknell. If the actress playing Lady Bracknell is successful, the play or film will be good. If Lady Bracknell is not done well, the play or film flops, no matter how good the rest of the cast may be. In the 2002 version of Oscar Wilde's play, Judi Dench was a great Lady Bracknell. In this earlier version, the part was played by Edith Evans, also a great British actress. Both versions are worth seeing because Lady Bracknell is superbly done. The earlier film has the advantage of having a youthful Joan Greenwood as Gwendolyn and Dorothy Tutin as Cecily. Joan Greenwood became a film star. Dorothy Tutin made her mark on the stage and rarely did movies. The wonderful Margaret Rutherford is Prism, the caretaker who left her manuscript in the baby carriage and the baby in a valise at Victoria Station. Michael Redgrave appears as Ernest in the city and Jack in the country. He gets top billing but, in truth, is a secondary character. The film belongs to Lady Bracknell, and Edith Evans portrays her wonderfully. Hence, it's a 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"a classic comedy","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This play, along with the book Leave it to Psmith, is at the pinnacle of Victorian/Edwardian English humor. (I know the periods aren't really the same -- I've read The Proud Tower, too -- but for purposes of this comment...) When Lady Bracknell makes her remark about losing both parents, if you aren't in stitches, you really just have to give up on pre-WWII English humor.The production is a bit stagey, but the performances are all at least adequate, and the important performances are wonderful. Everyone I know who has seen this finds themselves laughing at lines even years later. It's really as zany as the best of the Monty Python stuff, but much more polished. It makes one wish that Wilde had lived in a more tolerant time, or that he had been more sensible, since there might have been more work of this caliber forthcoming...  "},{"Title":"The Joker Is Wilde","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is, hands down, the definitive film version of Wilde's finest play rendering all others superfluous. Puffin Asquith made something of a specialty of adapting stage plays and his resume' includes Pygmalion, Quiet Wedding, Cottage To Let, French Without Tears, plus the definitive film version (the Albert Finney remake was a joke) of the finest One-Act play ever written, Terry Rattigan's The Browning Version, in which Asquith and Redgrave teamed up yet again. Michael Redgrave was the outstanding Stage actor of his generation despite strong competition from Ralph Richardson, Johhny Gielgud and the overrated Larry Olivier but for better or worse he was associated with 'weighty' roles, especially Shakespeare yet he possessed the lightest of touches when playing comedy as he demonstrates here where he leads a cast that would be difficult if not impossible to eclipse. From all accounts Edith Evans' Lady Bracknell was one or two notches below her stage version in the 'classic' John Gielgud version of the play some years earlier and if that is so then the stage performance may well have been out of this world. The other Michael in the cast (Dennison, as Algy) is not someone immediately linked with Wilde yet he brings it off exceptionally well which may be hardly surprising given it was his impetus that got the project off the ground. Miles Malleson and the 'amateur' (when Redgrave dared to praise her standout performance as Madame Arcati at an out-of-town preview of Blithe Spirit to the author, Noel Coward, he was taken aback when Coward seethed 'amateur' and changed the subject) Margaret Rutherford complement each other perfectly whilst Joan Greenford and newcomer (in her film debut) Dorothy Tutin round off a cast in which everyone has grasped the concept of speaking the Wildean epigrams with which it is studded as if they were the most banal clichés. Definitely one to savor. "},{"Title":"Rather Stagy but Thoroughly Entertaining Version of Wilde's Play","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anthony Asquith's version for Rank announces its intentions right at the beginning, with a shot of an Edwardian-style theater and the curtain rising on a proscenium stage. The camera zooms in on the stage, and the action begins. From then on Asquith is determined to remind us of the material's stage-origins most of the scenes are shot either in shot/reverse shot or two-shot sequences, focusing on the actors' expressions. His cast do not let him down Michael Redgrave has a supreme range of facial expressions as he tries to deal with ever- changing (and often farcical) situations, contrasting starkly with Michael Denison's more laid-back Algernon Moncrieff, who views the entire action as a huge joke. The two younger women Gwendolyn (Joan Greenwood) and Cicely (Dorothy Tutin) are just wonderful; their cat- fight over Jack (Redgrave) contains several long takes, in which Asquith focuses as much on their reactions as their line-delivery; they try to sustain a veneer of politeness, when it is clear that they thoroughly dislike one another. Dame Edith Evans and Margaret Rutherford repeat the roles they already played in the classic stage productions in London during the 1930s and 1940s Evans is thoroughly theatrical as Lady Bracknell, her line-delivery full of pregnant pauses and deliberate emphases A HandBAAAAAg???? Rutherford is much less emphatic, her bird-like gestures and breathy delivery suggesting someone who has spent a lifetime repressing her feelings, but has at last discovered the capacity to love, as she has a (very polite) liaison with Dr. Chasuble (Miles Malleson). Mention must also be made of Yvonne Caffin's costume- designs; she uses a garish color palette (suggesting a lack of sophistication among the characters) and clothes the female characters in wonderfully overstated Victorian dresses. The size of Tutin's sleeves, contrasted with the shocking pink of Greenwood's parasol, is a wonder to behold. The sets (by Carmen Dillon) are equally vulgar, each nook and cranny being stuffed with things, showing the acquisitive nature of all the characters. While this version of THE IMPORTANCE might not work too well cinematically - it is best appreciated by those with a working knowledge of Wilde's text - it preserves for ever some performances which can only be described as definitive. "},{"Title":"Why Earnest is like Macbeth","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ever since its premiere in London in 1895, this play has been deemed perhaps the wittiest in the English language. The characters behave in a far from naturalistic way, the plot is nonsense, and it's all very very silly. But it shimmers with with and fabulous quotations. The cast (especially Joan Greenwood, Dorothy Tutin and Edith Evans) are absolutely note perfect and treat the whole thing with the seriousness it deserves. If you ever want something sensational to read in a train, take a copy along. It will be even more enjoyable than Gwendolen's diary.And why is it like Macbeth? The sheer number of recognisable quotes. "}{"Title":"Exquisite adaptation of  Wilde's great play","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is witty, ingenious and terribly gay. It will lift your spirits to see these characters chirping away, even if you are hospitalized in a coma.Edith Evans is Lady Bracknell, she is the funniest of the bunch, with an ideal horse-face that can only be found in families with at least five generations of British gentility. Her declamatory, accented, pompous speech is a delight, even asking for a scone sounds like the proclamation of a peerage coming from her. Michael Denison is totally affected and delightfully artificial as Algernon Moncrieff, this man could only be interested in high fashion and decorators and frankly I think part of the comedy is Oscar Wilde's trying to convince us that Victorian society was so dedicated to denial and maintaining social appearances as to believe this man would want to marry a woman when we know he would be having a nervous breakdown over her gown, the length of her veil, the right texture of paper on the invitation and the endless thank you notes. Even the way he eats a muffin is decidedly gay. Michael Redgrave is Jack Worthing and not that far from Algernon in posturing, over-dressing and mannerisms. They are perfect for each other, and they could have possibly started together the first line of haut couture and interior decor in England, instead we are led to believe that he is interested in romancing and marrying that goose of Gwendolen Fairfax as played by Joan Greenwood whose only merit is consistently dressing like she is on her way to a coronation. One of her headdresses early on is a full English garden in bloom, compressed into her limited head space, a feat that would have made even Marie-Antoinette jealous. Dorothy Tutin as Cecily Cardew is perfectly annoying. She has the charm of a high-speed dentist drill, her voice is pitched and commanding, like a school mistress admonishing her charges, and is so persistently innocent and overwhelmingly pure one feels tempted to throw her head over heels into the Moulin Rouge for training on how to become a normal human being and stop being a professional virgin. Perhaps the best performance of all is the delightful Margaret Rutherford as the eccentric, literary, Miss Letitia Prism. Her facial expressions are exquisite, her perfectly full cheeks and rotund body being the product of endless afternoons consuming jam, scones and Earl Gray tea. One regrets not being able to read the voluminous manuscript that she mistook for the baby, I am sure it could be turned into a best-seller comedy. "},{"Title":"The General Was Essentially A Man Of Peace, Except In His Domestic Life","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack is in love with Gwendolen. His friend Algy is in love with Cecily. Both women want to marry a man named Ernest, so the men have both pretended to their fiancées that they are called Ernest. Such deception in matters of the heart is surely ill-advised &#133;There have been many adaptations of Oscar Wilde's classic comic play of high society manners, but this is the timeless definitive one. It probably works best because it doesn't really try to be a movie, it's just a staging of the play with crisp early colour photography and very little fuss. All of the principal cast are pretty much perfect in these roles; Redgrave's mannered, elegant, raised-eyebrow pomposity is irresistible. Dennison has a whale of a time as the caddish Algy. Tutin and Greenwood are as fine a pair of English stuffed prunes as ever took high tea, and the always reliable Rutherford is a scream as the guilt-strewn Miss Prism. Undoubtedly top of the heap though is Evans as the formidable Lady Augusta Bracknell. Evans had a whole career worth of stage experience behind her, and makes Wilde's much-celebrated battleaxe hilarious, terrifying, slightly sozzled and unforgettable. She has so many great lines it's folly to pick one, but I think my favourite is, Ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit; touch it, and the bloom is gone. The whole theory of modern education is radically unsound. Fortunately in England, at any rate, education produces no effect whatsoever.. The terrific cast and simple approach combine to deliver Wilde's sublime writing to the hilt. What I love so much about this play is that not a line or word is wasted; everything is funny, nuanced, part of the story, part of the comic absurdity. I generally enjoy plays, but many could do with a lot of pruning (try getting through Act IV of King Lear if you don't believe me). This on the other hand is as close to perfection as comic writing gets, as if Wilde had somehow worked out mathematically what constituted the most perfectly-formed funny stageplay. Okay it's maybe not for all tastes, but as a brilliantly observed little dig at love and aristocratic foibles it's an absolute gem. My favourite observation on Wilde is by Dorothy Parker, who said, If with the literate I am / Impelled to try an epigram / I never seek to take the credit / We all assume that Oscar said it.. Draw the shades, make yourself a nice cuppa, and enjoy this comic delight. "},{"Title":"I intend to develop in many directions!","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Long regarded as the definitive version of Oscar Wilde's classic play, Asquith's adaptation still suffers from the faults of the original despite being heavily edited (running at what ought to be a brisk 90 minutes).Earnest is a social satire, a comedy of nonsensical manners and civilities, the like of which Wilde continually penned, and its plot - whilst relying heavily on co-incidence - is satisfyingly circular and consistent. The problem lies with the fact that very little actually happens, and what does happen occurs very, very slowly due to the sheer verbosity of the dialogue. Now, much of this is what gives the play its charm and it cannot be denied that the syntax and vocabulary has a beauty all of its own. However, one can admire a work of art whilst not necessarily liking it. An Oscar Wilde play is whimsical and not to be taken altogether seriously, which means that, though they are witty, they are ultimately quite superficial - this coupled with the sheer amount of dialogue often makes a Wilde play seem far longer than it actually is. I often think that Wilde's plays are far better when read than actually performed, as when performed they are often far too much to take in in one go. You feel pinned to the chair by the waves of dry wit.The Importance of Being Earnest therefore has a delightful plot, and equally delightful characters, but remains just as slow as Wilde's other plays, especially when directed in such a languid fashion as this version. For a dialogue heavy comedy such as this to entirely work, a sense of energy much be cultivated (I was recently in a theatrical adaptation of The Picture of Dorian Gray which suffered from having very little energy at all and ultimately proved a chore for the audience to watch) which is all but lacking here as the characters go about everything quite calmly and stoically. Of course, this is arguably in keeping with the source material but makes the film difficult for modern viewers to sit through. A shame as the majority of the cast is first rate; in particular, Michael Denison is superb as Algernon, though it is difficult to single out anybody in particular (interesting, though, that Rutherford's Miss Prism is often used as the focus of relevant artwork for the film given that the role is really quite small, even more so in this adaptation - it is perhaps tantamount to Rutherford's performance that her Miss Prism is so well remembered). I must admit to not really enjoying Edith Evans' portrayal of Lady Bracknell, though that may be more due to the character as written; though Evans is very much the gorgon of which Jack Worthing speaks, the witticisms Wilde scribes for her are far better when delivered as casual rapid-fire lines, as opposed to the over-emphasised and long delivery that an actress feels compelled to give when playing Bracknell. Evans stretches out lines to breaking point so that when she has finished a sentence one quite forgets as to how it began.The play itself deserves to remain a classic of its genre though perhaps is more likely to be admired than actively enjoyed, certainly in this incarnation. "},{"Title":"so earnest!","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Importance of Being Earnest is basically an adaptation of the Oscar Wilde's play for the screen, in other words, a stagy film. Nothing wrong with that, many films succeeded quite well this way, but here the caricatural acting spoils the overall effect. This is a theatrical film with performances that could work well on the stage, aided by the complicity and laughter of an audience. The acting could be even exaggerated if the film were made differently. The Importance of Being Earnest should have used fully the possibilities allowed by the play - respectability, social conventions, cynicism, hypocrisy, joie de vivre .... all living together under the same roof. This could have been dynamite if it had been handled right.Unfortunately, the actors are quick in using voices, smiles, eyebrows... to enhance every comic situation - this was not necessary! Oscar Wilde's play needs no underlining. In the Importance of Being Earnest there's a crescendo that should be considered. It starts as a light comedy, growing up slowly (innuendos and double entendres contend with respectability) ending finally in an explosion of laughter bursting out of a cathedral of joy. When I read the play as a teenager I liked it a lot - so much, in fact, that I read it again some years ago and I was hoping to repeat the fun with this film. Well, this did not occur. The film is just slightly funny. The story should be treated with the daring and irreverence that were Oscar Wilde's qualities. What we see instead is a classic comedy more appropriate perhaps for a museum. "},{"Title":"Wilde's comedy of errors is in good hands...What's in a name?...","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST has had several reincarnations on film but this British version from the '50s, directed by Anthony Asquith and starring MICHAEL REDGRAVE (as one of the men assuming the name Earnest), is one of the most satisfying because of a splendid cast.The Victorian comedy of manners includes impeccable performances from EDITH EVANS as Lady Bracknell and MARGARET RUTHERFORD as Miss Prism with a delightful leading lady role for JOAN GREENWOOD, as one of the young ladies confused by identity crisis. MICHAEL DENISON is the snobbish other man using the name Earnest.So many typical Oscar Wilde witticisms come through in the dialog, so fast and furious that it's impossible to remember all of the very quotable comments made by the participants in this wonderfully played farce. I love one particular line One should always bring one's diary along when traveling by train. It gives you something sensational to read. Summing up What's in a name? Plenty.Just as wonderful as the more recent version with Rupert Everett. Asquith's clever direction is right on target to spice up the comedy from beginning to end with sparkling performances, as only the British can do. Benjamin Frankel's sprightly score is an added delight. "},{"Title":"A great monument to British comedy and film, and a hoot besides","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the standard for a film version of what may be the funniest play in the English language. I jumped in toward the end on TCM the other night, and the dialogue is just so funny, it almost doesn't matter what precedes it. By now we all know that Michael Redgrave is too old for the part, but that is a very minor distraction. He is a first rate actor who really knows how to deliver these lines. As do the other members of the very solid cast. There was no attempt to update dialogue so far as I know. The only additional dialogue seems to be things like Lady Bracknall on the train. The whole production reminds me of the wonderful things coming out of Ealing Studio, and for the moment, I forget who did this film. The British film industry seems to have decided that Hitler may have hurt them, but he didn't kill them, and by God, British civilization is one of the pinnacles of world history, even though we're still on food and clothing rationing, we know theater. And so we have a very faithful film adaptation of a wonderful play, that embraces its stage origin.And oh Lady Bracknall!! Any poor actress playing this role has the challenge of a lifetime when faced by the definitive performance of Dame Edith Evans. They either try to steer away from that characterization, with varying degrees of success, or embrace it, with equal success. Edith is marvelous.We have the wonderful loopy delivery of Joan Greenwood, voted one of the sexiest actress in some poll or another. Absolutely! Her costuming really shows off her figure, and that contralto voice, sounding somewhat like she has a jalapeño pepper in her mouth; well, it's almost too much delight. Joan may have been on to something. Pauline Collins can do that delivery to a T, and it may be based on some tradition.No tattoo's here. None necessary. "},{"Title":"An amazing film, hilariously witty, all characters are wonderful because of their attitudes!","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie many a time, chiefly because of its discreet humor that only those of the most intelligence and understanding can enjoy. Therefore, the movie is narrow category, which is most uncommon. Each character has there own theory. Earnest (aka Jack) has strong feeling for etiquette, which is shown quite distinctly in the beginning of the film. So, in turn he is similar to Lady Bracknell, the most serious, yet humorous character in the film, in my point of view. Algernon has a hilariously sneaky side to him which is why he and Cecily were meant to be. Cecily has her head in the clouds, she lives the romantic fantasy life- she doesn't get out much of her huge estate, clearly. It is an amazing phenomenon how they were all brought together; though it does make sense in the end, considering how they all are related. I loved this picture, it was funny and it really will make you think!  "},{"Title":"Excellent Wilde-adaptation, despite the theatrical composition","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant fun, quite close to the written original. This is Wilde at his best and Anthony Asquith only ads a beautiful mice-en-scene. Nothing is to be said about the acting, everybody does more than is expected of them, contributing to this tight-knit comedy-drama.  "},{"Title":"Holds Up Well","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a stagey production, and not opened out, but you know what you are in for when the opening scene shows people settling into a theatre and the curtain rises.The epigrams flow thick and fast - I managed to get this on DVD here in London in a chain A/V shop so I was forever going back a scene to see what I'd missed. Rather like 'Hamlet' you keep saying to yourself - 'so that's where that phrase comes from'.This is a class British cast operating on full throttle - none more so that Dame Edith, who was better known as a stage actress anyway and by and large the whole thing holds up well despite being nearly 50 years old.All the female characters are strong but barking mad (Cecily, having met Algy 10 minutes before announces that she's been engaged to him for three months already), the men sane but sly and slightly wimpy.As has been said, it is all slightly zany and Dame Edith could easily have been John Cleese in drag.As in 'An Ideal Husband'Wilde once again took character names from around Reading and the Thames Valley and I have heard that the whole title is a pun on the word earnest, which was 1890s slang for gay (some of the lines become an absolute hoot given this reading).The cast is all dead now save for Dorothy Tutin (Cecily)though Michael Denision (Algy) only died 18 months ago at 84. And yes, save where he's wooing the Algy character is always eating.See this with with tea and crumpets on a winter Sunday afternoon and you'll have a ball.PS. Look out for the women's hats - the costume designers went right over the top into next door's garden with them - Dame Edith's has a diving turquoise kingfisher on in her famous scene! "},{"Title":"Ernest In The City, Jack In The Country","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've always felt that Oscar Wilde's work while good was better in parts than the sum of the whole. There isn't anyone with some degree of literacy who hasn't relished some delectable quote of Wilde's, either some offhand remark or a quotation from one of his. I'm willing to bet that Wilde has one of the largest sections in the English speaking world in Bartlett's Familiar Quotations.But unlike his contemporary George Bernard Shaw who was prolifically writing things of social significance, Wilde took society as he saw it, wrote and amused his public about the foibles of same, but his characters have no great purpose driving their lives. Ironically for Wilde it was his whole life and how he lived and loved that became the biggest question of social significance for him to deal with.Thus it is for Ernest Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff a pair of upper class aristocratic types who apparently don't put in a 9 to 5 day, but flit about making observations of others in their station. But among other things that is uncovered is that Ernest is a foundling adopted by the Worthing family, thus making him not a suitable heir for the hand of Algernon's cousin Gwendolen played by Joan Greenwood. A game Michael Redgrave as Ernest has been playing is discovered by Michael Denison as Algy. He discovers a cigarette case inscribed from Cecily to Jack in his possession and Dennison worms a confession out of Redgrave that when he occasionally goes to the country he assumes the identity of a brother Jack for his ward Cecily played by newcomer Dorothy Tutin. Denison is quite amused by the whole thing and follows Redgrave out to the country pretending to be his brother Ernest. He also takes a liking to Tutin.On this plot which is no sillier than some American film comedies hang some of Oscar Wilde's celebrated lines. Knowing they're coming is the treat here. Everything of course is rather neatly resolved in the end with nurse Margaret Rutherford making confessions that resolve everyone's problems paternal and romantic and most of all social for the dowager head of the family Lady Brackenall played by Edith Evans. When Wilde was abruptly stopped from creating by the mores of the Victorian public his like was not seen by the English speaking world until Noel Coward who additionally performed as well as wrote. I've often thought that the only reason Coward did not suffer Wilde's fate was that he had the good sense to cultivate royalty.As for The Importance Of Being Ernest it's a play about a lot of idle people who do say some of the cleverest things ever written in English. It's bright and entertaining and the witticisms certainly haven't lost any edge in over a century. "}{"Title":"Definitive version of the Oscar Wilde play","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this film it was in a German-dubbed version in Germany.  I thought that the dubbers had grossly overdone it and exalted (not to say aggravated) the mannerisms and left us with an unrealistic caricature of the social life of the era.Then I came to Britain, watched the original, and learned that I was wrong in accusing the German dubbing, the original was even more extreme.  To my utter astonishment I also learned that there are still a few people out there in Britain TODAY whose socialising rituals and affected manner of speaking comes embarrassingly close to Wilde's portrait, or at least this film's version of it.Anyway, that makes this film all the more enjoyable.  The acting performances are excellent throughout, and Edith Evans' version of Lady Bracknell can only be described as the definitive one.  Her pronunciation of A HANDBAG! has entered British popular culture.  Anyone using the word handbag in a sentence now runs a serious risk of getting an impersonation of Dame Edith in response. "},{"Title":"Great  British Comedy","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The great Oscar Wilde wrote this play and it is one of his classic comedies with many great actors. Michael Redgrave, (Jack Worthing) is an English gentleman who lives in the city and calls himself Earnest and when he goes to his country estate he calls himself Jack where he has a ward who is named Cecily Cardew, (Dorothy Tutin)a very pretty young girl eighteen years of age. Jack Worthing is in love with a girl named Gwendolyn Fairfax who fell in love with him only because his name is Earnest and she really asks him to marry her and so they do get engaged. Jack has a cousin named Algernon Moncrieff who visits his country home and meets his ward Cecily and they become in love. Jack decides he is going to change his name to Earnest in order to please his girlfriend. However, many things become very complicated in this story and you will have to see this picture in order to find out just what happens. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite plays","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Importance of Being Earnest, one of my favorite plays, receives the heavy hand of Anthony Asquith in this film adaptation which stars Michael Redgrave, Michael Denison, Edith Evans, Joan Greenwood, Dorothy Tutin and Margaret Rutherford. Based on the Oscar Wilde play, it's the story of a man, Jack Cardew (Redgrave), who leads a double life of sorts - he leaves his country house for the city to take care of his sick cousin Ernest, who doesn't exist. Intrigued, his friend Algernon (Denison) pops down to the country house as Ernest and meets Jack's ward Cecily (Tutin). The two declare their love for one another and become engaged. When Jack's fiancée Gwendolen (Greenwood) who only knows him as Ernest arrives, Cecily cheerfully announces that she is engaged to Ernest. Chaos ensues.Anyone who has seen The Importance of Being Earnest on stage knows that it is fast-moving and contains one big laugh after another. Despite the wonderful cast, this film manages to squeeze every bit of life out of the play so that it becomes very ponderous and nowhere near as funny as it should be. I was extremely disappointed, as this play even reads better than it is performed here.The only part that should really get a big laugh in this film is Jack/ Ernest's statement that he was found in a handbag as a baby 28 years ago. Since Redgrave was in his forties when he made this film and looks every bit of it and more, this statement is absurd. Alas, what should have been a lightning-paced, charming movie is beautiful to look at and little else. "},{"Title":"Pretty good... but should be better","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The play The Importance of Being Earnest is brilliant and hysterically funny.  I bought this tape because I adore the play.  Unfortunately, the makers of this movie decided to delete quite a few (very funny) lines and made up a few others.  I suppose they had time constraints, but it wasn't an improvement.It is still enjoyable... but I much prefer the 1981 version.  I have both on tape, and even though the '81 tape is old and deteriorating it is the version I will continue watch over and over again.  I hope the 2002 version will be better than this! "},{"Title":"Loved scenes of Algernon enjoying his food!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Am no professional at writing my comments on favorite movies, but will give it a try because The Importance of Being Earnest is one of my favorites and one of the funniest films I've seen.  Have rented it several times and even wanted to purchase a copy, but found that it is no longer available. Anyway, many scenes had me chuckling out loud, but what was truly amazing to me was how, with great relish, the actor portraying Algernon ate whatever food was available to him  the cucumber sandwiches, the chicken leg, the muffins.  He makes eating look so appealing that I have to put a check on my desire to run to the refrigerator to dig out something to munch on myself. These views are simple but I would recommend anyone renting the video and watching it for themselves.  It really is fun! "},{"Title":"Imitation cleverness","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wilde is likely the least cinematic of the great playwrights. His humour is steeped in audience interaction and real-time, something difficult to replicate in the cinema. Here, there are certainly many capablefigures involved, and this is by no means a dull film, but for those of us who have seen a live presentation of this work, this remains but a copy of something worthwhile.With Pygmalion Asquith was able to examine the re-definition of a character with the camera, as Eliza changed the camera's perception of her changed as well, both growing more refined. But here everything is too straightforward for any such experiments.3 out of 5 - Some strong elements "},{"Title":"Oh... those 19th c. gags!","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this a billion years ago on TV with a friend. We both enjoyed it. I was happy to see it released on Criterion, but it really doesn't hold up.It takes a very slight idea and converts it into polite fare. But one would have to value the dull, superficial, unexamined, boozhie lives these characters aspire to, to enjoy the movie. With characters willing to make lifelong commitments to someone they've known for less than a day, or reverse firmly-held convictions a few times in half an hour, Wilde is mocking every one of these conventional figures. I feel his contempt, and I find it legitimate. So it's hard to get worked up about plot resolution when I never valued A marrying B, or the like, even as a flimsy pretext to tease out a few jokes. The supposedly intricate plot barely reaches a mild muddle, before it's remedy is being engineered. You'll be taking mental note that we don't construct jokes like this anymore, as the characters spin their wheels to escape paper-thin conflicts.The Dorian Gray movie is a mixed bag but the George Sanders role is the single best embodiment of Wilde's mischievous wit. And 'An Ideal Husband' is a different genre but is more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"TheImportance of Being Earnest","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Importance of Being Earnest takes place in the Victorian age, which encompassed the last quarter of the nineteenth century.  Oscar Wilde, rather than focusing on the lower classes and social conditions, chose to satirize the life of the English aristocracy.  His characters are typical Victorian snobs; they are often arrogant, overly proper, formal, and concerned with materialistic affairs.  Wilde focuses on the easy life of the wealthy, none of who seem to work at all. The main concern of all the characters in the play is something that Wilde viewed as rather trivial marriage, he then bases the play on the problems and trials of marriage.  The aristocracy does not see marriage as an organ of love, but rather as a tool for achieving or sustaining social stature, this is the major theme of the play. The movie consists of Jack Worthing (Redgrave) who lives in the country with his pretty ward Cecily Cardew (Tutin).  In the city, he goes by the name of Earnest and is in love with Gwendolen Fairfax (Greenwood).  Miss Fairfax's cousin is Algernon Moncrieff (Denison), who, also using the name Earnest goes to the country and falls in love with Jack's ward Cecily. Complications naturally appear from this farcical situation with Gwendolen's mother, the fearsome Lady Bracknell (Evans) who bitterly opposes any union due to Jack having been found as an orphaned baby in a handbag.  When they all come together, we have two men who claim to be Earnest and are not and two girls who are love with men named Earnest who are not Earnest, leading to a gradual denouement. The play begins in an English apartment or flat, it is in the opening scene that the Anthony Asquith's adaptation of the play differs from the original play.  In Asquith's adaptation the introductory scene is that of Algernon bathing and having brunch with Jack, this is also were the discussion of the cigarette case and Jack's `bunburying' is discussed.  Jack then leaves Algernon's only to return as short time later when Gwendolen and Lady Bracknell arrive, it is never stated where he rushed off too.  The previously listed aspects did not occur in the original play, the eating of the cucumber sandwiches by Algernon was opening scene of the original.  As for the rest of the play, Algernon's `bunburying' of Jack's older brother, the quarrel between Jack's Ward, Cecily and Gwendolen over who was marrying Ernest, the discovery of Jack's real family and name and the amalgamating of all, fallows incredibly close to the original play.  For the time that this play was filmed the cinematography was very well done, although it seemed out-dated by today's standards it was a very well assembled movie.I would not recommend this movie, although it is funny, it is monotonous and predictable, you know that there is going to be a quarrel before it happens and you know that the impractical values of the aristocrats is going to lead to a dilemma.  This movie presents what should not be taken for granted in a back handed approach.  Although this play satirizes upper classes and marriage, it points out what should be valued, such as people and what should not be valued, such as what your name is.  "},{"Title":"All About Augusta","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found The Importance of Being Earnest to be a witty exchange of sophisticated dialogue between Brit's finest.  Their manner of speaking make us (Americans) look like mongrils.  Although the characters were sharp with wit and the costumes were exquisitly ornate, the movie seemed to drag in parts with not much to look at.  Me, being a conissuer of English cinema (mainly of the Ivory Merchant variety), I was sorely dissapointed in this film.  I am more accustomed to lavish done up productions such as Howard's End, Wings of the Dove, Sense and Sensibility, Maurice to name a few.  Of course this is due in part to the generation gap time has incurred. This movie was made in 1952 so it looked understandably dated and wretched.What I enjoyed most about The Importance of Being Earnest was Aunt Augusta. She was a real hoot!  A grand ole dame!  Having a conversation with her was like playing a game of mental chess.  She was eloquent in her speech and had some memorable lines as well.  A handbag?  She askes distainfully.  I also really enjoyed the line that went something like Don't talk down on 'soceity', only people that can't get in do that. What a hoot!  There's nothing like a bonified true English snob!  Aunt Augusta, YOU ROCK!Other than that, there's nothing really special about this film.  Twas about a name game of something thereof.  It didn't offer any breathtaking scenery, which I love to see in English films.  See it for Aunt Augusta and her proper ways! You go girl!A $$$ out of 5 on the money shot scale. "},{"Title":"The play is already camp enough; the film is just too camp","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wilde's play is fantastic wicked fun, but this film version sugar-coats it a bit too much -- completely unnecessary.  There's no need, for example, for the butler to be shown smiling knowingly (as if to point out the humour of the scene) when Cecily and Gwendolyn are having their exchange over tea the scene is funny enough as it is.  The lines are delivered a bit too ponderously and studiedly in some cases, particularly by the women.  By contrast, Rutherford and Matheson are sublime as Miss Prism and Chasuble, respectively that's the way to do it! "}{"Title":"Do you like Punch magazine and Victorian stilted things?","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a comedy (play) by Oscar Wilde. Two Victorian bachelors have to reveal some of their secrets as they arrange to tie the knot. This film (play) is too urbanely clever and witty by half (unfortunately not a compliment).I am an average viewer who had never heard of this play until I started watching it. I had of course heard of Oscar Wilde and that kept me watching this period piece that is a trial to get through. If you are one of those who find Punch magazine riotously funny and long for the Harvard Yale game you might like it. No modern normal person will.Other reviews suggest Wilde loathed the type characters portrayed in the play. I hope so and maybe I should re-watch it as a parody of sorts but I don't have the energy to digest the tons of dialogue. I read Dorian Gray years ago and found it also stilted a tiresome read. The descriptions of London's upper class society were boring and forced some of that same feeling comes across in this play.One reviewer stated that Earnest was a code word for homosexual if so that is amusing. (I am gay). The Netflix streaming version was colorized so heavily it distracted watch it in black and white if you can.DO NOT RECOMMEND. Gets 2 extra stars as the Earnest hidden joke thing may be true. "}]