[{"Title":"Superb writing that is matched by superb acting and incredibly atmospheric and charged direction","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"112 out of 143 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blanche Dubois arrives in the French Quarter of New Orleans suffering from a mental tiredness brought on by a series of financial problems that have ended in the family losing their plantation. She has come to stay with her sister, Stella and her husband Stanley Kowalski in their serviceable little apartment. The aggressive and animalistic Stanley immediately marks himself as the opposite of the feminine and refined Blanche and Stella finds herself pulled between the two of them. Stanley suspects all is not as it seems and begins to pry into Blanche's colourful past, even as Blanche spots a way out in the arms of the Mitch, a man captivated by her. However it doesn't take long before the cracks begin to show in the relationships and in Blanche herself.It almost goes without saying that the writing here is of top-notch quality. The story is a relatively simple character piece that can be summed up in a couple of sentences, however this would do a great injustice to the depth of development and the convincing manner in which the characters are all written and the story told. It is not so much the depth that some of the characters go to, but the complexity that is effortlessly written into them &#150; we can see it writ large on them, but not to the point where it seems obvious or uninteresting. Blanche is of course the focus and she is a mess of neurosis barely hidden behind a front of respectability that clearly doesn't convince her anymore than it does Stanley. Mitch is also really well written &#150; at first it is comic that he tries to be such a gentleman while having the brute just under the surface, but later his frustration is heavy on his face along with his anger. The overall story is surprisingly, well, seedy is the best word that comes to mind. It is in the gutter and no matter what Blanche wants to believe, that is where it stays and the film is right there the whole time.How Kazan managed it in the early fifties is beyond me, because even now the film is pretty graphic in its violence to women, subject matter and rippling sexuality across pictures and characters. It is a compelling story due to the characters and the manner in which they are delivered &#150; Kazan's atmospheric direction really helps; the films feels humid and close, and he has done it all with a basic set and a camera. The lighting throughout is wonderful both in the general atmosphere but also specific touches such as the way Blanche manages to visibly age due to lighting changes when the film has slight chances of tone.Of course the main reason I keep coming back to this wonderful film is the actors, who take the opportunity and, in many cases, make it so that it is hard to see anyone else playing their roles. Leigh is perfect for the role and gets everything absolutely spot on; she is vulnerable yet self-seeking, confident yet needy, proper yet unstable. Even visually Leigh is convincing in terms of body language but also the fact that she looks the right mix of ages, looking beautiful one moment but worn and defeated the next &#150; totally, totally deserved her Oscar. Brando made his name here and even now his performance is electrifying and memorable. He has his big scenes where he gets to play to the back row but he also has moments where he does nothing other than be a presence on screen; no matter what is going on we are watching him because we are as in awe and yet as afraid of his power as Blanche is herself. Together Leigh and Brando dominate the screen and whenever either of them are on screen it is hard to look away. As a result, Kim Hunter sort of gets lost in the background although her performance is still good. Karl Madden is great but again only holds a supporting role and deserved his Oscar for a convincing performance of a well-written character. Of course it is easier to give good performances with great material than with bad material but there have been enough versions of this play around for us to see how lesser actors can fail where this cast soared.Overall this is a great film that sees so many critical aspects all coming together as one final product. A superb play has undergone a great adaptation that has been seized upon a great cast who deliver a collection of performances that deserve all the praise heaped on them, all directed with a real sense of atmosphere that really delivers a seedy and erotic film both for its time and today. I cannot think of an excuse for people not having seen this film. "},{"Title":"Vivien Leigh Gives One of Cinema's Greatest Performances","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"88 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tennessee Williams himself wrote of Vivien Leighs performance in Streetcar Named Desire She brought everything I intended to the role and even much more than I had dared dream of.Brando is wonderful as Stanley Kowalski, but the new viewers to the film seem to come away with the haunting greatness of Vivien Leigh in what is one of the most harrowing and shattering pieces of acting ever committed to film.Although some have expressed regret that Jessica Tandy did not repeat her stage performance, it is probably good to note that her husband Hume Cronyn and Elia Kazan (the director of the film and play) both never felt that Tandy quite got the character right. If you listen to the radio performance of extracted scenes that Tandy gave on the occasion of the Pulitzer Prize award, it will reenforce the perfection of Leigh's inflections and innate understanding of the role. This inner and complete understanding is what Brando praises Leigh for in his autobiography. He agrees that she plays this Hamlet of female roles better than anyone because he felt she was quite like the character...sadly.If anyone is interested in great acting check out Streetcar for Vivien Leigh's Academy Award winning performance. The supporting cast is outstanding from Kim Hunter and Karl Malden (both Oscar winners for the film)to, of course, the iconographic T-shirt-torn Brando. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"78 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had put off watching this video for sometime.  I was afraid that I might be disappointed in this classic.  Instead I was drawn into this marvelous film with its great Tennesse Williams' script.Williams doesn't let any of his characters off.  Brando's Stanley is a boorish, bullying, loudmouth.  But he also possesses an extraordinary physical sexuality and also seems to be more than a little bit of a victim himself.  Life has not been smooth for Stanley.  No silver spoon here. Both his wife and sister-in-law put him down as a crude Polack and other variations on that theme.  Not that there isn't some obvious truth to their put downs.  However, truly nice people (as opposed to nice people) do not engage in such speech.  There's also the table scene where Stanley is eating chicken and receives a harsh verbal reprimand from Stella.  Whereupon he sees the tactics of class shame being used and he proceeds to blow up in a very physical and blue collar fashion.  Stanley sexually assaults Blanche at he end of the film.  Blanche was already hearing voices by this time in the film, and this act of aggression pushes her over the edge.  Brando's performance was really superb.Hunter's Stella is by far the most likeable character of the major 3 players.  She's honest, kind, sexy, and very much in love with Stanley--despite his obvious faults.  The depiction of the physical love and lust between Stanley and Stella is classic.  She also loves her sister and wants what's best for her.  She and Blanche collude to some extent against Stanley which provides much of the film's strongest tensions.  Stella is financially and sexually/emotionally dependent on Stanley, but she's also a strong character in her own right.  We don't really know for sure if she'll go back to Stanley at the end of the film after the baby and the sexual aggression against Blanche.  We do know that Stanley for all his macho swagger is extremely emotionally dependent on her.Vivien Leigh's character was a revelation. I thought the most brilliant moments in the film were towards the end when her character was speaking. I didn't really think Leigh's accent was all that great, but hey, when you can act like that who cares?  Blanche is a victim, but Blanche is anything but innocent.  She was having sex with one of her high school English lit students back in Mississippi.  Naturally, the small town locals did not take a shine to such behavior.  Also, she was more than just a bit on the promiscuous side for a high school teacher in mid-century small town America.  It's not surprising that she got chased out of her small town teaching job.  There's also the touching scene where she asks for and gets a kiss from the boy who is collecting for the newspaper.  It's all tied in to her love for the boy who killed himself over her when she was 16. She said some very cruel words to him about being weak which led to the boy's suicide.  She's not an innocent--by any means.  The sexual attraction between Stanley and her is noticeable in a number of scenes.  And yet for all her pretentiousness, lies, and putting on airs, the audience is drawn to her.  Her fading beauty, vulnerability, and weakness can hardly help but elicit a sympathetic response.  Blanche is the human condition writ large. In some respects there is some of Blanche in all of us  hidden ugliness from the past, both emotional and sexual neediness, and just plain old human weakness.  I think Leigh's performance was really brilliant.  And thank God for Tennnessee Williams and his ability to portray people more as we are than as we would like to be.I do agree with at least one of the previous viewers that the term nymphomaniac seems somewhat out-of-date in describing Blanche.  Blanche uses sex in a promiscuous fashion to escape from her loneliness.  I think this is the same pathology that both men and women engage in when having casual--such a strange contradiction in terms--sex.  I certainly don't think that Williams saw her as either a nympho or a slut.  Rather, just a lonely, tortured individual.  "},{"Title":"Sexy, Brutal, and Endlessly Fascinating","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"75 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is little to be said about this movie that thousands of critics have not stated already. It is a magnificent piece of cinema, with an intricate script delivered by actors at the peak of their talents. Leigh is unbearably brittle and fragile and she dances precariously on the edge of sanity. Marlon Brando embodies a sense of brooding masculinity that other men can only dream of attaining, while creating an enduring cinema icon and delivering one of the all-time great movie lines. From the raucous jazz score to the sleazy production design bathed in smoldering grey, 'Streetcar' is a class-act from beginning to end; sexy, brutal, and endlessly fascinating. "},{"Title":"If great performances is what you desire, hop on this streetcar.","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"65 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the Pulitzer Prize winning play by Tennessee Williams, 'A Streetcar Named desire' is set in post World War II New Orleans and centers around a young married couple attempting to keep their bond despite a noted class distinction. Stanley Kowalski, played by Marlon Brando in perhaps one of the greatest performances ever to project off the big screen, is a young Polish American living in a cozy apartment with his quasi-newlywed bride. Stella, a magnolia fresh off a Southern plantation, portrayed with equal panache by Kim Hunter. Things seem to be going along pretty well until Stella's older sister shows up on the doorstep. Blanche Dubois, ( Vivian Leigh ) is a figure as obnoxious as she is tragic, and almost from the very start she is despised by her Polish brother-in-law. Kowalski suddenly discovers that his middle class roots, which hadn't seemed like a much of a point of contention with his new wife, are the subject of snide insinuations and clandestine conversations rolling off the tongue of his sister-in-law. Who, it turns out, is not without considerable baggage herself. That's when the once toasty love nest ( Complete with the memory of twinkling Christmas lights ) turns into a war zone. Things are further complicated when Stanley's Army/factory buddy, brilliantly portrayed by Karl Malden, suddenly takes a shine to Miss Dubois, The incredible thing about 'Streetcar' is not just the quality of the acting, but the way the actors approach the complex and beautiful dialog. Brando combines dynamic sexual magnetism with passionate anger, possessive love and cynicism. Vivian Leigh's tragic character perhaps mirroring the insanity she suffered through in her own life, is portrayed with raving vanity one minute and fleeting youth the next. As she often hears and sees flashbacks which the audience does not. William's dialogue manages to do the impossible, that is to blend in poetic imagery with normal conversation, while not sounding sickly sentimental or downright ridiculous. This is as much a credit to the actors themselves, especially Leigh, who really had to do the bulk of the tough soloscenes in which Blanche begins to lose her mind for good. But Brando is simply too hard to beat. Stanley Kowalski is fully rounded in every sense when this great American actor delivers his lines. Perhaps the only injustice is that Brando did not receive the Oscar for this film, while his costars Hunter, Leigh and Malden all did. Numerous attempts have been made to remake this film, both on the stage and for television. But no one has been able to execute the premise like this wonderful quartet. A fantastic and moving American classic. 10 out of a possible 10 T.H. "},{"Title":"Hey Stella.....STELLA!","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"49 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I often asked myself this question with mixed responses. Did Brando make Streetcar great? Or was he just great in it?Vivien Leigh is simply haunting and never not shocking. There is more going on there than just a performance. She appears out of herself and hovering ever so softly above. As for the rumored mental illnesses, I can only speculate. I do know for sure that her visualization of Blanche DuBois is the single best performance by an actress I've seen. Well that might not mean much, but I've seen a lot of movies.Brando made On the Waterfront a classic, but Leigh made Streetcar unforgettable. I always felt like it was a continuation from her most timeless role as Scarlett O'Hara in Gone with the Wind. Like what would have happened to Scarlett, if she was allowed to grow old. Maybe I'm just crazy. But I think the billing says it all; Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando, Kim Hunter, Karl Malden. I don't think you could dream up a finer cast. Brando might have been the sexiest thing alive, but it's obvious that Leigh made this film great with some memorable help from some movie icons. Brando may have sent an Indian to receive his second Oscar, but Leigh used her second as a doorstop to her bathroom. "},{"Title":"Antebellum Delusions","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blanche DuBois reminds me of Norma Desmond in Sunset Blvd. (1950). Both characters succumb to their alter egos, and descend into their own worlds of fantasy and half-truths.In A Streetcar Named Desire, Blanche travels from her antebellum roots in Mississippi to New Orleans, to see her sister Stella. But, upon arriving in the Big Easy, Blanche must confront Stella's husband Stanley, a greasy, poker-playing neanderthal lout who knows a thing or two about reality. It's the clash between Blanche's stately delusions and Stanley's gritty realism that soups up the drama in this Tennessee Williams play, converted to film classic by director Elia Kazan.The drama is absorbing. But the performances of Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh, as Stanley and Blanche, are what make the film the cinematic powerhouse that it is. Excellent B&W lighting and jazzy background music amplify the seedy, sleazy atmosphere, which adds depth and texture to the story and the acting. And, of course, the claustrophobic, steamy French Quarter makes a perfect setting.As one would expect for a film derived from a play, A Streetcar Named Desire is very talky. Generally, I don't care for films burdened with a ten thousand page script. But this talk-fest is an exception. Overwhelming what I would otherwise consider a weakness, the acting of Brando and Leigh alone are enough to justify a two hour investment, and render an enjoyable and memorable cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Classical vs. Method","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"62 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now that this filmization of Streetcar is over a half century  old, it can be looked at in a more objective manner than that of the early fifties.   The classical/traditional acting style of Vivien Leigh, which was placed in stark contrast to the rest of the production personnel, continues to hold its own brilliantly.It's probably hard today for some to imagine the strong opposition Leigh's casting faced back in 1950, when this prim actress from England was chosen (mostly by studio chief Jack Warner) over method Broadway actress Jessica Tandy.   A goodly number of cast and production people from the hit play directed by Elia Kazan were engaged by the director for the film version, and they were not at all enthusiastic about risking a clash of acting styles in the leading, pivotal role of Blanche.  Kazan himself was reportedly very pro-Tandy, and quite disappointed in the studio's decision.Yet, Warner and his staff felt Tandy wasn't that well known to the general movie going public--especially in contrast to Leigh, whose marquee name was by then almost magical.  In recent interviews, Kazan admitted that working with Vivien was a real challenge.In looking at the film today, however, it's Leigh who emerges as a genuine star of this production.  True, her facial expressions, vocal inflections and body gestures may be the result of careful, deliberate planning, but so what?  It's also the aspect that commands attention and draws the viewer to her portion of the screen throughout this film. Her southern accent, so well learned and retained from her work as Scarlett in GWTW, is convincing and very beautiful to hear.  It also fits Blanche perfectly, as does Leigh's stylized choreography, which was undoubtedly retained from her long-running London stage performance.Not all the combined, formidable talents of method giants as Karl Malden, Kim Hunter, Marlon Brando or Kazan can diminish the hypnotic work of Leigh here.  It may not have excited Gadge Kazan, but it remains a highlight performance in film history (and impressed the Academy enough to bestow an Oscar to Vivien.)It also didn't hurt to have Alex North's pungent score, which remains this composer's finest hour.   "},{"Title":"A true milestone in cinema history","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"47 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Streetcar Named Desire is along with Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf the best movies adapted from a play ever. Vivien Leigh is excellent in the most difficult role of the world theatre and far more impressive here than in Gone With the Wind. With the performance she gives she proves what a great actress really means. Marlon Brando is equally impressive in a role that made him a star. He gives a different dimension to Stanley and introduces method acting to Hollywood. This role that deserved an Oscar is maybe the best of his career. Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are ideal in the supporting roles. The scene that Stanley and Stella are reconciled after a fight they have is full of passion and desire and is now regarded a classic. But the person that created the atmosphere and helped the actors create their roles is Elia Kazan (to me he is the best director ever lived). Kazan manages to create a great atmosphere and make the movie not be just another stagy play. A Streetcar Nemed Desire is undoubtedly a milestone in cinema's history that nobody should miss. "},{"Title":"I've Always Depended On The Kindness Of Strangers.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When the history of American theater is written for the 20th Century the two most prominent names will be Eugene O'Neill and Tennessee Williams. Both men pushed the exploration of the human soul to the very limit in their work. Writing drama will never be the same because of the work of these two men.Williams's masterpiece is A Streetcar Named Desire which ran over 860 performances in three years. When Warner Brothers bought the film rights, they did the highly unusual thing of bringing almost the entire Broadway cast over. That included Marlon Brando for whom this was his second film. Brando was not a movie name yet and the decision was made to recast the female lead with Vivien Leigh instead of Jessica Tandy who played Blanche Dubois on Broadway.In doing so this gave Vivien Leigh the very unique position of having played opposite the two men who are held up as male acting icons for the last century, Marlon Brando and Leigh's husband at the time Laurence Olivier. Certainly Blanche Dubois was unlike anything she ever did opposite Olivier.In fact Blanche is opposite that other southern belle that Leigh got her first Oscar for, Scarlett O'Hara. Scarlett may come on like a spoiled brat at first, but she turns out to be made of some real stern stuff when the chips are down. Blanche Dubois however retreats into her own fantasies when trouble brews. She's left the plantation home in a small Mississippi town where she doubles as an English teacher and comes to live with her sister Stella and her husband Stanley Kowalski.Brando is Kowalski and for years impressionists did him by yelling from the pit of their abdomens, STELLA, STELLA. That is until The Godfather and then they stuffed their cheeks and said how one day a favor would be asked in return. But impressionists only make a living because of the impressions made by the players. On Broadway and Hollywood, Stanley Kowalski made Marlon Brando a superstar and an icon for a couple of generations. Kowalski as done by Brando is a force of nature, primeval impulses that bubble to the surface in all of us sometimes.Kim Hunter as Stella Kowalski and Karl Malden as Mitch Mitchell also won Oscars in the Supporting categories to go with Leigh's. Hunter is a torn women fighting both suspicions about her husband and her sister. The real reason why Blanche has come to live with them and the affect her silly flirtations are having on her husband and their marriage.Malden as Mitchell starts out as passive and as nice as Jim Connor, the gentleman caller from that other Tennessee Williams masterpiece, A Glass Menagerie. But he proves to be something less than meets the eye in his dealings with Leigh.A Streetcar Named Desire won all kinds of Awards, the three acting Oscars, one for Elia Kazan as Best Director and a whole bunch of technical ones. But An American In Paris won for Best Picture and Hollywood decided young Brando could wait for his and they gave it that year to Humphrey Bogart for The African Queen.This film is still the best adaption to the screen of a Tennessee Williams play and is an absolute must to see. "}{"Title":"Now this is Almost Perfect","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"36 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Elia Kazan's second best film A Streetcar Named Desire is a film with plenty of passion and fire and is definately a must see drama.  The story has a woman, Blanche DuBois, played by Vivien Leigh, who moves in with her sister, played by Kim Hunter, and her brother in law, Marlon Brando.  Then the events start to unfold in a tale of a animal, the depending woman, and even her admirer, played by Karl Malden.  Absolutely acted to perfection by everyone (Liegh, Malden and Hunter got richly deserved Oscars), however it is the breakthrough by Brando in one of his best roles, that steals the show.  Crafted just like the play, except for one almost fatal flaw, the last scene of the movie is hollywooded up and if you read the play, that ending might be better for you.  Otherwise, a must see.  Magnificent jazz music by Alex North.  A "},{"Title":"Welcome To The Tarantula Arms Hotel","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Favorite movie-quote - (Blanche speaking to Stella behind Stanley's back) - There's even something subhuman about him. Now, I would never, ever say that A Streetcar Named Desire is a film that can be appreciated by everyone, but, regardless, it is still certainly well-worth a view for anyone who's at all interested in seeing top-notch film-making, early 1950's-style.If you ask me - This film is the absolute epitome of powerhouse movie-making from a very specific era in Hollywood history.Being someone, like myself, who can often be quite bluntly critical about films, I'm really very surprised and, yes, quite pleased to see how well this film actually holds up today, 64 years later.Containing some very well-defined characters - A Streetcar Named Desire certainly delivers, in aces, equal helpings of insensitive brutality, heartless viciousness, and despairing mental instability. Believe me, this is not a happy story.When it comes to that old, familiar saying - They don't make movies like this anymore. - A Streetcar Named Desire certainly packs a powerful punch and lives up to its stellar reputation very satisfactorily. "},{"Title":"Enjoy what it is, wonder what it could have been","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is a good film which surely would have been even better had it not had to tiptoe around its plot to meet the ridiculous censorship standards of the time. Powerful as it is you definitely get the sense that a great deal was lost to appease the censorship zealots. Never is that more evident than in the film's crucial climactic scene in which not only can we not see what happens we can barely even have it hinted at. No doubt this dulls the film's impact. And that's a shame because there is so much to appreciate about the film. It has a great, captivating story and some terrific acting performances. And director Elia Kazan brings it all together so well, all while doing his delicate dance with the censors. Getting this movie, with all its controversial material, made at all in 1951 is a little miracle. Getting it made so well is a really masterful achievement.The first thing that people remember about the film is probably Marlon Brando's portrayal of Stanley Kowalski. And well they should, it's a career-making performance. And a performance unlike most anything else Hollywood had seen up to that time. Brando holds nothing back in bringing the rough, tough brute Stanley to life. It's such a powerful performance, charged with emotion. It's impossible to take your eyes off him, you never know where the next explosion is coming from. Of course we now know what a great star Brando was. At the time though he was essentially an unknown. In 1951 the star of this film was Vivien Leigh. And with her portrayal of faded, troubled Southern belle Blanche DuBois she matches Brando stride for stride. Blanche is no doubt a complicated character, certainly a challenging part to play. And Leigh captures the character, all her pretensions and delusions, perfectly. With Brando and Leigh in top form everyone else is somewhat overshadowed but both Karl Malden and Kim Hunter still managed to pick up Oscars for their supporting work. Malden plays Blanche's suitor Mitch, a bit of a sap but definitely a good guy and a welcome contrast to the boorish Stanley. And Hunter is very good in playing the woman torn between her affection for her sister and her love for the brute whom she just can't quit. Hey Stella!As presented A Streetcar Named Desire is captivating, powerful drama. But in many places not as powerful as it could have been. Not the fault of director Kazan or his wonderful cast though. They did the very best they could while confined to the little box the era's moral police placed them in. Brando's performance in the film has become the stuff of legend. Leigh is absolutely terrific and Malden and Hunter contribute nicely. After all the fine work the actors turned in, after all the twists and turns of the compelling story, it is a shame that the ending had to be so watered-down. It's a film which deserved a better ending than its era allowed it. You may lament what was lost but you can still appreciate what Kazan and his terrific cast managed to give you. Despite all the challenges they produced a very good film. "},{"Title":"Brando as the eternal brute","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is a 1951 film directed by Elia Kazan. Kazan, in his early 40s there, was already a Best Director and Best Picture winner at this point for Gentleman's Agreement. Streetcar got him nominations in both categories again, but no wins this time. However, the film won 3 of its 4 acting nominations. Leigh got her second Oscar after Gone With the Wind while Malden and Hunter won the supporting categories and scored their first Oscar wins with their first nominations. The only major cast member who did not succeed was Marlon Brando, who lost to Bogart. However, his next project with Kazan got him the win and Kazan triumphed as director and Best Picture winner again as well for On the Waterfront.Anyway, back to the film. With technicolor (Robin Hood almost 15 years earlier) being very popular already at this point, it deserves a mention that Streetcar is completely black-and-white. If you like Brando and/or Leigh this film is the perfect treat for you. the two are really giving it their best and totally going against each other as if there is no tomorrow. Sometimes, it is a fine line between nail-on-the-head and over-the-top, but most of the time they do not cross it. Malden had a couple great scenes and Hunter was pretty solid in theirs as well. I need to see some of the other supporting contenders to say how justified the wins were, but I am fairly certain that I'm pretty much in agreement with the Academy, at least about Malden. His character's attempts to be a gentleman, but also a real man next to Stanley are truly delightful to watch. On a side-note, you may have seen Hunter in the Planet of the Apes-franchise or Malden in Streets of San Francisco, a 1970s TV-show where he stars together with the young Michael Douglas.Brando's performance pretty much stays memorable as the ultimate brute performance and wild untameable man in his 20s that only maybe James Dean came close to, if at all. Blanche DuBois will agree. He is basically everything she despises in a man, rough, uneducated, not a gentleman and very loud and brutal. We know that although the way Blanche's past looked in detail does not become 100% clear to the viewer. we do not know what was real and what wasn't. However, you have to hold in Kowalski's favor despite his despicable act near the end of the film that occasionally he is right. Blanche tries to antagonize her sister against Stanley, she keeps calling him a Polak, even in his presence etc. Apart from that, there were generally some confusing parts about Blanche. Or maybe they illustrate simply how much she has gone mad already, for example her problems with her age although she does not look old and although Malden's character was at least her age. Another issue would be all her self-hating in the face of her clearly less attractive sister. That would be one minor criticism. The other includes the film's title. Basically there were only two references, one very early and one later on and I did not feel that they were significant enough to have the movie named that way.I am writing this review after the second time I watched the film and I have to say I enjoyed it more the first time I think. Nonetheless it is worth a watch, for Brando alone already, and if you like old black&white films, you will certainly have a good time. And while you're at it, think about how Blanche's character can be seen in the light of Woody Allen's recent Blue Jasmine, if you have seen that movie. There are quite a few parallels and you may very well consider Cate Blanchett's character a modern version. Recommended. "},{"Title":"It's Vivien Leigh","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a career that included only 19 films, Vivien Leigh won two Oscars for playing nearly the same character. Scarlett O'Hara in Gone With the Wind and Blanche Duboise in Elia Kazan's adaptation of Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire are both southern belles with an appetite for men. Both find that their pursuit of men get them into trouble and both end up paying for their indiscretions. Some have said that Blanche is Scarlett in rags and tatters, as if the return to Tara didn't work out.The major difference between Scarlet and Blanche is that Blanche has lost her fighting spirit. While Scarlet had a fierce determination to survive and to win the hearts of men, Blanche is completely unguarded. When we meet her, she is at the end of her rope. She arrives in New Orleans from Auriol, Mississippi to stay with her sister Stella (Kim Stanley) and her brutish husband Stanley (Marlon Brando), claiming that their ancestral plantation home has been lost, due to epic fornications. Stanley doesn't like her. He is a simple guy, a lion who likes his den to stay the way he likes it. Blanche, with her perfumes, paper lamp shades, phony politeness and pretentiousness gets on his nerves. He senses that something isn't right about her and confirms it with several of the guys he works with who have been through Auriol.It turns out that he is right about her, she does have a past. Blanche once had a lover who killed himself; She was fired from her teaching job when she had an improper relationship with a teenage boy; She was thrown out of a hotel called The Flamingo because of her sexual dalliances. She has come to her sister's home because she has nowhere else to go. She has no job and no life back in Mississippi. What doesn't become immediately clear is that she is beginning to crack up.While Stanley hates her for her pomposity and pretentiousness (and later, her past), his co-worker Mitch (Karl Malden) is charmed by her. He steps out with her and is on the verge of proposing marriage when he finds out the truth about her past. He turns her away because she is unclean.Blanche is her own worst enemy. She has a need to be loved but she goes about it in ways that get her into trouble. This has helped her to burn her bridges back home and so she now has no life, no hope, nowhere that she can go. We can see that, in youth she was a charming girl with a pretty smile, wide eyes and a soft coquettish voice. She still carries remnants of that old life, sporting a chiffon dress that makes her look like she's ready for the prom. She brushes her hair and sings to herself like a girl getting ready for a date. She comes to Stanley and Stella's place with a trunk full of dresses and pearls and furs, all fancy things, nothing practical, no evidence of a routine life.The image that she displays is that of the remnants of her teenage years. It may have worked when she was a teenager, but now she is pushing 40 and her refusal to mature feeds what will eventually turns into a nervous breakdown. Blanche's mind blurs the line between fantasy and reality. When Mitch confronts her about her past, he demands the truth. Her response shocks us I don't want realism. I want magic! Yes, yes, magic. I try to give that to people. I do misrepresent things. I don't tell truths. I tell what ought to be truth. I don't think this is true, I think that by this point, her mind is so far gone that she simply doesn't know the difference between what is true and what she tells everyone is true.Blanche is one of the saddest characters that I have ever encountered. She is clearly mentally ill and feeds off the half-truths she tells. Unlike Scarlet O'Hara, who fought hard to get what she wanted, Blanche has no ground on which to stand. We see nothing of her past, no flashbacks, she steps into our field of vision in beginning stages of her breakdown.It is well known that Vivien Leigh suffered from manic depression. She was bi-polar, and we can see that she brought a great deal of what she experience in real life to the role. This is a difficult role to play, because Leigh isn't allow to let Blanche grow into her madness. She is at the beginning stages of her meltdown from the moment we meet her. In the early scenes, we can clearly see that Blanche's persona is an act. She speaks in broad strokes, moves in grand gestures and wears her pretenciousness right on the tip of her nose. She has a desperate need to be loved, to be admired and she wears her own image as a mask of what is really going on inside. Without this image, she might no unnoticed and, for her, that would be tragic. "},{"Title":"Complicated......yet simply told","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blanche arrives in New Orleans to stay with her sister Stella and her husband Stanley. Blanche is unhappy to see her sister live in a shabby place and have her reservations on the unruly, stone age behaved brother-in-law. Stanley in turn does not like Blanche and not approve of her as he thinks she will come in between his happy marriage.This movie introduced me to the young Marlon Brando after his idolizing performance in The Godfather, And Boy!!! did he not disappoint me with his awe inspiring performance as the menacing yet charming Stanley Kowalski. The movie, mostly if not equally, belonged to Vivien Leigh whose portrayal of the neurotic Blanche DuBois was a fine example of some excellent old school performance. Kim Hunter provides a worthy support as Stella who's torn up between her sister and husband. Mitch(Karl Maiden) is adorable as he falls head over heels for Blanche.The movie based on the play by the same name,has been adapted and executed beautifully. Tennessee William's screenplay is tightly written and Elia Kazan has directed a memorable movie which will remain in the memories of the viewers for its complicated yet simple portrayal of a story of love and acceptance. "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando Becomes a Star","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando) is a brute he is crude, rude, and lewd. In contrast, his sister-in-law, Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh), is rather refined. But she is also fragile and neurotic, and has a shady past. She was recently discharged from her job as an English teacher. In order to lick her wounds, Blanche has come to stay with her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) and her husband Stanley. Stanley and Stella's dreadful apartment is located in a teeming New Orleans neighborhood; there is a living room/dining room and bedroom. There is virtually no privacy, as the two main areas are separated by curtains, not doors. In fact, the only room with a door is the bathroom, where Blanche spends an inordinate amount of time. To calm her jittery nerves she takes plenty of hot baths, even in a sweltering summer. She uses powder and perfume. In contrast to Blanche, Stanley constantly sweats through his tee-shirts, and comes home from his factory job greasy and dirty and smelly. Early on, Blanche is startled by a cat's shrill cry. Stanley's reaction was callous. Later on, when Stanley eats like an absolute slob, he is rebuked by Stella. Stanley explodes, and uses his arm to sweep items from the table onto the floor. Quoting from Huey Long, he lectures to the two queens (as he calls them while they cower) Every man's a king and I'm the king around here, and don't you forget it. In such a tense environment, it is obvious that Blanche's stay is not pleasant. Delicate and delusional Blanche says that she has always depended on the kindness of strangers, a precarious manner indeed. She has not the inner strength to depend upon herself. Stella loves her sister, but is carnally attracted to Stanley, as is noticed in one particular lovemaking scene early on. Blanche has no chance in breaking the bond between Stella and Stanley, who has a savage appeal. It is hard to imagine that this ménage actually lives together for five months. Then Stella's expected child is born, and Stanley has to live alone with Blanche for a few days without a buffer. I never touched her, says Stanley, when Blanche is finally being taken away. Not true, although the movie is rather vague as to what happened between Stanley and her. Not so the play. Nevertheless, Stanley's torments have caused Blanche's complete mental disintegration. But it looks as if his wife has finally left him for good. Not so the play.Both Vivien Leigh and Kim Hunter won academy awards, as did Karl Malden in a supporting role as Mitch, one of Stanley's card-playing buddies. Brando should have. But the movie propelled him to stardom, and he would get his awards later. STELLAAAAAAAAAA! "},{"Title":"Not cemetery, not even Elysian Fields, but Desire","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Karl Malden's Mitch first lays eyes upon Vivien Leigh's Blanche DuBois while in the middle of a poker game and is gently goaded into beginning a conversation about a cigarette case (a silver one at that). His increasingly irritated game buddy urges him to return to the game, in response to which Mitch yells - Deal me out! I'm speaking with Miss ...uh and looks to Blanche for help. She reclines, one hand under her chin, the other daintily holding a cigarette, does her best impression of a theremin and replies - Du bwah. And just as easily, I was in love with a character who, among other things is a former prostitute and an implied child molester.Having watched this film well into the double digit number of times, I've come to the realization that I came for Stanley, but ended up staying for Blanche. Stanley certainly hasn't aged badly, but Blanche gets increasingly mesmerizing with each viewing. There are theories abound about what these two characters are meant to symbolize, but I like to imagine their interplay as a match between the old & the new. Blanche comes from old money, a once eminent family and a background in education, while Stanley has to use his physicality and an army record to defend his immigrant ancestry. Despite the obvious difference in class, if I imagine these two characters in twenty years time, I can see Stanley poring over his retirement plans, spouting a tirade at his son and waiting for the microwave to beep. Blanche on the other hand is on her third mint julep, quoting Whitman's raunchiest lines, wearing entirely too much makeup and elegantly hitting on the nearest twenty year old. Yes, she does wear powerful shackles which force her to live in a place which she alone inhabits with occasional intrusions from undesirables. The same shackles however make her rise well above the plebeians...she never has and never will feel the need to learn about the Napoleonic code.Blanche also rarely indulges in self pity in the presence of others. Apart from the one occasion when she bursts into tears in front of Stanley as he hands her a ticket back to Auriol, she keeps her emotions in check. She also does whatever she needs to, to get by - a scalding bath, a drink or three, the rhinestone tiara are all part of her elegant coping mechanism. And whether anyone buys it or not, she is peddling an image of herself as the heroine of her own tale of tragedy, romance and ultimately, redemption.My preoccupation with the details in this movie over time have made me somewhat indifferent to the ending. There is no denying that it is very poignant and moving and so on, but I find myself zoned out during the last scene when things go south for everyone involved (except Eunice. I think Eunice deserves a movie of her own). I like to think that the heroine of this movie would appreciate the fact that I reach for a bottle of bourbon instead of a box of tissues. "},{"Title":"Milestone Movie of New Cinematic Period","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Few movies have really stood a test of time but STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE by Elia Kazan, a socially conscious director, is, undeniably, one of them. Keeping that social consciousness in mind, what strikes me most about this movie is its daring subject that is so beautifully handled and adapted to the screen that hardly any directors can do nowadays. As nicely noted by Rudy Behlmer in a disc commentary on the movie, Elia Kazan's good relations with Tenessee Williams resulted in an almost flawless screen adaptation, very skillful direction and unique handling of the subject. Elia Kazan approached the material (Jeff Young)...but where do the strengths of the movie lie that, despite certain remakes, we still come back to its superior realism and magic? Kazan's production is a movie of old/new Hollywoodat made at the turn of the periods, which Tom Nixon nicely develops in his review. And yet, it is being watched as a very modern approach to characters, to human personality, to its various torments and sophistication, to its complex nature. Rightly, therefore, Roger Ebert points out in his review (Nov. 1993) that watching the film is like watching a Shakespearean tragedy. Consequently, it can be called an old movie with a new subject. That universal and timeless nature of the content is achieved thanks to Method acting that makes the movie a fascinating, wrenching character study (Montreal Film Journal). Characters herein depicted are the true 'heroes' of the story and the ones that we try to understand, whose motives we try to analyze, whose past we try to uncover.And with that point, the movie's exception evokes even stronger. I cannot think of any other film that, to such extent, manages to call viewers attention of a male and a female character alike (in case that this woman and man are not a couple of a love story). As a rather newcomer at the time, Marlon Brando (his second screen role) and already a great star Vivien Leigh appear to stand out among the best character portrayals ever. While quite opposite in their nature and the very fundamental features, they display deep affinity and deep discrepancy alike making their roles a psychological feast.VIVIEN LEIGH whose face almost blank with desire (Ebert) arises from steam like Garbo in ANNA KARENINA, she embodies all contradictory motives that lie behind the haunting past of a girlish lady. As desperately lonesome, and a sexually hungry woman posing as a sad wilting flower (Roger Ebert), Vivien Leigh perfectly manages to prompt certain empathy as well as keep viewers constantly alert. Meanwhile, she maintains 'healthy distance' towards anything she does and anything she says. Bosley Crowther memorably observes in his review that she is a woman of even greater fullness, torment and tragedy that the previous portrayals could ever accomplish. Sometimes, she is the one to be pitied, sometimes, the one to be criticized but never blamed. With her final line that has almost become the movie's symbolic impact I have always depended on the kindness of strangers she portrays a character who belongs everywhere and, at the same time, nowhere. A sort of 'psychological harlot' but also an endless walker, in constant search of something. In a scene with Mitch (Karl Malden), she purely reveals the desire to love, to have someone close. In her instance, we might say that the Code did a better job because assuming slowly from her past, the viewing experience corresponds nicely to a depiction of human mystery.On the verge of naturalism, MARLON BRANDO whose sticking shirt, brooding looks, embarrassing and an almost exhibitionist behavior is remembered as one of the most male - animal portrayals on the screen, the portrayal of Tennessee Williams' rough, smelly, sexually charged hero (Roger Ebert). No wonder he has been hailed by critics as the one who makes his character a riveting, rough, sensual man's man (Montreal Film Journal), some bastard child of Achilles or King Kong...the crowning champion of the new era (Nixon), highly charged (Crowther). It is funny in a way but he manages to combine disgust and awe. As if constantly in an 'erotic aura' he creates a savage picture of a man who relies primarily on muscles. In an implicit scene of raping Blanche, his animal drives reach the pinnacle of self admiration expressed in making a woman an object of his satisfaction. But, again, to the very last minute, we cannot say that he is 100% bad and that is the supreme human achievement of the movie. Sometimes, he is tough, very brutal, almost unendurable and a 'beast' reduced to the gutter hardly to be pitied; sometimes, he is weak as a child in cry for a person at his side. In an almost unforgettable scene at the staircase (mind you the purely Hollywood effect of staircase scene), in his despair, he calls for Stella, his wife. The growing claustrophobia of the scene along with the perfect camera work and closeups makes the scene almost to be emotionally and erotically experienced. Just a note famous actor Jack Palance here began his acting career as Brando's understudy.SUPPORTING CHARACTERS Crowther rightly notes that others from the cast fill out the human pattern within a sleazy environment that is so fitly and graphically created that you can almost sense its sweatiness and smells. A note, of course, must be made of Kim Hunter as Stella, Blanche's sister and Stanley's wife and Karl Malden as Mitch, more of a sap (Ebert), a typical mom's boy who seems to do anything for his mother and, yet, appears to hate her deep down. A theme that has come back at Hitchock's with a more psychological space given to the depiction.Towering performances, flawless atmosphere and a highly respectful direction make it a milestone movie at multiple levels, a significant moment in movie history, and a movie that will fill you with a desire to see it again. "},{"Title":"Hard To Find Any Better Acting","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire (1951) **** (out of 4) Diva Blanche DuBois (Vivian Leigh) moves to New Orleasns to live with her younger sister Stella (Kim Hunter) but it doesn't take long for the sister's husband Stanley (Marlon Brando) to aim his brutish ways on her.A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE was a landmark play and it carried over to the big screen thanks in large part to the terrific performances as well as the frank sexuality. Some of the sexuality was edited out upon its original release but thankfully the footage was later restored. While the film doesn't contain the same power that it once had there's no question that it's still a refreshing slice of movie history.The greatest thing going for the film is without question the performances from the four main actors. Leigh delivers the greatest performance of her career as the mentally-ill sister who just can't keep out of her fantasy world. The nervous tension that Leigh gives the character is something truly refreshing to watch. Both Hunter and Karl Malden seem to get overlooked whenever the film is discussed but it's just because they're the supporting players to the leads. Both of them do a wonderful job in their roles and both are given plenty of scenes to shine.The real breakthrough is without question the work of Brando. Needless to say, he would go down in history as one of the greatest actors and in my opinion he is the greatest actor. The first time you see him here you can't help but feel as if a cold breeze just hit you because there really wasn't anything like him before. The method acting is spot=on perfect and there's just a certain rawness that jumps off the screen. This was all new at the time but even today you can't help but feel as if you're watching something original.There's some terrific cinematography, a great jazz score and some really great drama that comes through via the acting. As I said, some of the drama has been watered down over time but that doesn't take away what makes the film great and that are the performances and the direction of Elia Kazan. "}{"Title":"A phenomenal movie","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Absolutely fantastic, there are no two ways about it. The movie is a testament to the fact that to be great, it isn't necessary to rely on visual effects or cheap gimmicks. If any aspiring actor has a question of how to do a character, they need to refer to any actor or actress in this film because truly they do an amazing job. I can't emphasize enough how beautiful it was. What continued to add to the greatness of the film was the cinematography and production design. It was simplistic, but effective. The use of the focal points, such as the mirror and framing faces did an outstanding job of allowing the audience to connect with what was going on. The last amazing element of this film was the sound design. The only way to describe it is spot-on. In contrast to many other films that use noises and soundtracks to distract the audience and force an emotional response, the sound design in this film simply amplified what was already brought by the plot and actors. Never did it feel out of place or overbearing, but it felt as though it was inviting me as an audience member a moment to react first and then the noise/ soundtrack was used to confirm my thoughts and feelings. The only complaint that I have was the ending. I felt the same way with On the Waterfront, but due to the rules in film at the time when the two were made, their endings do make sense. However, it is unfortunate. Pros Acting was astounding. Sound design was beautiful and inviting to the audience. Cinematography and production design were both simple, yet powerful. Cons The ending. That is my sole complaint with the movie because it was absolutely brilliant. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite plays","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire from 1951 is a brilliant adaptation of the Broadway play that catapulted Marlon Brando to superstardom. The performances in this film are formidable.There is talk on this board of Leigh's classic style of acting versus the method acting of the rest of the cast, but somehow it all works beautifully. Leigh's Blanche has all the frailty and disillusionment necessary to the character, as well as the sweetness and flirtatiousness. It is a delicate, soft, heartbreaking performance. We can see her disintegrate before our eyes, first after Mitche's total destruction of her emotionally, and then Stanley's destruction of her physically.Marlon Brando, with his bulging muscles and macho style, is the epitome of the new, non-class-conscious South, the swaggering man with the bad temper and the strong sexual hold he has on his wife. His performance needs to be appreciated as it was in the time period with all the handsome, heroic, classic leading men, well spoken, and wearing tuxes. Enter this walking, talking, overt sex machine, a real macho man with his mumbling voice, tousled hair, t-shirt, and major attitude. It was a shock. It was even a shock to Tennessee Williams, since the main character is supposed to be Blanche. It wasn't on Broadway.Here, Elia Kazan's skillful direction and the magnificent acting brings the play into balance and shows the new south obliterate the old south of jasmine perfume, pretty frocks, and class distinctions.Someone said Leigh's Blanche was an extension of Scarlett O'Hara had we seen her age. But Scarlett was one who changed with the times. In what was left of her mind, Blanche was stuck in the old days of manners, flirtation, and gentleman callers.An incredible play, a beautiful film, even with the slightly softened ending. Because we know Stella will return to Stanley, no matter what he did to her sister. The game, after all, is seven-card stud, the last words in the play. In that game four out of seven cards are exposed to other players. Like the game, certain aspects of human nature, such as cruelty, remain hidden. Poker is based on the ability to bluff. Stella is also trapped in a world of fantasy, perhaps even more so than her sister. "},{"Title":"One of the strongest showcases of acting I have yet to see","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is a film that has went down in history not just for being such a strong piece of work but because of how its censorship and edits worked against it. Before its release in 1951, the censorship board was strongly worried about the risks the film took and decided to cut out little snippets of dialog and shorten conversations that wouldn't ostensibly derail the film in a drastic way. What occurred was the audience was given less of an insight as to the motivations of the characters and what the film in turn lacked were key subtleties that defined the characters in a much richer, more specific form. The first time these cuts were reinstated and seen by the public was in 1993, finally bridging the gap between an incomplete version and its complete version.My job as a film critic, at least how I see it this time, is not to give you insight as to what has been changed. Simple Google searches can be found that elaborate on what has been cut (one of which is a beautifully written summation of the film and its omitted scenes by film critic Roger Ebert). Focusing on the film as a whole, A Streetcar Named Desire is a film that plays similar instruments to a melodrama or even a soap opera, concerning three main characters, one of them Blanche DuBois (Vivian Leigh), a Southern belle worrying about her deteriorating beauty as she enters old age. Blanche's only vices in life seem to be alcohol, and lots of it, and possessions, and lots of them. She loves clinging to the materialistic thought that possessions such as jewelry and clothes are all she'll ever need to be happy and to attract a man to her presence.Blanche visits New Orleans all the way from Missouri to see her sister Stella Kowalski (Kim Hunter), presumably to catch up, but really to mooch off of her and her husband Stanley (Marlon Brando) for as long as she possibly can. Claiming she took a leave of absence from her job as an English teacher, but really covering up the fact that she slept with one of her seventeen-year-old students to remedy the loss of her husband, Blanche's only immediate plan is to live with Stanley and Stella so that she can get a place to stay, food to eat, and a bed to sleep in until further notice.What becomes apparent in the Kowalski home is how Stanley, a hunky, brutish individual, treats Stella, your typical female of the time period, frequently taunting her with emotional and physical abuse and fits of rage. It doesn't take long for Blanche, as well as the audience, to see that Stanley's fits of rage are precisely why Stella has yet to leave him. She loves when he gets demanding, violent, and angry, and enjoys watching the animal spirit consume him to the point of where he becomes haunting and increasingly violent.This idea is one of the central themes in A Streetcar Named Desire, but one of the more notable things about the film is how it inspired the acting styles we know today. Brando, who steals practically every scene he's in, plays Stanley with complete unconventionality in terms of how performances of the forties and fifties were normally conducted. This was the era of cheery musicals, where smiles seemed to be stamped on to one's face rather than being naturally pasted on and where life was only happy and carefree rather than dark and harsh. This was until cinema with a bleaker outlook on relationships, business, life, and humanity began to emerge, with films like The Maltese Falcon, The Fountainhead, and A Streetcar Named Desire popping up to show that life wasn't all plastic smiles and put-on happiness.Brando's performance here is sublime and inspired the likes of Al Pacino, James Dean, Sean Penn, among countless other prominent male actors to get into character and assume the traits and characteristics of the person they were trying to be. This became known as method acting, where an actor gets so invested in the role he spends hours on end preparing scenes and trying to nail small details to create the most convincing performance possible. Brando gives a knockout performance here, naturally cycling from abnormally aggressive and frightening to tender, likable, and even somewhat sensual in certain scenes.The likes of Leigh and Hunter only add to the wealth of talent on display here, playing characters that also carry unlikable traits with them like albatrosses but each one resulting in an interesting and wildly human portrayal of the how marriage and love can destroy a person in the weirdest ways. Lastly, the film was directed by Elia Kazan, one of cinema's most legendary directors you've probably never heard of. Kazan helped etch the method acting style into American cinema, by discovering and utilizing stars such as Brando, Dean, and even Warren Beatty to create a marvelous and unbelievably rare form of self expression and psychological realism to the characters in his projects. Kazan's persistency and desire to etch incredible performances in the zeitgeist of America goes criminally unnoticed, but when one chooses to pay mind to his works, they realize they are watching the true building blocks and outstanding features of cinema.A Streetcar Named Desire may need some nudging when it comes to mentions in the list of greatest films of all time, but its trio of performances by three exceptional actors shows it may be one of the best acted dramas to ever come out.Starring Marlon Brando, Vivian Leigh, and Kim Hunter. Directed by Elia Kazan. "},{"Title":"A basic and essential film for cinema lovers","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blanche (Vivien Leigh), which belongs to an ancient and ruined Southern family, is a mature woman and decadent living anchored in the past. Certain circumstances force her to go and live in New Orleans with her sister Stella and her husband Stanley (Marlon Brando), a rude and violent. Despite her prim and arrogant attitude, Blanche conceals a rough past that has led to mental imbalance. His unstable behavior causes conflicts that disrupt the lives of the young marriage.A Streetcar Named Desire, is among the best films made in Hollywood. A film based on the eternal work of Tennessee Williams that has all the factors needed to be a cinematic myth of the first order. Under the narrative direction of the great director Elia Kazan is, and the superb scenery of the city of New Orleans, the actors play characters who fit them all perfectly, to demonstrate the high quality of the true icons of film and why his mark will remain forever in film history over time.In his role, added to Scarlett O'Hara in Gone With the Wind 1934, Vivien Leigh's splendid outdid herself leaving a job for the annals of film history, in one of the most complicated, and real interpretations of the film. The internal struggle in trying to hold on to their roots and past victimization liar and pedantic, and fall into the abyss of madness covering it with bad art, did well worthy of his second Oscar, making unforgettable myth .. But this wonderful film can not be understood without the contribution master Marlon Brando in full apotheosis of his wild youth and adolescents, completing a character who needs a brutal force covered by their male ego so magnificently interpreted and beginning to forge his legend icon masses and cinematic myth.A film essential and basic to understanding the art of cinema, where we can clearly see the rapport between brilliant actors, who along with their director, showed us one of the best dramas of Cinema, timeless and enduring in the memory of cinema lovers. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire (1951)","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This toned-down version of a play by Tennessee Williams touches on alcoholism, promiscuity, domestic violence, rape and madness &#x96; not your everyday subjects for films of the early 1950s. The overall feel of 'Streetcar' is more stagey than cinematic, so stage & movie director Elia Kazan was a good choice for the project. He exercises firm control and draws terrific performances from Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh, Karl Malden and others but, after more than half a century, the work seems dated, unpleasant in substance and maybe &#x96; dare I say this &#x96; just a little overrated. Now here's a funny thing, I have always liked Vivien Leigh but never liked any of her films in entirety; the search for perfect Leigh goes on. It is chilling to note that every person mentioned in this review is deceased. "},{"Title":"Vintage Brando","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I decided to watch A Streetcar Named Desire in order to see some of Marlon Brando's earliest film work.While Streetcar certainly features Brando, he's not the star of the film. That title goes to Vivien Leigh, although Brando receives equal billing.I believe the cover art is a tad misleading as it shows only Brando in all his muscled, ripped t-shirt wearing glory. One could easily expect Brando to have more screen time based off this alone and might be disappointed to discover he doesn't.Overall, I'd say the movie is very slow-paced but enjoyable. I'd recommend it to older audiences, as sadly I think much of its appeal would be lost on today's youth. I don't think this necessarily speaks ill of the movie but rather the short attention span of younger generations. Admittedly, even though I don't think it's a bad film by any means, I'd feel comfortable in saying I think one viewing is enough.Streetcar is one of those movies you hear everyone talk about and for that reason I think it's important to be able to say you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Stelllllarrrrrr!!!!","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tennesse Williams has an amazing knack for astutely pinpointing the abhorrent circumstances to a working class ghetto!! His depiction of the relevant indigence, which is germane to this citadel of squalor, manifests itself to a near perfect state of authenticity!! Such a creative montage of cumbersome quasi poverty seems to be one of Tennesse William's primary specialties!! (In addition to Streetcar Named Desire Glass Menagerie is another excellent example of such a venue!!) From the offset, Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando's character) was a man who was socially ostracized !! The stigmatic labels of Polish, Southern boy, and Uneducated blue collar class plebeian, were all stereotypes with pejorative associations to them!! These generalizations, which easily garnered copious forms of public admonishment, afflicted Stanley Kowalski's very existence!! The overt labels of really boorish, overbearing, and simple minded drunk definitely submerged Stanley into a sarcastically negative and menial pecking order status!! Blanche (played by Vivian Leigh) was the promiscuous and lethally idealistic virago who became incapable of even supporting herself!! What unfortunate characteristic which resonates in this movie, is the element of drastic emotions!! Any kind of productively happy life remains dormant for Stanley Kowalski!! He becomes obliterated by drunken stupors, as well as vitiated by compounded manufactured fantasies which have explosive overtones attached to them!! A Streetcar Named Desire emphasizes the devastating malaise which stalemates every main character in the film!! The imagery of oppressively hot summer days and nights in New Orleans, served as an instigating adversary for the pursuit of any sort of feasible domestic harmony whatsoever in Stanley Kowalski's life!! Marlon Brando is sensational in this movie, he becomes the villain by way of his environment, and, he asserts his dreadful dilemmas through the role of Stanley Kowalski with an entirely succinct cogency!! Vivian Leigh is tremendous as Blanche, she purveys a motif of psychotic unwillingness to a point of stark fanaticism!! The truth is, that in 1951, neither Hollywood, nor the movie audience, had ever witnessed anything like this film before!! The film, Streetcar Named Desire broke ground on establishing a horrid act of realism as a scapegoat for avenging Stanley Kowalski's vicarious social assessment dissatisfaction!! The director, Elia Kazan, fought fire and brimstone to maintain the focal tragedy in this film!! He felt that such reprehensible antics symbolized a form of prevailing protest that the movie audience should conceptualize to understand the gist of this movie!! You will know what I am talking about once you see the movie!! Stanley Kowalski's carnival ride of emotions became the antagonist to this movie!! Blanche's misconceptions were the powerful underlying cultural pitfall that evoked a scenario of doom and despair!! The intensity of volatile rancor, as demonstrated in this film, projected it to the pinnacle of paramount movie making!! The ambiguity of concepts to this film became a lamenting elaboration of hopelessness which emanated an unprecedented depiction of reality for the silver screen!! Finally, the severity of actions in A Streetcar Named Desire became the sorry end result of environmental discontentment!! Stanley Kowalski's love for his wife, Stella, was very disconcerting!! Stella!! Stella!! Stella!! this is one of the classic lines of all time in any movie made period!!!.. As far as my assessment of this powerfully enticing film is concerned. I really must emphatically say ..Stelllllarrrrrr!!! Especially in it's remarkable ability to captivate the skeptical movie audience back in the year 1951!! This film is truly amazing!! Or shall I say this movie is truly Stelllarrrr!!! "},{"Title":"A Heart Can Never Be a Straight Line","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think when it comes to iconic film actresses you think of the greats like the Hepburns, Streep, Bergman, Davis, and maybe even MacLaine and Garland. But I think Vivien Leigh gets swept under the rug sometimes and I'm not entirely sure why. She won two academy awards for two of the most iconic female roles of all time. She absolutely killed both of the roles. Leigh is quite simply one of the great actors Hollywood has ever seen. In terms of Streetcar Named Desire, I think it's a role that only a few actresses in history can pull off. There's so much mystery and complexities with Blanche that it takes someone of her caliber to nail, and she definitely did.The premise is similar to Blue Jasmine of a few years ago, a woman with some mental issues and going through a crisis hopes to find solace in living with her sister for awhile. Only, her sisters husband is an abusive man. Basically, all the things that could be pinned against her, are. Leigh is almost unrecognizable 12 years after her turn as Scarlett O'Hara. And I don't mean just because of looks, I mean because it's such a subtle but yet identifiable transformation into Blanche. Marlon Brando, on the other hand, had his coming out party with this film. It was basically his first big film role and although it's not as much of a lead role as the film initially suggests, he eats the role up. I can definitely see how this film was once a play. It can be over-dramatic at times but I think the script calls for it. And it's of those stories that is only as good as the lead performances, which clearly means it's a classic.I think the supporting performances could have been better, but that could be due to them being overshadowed by the leads. I'm also not sure how re-watchable the film is but the leads make it memorable enough to watch it once. For awhile I thought the film dealt with abuse to lightly and it's portrayal of women could have been better. But by the end of the film I realized why and everything came together. Stay strong mujeres.+Brando's coming out party +Leigh's iconic performance +Script-Supporting performances 8.3/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best from Marlon Brando...","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is one of the most famous drama movies in which we watch a woman who is moving in to her sister in New Orleans and is being tormented by her brutish brother in law. Also we watch them gets into strange situations with some other people and how these influence their lives.I believe that this movie is a must see movie because it shows us the truth behind those days in United States about people and the difference between the levels in the economical hierarchy. I liked this movie because of the direction of Elia Kazan who is one of his best. About the interpretations it has to be mentioned the interpretation which made by Marlon Brando who played as Stanley Kowalski and he was as I expected from him magnificent. Some other equally good interpretations were Vivien Leigh's who played as Blanche DuBois and she was really good at it (won the Oscar for the Best Actress in a Leading Role) and Kim Hunter's who played as Stella DuBois (won the Oscar for the Best Actress in a Supporting Role).Finally I have to say that A Streetcar Named Desire is a unique movie and I believe is the definition of a drama movie. It shows plenty of true things such as the difference on people's characters according to their place in the society and how high there were on it, and more than this. "},{"Title":"Vivian at her best and a lot of good supporting actors.","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I feel a little depressed by the fact that I had watched Blue Jasmine (2013) before watching this one as according to me this movie was a big inspiration of-sorts for the Woody Allen's film. This is a classic movie with lots of emotions. Though some places I felt disconnected with the characters and found some very serious scenes rather funny. It is basically my fault as sometimes, the emotions become too much for me. Vivian plays the character of Blanche superbly and convinces me almost as much as she tries to convince herself of her made-up story. She will make you love her and hate her at the same time. Marlon did a pretty nice job himself. Overall, a nice classic and worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" They really sure don't make 'em like this anymore! Streetcar will entertain you, make you think, and make you question ideas of society, sex and mental health all in one. There are so many ways to interpret this film and so many different ways to analyze it that more than viewing might give you a different outlook each time. The characters are complex - you both hate and love Blanche and Stanley at the same time for completely different reasons. Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh's performances cannot be outdone. They outshine all other cast members. Casting was done perfectly for this movie, setting, costume, scenery, everything. Perfect. Wow. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1951","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan's superb film adaptation of Tennessee Williams' classic play of the same name (of which Kazan originally directed). The movie stars Vivien Leigh (in an Oscar winning performance) as Blanche DuBois a woman who just came to New Orleans Louisiana in order to spend a certain period of time with her sister Stella (played by Kim Hunter in an Oscar winning performance) and then Blanche meets the angered, violent and brutal Stanley Kowalski (played by Marlon Brando)who makes her feel like an afraid woman who is kept in an overwhelming amount of suspense as to when Stanley is going to beat her up again. Brando's performances reminded me of two others that were very similar which was Robert De Niro in Raging Bull (1980), and Charles Boyer in Gaslight (1944) and Brando mixes the two into one mean character. Kazan's direction for the movie is brilliant, especially because when he directed the play version just a few years before the movie was made I'd like to think that both he and Brando got a little head-start before making this cinematic landmark. The movie also features an excellent supporting cast which includes Karl Malden (in an award winning performance) as Stan's pal Mitch who ends up falling in love with Blanche, and many more. But in the end I really do think that is a must see, and the characters, and performances really do tell a story. Well done movie "},{"Title":"Good, but a bit frustrating","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Good, but possibly a bit over-rated. The plot is slow-moving and overwrought, and it is hard to pick the good guy. Everyone seems to be the villain, and just when you think someone is worth supporting, they let you down. Emotionally you get pulled one way and then another, and it gets frustrating.What makes the movie, however, are the performances. Marlon Brando deserved an Oscar for his portrayal of Stanley Kowalski. He was nominated, but lost out to Humphrey Bogart (for The African Queen). Brando performance was better, I believe. In my view, there can't have been too many better performances in the history of cinema. Amazingly, this was only Brando's second movie! His third and fourth movies - Viva Zapata! and Julius Caesar - also garnered him Oscar nominations, but no award. He had to wait for his sixth movie, and fourth Best Leading Actor Oscar nomination, for his first win. That movie was On the Waterfront. Superb performance by Vivien Leigh as Blanche Dubois. Her Best Lead Actress Oscar was well deserved. Good support from Kim Hunter and Karl Malden. Both performances were reasonably understated, though both won supporting actor/actress Oscars. "},{"Title":"Feisty acting coupled with delicate character building","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Phenomenal adaptation with top-notch acting. Especially Marlon Brando excels a playing the hard to the bone, patriarchal Stanley, which he does with incredible sprezzatura. Vivien Leigh also convinces with her descent into madness. A movie charged with loads of emotion and a lot of sparks when Brando and Leigh clash. Blanche's character is handled with great skill, as we notice how, bit by bit, she loses a grip on reality.The movie is also not unproblematic. It makes you think about who is to blame for the deplorable state Blanche is in at the end. In the beginning, you may sympathize with the cultured Blanche against a rude and 'primitive' Stanley, but their characters are masterfully complicated throughout the movie when Blanche's mysterious history begins to emerge. "},{"Title":"Classic Leigh and Brando.....captivating & impressive","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is certainly not a classic for nothing. The acting is stunning (although, sorry Marlon, you weren't the best), the plot riveting and suspenseful, and the sights, sounds, smells and music of New Orleans in the 50s, brilliantly captured. Adapted from Tennessee William's screenplay, it has almost a 'musical' feel about it and one keeps expecting Stanley, (Marlon Brando), to jump up on the kitchen table and burst into song (sadly this doesn't happen as he's too busy glowering menacingly or destroying things). Stanley and Stella (Kim Hunter) are a working class couple living in a seedy part of town but not in the least bothered by the incessant noise, hustle and bustle and habitual punch ups that pop up throughout the film. Stella's somewhat fragile and slightly mad sister, Blanche, (Vivien Leigh), comes to stay with them after being told (or forced?) to take a break from her 'school teaching job'. From the very start, Stanley is suspicious of Blanche and thinks she is hiding an inheritance from the former family estate. Leigh is nothing less than brilliant as the neurotic, flouncy, age-obsessed Blanche, who appears to be living in a by-gone age/fantasy world and, rather mysteriously, has arrived with trunks and trunks of expensive gowns, wraps, stoles and jewelry (which pisses Stanley off even more) and leads him to 'investigate' Blanche's life prior to her move to New Orleans. Although Brandon certainly looks the part in Streetcar - the muscular, attractive, sweaty, working class, 'man's man' - I found his acting just a teeny bit stilted and over-dramatic at times; I'm sure some people will want to kill me for that statement, but it's a risk I'm willing to take. In any case, as the movie unfolds, Blanche's neuroses, fears, desperation and longing for her former youth escalate - as does Stanley's temper. There are no shortages of slanging matches and physical violence between the two (or, for that matter, between Stanley and Stella). Blanche is horrified that her sister is married to such a brute and tries to convince her of his 'commonness'; He's like an animal!, there's something sub-human about him! but, all to no avail; Stella loves him and seems to rather enjoy their rough and tumble relationship - this really irks Blanche. As Blanche tries to convince herself that she's still young and eminently desirable, she descends further into a dream world. Meanwhile Stanley, through his ambiguous 'research', has 'discovered' that all that stuff about Blanche being a schoolteacher and carer to her elderly relatives was a bunch of hooey and becomes convinced, that in reality, her life was much seedier&#x85;&#x85;MUCH seedier. At this point, he ramps up his 'brutishness' and even though Stella tries to stop him, he continues to terrorize the ever-more loopy Blanche. I shan't give away the ending but let's just say the 'truth' about Blanche's former life could open to interpretation - and that's always a good thing in a classy movie. I recommend Streetcar for its authentic New Orlean's ambiance, remarkable and creative cinematography and, above all else, Leigh's no-holds-barred characterization of a woman slipping into the abyss of complete and utter madness. You'll be captivated and impressed, that I promise. "},{"Title":"Good drama with outstanding acting. Very worthwhile classic","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a classical Tennessee Williams play, 'A Streetcar Named Desire' follows Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh), an emotionally frail and disturbed woman, who goes to live with her pregnant sister Stella (Kim Hunter). Her continuing presence leads to confrontations with Stella's brute husband Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando), as her situation continues to deteriorate.I have seen this story a few times before, both in plays and in cinema, and while it always struck me as interesting enough it never truly managed to impress me and even seemed a bit too dated. That is, before this one.This is a drama at its most defining. There is a few light-hearted conversations here and there, but overall the tone set is that of conflict; director Elia Kazan makes a particularly good job at keeping it realistic and avoiding a melodramatic outcome, while creating just the right mood.The acting is absolutely brilliant. Marlon Brando (in his breakthrough performance, and still one of his best) and Vivien Leigh (as good as, if not better than in 'Gone with the Wind') are perfect in their roles, truly making their characters real and making it impossible not to feel towards them; maybe that is what was missing from the other versions I watched. Likewise, Karl Malden and Kim Hunter are excellent, and won well-deserved Oscars for their work here. The film greatly suffers from the time's censorship, which include a new (but still good) ending; however, the main problem it brings is the diminished intensity in some scenes, the climatic confrontation in special, which makes it lack the more powerful shocking value the story seemed aiming for. Today's viewers, in special, will probably find the film far too much tame and somewhat dated.Another thing I disliked was the deliberately slow pace of some scenes, which makes them somewhat boring at some points. But them again, that is a problem I usually have with theater productions, and not a specific criticism to 'A Streetcar Named Desire'. This is still a film that deserves its status as a classic. "},{"Title":"One of two films to win three of the four acting Oscars","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If only a few movies were to be used in acting schools, one that must be included is A Streetcar Named Desire. Other viewers give comments on this great film, background and production details. I will focus on the acting and the place of Streetcar in the roles of great performances. I think the acting is what makes Streetcar stand out and rank among the very best films of all time. At the start of year 2014 Streetcar was highly rated by IMDb viewers, but wasn't on the top 250 list. I can understand that, because I think most viewers rate films more on the basis of enjoyment or entertainment (which often includes the story or plot), than on the acting or production aspects. I also have a number of films I enjoy more, mostly among comedies, mysteries, war, musicals and some Westerns. So, more serious dramas, such as Streetcar, can be highly appreciated, but they usually are not so for their pleasure, fun or enjoyment. All of the aspects of Streetcar are very good to excellent. I rate it a 10 mostly because of the outstanding acting of all the leads and main characters. Only 14 movies in history have received Academy Award nominations for all four acting Oscars. No film has won all four, and only two have won three of the four nominations. Those are Streetcar in 1951, and Network in 1976. And Streetcar faced especially stiff competition in its time. Vivien Leigh won her second Oscar as best actress, after winning an Oscar in 1940 for Gone With the Wind. Karl Malden won best supporting actor, and Kim Hunter won best supporting actress. Marlon Brando's Stanley Kowalski didn't get best actor honors that year, but Brando's performance was up against very tough competition from Humphrey Bogart who won for African Queen, and other great performances by Frederic March, Montgomery Clift and Arthur Kennedy.Streetcar is an important film to have in any serious movie collection. It may not be a movie that one would pop in the DVD player to entertain guests or for an afternoon of fun at the movies. But, anytime someone wanted to see examples of great acting, Streetcar would be one of my first choices to show or to recommend. "},{"Title":"The best acting ensemble ever in a movie!","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Its actors assemble the best group of performances I've ever seen by a cast before in a motion picture. Viven Leigh is at the head, in work that reaffirms her talent as some of the finest in the business. She has the strength in one look to another character that most performances work for their entire film. Marlon Brando turns in a frightening effort that turns your stomach into mush. Kim Hunter does some great work, as well. A Streetcar Named Desire's screenplay is something to admire. The cracking dialogue and exceptional scenes that follow are sparse in the movie industry. Some of the most complex characters ever written are explored here; thankfully the cast and director put just as much effort into portraying them as the writer did into writing them in the play, which the film is based on. It's not an easy film to watch, some scenes are chilling (aided by haunting, black and white cinematography). Though I think A Streetcar Named Desire strays at times in the second half, it's an emotional roller coaster with anchoring acting. It's a great theatrical experience on film.Rating 9.5/10Grade A "},{"Title":"Iconic.","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1950s film Adaptation of Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire. Set in New Orleans, Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh) comes to with her sister, Stella, played by Kim Hunter, and her brother in law, Stanley, Marlon Brando. Blanche has found herself in a heap of personal troubles, but keeps up with the charade for her sister. She is prim and proper, an English teacher, with a trunk full of fancy outfits and jewelry. Stanley sees through this. Stanley is a rough around the edges, loud-mouthed character. This is an amazing breakthrough role for Brando. It was well casted all around. Domestic disputes breakout and emotions run high.This is one of the best movies still, to this day. Iconic scenes and characters. Worth a watch! "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most people may call Marlon Brando a beautiful and charming man but he is no where close to charming in this film. He is primitive, controlling and territorial. He kicks a poor woman while she's down but brings a tremendous acting performance to the screen. It is very surprising that Brando shows such class and maturity yet this is only his second film. Absolute delight to watch him.Vivien Leigh is terrific as Blanche DuBois. Her spiral into insanity is wonderful as she is dominated physically and mentally by Brando's character.Kazan is a genius with the camera. His direction in this film is flawless. I would've loved to see the actual stage performance under his direction and with all these great performers.This is on my list as one of the best films in cinema history. "}{"Title":"A very mixed bag","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.To say that i didn't enjoy first hour of A Streetcar Named Desire (1951) would be nothing - i was so bored by the first hour of this movie. The second was better, and the ending saved this movie for me a bit. Brando is superb in here, playing this simple man, which can be nice man and explode in a second. Vivien Leigh gives a performance, for which if she would have played it just like that in 2015 she would have received Razzie award - i didn't get the whole hype around it. By the end i kinda started to understand what her character might have suffered in the past, but i just didn't care. Other were OK / good. Brando is the one who gave a best performance in this movie, a classical one.Overall, A Streetcar Named Desire is a disappointment for my. I didn't like the story as whole, just watch Jasmine instead if you wan't so see intriguingly and amazingly told this kind of story. the first hour of the movie was simple a characters build up, but sooo boring (word which i barely use when describing a movies). "},{"Title":"Mostly Interesting, Not Perfect","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has a great reputation, so I went into it with high hopes, and was left disappointed. At times the movie dragged on, and at other times it was very interesting. Marlon Brando was great in his role, and despite his character's repulsive qualities, made white T shirts very popular. Vivien Leigh won an Oscar for role, but I wasn't impressed by it. I thought her character was very annoying, and I didn't sympathize with her. Leigh has some good moments, but at other times she overacts. I understand that theatrical performances could still be well regarded at this time, but when she acts opposite to Marlon Brando, whose performance is anything but theatrical, her performance only seems worse. Despite my complaints, I really liked the ending. It was disturbing, and even though I disliked Blanche, I felt sympathy towards her after being raped by Stanley, which totally surprised me. Marlon Brando was great and really made this movie more tolerable than it would have been without him. I wish I wasn't disappointed by it, because I loved On The Waterfront, also directed by Elia Kazan. A Streetcar Named Desire isn't a bad movie, but it's not deserving of its reputation as a classic either.7/10 "},{"Title":"Stanley Gets Wised Up To Blanche & The Napoleonic Code","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK. I'm not knocking A Streetcar Named Desire as a whole, but, with that said, there was just one niggling, little thing about the story that didn't make a whole lot of sense to me. And, what I'd sure like to know is - Why, if Stanley had such a good job at the plant, and all, was he, and his wife, Stella, living in bloody skid row in such a ratty dump-of-a-place as they were? I really can't figure out the reason for these 2 people living in such squalid conditions as they did (especially since Stella was a stay-at-home wife). Like, why the hell didn't this lazy woman pick up a broom once in a while and, maybe, even try to be a bit creative and fix the dump, she and Stanley were living in, up? But, I guess, with Stanley being the (pardon the expression) Pollock pig that he was, this filth hole was the sort of pig-sty environment that suited him perfectly with his greasy fingers and his pawing the insatiable Stella night and day.Anyway - That's my big beef about A Streetcar Named Desire which, otherwise, I thought was an alright 1950's drama, for the most part. "},{"Title":"A Very Tense, Emotional Film, Especially For Its Time","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Disturbed Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh) moves in with her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) in New Orleans and is tormented by her brutish brother-in-law Stanley (Marlon Brando) while her reality crumbles around her.Karl Malden (as Mitch) is always nice to see, and his story of the cigarette case is delightful. Unfortunately, like all the men in the film, he has a violent streak. I like the classic acting, which is very dramatic (but not a surprise as this was a stage production first with much of the same cast).The film was toned down from the play, removing most of the homosexual references. Oddly, though, they seem to be okay with rape. Not sure why, though I guess the story would not make sense without it. Also loved the scenery -- I know it is New Orleans, but it almost looked more like France after the Nazis blew it to pieces. A very barren, cold, emotionless place.While the film won four Academy awards (including three for acting), it was still passed by A Place in the Sun, which had six. Interestingly, neither of these films received best picture -- that distinction goes to An American in Paris (which also had six), a decision I strongly disagree with. "},{"Title":"A great play, a lesser film","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After sixty years we can look back on the work of Tennessee Williams and wonder how it is that a 20th century writer can inspire playgoers and cineastes in the way that Shakespeare inspires us all after 400 years. And not only the English-speaking world. Russia has adopted William and Williams as their own. Streetcar has been adapted, edited, altered and studied as few plays are. I was fortunate to see the play staged when it was very new, in an age when the streetcar dominated city streets. Back in those immediate post-war years, the sound effects people had to get the sound of the streetcar on its regular grinding, clattering way. In the 21st century we are lucky to be able to view this film in our home theatres. So what happened to the streetcar in this film? How many times did it trundle by, the catenaries sparking, the motors grinding? This might sound like a carping criticism, but Blanche, in her ravings, claps her hands to her ears and complains of the constant sound of the streetcar. And the sound people in this movie produce a staccato banging unlike any streetcar since steam was abandoned. And not a flash of light! This film changed forever the play's ending. Conscious of the American censorship system, Kazan changed the ending (with Williams's approval), so that a rapist could not be seen to have a happy exit. Sadly, many stage adapters use the same ending. Just as sadly, the rape scene has largely disappeared, meaning the original ending could have been retained. Nevertheless, this is a fine film, and for years I've waited for the sequel. In an interview, Williams said that Blanche would have set up a boutique, just as she dreamed she would. "},{"Title":"I can't stand a naked light bulb, any more than I can a rude remark or a vulgar action","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan was noted during the 1940s as one of America's most creative stage directors, and yet he'd also proved his film-making prowess on such films as the film noir thriller 'Panic in the Streets (1950).' Naturally, he was a prime choice to adapt Tennessee Williams' acclaimed 1947 play A Streetcar Named Desire for the screen. Eschewing the naturalistic visual style of his previous film, Kazan unashamedly directs 'A Streetcar Named Desire (1951)' as a filmed play, utilising a small, intimate cast and few sets. The film's success spawned a number of Tennessee Williams adaptations, including 'Baby Doll (1956)' and 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (1958),' the first of which was directed by Kazan. 'A Streetcar Named Desire' also launched the Hollywood career of one of the all-time great actors, Marlon Brando, whose mesmerising performance as Stanley Kowalski (and especially his inimitable cry of Stella! at the foot of the apartment stairway) continues to resonate even with those who have never seen the film in its entirety.Blanche DuBois is an intriguing character because she is a tragic victim despite bringing much of her fate upon herself. Having shamed herself in scandal following the loss of her family home, Blanche arrives in New Orleans in complete denial of her moral failings. While desperately maintaining a facade of upper-class respectability, Blanche continually speaks of her brother-in-law Stanley with utter condescension, deriding his Polish heritage and working-class habits. Only by disparaging others can she sustain her self-enforced illusion of lingering youth and grandeur, and yet every attempt at remaining young ironically makes her seem as old as Norma Desmond. But Stanley is also a brute, exuding primitive cruelty and sexuality through every sweaty pore. Had he understood Blanche's psychological condition, and offered kindness instead of resistance, her breakdown might have been averted. Stanley's pig-headed selfishness is despicable, and yet his behaviour seems to arise not from deliberate cruelty, but from child-like naiveté, an obliviousness towards the consequences of his actions.There's no doubt that 'A Streetcar Named Desire' finds its performers at the peak of their work, but, even so, I consider it a minor miracle that such contrasting acting styles were able to coexist so comfortably. Though Marlon Brando had previously performed the role on Broadway to great acclaim, the studio-appointed casting of Vivien Leigh provoked some consternation among the crew, who feared a clash of classical and method acting styles. Leigh, speaking with a Southern accent that is, I think, inherently theatrical, accentuates every twitch of insecurity in the emotionally-decaying Blanche DuBois. Brando, on the other hand, was a student of Lee Strasberg at the Actors' Studio, an influential proponent of method acting, and his Stanley Kowalski speaks in an often- incomprehensible drawl that works precisely because you can imagine hundreds of uneducated New Orleans workers speaking in the same manner. The gamble on Leigh proved successful, with she and co-stars Karl Malden and Kim Hunter taking home Oscars for their fine work; Brando lost out to Bogart in 'The African Queen (1951).' "},{"Title":"One of the best-often duplicated never emulated","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What's left to say about Tennessee's masterpiece? I first read the play in high school and believed that the movie could not do it justice. I was wrong. This is strongly due to effective and poignant performances by legendary movie stars (emphasis on the star part.) Allow me to gush about the actors playing their respective parts by starting with the most important figure in Williams' play.Vivien Leigh had literally swept away movie goers by her portrayal of Scarlett O 'Hara in Gone with the Wind yet had not played a role that matched the capacity of Scarlett (on the screen at least) Leigh portrays Blanche in all her fading glory, a neurotic shell with a thinly veiled past and a scandalous reputation. You have to realize that Leigh wasn't Southern...she was born in Darjeeling India to British descent. But somehow Viewers become engrossed in the movie and will feel that they aren't watching Leigh but are seeing the tragedy of Blanche enfold in front of them. The death of her husband Alan, the 'degenerate' shatters her youthful innocence and curiosity. Aristocratic and upper crust Blanche falls in society's view by searching for a glimmer of happiness in the arms of less than savory men. Men who wrong her and eat away at any hope for redemption. She moves in with her sister Stella Kowalski, the often unnoticed Kim Hunter. Stella provides a mix of Stanley and Blanche, she possesses her sister's dreaminess but more so her husband's grounded nature. Stella for star is uniquely played by Hunter, for a role that could have been ignored. She stands out and it is safe to say her dilemma will become the viewer's dilemma; who to side with. Which brings us to Marlon Brando's brute; Stanley Kowalski.Now, rippling muscles and sweat might be common in movies today, but at a time where the average actor was tall classy and stylized (Grant, Stewart, Fonda) Brando more than stood out. Stanley is played out with great energy...this role could have been reduced to a puddle of slime but due to Brando, it is in my view a jagged boulder one tries to push away. Stanley in all sense is a brute; yet take for instance how Brando tries to humanize him; picking lint of his wife's sweater, helping to clean up broken dishes, calling for his wife for forgiveness. But let us not ignore the immoral and appalling cruelty toward Blanche that Stanley so cunningly gives. He is by no means an easy character to play nor a 'good' one. But it is challenging and launched Brando's lengthy career. Mitch is Stanley's friend, played by Karl Marlden. He falls for Blanche, fooled into believing she is a sweet innocent lady. He proposes and Blanche feels she has found her happiness. Of course, the tragedy of Blanche's past and her actions are revealed and all hope is lost; Mitch turns on her. Later he seems to regret his decision, as he and Stella are the only two to grieve for Blanche. Marlden once again proves his range, Mitch is a typical 'momma's boy' and quiet type, but a lot like Stanley; realistic. The performances and plot make the movie. Streetcar's ending is different from the play's, and does ruin the message of the movie. This is not a happy movie, obviously, but it is a movie people need to see to understand that a person's downfall is not the sole responsibility of that one person; many people and events trigger it. As Blanche says, death...and the opposite is desire Death and desire; two of the most starkly represented elements of Streetcar named Desire. If you are upset by some of the...ahem...less that satisfactory acting of today, watch this movie and you too will be swept away (you thought I was going to say gone with the wind right? Haha) "},{"Title":"Not That Impressed","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i recently read the original play and was amazed at it's power, the raw emotion and the realism of every scene. i became lost in it, the characters are wonderful, the setting is perfect, one of the best things i have ever read. so then i watched the movie. ok, i understand that they had to tone it down back in the 50s, but why did they have to screw it around so much? the music was annoying as all hell for the most part, it should have stayed like the play in that respect, with only faint jazz music in the background and the music in blanche's past swimming back to engulf her. the new music just got in the way. the new scenes that were tacked on to make it easier to understand and less like a play also helped to tear the story up. marlon brando however was excellent, he was ripped off at the oscars.i gave this a 6 out of 10. it is good, but really only because of the parts of the play left intact and the wonderful acting. just did nothing for me whereas the original did everything for me. "},{"Title":"weird movie","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was really weird. First of all, it's almost impossible to understand what the heck Marlon Brando is saying half the time. He talks like he has marbles in his mouth. I don't know if he's acting drunk or if he has a speech impediment, but it is annoying.The movie is mainly about some lady who is all washed up, so she goes to live with her sister and brother in law in a dinky apartment. She brings along a lot of baggage and the plot reveals how she came to be in this desperate state.How this movie got an 8.1 overall rating, I don't know, I'd say it's a 6 at best. The plot and acting were very good, but kind of left me feeling cheated out of two hours of my life by the end of the movie. However, if you are the kind of person goes in for all the dramatic psychological bull, you'll probably love this movie. "},{"Title":"Master class in acting","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh) arrives on the the train in New Orleans. She takes the Streetcar Named Desire to visit her younger sister Stella (Kim Hunter). She's manic and melodramatic. She's been expelled from their hometown teaching job. Stella is expecting her first child with her brutish Polish husband Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando). The superior aristocratic Blanche and lower class Stanley don't get along. Poker buddy Mitch (Karl Malden) is interested in Blanche but Stanley poisons the relationship.It is classic example of Brandon's natural acting skills. The power of his presence is obvious. It was the standard for a new level of acting. Sometimes forgotten is the other brilliant performance from Vivien Leigh. She's essentially an older, more pathetic, more shrill unheroic Scarlett. It's the perfect role for her. Kim Hunter is the glue to hold the relationships together until it can't hold together no more. If not for Humphrey Bogart in 'The African Queen', it would have been a clean sweep of the acting Oscars. "}{"Title":"two sisters of a faded southern family face reality","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belle Reeve is a fictitious fading southern plantation on which two sisters were raised then separated when one moved to New Orleans to marry. The confrontation of the two at their first reunion is at the heart of this sordid drama, one of the most famous Hollywood black and white motion pictures. Gritty in both the visual setting and the Tennessee Williams dialogue it is otherwise one of Hollywood's greatest films. Vivien Leign's haunting performance of the sister who witnessed the loss of the family home earned her the same Oscar as for her haunting performance in GONE WITH THE WIND. Kim Hunter won an Oscar for a long supporting role, the sister who escaped the family debacle who unexpectedly has to face her current demons once her sister shows up at her doorstep to poach. Karl Malden won an Oscar for a long supporting role as the surface gentleman yet heartless heel. Marlon Brando gives one of Hollywood's legendary method acting performances as the surface decent guy who becomes physically violent and personally crude when challenged by Vivien Leigh and spends a great deal of time on screen without lines to say physically preening his iconic character as well as superbly delivering the lines of his leading role. What is brilliant about Elia Kazan's direction is his toning down of the gritty side of Leigh's character as a teen boy loving over the hill somewhat delusional alcoholic prostitute and his manipulating of what was originally his single set Broadway stage to create the visual world of Blanche's growing personal isolation in the Tennessee Williams script. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire Review","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is a book that was written in 1947 and made into a movie in 2951 by director Eliz Kazah. This dramatic black and white film stars actors Marion Brando and Karl Malden as the main characters Stanley and Mitch and actresses Vivian Leigh an Kim Hunter as Blanche and Stella. Kazah's interpretation of the play make this movie a theatrical story that generations to come will love. Kazah's opinions and direction of characterization make this movie a wonderful piece of work. A Streetcar Named Desire is a play about two sisters, Stella and Blanche. Blanche comes to stay with Stella and her husband, Stanley, for the summer month. Her appearance in Stella's life make this movie an eventful and thrilling one. Secrets are spilled about Blanche's past, relationships suffer and the final outcome is one that would leave an audience speechless. Throughout the novel, Blanche's character is monitored. The audience can see that she is a liar and a tad delusional. Her actions are over exaggerated and she is full of herself. She wears fancy clothes and primps herself daily. In the play the reader cannot see this but the director made sure the audience could see his opinion of Blanche's character. we can actually see her actions and not just read about them or guess. Kazah's casting of these actors and actresses made this movie ten times better. he made sure they acted the way he saw the characters act and made the movie into something so much more than what I thought of it while reading the play. A good movie is made when the director and actors work together towards a common goal. this play was brought to life splendidly and became a big success. this movie is defiantly going to forever be a part of the great entertainment world. "},{"Title":"passionate","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tennessee Williams famous play is brought to life, but instead of on a stage is now in this beautiful work of cinema. I think the play to screen adaption does the story a lot of justice because of more of the small nuanced intimate emotional scenes where Blanche is crying, and having her breakdowns it is much more effective to see on screen because of all that can be done to highlight the emotions on her face and the words she is saying. Marlon Brando is a hugely gifted actor and both Brando's character Stanley and Leigh's character Blanche were both exceptionally well cast in their roles, they both have enough passionate emotion that they bring to their lines that makes the characters pop out and appear as real human beings, which is difficult considering the many layers of motives and emotions Tennessee Williams wrote into them in the play. "},{"Title":"Top 10 Physically Strong Actors","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Guess what? Marlon Brando is not there in the list, moreover he is not even in first 40 physically strong men at the recent cataloging of Entertainment Weekly. It comes therefore logically a conclusion that commercial cinema is ruled not by showcasing physical acting but by classical acting theorists coming from the realm of Theater. This was the tight spot that troubled people like Brando and generation of actors after him that have to rebel against the canons of dramatic acting and cast out a style of their own that brought them popularity, fame and money. Those were people like Paul Newman, Al Pacino, etc.; Shakespearean actors from Great Britain seem to be leaders in that controversy of physical vs. mind acting. Nowadays, it appears par excellence that if you haven't made previously a career as sportsman or fashion model you can't become a successful movie star. Where remains the distinction between Theater and Cinema and why Marlon Brando made the critics speak of films before Brando and after Brando?I have at my personal library half-a-shelf of books on theater history and theory, national and international (myself coming from an Eastern European country and if that brings satisfaction to adversary I had my primary education from textbooks written in Cyrillic language). It was Constantine Stanislavsky of Russia that coined the term Method acting, while several followers of his experience in America (i.e., Elia Kazan, Lee Strasberg, etc.) have perfected the Method in their Actors Studio, located at downtown New York pre- and post-World War II. Their workshop aimed to create a subjective reality of their own with intense psychology and realistic scenery. Soon they interpreted plays from Arthur Miller and Tennessee Williams which they put on Broadway with great success. Then those were shot on big screen where A Streetcar Named Desire (1951), directed by Elia Kazan, became an immediate hit that launched to stardom both director Kazan and actor Brando. Later their professional careers separated and while Kazan was dogged in Hollywood because of his UnAmerican Activities (he was born in Istanbul, 1909, and emigrated with his parents to United States which is described in his epic America, America (1963)), Brando became protagonist of rebel cinema (physical) while retained his Method acting (mumbling). I guess that was the Brando dilemma and the rest is moneymaking! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie almost in its entirety, but the ending ain't right","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie as part of a college film class, around 1987 (I didn't actually take the class; I knew someone taking the class to fill a basic sociology distribution requirement; but I went to all the films for free-- and almost all of them were great!). Excellent film, with great performances all around-- until the very ending, which really bothered me. The ending in the movie was fundamentally changed from that in the original play. I had read the play in high school and thought it was brilliant. The movie, however, fundamentally alters the ending in a way, I guess, to make it a bit more uplifting to the audience. However, the film thereby ends up completely missing one of the key themes of the play (which is also a theme shared by Williams' Glass Menagerie) the way that unthinking men destroy the lives of women around them, yet the women are seemingly unable to help themselves in their attachment to those men. A tragic theme, perhaps, but too often true. While the altered ending is less downbeat, it just wasn't Williams' original story. Oddly, Roger Ebert's review doesn't even mention the change in the ending, even though he does mention other changes forced by the censors at the time. I wonder to this day if the changed ending was the director's idea, or was it forced upon him? "},{"Title":"Brando's volcanic energy gives Vivien the needed momentum to deliver one of the finest and most iconic performances in screen history as Blanche DuBois","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We witness Blanch Dubois burn in the flames ignited by Stanley Kowalski, thereby obliterating the destitute woman's small hopes of redeeming herself and starting life afresh. The other way to look at the situation would be Stanley's force compels Blanch to face her crimes and gives her an opportunity to live a normal life sometime in the future. 'A Streetcar named Desire' veers between Blanch's attempts at ridding herself of guilt through ignorance and delusion and Stanley's will to expose Blanch's past and force her to admit and punish herself for her sins. Its playwright Tennessee Williams gives us a harrowing example of the difficulties faced by women who have stained their characters, and the cruelty with which men chastise them while they themselves take little notice of the sins they commit every day. Elia Kazan brings the play to screen experimenting little with editing and instead allows his actors to take charge, and boy do they bring tragedy to life! It is Marlon Brando's intense heat that allows Vivien Leigh's character to have a terrifying meltdown and the actress delivers one of the finest and most iconic performances in film history by nailing a highly complex and extremely interesting character. She may not have done it so well without Brando and we should give credit to Brando for helping her, but if you ask me who performed better, I'd unhesitatingly choose Leigh.A Streetcar Named Desire gained popularity on stage because of the quality of the story itself and Brando's acclaimed performance. When it was reproduced on screen, director Kazan roped in method-maharaja Marlon Brando and classical-chanteuse Vivien Leigh for the roles of Stanley and Blanche respectively. The rest of the cast were filled by talented actors like Kim Hunter for the role of Stella Kowalski and Karl Malden for Mitch. The controversial nature of the play made it difficult for bringing it on screen without certain cuts, but the restoration version released years later fortunately retains the deleted scenes. The story begins with Blanche Dubois' character arriving from Auriol to New Orleans by train, and taking the streetcar named Desire to Cemeteries and finally Elysian fields where her sister Stella lives with her husband Stanley. Blanche is extremely secretive about her past and only discloses to Stella that she had lost possession to their old home in Belle-Reve and was asked by the higher authority, in the school where Blanche taught English, to 'take some rest'. Blanche moves in temporarily with her sister and quickly shows displeasure at Stella's bourgeois existence and her attraction towards a violent man like Stanley. Blanche's prime desire is to begin a new life using an idealistic approach where 'magic and art' play a preeminent role and she pursues this by charming her brother-in-law's close friend and co-worker Mitch; her main obstacle comes in the form of Stanley, who does not entertain her whims, and finding loopholes in her claims, begins digging her past to break the spell Blanche wants to put everyone under. While he is instrumental in ripping her past apart, it seems like Blanche herself gives everyone an opportunity to scrutinize her past; it is as though she planted the seeds of her own destruction which were nurtured by Stanley.William's astonishing work should have been adapted to screen without altering anything because it is perfectly penned. Unfortunately, the film version alters the ending which makes Stanley looks like a complete jerk who is not only crass with Blanch but also not empathetic towards his own wife's grief. It goes against Stanley's motive of living happily with his wife and child without any de trop to disturb the 'wild peace' at home. Barring that scene, every other moment is brilliantly told and played on screen. Kazan hardly tries experimenting with the camera and in the process creates a work that is sharp and subtle. The most effective moments are when the camera abruptly cuts to or zooms into Blanche's face whenever anyone broaches the subject of her husband. Most of the effort is left to the actors who have terrific chemistry with each other, mainly because a majority of them have reprised the roles from stage. Hunter looks a lot like Debra Winger and the manner in which she spoke reminded me of young Debra from the movie 'Terms of Endearment' (of course, Debra came years later). While Debra Winger played a rich young rebellious girl who marries a simpleton, Hunter's Stella marries a commoner like Stanley because she is partly fascinated by his often violent and callous bravado. The actress convincingly plays Stella in a manner that makes us understand the character's choice, in a difficult role where she not only has to show love towards a violent man like Stanley, but also concern for her sister Blanch and slight contempt and reproach towards her husband for his treatment of Blanch. The other supporting role of Stan's friend Mitch is taken up by Malden; his character reminded me of J. Edgar Hoover who too lived alone with his sick mother and was very much concerned about her. Malden does his job well, especially in the confrontation scene between Mitch and Blanch where Mitch begins kissing her only because he then considers her a use-and-throw woman.However it is Brando and Leigh that make the day. I've now seen Brando in five different films in completely different characters and he fits each one like a glove. His realism or super-realism brings the movie alive with kinetic energy, and I realized a something watching him and Leigh &#x96; the classical Hollywood, with its stylized scripts veering towards melodramas and actors trying to bring the energies of their characters' psyche on screen, looked far more alluring a field to enter than today's Hollywood, which focuses heavily on slightly banal realism, with juiceless scripts without quote-worthy dialogs.Only one thing I shall say about Leigh she gives us another iconic and unforgettable screen persona. "},{"Title":"An Explosive Movie........Great","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A fantastic movie, of the stage play by Tennese Williams. Williams also wrote the screenplay for the movie. The four central actors Marlon Brando, Vivien Liegh, Karl Malden and Kim Hunter are excellent, and Elia Kazans direction is superb. Vivien Leigh won an Oscar for her great performance as the mentally un-hinged Blanch. Leigh had been suffering from bi-polar disorder all of her adult life, and often became quite, quite mad as David Niven observed. Playing Blanch was probably not too difficult for Leigh, who had a reputation for being unpredictable on film sets. Brando lost out to Humphrey Bogart (African Queen) at the academy awards that year (1951)---perhaps the world was not ready for the explosive Marlon who played part Neanderthal part Orange tang in an explosive macho performance. One of the great movies. "},{"Title":"A Revolution Named Brando ...","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If Hollywood's history could be compared to the cycle of life, then A Streetcar Named Desire would represent the reaching of puberty. Elia Kazan's adaptation of Tennessee Williams paved the way to a new generation of filmmaking, less stylized, more adult, more realistic and through Marlon Brando's portrayal of Stanley Kowalski, the wind of a new revolution of actors was blowing. That Brando didn't win the Oscar for the most revolutionary performance ever, and that the film lost the Best Picture over the much more conventional An American in Paris doesn't matter, time did justice and till now, A Streetcar Named Desire remains one of the most groundbreaking movies in the history of Cinema.And the word is still weak. Take all the movies that were made before, take the very essence of cinema, which was to provide emotions which real life could never compete with, whether it was about laughs or thrills, passions or cheers. Capra, Hitchcock, Hawks, Huston, Chaplin and so many names gave the letters of nobility to Cinema as an Art that would appeal on an emotional or intellectual level, through A Streetcar Named Desire, it's the gut-level that is for the first time, challenged. And the bravery of the script was to remain faithful to the controversial content of Williams' play, controversial because real, as any form of thought is necessarily subversive. That a film would deal with homosexuality, nymphomania, lust, sex, desire and ultimately rape in a way that would remain cinematically viable by the standards of the 50's is the greatest merit of Kazan. It didn't avoid censorship but when you look at the original director's version now, the material is more thought provoking than any of today's flicks, and some stuff is even more disturbing when implied.But I make the film sound as it was only meant to shock while it's still significant as a cinematic achievement. First, in the setting, the movie plunges us in the hot, steamy and intimate habitations in a French quarter of New Orleans, where the neighbors live in a level of promiscuity that puts the word 'privacy' into perspective, and where in a same house, rooms are only separated by curtains. This is this the universe and its suffocating and claustrophobic atmosphere that we penetrate through the character of Blanche DuBois, Vivien Leigh as an English teacher who came to visit her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) after having taken some vacation, while in reality she was fired because of a relationship with a 17-year old student. Blanche is a delicate flower with a sort of predisposition to madness that highlights even more the maddening effect of the cohabitation with her brother-in-law, Stanley. Her delicacy is only an armor to make herself inaccessible enough to appeal at first sight, while she does have a bit of lust, a lust that probably lead her to lose all the Family's possessions.In the famous scene where she meets Stanley, there's something fascinating in the way both Brando and Leigh interact. Blanche is visibly attracted to Stanley's masculinity but she less wants him than to please him, to feel beautiful and pretty, feminine, simply to seduce. Blanches' condition mirror many of women's contemporary issues, with the eternal desire to be young, to look young, to be with men, with never reaching the point of looking 'easy' or 'cheap'. The conflict between Blanche and Stanley takes its origin in his suspicion, but while we, the audience, suspect something about Blanche's past as a wound she tries to conceal, Stanley is more mean-spirited and his intent is more brutal. The two supporting characters, Karl Malden as Mitch and Stella are crucial here, because they have this tendency to lean toward Blanche Stella is her sister and Mitch is in love with the way she poses, speaks, with her elegance and aristocratic-like demeanor. On the other hand, Stella is attracted to Stanley, and Mitch thinks like Stanley when it comes to women.Stella's attraction to Stanley is the best illustration of Brando's unique sex appeal and male- crush inducing beauty. He's common, he's raw, vulgar, sweaty, dirty, he's the king in his house and means it, he's violent, crude but that's precisely what turns Stella on, and in the iconic stairs scene, where the wet face of Brando screams Hey Stella! she goes downstairs and move her lips in a sensual way, aware of being an object of desire and thrilled to be desired by the manliest man, literally on his knees for her, and for the first time, Stanley's vulnerability shows. Stella admits to be thrilled by Stanley's raw virility as Mitch was struck by Blanche's delicacy, but only to be deceived after. In a crucial scene, where Blanche reveals her past, she opens her heart to Mitch, expecting some understanding because he would forgive her, Mitch gives the first hit by kissing her and saying that he doesn't want to marry her, to which he's immediately rejected, and Stanley gives the deathblow by 'touching her' in the climactic confrontation.A Streetcar Named Desire is one of these painful cinematic experience, where the intimacy and claustrophobia gets more and more exhausting and our viewing flirts with voyeurism. It's a powerful immersion into the laws of human attractions that obey to the rules of the body even more than reason, in fact, it's the body, the instinct, the reason and the heart that mix in an extraordinary interaction, proving that none of these things even act separately, and even Blanche's sexual impulses were the expression of a dependence on the kindness of strangers, understanding more than desire, kindness more than love. Blanche's pretension are like Cinema's attempt to display elegance and beauty when it needed the lowest instincts to finally implode to the face of the world, Kazan finally did, proving that the greatest masterpieces begin sometimes with the lowest instincts. And Brando gave the greatest performance as the lousiest bastard ever. "},{"Title":"levels of building","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" more than a good film. or example of masterpiece/ adaptation of play.a show of a great director, two styles of acting, different experiences, atmosphere of a world and drawing of emotions. a perfect result in which nobody is star but energy, fragility, eroticism, brutal force and each word - shadow of gesture are crumbs from monumental work. because meeting between Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando is a event grace of role of confrontation. and Tennesee Williams play is perfect arena. for light of nuances, for shadows of characters, for bites of emotions, for respiration of subject, for implication of public in a battle in which victories are smoke birds. the movie has many virtues and it is part of a long chain. a mirror for actors career and way to give essence of acting, for ambitions of Elia Kazan to present realities far of recipes, for a play writer for who falls of South people is perfect prey. "},{"Title":"Hey, Stella","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I get sad when I watch films from this time era because films aren't made like this anymore. A Streetcar Named Desire is a classic and perfect film. Elia Kazan directs this film with perfection just making me wish this style of directing was still used. There is something about the style of A Streetcar Named Desire that is the definition to perfection. The way Kazan captures every shot flawlessly makes you more engaged in the film. A Streetcar Named Desire is carried heavily by both Vivien Leigh's and Marlon Brando's outstanding performances. Leigh has such a powerful performance that when the credits role you will sit there and just think about it. The legend, Marlon Brando, brings the realism of performances to the screen. Brando's style of acting is one of a kind. A lot of the actors now a days can't get close to how extremely talented Brando was. He brings his character to life in A Streetcar Named Desire. I highly recommended every film lover out there to watch the masterpiece, A Streetcar Named Desire. "}{"Title":"Great Story And Great Acting","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is a film adaptation of the play of the same name by Tennessee Williams, who also wrote the screenplay with Oscar Saul.It is a romantic drama that was directed by Elia Kazan, who had also directed the original stage production.It stars Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter, and Karl Malden.A Streetcar Named Desire had faded Southern belle Blanche DuBois visit her pregnant sister, Stella, in a seedy section of New Orleans. Stella's boorish husband, Stanley Kowalski, not only regards Blanche's aristocratic affectations as a royal pain but also thinks she's holding out on inheritance money that rightfully belongs to Stella. On the fringes of sanity, Blanche is trying to forget her checkered past and start life anew. Attracted to Stanley's friend Mitch, she glosses over the less savory incidents in her past, but she soon discovers that she cannot outrun that past, and the stage is set for her final, brutal confrontation with her brother-in-law.Their final confrontation &#x97; a rape &#x97; results in Blanche's nervous breakdown. Stanley has her committed to a mental institution.A Streetcar Named Desire was the first film to win three out of four acting categories at the Academy Awards, including Best Actress for Leigh, Best Supporting Actor for Malden, and Best Supporting Actress for Hunter. Brando's performance as Stanley Kowalski, while nominated, even being the favorite and one of the most powerful and influential performances of all time, did not win the Oscar. The film was also the first to win both Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress. Aside from its brilliant acting accolades,it is best regarded as an intelligent and engaged recreation of the original Broadway experience.Overall,A Streetcar Named Desire is a powerful and compelling picture that features great story and outstanding performances from the cast. "},{"Title":"One of Cinema's Finest","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Streetcar has become one of the most celebrated films in America's vast history in cinema, and I can now see why. The film combines a controlling sense for men, provided by Brando, a feminine and sensitive side, provided by Hunter, and a cuckoo side notoriously provided by Leigh. Reciting the lines Mr. Tennessee Williams scripted, and under one of cinema's finest directors (Kazan), A Streetcar Named Desire is like two blue candles lining a white cake&#x85;(What poetry, right?)Brando plays a vulgar and grizzly stud, who doesn't mind causing scraps or arguments, or going around his house treating the walls and furniture as if they were punching bags. It is these very traits that keep his marriage on its toes, and gives Stella the thrills she apparently looks for, and consequently, gets. The Oscar nomination doesn't begin to speak for Brando's performance. Like other of Brando's roles in On the Waterfront and The Fugitive Kind Brando plays that kind of bad-ass man that guys want to be and the guy girls fall for. The kind of guy that is tailed b trouble, only a couple steps behind. One of the best performances given on screen by Brando, or any actor at the time for that matter. Maybe Bogart (who ended up winning Best Actor that year) was the only male lead who could top Brando's stature.And am I the only one who wanted to just outright punch Blanche right in the mouth? That said, my hat is off to Vivien Leigh for an outright amazing performance. A well deserved Oscar win. (When an character can make you want to scream at them for their on screen actions, you know the actor or actress has fulfilled their job.(Jimmy Stewart in It's a Wonderful Life anyone? When he's yelling at his kids? Hats off to you Mr. Stewart.)) There isn't much else to be said on this performance for it is clearly one of the greatest, with only Bette Davis's performance in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane knocking on the door for the women we have most contempt for on screen.Was the relationship between Stanley and Stella just amazing or what? My jaw was, and I do not kid, I mean literally, literally dropped when Stella spoke the words, I'm not going back in there again, not this time, never going back, never. The two made it through the entire film dealing with the ups and downs of a fully functional relationship, leaving the slap earlier in the film out of course, and yet, just as it seemed Blanche intended for, the two had been broken up. This was where I felt completely sorry for Stanley, and Stella as well, knowing the both were down-right crazy in love, and that when Stella walked up those steps with their new born child that that might be it., and are left with Brando crying her name once more, Hey, Stella! Hey, Stellaaa! We'll all remember that name thanks to Brando, and thanks to the vision of Kazan (which I failed to mention much in this review, however I have the utmost respect for the man's films) , Tennessee Williams' wonderfully scripted play, and screenplay adaptation, along with Oscar Saul, and of course the ladies who occupied the screen, Vivien Leigh, and Kim Hunter, and of course an honorable mention for Mitch (Malden), whom also didn't get any recognition for a Oscar winning performance.One of the finest films ever to be released, do not hesitate to watch it, for it is one of cinema's finest gems. Almost like a diamond. (Not a rhinestone&#x85;I mean diamond.) "},{"Title":"Elia Kazan And Brando = Good Movie","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The combination of Elia Kazan and Marlon Brando enchanted me in 'On The Waterfront' and I was waiting to watch another movie of this pair. A Streetcar Named Desire was actually made before 'On The...'. The movie is about a neurotic woman who is an ex-teacher(Vivien Leigh) and she is in desperate need of a place she can call 'home'. Thus she arrives at her sister's place who is married to an extremely practical and short-tempered guy played by Brando. Stanley (Brando) despises his sister-in-law and finds ways to hurt her and thus get rid of her. Meanwhile, Leigh herself has a turbulent past and her mental state keeps on degenerating day after day. The tussle of Brando's anger and Leigh's mental instability creates a very unhealthy living condition. It is a very interesting premise and creates some interesting situations throughout. Acting is top notch in this movie. The Supporting cast played by Karl Malden and Kim Hunter have done a great job especially Karl Malden. Marlon Brando is one of the few actors who you cannot take your eyes off when on screen. This movie explores his mean and violent streak. He shouts, fights, kicks, throws things around, but still is adorable. Vivien Leigh was the best in terms of acting in this movie IMO. The neurosis mixed with insecurity of old age is portrayed brilliantly by her. We almost forget her crimes and feel for her. Overall, A good one time watch.Rating  7/10 "},{"Title":"when all that vanity outlasts the money","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" gawd I love DVDs. so many memorable films now available for less than the cost of admission to a theater.I finally got the chance to watch 'streetcar' front to back. the pause button is the thing.I can identify with Stanley. I don't feel he is quite the brute he is made out to be; after all he puts up with Blanche for 5 months. and in most instances there is a time lag between the thing that annoys him and when he pops his cork. he does have a certain directness about him, giving Blanche a bus ticket for her birthday.entire nations can be guilty of self delusion, just look at the number of times a country starts a war only to have everything they built turned into ash and broken brick. committing self-delusion all the time like Blanche is a bad thing. it can get you 'committed'.frankly I thing Blanche deserves Stanley. he had her pegged right from the start and actually did Mitch a favor when he spilled the beans about her background. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire is one of the finest American classics and a milestone in cinema...","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire (1951)Number 1 - 1951Top 5 - 1950sTop 100 - American Films of All Time Stella!... Hey Stella!Tennessee Williams' sexually charged play is given a superb adaptation by Elia Kazan with a screenplay from Williams. Blance Du Bois is Vivien Leigh in a powerhouse performance that rightly got her a second Oscar. Kim Hunter is Stella Kowalski and the amazing Marlon Brando is Stanley Kowalski, with one of his finest performances and one that should have won him the Academy Award as his performance was 'greater' than Bogart's in the African Queen. Brando brings the brutishness, roughness and volatile personality of Stanley Kowalski that is one of Cinema's defining performances. This is a film, like the play about personalities, characters, in the intoxicating city of New Orleans; it is a film about charged sexuality, strange relations, mystique, wonderful undertones and one of the greatest ensembles of actors ever displayed on film. Elia Kazan's film rightly deserves its place in the National Film Registry in the Library of Congress for being culturally, historically or aesthetically significant - and this film is significant and very influential.(Summary) As in the play, the film presents Blanche DuBois, a fading but still-attractive Southern belle whose pretensions to virtue and culture only thinly mask delusions of grandeur and alcoholism. Her poise is an illusion she presents to shield others, but most of all herself, from her reality, and an attempt to make herself still attractive to new male suitors. Blanche arrives from their hometown of Auriol, Mississippi at the apartment of her sister Stella Kowalski in the Faubourg Marigny of New Orleans, on Elysian Fields Avenue; the local transportation she takes to arrive there includes a streetcar route named Desire. The steamy, urban ambiance is a shock to Blanche's nerves. Explaining that her ancestral southern plantation, Belle Reve in Auriol, Mississippi, has been lost due to the epic fornications of her ancestors, Blanche is welcomed with some trepidation by Stella, who fears the reaction of her husband Stanley. Blanche explains to them how her supervisor told her she could take time off from her job as an English teacher because of her upset nerves, when in fact, she has been fired for having an affair with a 17-year-old student. This turns out not to be the only seduction she has engaged in&#x97;and, along with other problems, has left Auriol to escape. A brief marriage scarred by the suicide of her spouse, Allen Grey, has led Blanche to live in a world in which her fantasies and illusions are seamlessly mixed with her reality.In contrast to both the self-effacing and deferent Stella and the pretentious refinement of Blanche, Stella's husband, Stanley Kowalski, is a force of nature primal, rough, brutish and sensual. He dominates Stella in every way and is physically and emotionally abusive. Stella tolerates his primal behaviour as this is part of what attracted her in the first place; their love and relationship is heavily based on powerful even animalistic sexual chemistry, something that Blanche finds impossible to understand.The arrival of Blanche upsets her sister and brother-in-law's system of mutual dependence. Stella's concern for her sister's well-being emboldens Blanche to hold court in the Kowalski apartment, infuriating Stanley and leading to conflict in his relationship with his wife. Stanley's friend and Blanche's would-be suitor Mitch is trampled along Blanche and Stanley's collision course. Stanley discovers Blanche's past through a co-worker who travels to Auriol frequently, and Stanley confronts Blanche with the things she has been trying to put behind her, partly out of concern that her character flaws may be damaging to the lives of those in her new home, just as they were in Auriol, and partly out of a distaste for pretence in general. However, his attempts to unmask her are predictably cruel and violent. Their final confrontation&#x97;a rape&#x97;results in Blanche's nervous breakdown. Stanley has her committed to a mental institution, and in the closing moments, Blanche utters her signature line to the kindly doctor who leads her away I have always depended on the kindness of strangers, reminding us of one of the flaws that has led her to this point--relying too heavily on the attentions of men to fulfil and rescue her.The reference to the streetcar called Desire&#x97;providing the aura of New Orleans geography&#x97;is symbolic. Blanche not only has to travel on a streetcar route named Desire to reach Stella's home on Elysian Fields but her desire acts as an irrepressible force throughout the play&#x97;she can only hang on as her desires lead her.Devastated with her sister's fate, Stella weeps and rejects Stanley's intention to comfort her and pushes him away. As he cries her name once more (Stella! Hey Stella!), Stella clings to her child and vows that she will never return to Stanley again. She goes upstairs to once again seek refuge with her neighbour.Top performances from Leigh, Hunter, Brando and the excellent Karl Malden as Harold Mitch Mitchell, great set design and superb direction by Elia Kazan make this film an irresistible classic.10/10 "},{"Title":"Stellar performances and a brilliant script","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What made the film A Streetcar Named Desire are the powerhouse performances of the magnificent cast. Marlon Brando is legendary as the mean, hotheaded, sarcastic yet likable Stan Kowalski, marking probably one of his three grandest performances (behind The Godfather Part I and On The Waterfront). Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are outstanding as Stella Kowalski and Mitch (both winning Oscars in the supporting roles). But the main genius comes from Vivien Leigh.Ever since a kid, I was astonished by her mesmerizing work in Gone with the Wind, but she's something else in this as Blanche Dubois. Without giving much detail away about her character, she's like the female version of Hamlet. Depressed, delusional, yet handsome and seductive. Her character remains a mystery, until the very end when things become clear. Her final revelations are sad and pitiful, yet can be sympathized by the audience.Besides the stellar performances, Tennessee Williams created a brilliant story about domestic life in Louisiana, which contains domestic violence, abuse, prostitution, sex, and related desires, hence the title A Streetcar Named Desire. It is understandable why this movie faced many censorship problems and perhaps this was the reason why it didn't get the Best Picture award; it was ahead of its time. By today's standards though, its themes are carried in about every other drama and television show. Despite its mature themes or as the MPAA calls thematic elements A Streetcar Named Desire is an excellent film that depicts life in the city and people's grim secrets and desires. "},{"Title":"Filmed Theater","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Celebrated Williams play is brought to the screen with mixed results. Playing a brute, the young and muscular Brando is animal magnetism personified in a role that made him a star. Kazan's direction is too theatrical, presenting it as a filmed stage play and not having the actors adapt their stage roles to the subtleties of cinema. Leigh is most guilty of stage acting. Although playing a neurotic, she still overacts, with every expression and movement exaggerated for effect. Malden does OK as a fellow who lusts after Leigh. Stanley comes off best, playing Leigh's earthy sister. It is interesting that the British Leigh won two Oscars for playing southern belles. "},{"Title":"This Is quality cinema!","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 1951 film adaptation of Tennessee Williams' 1947 stage play A Streetcar Named Desire is a bona fide Hollywood classic. This film started a new era of film making. It also introduced moviegoers to the marvelous acting talents of Marlon Brando who would go on to be one of the most influential and celebrated actors Hollywood ever produced. If you wanna know what all the fuss is about and why movie buffs and critics alike hail him as one of the greatest then I suggest you start with this film. This and On The Waterfront and of course The Godfather.All the cast from the stage play except one return in this film. the story is about Blanche DeBois a faded southern belle who arrives in New Orleans and travels on the streetcar named desire to stay with her sister Stella and her husband Stanley Kowalski a brutish but needy man. A couple of things are made clear about Stella her desire and love for her husband. But that mutual dependence is disrupted by the presence of Blanche.This film marks the first time a soundtrack for a film has been written to suit or complement the mood or the emotion of a scene or the character. Before this film movie scores were quite manipulative or stiff. Got a great Jazz soundtrack also.The direction is superb. Whlst this is made in the fifties it is not one bit outdated. It still packs a punch today. Out of all the acting Brando is the star performer. He truly was a exceptional talent. There's something about him that separates him from his contemporaries and even todays actors. Deserves his place as one of the greats. He truly changed acting. He is utterly convincing as the rough headed ill tempered force of nature that is Kowalski. Vivian Leigh is also good as Blanche. Leigh is the only cast member that wasn't in the stage play. Jessica Tandy played Blanche in the play but due to the fact she was an unknown at the time and so was Brando they cast Leigh instead. Being a household name she would attract moviegoers. Leigh would win an Oscar for her portrayal (Amazingly Brando is the only main cast member not to win an Oscar losing out to Bogart). Kim Hunter plays Stella the self-deceptive wife of Stan. Regular Brando Co-star Karl Malden provides great support to Brando as Stan's best friend and Blanches love interest Mitch, the only true gentleman in the film which contrasts with Stan's chauvinistic and selfish nature.This film is in my top 5 Marlon Brando films and whether you like Brando or not I recommend you seeing this. It's a timeless tale. Best watched if you're in the mood for something serious. This is quality cinema. "},{"Title":"The Belle and the Balls","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Elia Kazan, fragile leading actress Vivien Leigh (as Blanche DuBois), muscular leading actor Marlon Brando (as Stanley Kowalski), writer Tennessee Williams, photographer Harry Stradling, composer Alex North, supporting actress Kim Hunter (as Stella Kowalski), supporting actor Karl Malden (as Harold Mitch Mitchell), art director Richard Day, and producer Charles K. Feldman line up for a perfect ten. Kazan's Streetcar is a masterpiece of film art.It's easy to see why this version of A Streetcar Named Desire was so acclaimed, awarded, and admired. What may not have been entirely evident at the time, and has neither been equaled nor replaced in subsequent versions, are the unique contributions of Ms. Leigh and Mr. Brando. In their respective styles, they act up a storm. When Brando meets Leigh, you can practically smell his sweat clashing with her perfume; it stinks up the room, and sticks to the screen.I don't want realism, I want magic, Leigh exclaims. With this film, you get both.********** A Streetcar Named Desire (9/18/51) Elia Kazan ~ Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando, Kim Hunter, Karl Malden "},{"Title":"Vivien Leigh is transcendent","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many ooze about Brando, but Vivien Leigh's performance, in a much more difficult role, is extraordinary. It is, without hyperbole, one of the finest on film. Pauline Kael hailed Leigh's Blanch as one of the few performances that actually does evoke pity and terror. It's sad and ironic that this inspired work should come from an actress now routinely dismissed as lovely but second-rate. She frequently appeared on stage in the great classical roles with Olivier, against whom she no doubt suffered by comparison. Pans of her performances in the same reviews that raved about her husband were frequent and contributed to her mental illness. Also, her circle of friends, the royalty of the British stage, looked down on Hollywood -- one arena where she was revered -- as vulgar and trivial, again undercutting her confidence. Unfortunately, when you look at the full scope of her work, she was not in fact of the caliber of the Oliviers, Gielguds and Richardsons with whom she often acted. However, nothing can take away from her spectacular achievement as Blanch. It is transcendent.  "}{"Title":"It's an okay movie, it does chop up the brillaint play though. Spoiler alert.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Let me start by saying that I know this version of A Streetcar Named Desire was made in the ultra-conservative 50's. The play is butchered up and fit onto film in a choppy way that's an insult to one of the greatest plays ever written, period. The aspects they take out and change make the story confusing and makes it now fit just write. The way they handled Blanche's first husband's death is probably the worst. In the play she had walked in on him and another man, but tried to act like it never happened. Then one night on the dance floor she blurted out to him that she saw what she was doing, she knew, etc, etc. Then he goes out and kills himself. But, in the movie, Blanche wakes up one night and hears him crying, and then on the dance floor she tells him he's weak and she doesn't love him. It just comes off so wrong in the movie.  Also, the change of the ending is just wrong. And it doesn't make sense. In the play, or the real story, Stella doesn't leave Stanley at the end. Cut to move and she does. But why? She has just had Blanche committed for saying she was sexually assaulted by Stanley (which she was), and are we supposed to think she leaves Stanley then for assaulting her? It just doesn't make sense, but the play's ending does, the real ending which is tragic and real. But then again, the acting in this play had good potential. Damn good potential, if they had only remained true to the story, Viven Leigh would have been immaculately brillant, she would've given one of the all time best performances. But, she still does in here, but the changed story just kills the movie. Go the play if you want an incredibly good story.  "},{"Title":"The other streetcar was named 'Cemetery'","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)'I've always relied on the kindness of strangers,' Blanche DuBois tells us near the end of this mesmerizing adaptation of the Tennessee Williams play; but what we have found out is that she has often relied on the warmth of strangers, very often, and now with her looks faded and her charm gone, she has become a sad, neurotic creature desperate for any sort of attention.Vivian Leigh's portrayal of Tennessee Williams's languished southern rose is one of the most memorable and haunting performances of the American cinema. Seldom in the history of film has there been such excellent casting. Leigh of course won the Academy Award for best actress, but she was not alone. Karl Malden won for best supporting actor and Kim Hunter for best supporting actress. Marlon Brando could easily have won for his raw animal portrayal of Stanley Kowalski. Credit should also go to Elia Kazan for the artful mastery of his direction. In short this is one of the most celebrated movies of all time, a classic, period. But no mistake should be made about where the primary power comes from. It's from Tennessee Williams's Pulitizer Prize winning play, a work of theatrical genius second to none in the history of the American theater. Williams had the gift of understanding and the ability to project the melancholy self-delusion and sexual/social angst of the feminine psyche onto the stage, and to do it with objectivity and compassion. (Cf. Laura in The Glass Menagerie and Maggie in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.)Brando's interpretation of the animalistic Kowalski, typified by his screaming up the stairs, 'Stella!' in tight t-shirt and bellowing voice, and his crude way with women, electrified audiences and established him as a star. A string of cinematic successes followed, highlighted by his work in On the Waterfront (1954) for which he won an academy award.I want to add that we are driven by Desire until this silly dance concludes and we arrive at the Cemetery. In a beautifully observed bit of accidental irony, those names-'Desire' and 'Cemetery'-are the names of streetcars that ran back and forth on the same line in New Orleans, giving inspiration to Williams's apt and unforgettable title. "},{"Title":"A Juggernaut Named Brando","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are three reasons for watching A Streetcar Named Desire Brando. Brando. Brando.Marlon Brando's bestial heat still flares off that black and white celluloid like the flashpots from the third row of a KISS concert. It is obvious why his work in this movie has been lauded, critiqued, dissected, imitated, codified and ultimately iconicized - it's absolutely astounding! To this day, few have captured that feral rawness and natural-ness that he exuded; an actor boldly pioneering a new style, a bravura Method. The viewing medium becomes all too two-dimensional when he is not on screen.On the other hand, Vivien Leigh's acting style, though lauded by film aficionados as a symbiotic, diametric marriage of intensity with Brando's, is just plain hard to watch and truthfully quite embarrassing at points.For modern viewers, she cannot seem to convince with her old-school Presentational/Theatrical style, clashing irreconcilably with Brando's Method.The icy romance between Leigh and Karl Malden's character only serves to pound home the truth that sexual morés have moved too far from filmic 50s etiquette, to be in any way considered vital or even interesting to modern viewers, even though, for its day, much censorship was brought down upon Streetcar. So we are left with an inordinate amount of yapping that Leigh inflicts on Malden; enough to make any man turn to drink, drugs, other women, other men, football, synchronized swimming or forsaking humanity and leaving for outer space like Chuck Heston in Planet Of The Apes.During Leigh's incessant rambles, strewn passim to illustrate her neuroticism, one continually wonders whether one is missing innuendo which was considered innuendo Back Then but which is now simply naiveté, or whether there was any innuendo courted at all and it was as innocent and puling as it sounded. Ultimately, it is too taxing to pretend filmic sophistication and dissect character motivation - on a pure enjoyment level, Leigh delivers only to historians and Serious Critics.Surely, 'The Play's The Thing' and the story is as vital now as it was then (that of the estranged sister - Leigh - with the profligate and promiscuous past attempting to excise her demons by immersing herself in a new life with her sister and brother-in-law - Kim Hunter and Brando), but the manner in which this tale is purveyed has dated, the only vital remaining aspect being Brando.Brando.Brando.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Vivien Leigh's best","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every time I watch this it is so clear that Blanche De Bois is one of the great tragic heroines of modern drama, and Vivien Leigh, halfway through her own real-life crack-up, plays her brilliantly, with more insight than most Method actresses could summon up.  Her faded Blanche comes from the heart, depending on 'the kindness of strangers', and as brittle as the Japanese lightshade she uses to shade the bulbs in Stanley & Stella's apartment.And what more can be said about the smouldering young Brando as Stanley?  Absolutely brilliant.  In smaller roles, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are memorable and the words of the great Tennessee Williams almost all come through.  The director's cut only added a matter of minutes, but definitely makes a difference to the crucial scenes.Perhaps the best of the filmed Williams plays?  Certainly in terms of awards I think the most successful? "},{"Title":"In my Top 100 of all time.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Streetcar is screen perfection, from the script to the actors who are flawless without exception.  Marlon Brando illuminates the screen with his presence, his sensuality leaps off the screen, this has to be one of the finest performances ever captured on film. He has an illuminosity similar to Marilyn Monroe, an incredible light to his performance. In contrast, Vivien Leigh, twelve years after GWTW, has a fadedness to her beauty, she shrinks into the shadows around her, hiding from the light. An outstanding performance - more so when we consider her luminous presence in GWTW. What an actress! Marlon basks in full view, flexing his muscles, stripping off his t-shirts. Marlon deserved an Oscar for this - it should have been a draw between himself and Humphrey Bogart who won it that year. Marlon wrote the book on method acting. He is the definitive Stanley. This was made in the years of heavy censorship and I saw both the cut and the uncut version. Apparently some of the cuts were forever lost, more is the shame. The homosexuality of Blanche's first husband is only obliquely referred to. However, the hungry sexuality between Stanley and Stella is now restored. There is a raw scene of her coming down the stairs in response to his screaming for her that exposes the incredible primitive sexuality that exists between them. Stanley's torture and exposure of Blanche is terrifying in its relentlessness and her final scene is heartbreaking. There is no other option for Blanche and Stella has to live forever with her collusion in her downfall. 9 out of 10. A must see.  "},{"Title":"Sexual tension mixed with brutality and pretension","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire doesn't take long to become interesting. It always is, from its opening shot to its last. It introduces its characters nicely, and it also sets up the lead Blanche as a sort of gal with really unstable traits and flaws. As the film goes on, the truth of what's behind her face becomes a little more apparent. Her sister's husband is the one who sees through it all the easiest, and also torments her as much as he can. The film is superbly written and directed, but it would be nothing without the fantastic ensemble. We have four core performances here, three of which won the Oscar. But it's Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando who stay in your mind for a long time after seeing it. Leigh portrays Blanche as first very unpredictable, but she becomes more and more theatrical as the film goes on. This works perfectly with how little we know about her, and yet we really never actually like or dislike her. It's hard to. Marlon Brando though steals the show with his fiery, magnetic, and electrifying performance. It's easy to see how this sort of role has become an iconic one for many films and many decades after. Though he does have a lot of screen time, I don't really think this is a leading performance at all. If Kim Hunter is supporting, so is Brando. "},{"Title":"Well I guess I'm gonna strike you as being the unrefined type, huh?","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marlon Brando has always been one of my favorite actors, On The Waterfront is on my personal Top Ten list. However I'm just getting around to some of his very early work, The Wild One being a recent example. In A Streetcar Named Desire, Brando strongly impresses, but not as one might expect from his first appearance on screen as a handsome, macho leading man. His character here isn't much more than a chauvinistic slug, a brutal bully when his buttons get pushed, and they seem to get pushed often. Stanley Kowalski is the kind of character that gives all 'Polacks' a bad name, a term I use with some familiarity as my own name ends in 'ski'.The movie itself has a feral quality, dripping with the steam and passion of a hot New Orleans night. It's best expressed in the relationship between Stanley and his wife Stella (Kim Hunter); some of their scenes together are downright lusty and passionate. The introduction of Stella's sister Blanche Dubois (Vivien Leigh) sets off a ticking time bomb that threatens and eventually does explode to bring the story to it's dramatic finale.Even on a first time viewing, it's easy to pick up on Leigh's theatrical roots in contrast to the acting styles of the other principals in the film. She's a difficult character to pin down, most times it's hard to know whether she's a sympathetic character or a manipulative one. Director Elia Kazan uses a variety of camera angles and lighting techniques to bring out the dichotomy in Blanche's persona, and she alternately appears lovely or haggard, sometimes within the space of mere seconds. It's really a wondrous characterization to behold. Note in particular a scene in the latter part of the story when Blanche reacts to Stanley complaining about steam in the bathroom. Her eyes roll into a hideous distortion as she reacts to Stanley's verbal assault; it made me wonder from what depths Leigh was able to summon that guttural response.With all eyes on Brando and Leigh throughout the film, the roles of Stella and Mitch Mitchell (Karl Malden) seem overshadowed to a large degree, yet were strong enough to earn their respective players an Oscar win in supporting roles. I thought Malden was even better in On The Waterfront, but I guess timing is everything. This is quintessentially an actors' movie, and you'll keep coming back for the performances again and again. Forget that 'Stellaaaaah' film clip you saw in great movie highlights, what you want is the entire story that builds to that dramatic and stunning climax. "},{"Title":"The definitive reading","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kazan's screen version of Tennessee Williams' great play is as close to definitive as it is possible to get even if the censorship laws of the day meant a certain softening of the material. It preserved on film three superb performances from the Broadway production and while Jessica Tandy, Broadway's Blanche DuBois, was passed over in favour of Vivien Leigh, who played the part in the West End, we still must be grateful; Leigh is magnificent.It's not a great film in cinematic terms but it's a great rendition of a great play. Kazan knew the material could hold its own without the need to be 'opened out' and he had the cast to do it justice. Leigh, Malden and Hunter all won Oscars for their performances and if Brando lost out it's still a great piece of acting, almost on par with his Terry Malloy. Above all, it never descends into 'camp'. The character of Blanche may skirt close to the persona of a drag queen but Leigh's pity-and-terror filled performance and the astonishingly 'realistic' acting of her co-stars makes this a true American tragedy and probably the best screen version of a Tennessee Williams yet filmed. "},{"Title":"Perceived Space","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The staged play involves creating a world within definite confines. The filmed play has a good deal more freedom, which is why I find it so inexcusable when a filmmaker fails to explore the universe surrounding the dialogue and characters. But Kazan got this one right; he expanded what we could see to encompass the earshot range of Leigh's character (except for the gratuitous final scene with Hunter and the cries of Stella!).Watch this and notice how everything occurs within her range of perception - and the perspective is damaged, as evidenced in the last scene with Brando and the broken mirror metaphor.Of course, Brando is riveting - we're as riveted to him as 'Blanche' is to 'Stanley'. He demonstrates his method by moving within the space of Leigh's awareness. Compared to other movies, I think Raging Bull is a better illustration of a world full of damaged people. New Orleans itself has been more effectively utilized in such things as Angel Heart. Nonetheless, Streetcar is still worthwhile for what it's meant to be - the interpretation of a play to a film world. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire (1951)","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen the following ten films adapted from the plays of Tennessee WilliamsTHE GLASS MENAGERIE (Irving Rapper, 1950; with Gertrude Lawrence, Jane Wyman, Kirk Douglas and Arthur Kennedy); A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE (Elia Kazan, 1951); THE ROSE TATTOO (Daniel Mann, 1955; with Anna Magnani, Burt Lancaster, Marisa Pavan and Jo Van Fleet); BABY DOLL (Elia Kazan, 1956; with Karl Malden, Eli Wallach, Carroll Baker and Rip Torn); CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF (Richard Brooks, 1958; with Paul Newman, Elizabeth Taylor, Burl Ives, Judith Anderson and Jack Carson); THE FUGITIVE KIND (Sidney Lumet, 1959; with Marlon Brando, Anna Magnani, Joanne Woodward, Maureen Stapleton and Victor Jory); SUDDENLY, LAST SUMMER (Joseph L. Mankiewicz, 1959; with Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, Montgomery Clift, Mercedes McCambridge and Albert Dekker); SWEET BIRD OF YOUTH (Richard Brooks, 1962; with Paul Newman, Geraldine Page, Ed Begley, Shirley Knight and Rip Torn); THE NIGHT OF THE IGUANA (John Huston, 1964; with Richard Burton, Ava Gardner, Deborah Kerr, Sue Lyon, Grayson Hall and Cyril Delevanti); BOOM (Joseph Losey, 1968; with Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor and Noel Coward)I've purposefully added the director's name and cast lists to the film's title to indicate the level of talent which Tennessee Williams' plays attracted time and time again. Having said that, the ones I'm really familiar with are STREETCAR, CAT and IGUANA, with the latter (featuring a great Richard Burton at somewhere near his peak plus an unforgettable Oscar-nominated Grayson Hall) being my personal favorite perhaps because, despite the expected emotional highlights and powerhouse performances, it allows itself a beguiling sense of humor.Unfortunately, humor is something which A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE has very little of while the play itself, taking place as it does entirely within the ramshackle tenement block which the characters themselves inhabit (as opposed to, say, the relatively open-air THE NIGHT OF THE IGUANA, with its Mexican bus rides and seaside sequences, not to mention more exotic characters), has a decidedly claustrophobic feel to it which ultimately translates into a highly theatrical film.Don't get me wrong the performances by the four star players are beyond great (particularly Brando and Leigh) but, being something of a writer myself, I'm rather in awe of Tennessee Williams' way with words&#133;it's just that, very much like Shakespeare, there's just too many of them &#150; which can be quite an exhausting experience to be sure. This is what stuck to me most the last time I saw this film a few years back. All the same, I'd welcome a reacquaintance with this film, especially if, as has been rumored, Warners will be re-issuing A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE as part of its 2-Disc SE DVDs in 2006.As for the rest of the film adaptations of Tennesse Williams' work, I have THE ROMAN SPRING OF MRS. STONE (1961; with Vivien Leigh, Warren Beatty and Lotte Lenya) on VHS but have yet to see it and I'd welcome a chance to watch SUMMER AND SMOKE (1961), PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT (1962), THIS PROPERTY IS CONDEMNED (1966), LAST OF THE MOBILE HOT SHOTS (1970), THE GLASS MENAGERIE (1987) and a host of TV adaptations. "}{"Title":"awesome","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rented this movie recently because i am a huge Marlon Brando fan. The movie is awesome. The movie has some of the strongest acting in it that i have ever seen. I didn't know until I read the credits that the movie is based on the play by Tennesse Williams. The movies plot is pretty simple but it is a movie that brings you in and you feel for the characters and their struggles. The overall movie is just fantastic and it is a timeless story. This movie has stood the test of time for a long time and because of the story and acting it will continue to be one of the classics of film. The movie is fantastic and i strongly recommend it to anyone looking to see a movie that pulls you in all the way until the end. 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Intense, talky drama with some great performances and characterizations","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tennessee Williams' great play finds equally good adaptation in this poignant feature. May be too talky for some (theatrical equivalent) by nevertheless extremely colorful, intense, emotionally correct, coherent and, above all, an effective drama. Leigh is awesome as a main female character with the mysterious past. So is Malden in supporting role as a decent man with the sick mother and in love with Leigh. They deservedly won Oscars. So did Kim Hunter for her fine performance as a women crucified between love for her sister and her husband. Brando is nothing less as a ruthless, primitive Kowalski. Director Kazan shows great skill here in developing a proper atmosphere and tension. American Film Institute included this movie in 100 Greatest American Movies of all times (#45). A real knockout "},{"Title":"Great Movie... a must","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie some weeks ago, and I couldn't get enough of it. I watched it again and again in amazement. First of all, Vivien Leigh's acting in this movie is so moving and truthful, you wouldn't believe this is the same person who played Scarlett O'Hara. I was truly impressed. Then there's Marlon Brando, one of my personal favorites. He is probably the only person I can imagine playing this role. His portrayal of Stanley can't be any better. The supporting players make this movie all the better. A Streetcar Named Desire is not only based on desire and change, but loneliness and love. Once you start watching this movie you'll understand what I mean. You must see this movie if you're a true classic movie fan. "},{"Title":"Out with the old in with the new","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kazan has made a good job of tricky material. Williams' play is more poetic than prosaic, a sort of Death in Venice meets Sunset Boulevard eulogy. At the centre is a metaphorical character for a patriachal, pre-war America, decaying both physically and mentally. Vivien Leigh's powerful acting performance as Blanche Dubois is Oscar material if only for its success in meeting all these parameters.It also achieves this through a strange default. Leigh's acting technique is of the old matinee-idol school, apparent even before the entrance of the virtuosic self-confidence of Marlon Brando's Stanley. The other principals, Karl Malden's honest-but-dependent Mitch and Kim Hunter's wife to Stanley, Stella, only isolate Leigh with their equally studied 'method' approach. I don't find that this detracts though; rather it serves as a concurrent technical analogy for the natural behaviour of the characters. So, as Hunter occasionally lapses into the same outbursts of melodrama as Leigh, we don't necessarily see patchy acting - rather it's as if copying the affectations of the older sister provide a welcome emotional cove in the Sturm und Drang of Stella's modern life.Kazan does just enough to keep the ghost of a plot pulling us along, teasing out Blanche and Mitch's romance, the truth behind Blanche's obsfucated reasons for coming to New Orleans and the final symbolic arrival of the baby. His Dorian Gray treatment of Mitch exposing Blanche's hitherto concealed age is frightening and pitiful at the same time. Alex North's score is inobtrusive but very modern - credit to Kazan for trusting composers to provide music suited to the film, rather than a knowing audience. An outstanding vehicle for the principals and elegant in its melancholy rhetoric, but it's missing a surface tension that would mark it out as a universal classic. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando's Oscar nomination","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For anyone who likes Method acting (Marlon Brando) and wants to learn about acting should watch this movie.  Although it might get boring and long at times, it's entertaining the rest of the way.  It was a Broadway play before it was remade in Hollywood, and Marlon himself performed 500 plays of Streetcar.  The best actor that ever was and ever will be is Marlon Brando, as he proves it himself in this movie. "},{"Title":"This is the Greatest Movie I've EVER Seen","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Landmark and legendary performances, bold challenges to childish censorship codes, and a stunning version of arguably the best play in the American literary canon-- this brilliant Elia Kazan film offers all this, plus a riveting and wrenching emotional viewing experience. Vivien Leigh's celebrated performance is the most excellent thing I've ever seen on the screen. She is the feminine equivalent of Hamlet. Certainly Marlon Brandos brilliance is terrifying, at times funny, and magnificent. I recommend and cherish this moving masterpiece.I believe this film contains the greatest acting ever put on the screen.Kim Hunter is perfect as Stella. Peg Hillias is also great as Eunice, seedy and tough-talking. Brando is certainly the archetype of most male acting since then. All this having been said, the film belongs to Vivien Leigh. Her Blanche DuBois is the best screen performance I've ever seen. What a range! What depth and complexity in such a demanding role! She is by turns lyrical, poignant, irritating, pitiful, grandiose, and terrifying. She may have been great as Scarlett O'Hara and she is justifiably well known for that, but as Tennessee Williams' magnificent tragic heroine, she soars! "},{"Title":"Sexy and intriguing","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent movie, no doubt in my mind.  Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando truly showcased their amazing acting abilities in this movie.  This tragic yet compelling story was successfully carried out, and must say I fell in love with Brando's performance.  One of the true classics. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Textbook acting.","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have always enjoyed the concept of acting.Becoming another person for a short time for the purposes of entertaining an audience has always been an appealing idea to me.I dabbled in it in high school and have always looked back on the experience and wondered why I didn't do more of it.The moment has passed for me I suppose,at this point.I would recommend to any young person contemplating getting involved in acting to study classic films such as this one.The performances of Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh alone will be an educational study for you.They were both masters of getting so deep in character that you had to remind yourself that they were acting.Watch it.Learn.You'll thank me for the advice. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From Oscar nominated director Elia Kazan (Gentleman's Agreement, On the Waterfront), I knew two of the stars, and that one of them won the Academy Award for acting, but I didn't realise this was only one Oscar short of all four actors winning, I had to see it as it was critically acclaimed. Basically, set in New Orleans, in the years following World War II, fragile and neurotic Blanche DuBois (Oscar and BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Vivien Leigh) has come to town to find somewhere to call her own, after being exiled from Laurel, Mississippi for seducing a fourteen year old school boy when she was a teacher. She is an unexpected visitor for her sister Stella (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Kim Hunter), married to brutish husband Stanley Kowalski (Oscar nominated Marlon Brando), and her claim for coming is financial difficulties in the family plantation, Belle Reve. Suspicious Stanley points out that anyone that belongs to his wife or her family is rightfully his as well, and not wanting to be swindled he wants some part of whatever Blanche has, and it turns into a rivalry with Stella caught in the middle. Stanley and Stella love each other very much, but Blanche imposing only brings out his enraging dark side, but there is a way out for the possibly unwanted Blanche when she meets Stanley's card playing buddy Harold 'Mitch' Mitchell (Oscar winning Karl Malden). Mitch is also alone in the world, so naturally the two of them become very close, and he at first only sees her as a beautiful refined woman, but this is only an act she puts on, as her past comes back to haunt her, and there may be alcoholism involved as well. After being raped by Stanley, Blanche has a nervous breakdown and he has her committed to a mental institution, she not only has to travel on the streetcar named Desire to get home, but also have Mitch realise what she really is, but also defend her by punching her brother-in-law knowing his brutal actions. In the end Stella has to face her sister being taken away, and Blanche accepts it, but at least Stella knows that she can no longer be with Stanely and rejects any attempts he tries to comfort and console with her, and she clings to her child watching her sister being taken away. Also starring Rudy Bond as Steve, Nick Dennis as Pablo Gonzales, Peg Hillias as Eunice and Ann Dere as The Matron. Brando, reprising his role on Broadway, is fantastic as the brutal husband of the innocent sister of Leigh, Leigh is amazing as the delusional self assuring but truly tragic Southern belle, Hunter gets her time as the simple but equally emotional and suffering sister, and Malden is great as the nice but also easily upset man Leigh falls for. All four performances bring the film based on the play to life, the story may have been a little bit confusing for me at times, but it is an extraordinary film, despite having to take away real violence or sexual reference so as to not upset the audience at the time, but this makes it all the more fantastic, a great classic drama. It won the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Music for Alex North, Best Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay and Best Picture, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Vivien Leigh was number 79, and Marlon Brando number 30 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Leigh was also number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was number 6 on Britain's Finest Actresses, she was number 16 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, she was number 66, and Brando number 11 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, Brando was also number 4 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and he was number 1 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 19 on 100 Years of Film Scores, it was number 75 (I have always depended on the kindness of strangers.), and number 45 (Stella! Hey, Stella!) on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, and it was number 45 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good! "},{"Title":"Another  excellent film from Elia Kazan.","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Steetcar Named Desire-****-A Masterpiece- Directed by Elia Kazan. Written by Oscar Saul, Tennesee Williams (Play and Co-Screenplay), Starring Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter, Karl Malden.Elia Kazan's shocking and incredibly gripping adaptation of Tennesee Williams' play telling of claustrophobic perversion and raw emotion about a schoolteacher (Leigh) who flees to her sister (Hunter)'s house after seducing a teenage student and must contend with her animalistic boyfriend (Brando).This emotionally complex film is nothing short of the expectations of a collaboration between geniuses of Kazan and Williams. The relationships in the film are smartly crafted with Leigh's latent attraction for Brando, Brando's abuse of women, Malden's love for Leigh, and Hunter's sexual lust for Brando all coming together in a spectacular character study that is hard to beat.Each character is written without sentimentality but not without heart, that is where Williams' genius as a writer comes in handy. Brando's character is a scary piece of horror and is our antagonist because of his mistreating of the women in his life. Leigh's character is far from a hero because she is covered in erotic passions, Hunter's character is far too naive, and Malden is too uninvolved to be loved by us.Williams crafts each of these characters without protagonists or antagonists, and it is his cynicism that makes him such a brilliant writer. His censorship is not excessive, but it is polite. Kazan's genius is just as powerful and his approach to actors is brilliant. "}{"Title":"with Brando and Leigh, It has to be classic","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a big fan of Marlon Brando. I watched A street Car named Desire today. Wonderful movie it is. Performances are superb. Each actor fits in their role well. Movie holds you till end. Brando as Stanley Kowalski has acted brilliantly. He is brutal and loving husband at the same time. He hates Blanche because he thinks it's only her who is affecting his happy life. One thing for sure, Brando was hunk even in 1950s.Leigh as Blanche Du Bois delivers strong performance. she got an Oscar for her role. Gone with the wind is her next best role. If you haven't watched it yet. You are missing a classic. "},{"Title":"Two acting legends clash in the heat of the south","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is directed by Elia Kazan, is based on the play by Tennessee Williams and stars Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden.In 1951 Elia Kazan brought the electrifying Tennessee Williams play A Streetcar Named Desire to the screen.For his leading actors he picked Marlon Brando as the brutish Stanley.For the fragile and faded Southern Belle Blanche,he picked one of Britains greatest stage actresses Vivien Leigh.The result sees two fantastic actors with very different acting styles give possibly the best performances of their respective careers.Fragile Southern Belle,Blanche Dubois(Vivien Leigh)travels to the jazz filled city of New Orleans to stay with her sister Stella(Kim Hunter)and Stella's husband Stanley Kowalski(Marlon Brando).The sisters family home has had to be sold and all their other family members are now dead.In the cramped,heat filled two bedroom apartment Blanche slowly descends into madness.The cause of this comes from the constant bullying and accusations inflicted upon her by the animal like Stanley.She finds some consolation in the arms of a kindly friend of Stanley, Harold Mitchell(Karl Malden).The most discussion about this film is directed towards Stanley's treatment of the deluded and pitiful Blanche.In my view it seems that he believes she is looking down on his way of life,is holding out on a fake inheritance and may persuade her sister to leave him. In some strange way the two desire each other as well, Stanley doesn't understand the feelings aroused in him,so he reacts the only way he knows how to with violence.Leigh,Hunter and Malden won Oscars for their performances here but Brando lost out to Bogart in The African Queen.If ever an actor was robbed it has to Brando.Bogarts performance is good (and is different from the usual characters he played),but it doesn't compare with Brando's.Watching Brando is something else entirely,explosive,sexy,maddening and frightening.There's also the brilliantly conflicting acting styles of Leigh and Brando.Leigh's theatrical with Brando ushering in the new method style.Filled with unforgettable characters and dialogue Streetcar is a mesmerising film experience. Kim Hunter is also superb as the loyal Stella, more comfortable in her new circumstances than her sister. Stella loves Stanley so much and he loves her too. "},{"Title":"A Milestone for cinema...","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan's film adaptation to Tennessee Williams' Pulitzer Prize Play A Streetcar Named Desire, is a very dark movie about a woman named Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh) who flees to New Orleans to see her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) who lives there with her husband Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando).The reason this film was such a milestone for cinema was because of its dark themes dealing with serious issues, and disheartening facts of life. However because of its dark nature scenes of the film were edited upon its release to the theatres in order to meet certain censorship standards of that time. Therefore if you're thinking of purchasing or simply renting this film, be sure to get the Original Director's Cut Version of the film for the full impact.Vivien Leigh who is possibly best known for her role as Scarlett O'Hara in Gone With the Wind is nothing less then spectacular offering a performance that will disturb you as well as sympathize for her.(On a side note it would have been interesting, as well as nice to see Jessica Tandy, who played the original Blanche DuBois on Broadway alongside Hunter and Brando, reprise her role in the film adaptation of A Streetcar... as Hunter and Brando did.) Kim Hunter, very well known for her performance as Zira in Planet of the Apes is incredibly terrific in her role as Stella and compliments both Leigh and Brando very well as a co-star.Marlon Brando...well you all know he's famous for his roles in a lot of movies, including The Godfather as Vito Corleone and Superman The Movie as Jor-El. Marlon Brando does an amazing job as being a real jackass throughout the whole film and really makes you hate/disgust him by the end credits.In a final reflection, I personally found the film adaptation to be better then the play itself. However it's because the ending of the film leaves it less ambiguous then the play does.Although the plot is dark and depressing, A Streetcar Named Desire is a great story that becomes more and more intriguing as the plot unfolds. Loyalties will be questioned, and honesty will be tested in this stellar A-List cast ensemble of the psychological drama A Streetcar Named Desire. "},{"Title":"Visionary in what it reveals about  human strivings and failings","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a masterpiece of multi-faceted brilliance. Each character's personal predicament genuinely contributes to the larger-than-life enigma that Williams is recruiting us to try to comprehend.....Would the entanglements and dilemmas of this piece have played out as effectively had it been set in a respectable section of town void of red lights and free flowing vice? I think that the characterizations are so well written, so strong that they could have survived even a change of venue!...In a flawless film work such as this, you pick out the bits that affect you deeply and you revisit them repeatedly in your mind's eye. There are many such bits in A Streetcar named Desire...In life we are faced with the problem of forgiveness and some conclude that in the end it exalts both the giver and the receiver. When Mitch storms in belatedly to the vestige of Blanche's birthday celebration, it is a changed embittered man who has lost the gentleness and gentility that drew her to him. We want to believe that after her anguished confession, he is physically embracing her in acceptance of who she really is. Blanche needs so desperately to belong to someone that we are taken aback by his verbal response to her appeal concerning their future. Mitch, who initially did not seem of the Quarter, is himself degraded by now treating the misguided pathetic creature much in the same way that the world (minus her sister Stella) treats her. We also know that if no one believes in Blanche, she is truly doomed...Kudos to Vivien Leigh for so accurately portraying the character's descent into a Mental black hole from which there are no resources with which she can be extracted. Brando (in an awesome Star turn) is a Stanley who is capable of loving Stella, but quite limited in his understanding of the Human condition, and the forces that molded Blanche....Great acting here, not just with the principals, but in the smaller roles such as Stella's upstairs neighbor...When Blanche's screams force Mitch out into the night, the singular sound echoes the stripping away of all altruism that life can be kind. It is quite unfortunate the premium Blanche has placed on that kindness... "},{"Title":"Nothing as intriguing as the human mind.","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Basically this movie is like a stage-play that got filmed. The acting, the story and perhaps even its settings feel and look stagy but when you have a great story and great actors you just don't need much else really to make a great.As you can expect from a this sort of movie, a lot comes from its characters. The movie does feature some great characters and some equally great performances from the cast portraying them. Lots of the cast members in this movie had also played in the Pulitzer prize winning stage-play version of the movie. The movie is a class of characters, in which the your views of the characters will also change throughout when more gets revealed of them. It's quite interesting to debate who is the real 'villain' within the story.It was the breakthrough movie for with the big public for director Elia Kazan, who had already directed a couple of great movies prior to this and had even already won an Oscar for his work on Gentleman's Agreement. It still will be this movie and his later movies such as the other movie starring Brando which he directed On the Waterfront and the James Dean movie East of Eden, for which he will always be remembered for as a director. He certainly was a real actors-director.But just as this was the major breakthrough for its director it also marked the breakthrough for several of its actors. This was actually one of the first movies that Marlon Brando ever appeared in, though he acts like he has done nothing else before. Yet it was not Brando who won an Oscar for his role in this movie. Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden all three did though. Especially Leigh really deserved the win and she perhaps gives away the best performance of her life. She could probably relate well to her characters as well though, as she had some mental issues in her life as well. She also didn't appeared in many movies after this one again, due to her mental state. At the time of this movie its production she was already suffering from a manic-depression and then husband Laurence Olivier was always close to keep an eye on things during production.It's simply a movie that gets build on its story and characters and both are more than strong and capable enough to hold this weight and to turn A Streetcar Named Desire into both a powerful and memorable movie experience.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One of those few times when everything, just somehow, match","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE that defined Tennessee Williams as a playwright. No contemporary writer of the stage to my knowledge covered the themes of this play so brutally frank, and still (let's admit it) maintained a level of wit which, at times, leaves us confused as to what is the proper reaction to what we see. Through the years, the play and the movie has received unanimous praise; however, the story can be hard to fully get at first attempt. I have seen the movie about ten times now and also read the play, and what stands as increasingly fascinating to me is how the story itself diminishes somewhat in importance after repeated viewings, and you find yourself focusing on the characters as though you were an acquaintance spying at them from the bushes, not so interested in from where the arguments evolved as how Stanley, Stella and Blanche deal with them.It is well-known that STREETCAR was not only a turning point in Williams' career, but also in that of Marlon Brando as it made him into a major movie star. However, more than a star, it stands as a testament to his talent that his performance is what we instantly remember; Stanley Kowalski is, if we forget Brando for a moment and view him just as a character on paper, the least fascinating major personality here. It is Blanche, Stella and Mitch that drive the story and undergo significant development; Stanley is, by comparison, a pretty passive brick whose impact consists of influencing the relationships between the three others. With Marlon Brando, however, things turn somewhat different.Brando claimed to have always felt that he was miscast in STREETCAR, pointing at Kowalski for being everything I hate in men vulgar and brutal, not interested in anything. This is understandable, as Brando's convincing performance led people to mistake the actor for actually being the character he performed. But while it is correct that Kowalski certainly is a short-tempered guy, to put it kindly, Brando's execution of this quality is not what have stunned audiences for sixty years now. What Brando did with Kowalski, who on the surface appeared to be little more than a stereotypical macho-man, was to attribute depth of vulnerability into his unquestioned masculinity. Prior to Brando's entrance as Kowalski, masculinity in movies rarely revealed signs of sensitivity, especially not in Hollywood, and on the occasions when they did, it was always executed with moderation; you may see Clark Gable silently crying in GONE WITH THE WIND, but he'd never scream out loud in unlimited frustration as Stanley does in need for Stella, suddenly showing us the other side of his childlike nature. In the hands of contemporary actors, such a strong revelation into a traditional macho-man's childlike nature could easily appear out of touch with the character, but Brando uses it for the advantage of the entirety of Stanley; what he does is not to confuse viewers accustomed to one-dimensional macho-men, but rather to reveal the forced superficiality that had featured so many of his predecessors. Stanley reveals his status as a human being who can be hurt, but rather than letting this distract from his image as a masculine figure, he uses his masculinity to get permission for being vulnerable.Speaking of this, perhaps even more interesting is it to note that when the view on masculinity changed, it did not only affect the male actor but also the female actor in order to meet the new expectations of masculinity, the female lead was forced to change as much as her man. Now unable to rest on the shoulders of comfort which her man had once given her, as it now turned out that these shoulders were as vulnerable as her own, she was also forced to slide into another, more complex role; when the masculine is permitted to display signs of femininity, what was originally feminine must face a more masculine attitude in order to survive. When Stella pardons Stanley for his behavior as she approaches him on the steps, watching him crying on his knees, she is by far the domineering part of the two, but not so much, as one would think, because of her power as a feminine creature; her power lies in the strength, or masculinity, within her own femininity. She apologizes Stanley by entering his arms, as a way of permitting him to treat her as a little girl again, quite paradoxically as she then emphasizes even more that a little girl is not what she truly is.Even though most historians agree that Brando's performance in STREETCAR changed the view on acting and consequently also views on masculinity, others have questioned its relevance by pointing out that 'Method Acting,' while owing its entrance into Hollywood heavily to Brando, has its origins in acting theories pre-dating Brando by centuries. It is no secret that the idea of attributing naturalism into acting began long before Marlon Brando came along, but the fact that he did not invent the term, a rather ridiculous anticipation in the first place, does not diminish his impact on the understanding of it; one thing is to come up with an idea, another thing is to execute it right and yet another thing is to execute it so brilliantly that it will make other students understand the purpose of the idea and follow your footsteps.Obviously, Marlon Brando's performance is what has struck me most about STREETCAR, and is probably the major reason why I seek it out over and over again. However, this review merely consisted of a few thoughts on just a couple of the themes provided in this play. STREETCAR covers numerous issues, and should therefore be of interest to most, even if you disagree with my sentiments here. You can hardly go wrong with Elia Kazan directing a play by Tennesee Williams with Brando, Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden involved. STEEELLLAAAA!! "},{"Title":"Stella! Hey, Stella!","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tennessee Williams's play A Streetcar Named Desire opened on Broadway in 1947 with Elia Kazan in the director's chair. Four years later, Kazan was again the director, this time for the motion picture adaptation. Unfortunately, he & Williams had to contend with the Hays office and the Legion of Decency, neither of which approved of the play's content. Luckily for us, the restored version currently available presents a story that's closer to the filmmaker's intent.The story concerns a fading Southern belle, Blanche Dubois (Vivien Leigh), who finds herself homeless after the loss of the family plantation. Thus, she decides to move to New Orleans to live with her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) and her husband Stanley (Marlon Brando). However, it soon becomes apparent that Blanche's pretension and Stanley's uncouth manners will eventually bring their antagonism to a head.The cast is outstanding. All of the actors from the stage play reprised their roles here except for Jessica Tandy, who was replaced by bigger star Vivien Leigh (who had played the role in London's West End). Leigh won an Oscar for her performance though she seems to have her share of detractors. Personally, I think that she gave a fine performance. Kim Hunter & Karl Malden also won Oscars for their work here and Marlon Brando's iconic performance was rewarded with an Oscar nomination.Williams's Oscar-nominated screenplay is quite effective. He balances genteel Southern pretension with the language of the working man. The story is profound, absorbing and often explosive. Kazan captures this energy with consummate skill, snagging an Oscar nomination in the process. The cinematography, costumes & art direction all resulted in Oscar nominations as well, with the cinematography winning. Alex North's evocative score also landed an Oscar nomination and is today regarded as one of the classic scores in American film.So, there you have it. The story is memorable, the performances are excellent and the technique is top-notch. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"Brando's performance","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marlon Brando's second film contained his best role. Nothing like this had ever been seen before. It can be considered one of the greatest if not the greatest performances ever filmed. It was certainly the most influential. It was raw, at times brutal and most importantly real. It was a performance that made all others seem obsolete. And for this reason it can be considered one the landmark events in film history.Brando is so good and so watchable that when he is not on screen the film suffers from his absence. Malden is a great actor but his character is so pathetic, weak and uninteresting that his scenes alone with Leigh tend to drag on just a bit too long. Kim Hunter is great as is Vivian Leigh. But again they along with Malden are at their best with Brando close by.The performances by Hillias, Dennis and Bond though tiny are extremely well done. They like Brando bring an earthy realism to their roles and I think it would have been nice if their roles had been a bit more substantial.The sets seem a tad too stagy as if Kazan simply filmed a stage production. However the atmosphere is fantastic with everything looking hot and sticky. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Brando/Leigh","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brando is genius as Stanley...really like a force of nature.Vivien Leighs performance seems to be more controversial being praised by some as excellent and seen by others as just annoying.Compared to the raw method acting of Brando her performance is old-fashioned,artificial,theatrical and full of mannerisms but so is Blanche as a character.She sees life not as it really is but sort of filtered through her eyes and since her life is based on those lies she becomes almost like an actress in life.She desperately tries to make other people believe that 'her' reality is the truth and this way her life becomes an act.However Blanche is not really a convincing actress and in a strange way Leighs staged,old-fashioned, over-acting happens to fit this particular part.Stanley and Blanche are complete opposites and Brando's and Leigh's performance are complete opposite, yet it works because both actors have a strong chemistry and a powerful screen presence.They have the same level of intensity but two completely different styles. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie. From what I've heard by my grandparent's and their friends, the play had a more profound effect when it first came on the scene. Apparently, before that, there wasn't as much realistic acting and direction going on the stage or in the movies. Also, apparently, Marlon Brando made an indelible impression on those who first saw his performance on stage.I suppose it was like the first time one saw the Beatles or Sinatra or Elvis. Performers after them may have sung and moved and performed with just as much talent freedom and skill, but the novelty of the first one always hits you the strongest.So when I saw this movie, I enjoyed it a lot, although the stories of how the stage play was done was already planted in my mind. So while watching the film, I did think about all of the mannerisms and stage movements in the film, which contributed to making the film great, and also about the filmmakers maybe trying to re-create the magic that had happened on the stage. Marlon Brando was terrific in the lead role. He showed great vulnerability with his powerful strength. Something hard to express. Vivien Leigh was terrific as well. I was with her all the way. She never hit an untrue moment and I just felt like she came off of the street and on the set just like that. Carl Malden and all of the other actors were great also.The direction by Elia Kazan was superb. And of course, there would be absolutely nothing without the exceptional writing of screenwriter, Tennessee WIlliams (based on his play). "}{"Title":"It's Vivien Leigh's film.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is really not much one can add by way of commenting on the magnificence of Miss Leigh's performance here. Perhaps Mr. Williams said it best when he told her that she brought aspects of Blanche's character to the surface, that he, himself never imagined.That is not in any way to minimize the interpretations of Jessica Tandy, (who originated the role on Broadway) or, of Judith Evelyn, (and Miss Evelyn must have been superb as, in a sense, she too, was born to play Blanche.) And despite the superb musical score, art direction, and performances of the rest of the cast, this is Miss Leigh's picture.Blanche's complexity defies easy analysis. Does she represent the collapse of the Old South? (yes to a degree) but, more particularly, she represents a type of lady, (which Mr. Williams knew well and whom the feminists would prefer no longer existed--but in fact does--and not just south of the Mason Dixon line) who requires the protection and security of the plantation culture from which she sprang.One can easily imagine her on the shaded portico of Belle Rive, in gauzy chiffons, and protected by a gallant (though tolerant) husband, while she spends her days enrapt in the dream world which so enthralls her.Indeed, one may see her as the flip-side of Scarlett O'Hara--this time the Southern Belle who didn't triumph--how fascinating that the same actress played both roles.Perhaps Blanche was not destined to triumph but she is far from being a fool. Notice how Williams cannily has her refer to Hawthorne and Poe, not to mention her having been to college. Then, too, a seemingly minor, but very telling detail is her wearing of reading glasses.Yes, she represents the world of the intellect and the world of culture. Who else, for pity's sake, in that crumbling tenement would have any idea what she means in her reference to Della Robbia blue...? Certainly not Stella, about whom Thornton Wilder rightly carped, does not seem in any way to be from the same lineage as Blanche, her temperament not at all in keeping with the daughter of an aristocratic house, (not even a renegade daughter who realizes she is slumming, and knows why she crossed over the bridge).Indeed, excellent actress though she is, Kim Hunter is far too proletariat to believe as ever having been a part of Belle Rive, and seems quite at home with Stanley.However, we shan't make too much of this, since she was in the original, and Mr. Williams in using Miss Hunter, seems to be saying something profound about the differences between her and Blanche, (note the facial expressions Blanche makes whenever Stella speaks admiringly of Stanley--particularly at the bowling alley--it's clear that Stella's temperament baffles her.) Then there is their respective choice of mates (which speaks volumes), for Blanche, a sensitive poet, for Stella, the cretinous Stanley. It's too bad that we don't even get to see a photograph of Blanche's deceased husband, Allan, which might have served as an interesting visual contrast.All of which suggests, these two sisters really don't seem to understand each other very well, and their mutual attempts to come to terms with what they do share, constitutes some of the film's most touching passages.And Blanche for all of her imagined, and/or real superiority is a woman with a stained past--for she has fallen too, though as Miss Leigh herself averred, these lapses with soldiers and 17 year olds had little to do with the corporeal, and everything to do with the search for security and protection. For Blanche, and when seen through the unreal pink light of a Chinese lantern, even a callow teenage boy can become her knight in shining armor.For his part, Mr. Brando is very effective, though his character is painted with a very broad brush, and it is a testament to his talent, that his Stanley avoids caricature, (though at times he comes uncomfortably close, seeming to anticipate Archie Bunker). Nonetheless, some of his lines are both priceless and hilarious, ...I met a dame once who said 'I am the glamorous type' I said, 'So what!'... A splendid though shattering film. Kudos to all involved. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the classics","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Streetcar Named Desire Classic all the way.....makes me want to re rent all these old films. Oh did you know Tennessee William's films are being released in a box set? I'm sure many of you have read the play in high school....but you can't appreciate it till you see it again as an adult. Blanche is delusional about her life...so sad to watch her fall. Her sister Stella is trying to hold it all together with her drunken husband and her sister staying with her. Even though on the outside Stan is rough...we can see in the depths of his soul and understand why Stella loves him so. Blanche D. is ever searching for that love, and dying to hold onto her youth with all her might. Each character faces struggle within them self and how they deal with the world. A story about life told wonderfully. But then again it's the writing...Tennessee Willaims. Also if you haven't seen Cat on a Hot Tin Roof....rent it. These are timeless classics we need to go back to from time to time. My vote for this film is a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Sultry Masterpiece For The Ages","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar Named Desire is a fascinating film for a lot of reasons. It's very difficult for me to compose my thoughts on this film, as there are just so many things happening on so many different levels.I suppose I'll begin with the element that really makes the film what it is the one and only Elia Kazan. For some reason these days, Kazan's films seem to get labeled as outdated and heavy-handed. I can understand why one might think that about Boomerang! or Gentleman's Agreement (though I think those are both very good films, especially the latter), but there is certainly nothing outdated or heavy-handed about A Streetcar Named Desire. It is one of the subtlest and most well crafted films I have ever seen.The story concerns aging southern belle Blanche DuBois (Leigh), who moves to New Orleans to stay with her younger sister Stella (Hunter) and finds a culture clash at every corner, especially with Stella's unrefined husband Stanley, who is played by a very sexy Marlon Brando.It is extraordinarily interesting to see the juxtaposition between Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando. Leigh is an old-fashioned, classical actress of the highest order, charming the audience with her sunny disposition and perky smile, though she definitely has a dark side. Then we have Brando, a young, up-and-coming user of the rising art of method acting. It is one of the most interesting on-screen interactions one is likely to see.What is also very interesting is watching Blanche's slow spiral into insanity. All of the elegance and wealth she grew up in is gone, and she has done unthinkable things to survive. Now she is stuck in a New Orleans slum with a sweaty simpleton yelling at her. Pair that with the tormenting suicide of a past lover, and you have a recipe for madness.Being based on a Tennessee Williams play, the film takes place in essentially one location, that being Stella and Stanley's apartment, but Kazan utilizes the New Orleans locale to perfection, and the combination of his direction, the gorgeous, glowing black and white cinematography, and Alex North's sultry, jazzy score gives the film a consistently surreal, almost dreamlike atmosphere.But more notably, the New Orleans atmosphere gives Kazan the perfect opportunity to play with the story's sensual aspects, and he occasionally even delves into pure primal sexuality, such as in the famous Stella! scene. The film is so subtly steamy and wrought with sexual tension that it pushed the boundaries of censorship back in its day. This also may be due to the fact that it alludes to some very controversial subjects. This is another point at which the film's subtlety becomes a marvel of cinematic engineering. Was Blanche's lover homosexual? Did Stanley rape Blanche? There are no solid answers to these questions &#150; it is left for the viewer to decide.But as I first mentioned, the real virtuoso behind this film is Elia Kazan. Some people may still be upset over his actions during the Red Scare, but it is undeniable that he made some extremely good films. A Streetcar Named Desire is one of his absolute finest masterpieces. It was very much ahead of its time, and it remains one of the most intense, subtle, and well-made dramas in the history of film. "},{"Title":"Just About Perfect!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What can I say, this is probably one of my favorite dramatic films of all time. I love Vivien Leigh who would have been made a Dame. Marlon Brando gives a performance of a lifetime. He was the consummate actor of our generation. I loved Kim Hunter as Stella and Karl Malden as Mitch. THe cast is just brilliant and very loyal to the storyline. They changed some stuff because it was just too risqué and revealing in their time. I always think of great stuff about this play in general. I find myself amused by the characters. They were not just larger than life characters but probably real life based in New Orleans. Now that New Orleans' French Quarter is now a tourist attraction, I would hope people would remember that this was the setting for one of Tennessee Williams' best plays ever. I never cared for The Glass Menagerie as I do for this play. It's raw drama with the finest writing, directing, and acting ever put together. Some films will haunt you and this one will. "},{"Title":"An oldie but a classic","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Streetcar Named Desire Classic all the way.....makes me want to re rent all these old films. Oh did you know Tennessee William's films are being released in a box set? I'm sure many of you have read the play in high school....but you can't appreciate it till you see it again as an adult. Blanche is delusional about her life...so sad to watch her fall. Her sister Stella is trying to hold it all together with her drunken husband and her sister staying with her. Even though on the outside Stan is rough...we can see in the depths of his soul and understand why Stella loves him so. Blanche D. is ever searching for that love, and dying to hold onto her youth with all her might. Each character faces struggle within themselves and how they deal with the world. A story about life told wonderfully. But then again it's the writing...Tennessee Willaims. Also if you haven't seen Cat on a Hot Tin Roof....rent it. These are timeless classics we need to go back to from time to time. My vote for this film is a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Love Has Everything to Do With It","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you start with this stellar Tennessee Williams play, which would be wonderful to see as it is. Throw in the amazing talents of Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh, and you have a powder keg. First of all, we have the apartment, peopled by the insensitive, self centered Brando and his buddies. His wife Stella and the arrival of sister Blanche DuBois. There are sparks for a number of reason. First there is the practicality of things. Stanley (Brando) doesn't want his space invaded. He runs the show, and Blanche is screwing things up. Not only that, she is so affected and so prim and so delicate and so dramatic, she drives Stanley crazy. How long will she be there? How long is she going to be the queen. Eventually things heat up. When Blanche tells her stories, Stanley shows his disrespect and boredom. He is so dominant and so sexual, that eventually he will explode, and she will be the victim. She is so fragile, that when the rape occurs, Stanley acts like he has just stepped on a spider. What's the big deal? And, of course, Stella will always take him back because the animal attraction that ties them together is a fortress. This is a great film and the performances are flawless. "},{"Title":"The most powerful thing I have ever seen","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have only ever seen Streetcar once, about 5 years ago (I was 11). Although I couldn't tell you exactly what happens in each scene, in fact, I could barely tell you the story, I was walking around in a trance for hours after seeing this. What carries the film is not the story (although from what I can remember it is a good one) but the atmosphere, created perfectly by director Elia Kazan, and the leads Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando. I understood what was happening in the film by what these people were feeling, which had a more profound effect on me than even the most visually overpowering films.Viven Leigh's Blanche is incredible. I recently learnt that Leigh was bipolar, and the fact that she managed to put her self in a character not emotionally a million miles away from herself has put me in awe of her forever. Her Streetcar speech and emotional and physical fights against Stanley are two of the most darkly beautiful moments of cinematic history in my opinion, and her contrast with Scarlett O'Hara proved Leigh's typecasting critics far wrong.Marlon Brando is also excellent. I remember feeling great discomfort when he was on screen, as though he could snap at any moment, which he did. The dynamic between him and Leigh is overwhelming.I would recommend this to anyone. It is so raw and yet so beautiful that it will have an incredible effect and grab you without letting go, I assure you! "},{"Title":"You're On the Ride of Your Life-Streetcar Named Desire ***","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Vivien Leigh is Blanche DuBois. For the second time and second Oscar, Ms. Leigh was again a southerner. A story of a repressed schoolteacher, apparently forced to take a medical leave for mental reasons, Leigh comes to town and meets up with her sister and brother-in-law, the memorable Stanley Kowalski, brilliantly realized by Marlon Brando.Can she take his sexual advances? Only the Lord knows the answer to that one. Of the entire cast, only Brando was denied an Oscar here. He was the embodiment of mental instability, vulgar, crude, you name it. Who can ever forget his screaming out, Hey Stella!!!!!As Stella, the sister of Blanche,Kim Hunter was voted best supporting actress and Stanley's friend, Mitch, Karl Malden got a supporting Oscar. The two awards were basically presents. Their acting just wasn't there.The set decorations best reflect the period. They depict a dull life and general hopelessness surrounding the characters.Vivien Leigh makes the most of every minute on screen. She is absolutely mesmerizing. Her make-up artist deserves kudos for her appearance as a sickly, homely woman desperately looking to be valued. Opposite Brando, the two have a field day. Tennessee Williams must have written the script for them both. "},{"Title":"Excellent Drama","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am not a drama person. I am a happy person who likes happy movies, so I am not rating this movie on how I liked it, I am rating it against other dramas and how effective it is. If I rated it on how much I enjoyed it, I would give it an 8 out of 10 because I found it extremely draining to watch, but I really wanted to see what happened to poor Blanche. Will she ever find happiness? It is extremely effective as a drama. Because it is a play it is contained in the one place... as I look back on it, I feel that so much happened, so many emotions were expressed and put forward and yet it just seems a blur to me. I found the lighting and direction was very effective and gave an almost film-noir feel to it. Acting is at perfection status from every actor - especially Vivien Leigh. I was incredibly impressed by her performance. It was so close to her life, too, because later on she could not distinguish things from her life to Blanche's life.I thoroughly enjoyed this drama, although it was draining to watch. Loved every minute of it. But could I watch it again? No, I don't think I could. "},{"Title":"Poetic, Real and Harrowing","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" New Orleans has been my home for almost half a century. I first heard of A Streetcar Named Desire when I was a thirteen year-old and my mother refused to let me go to see the movie. Living in New England at that time, I guess the idea of a loose woman being glorified on the screen was just too much for my Catholic mother to tolerate. I did not get to see the movie until the late 1960s when a screening took place in a New Orleans suburb. I was at last seeing a legendary film. Much to my dismay, the audience laughed at all the wrong places. As they laughed, I bawled.The same experience happened this past summer, before Hurricane Katrina wiped out many beautiful New Orleans neighborhoods and took so many lives. The Saenger theater showed the movie in its large auditorium on Canal Street with bad camera equipment and a poor sound system. Again, many in the audience laughed at situations that in real life would be harrowing. And so for me, the very best experience with A Streetcar Named Desire is to see it in my home in a video format. This way, I can concentrate on the genius of all concerned and not be distracted by an audience not worthy of the viewing.Let's talk about Blanche DuBois and the way she is captured on the screen by Miss Leigh and Mr. Kazan. Like a mythic character out of ancient literature, we first see Miss Leigh enveloped in a mist as a part of the elements and she is lost. She needs to get to Elysian Fields (the abode of the blessed after death in Classical literature.) Elysian Fields is a place reached by transferring to one (streetcar) at the cemeteries. New Orleans itself is mythic. Elysian Fields is only three blocks away from this computer as I write. The famous cemeteries co-exist with the living here in this fabled city. I would hope that anyone who might take the time to read this will see A Streetcar Named Desire as a modern rendering of classical tragedy. And Mr. Kazan elevates Miss Leigh's performance to that of classical tragedienne. But, too, I would hope that no one will be scared off by this type of review. I only want to convey that not only am I writing about a movie, I am hopefully encouraging perhaps green viewers to see the work as a poetic experience. I know of no more harrowing emotional movie dramatic moment of truth then when Blanche finally realizes that Stanley was not kidding, that he was out to destroy her. All of her denial ends in that lighting flash of discovery as she falls sobbing and broken like a wounded animal on the bedroom floor. Everything that leads up to this is the work of the genius of Tennessee Williams, Elia Kazan, Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando.The set alone is magnificent in its seediness. Houses like this still stand in this area, some of them still looking very much like the movie set. One can see that New Orleans had elegance and you can feel the decay that was inevitable after the economic depression made up keeping these dwellings a no-no, financially. The Alex North film score works perfectly with the movie.I am very interested in Harold Mitch Mitchell. Why is this guy so friendly with Stanley Kowalski? He's a mama's boy. Is the attraction to Stanley more sexual than is usually acknowledged? Doesn't Blanche really challenge his manhood? Fascinating points? Lastly, to the merit of Mr. Kazan's genius, the denouement shows not only Blanche's resurrection but Stanley Kowalski's downfall; his once admiring poker players are now on to him and he ends up being the loser. "}{"Title":"Very Heavy and Thought Provoking","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Vivien Leigh again inhabits her character of Blanche Dubois so that no one else could ever quite replicate the role. It is widely known that the incomparable Miss Leigh played Blanche on stage first and would get so emotionally involved that she would be visibly shaken at the end of a performance. It shows. Her work here was so real that it draws you into her problems, and you want to reach out and help solve them. Good Luck....On a deeper level, the film dramatizes the conflict between the old southern aristocracy (Vivien Leigh) and the rising labor/immigrant class (Brando). Vivien Leigh did some of her best work portraying southern aristocrats-Scarlet O'Hara, Blanch Dubois, and Mary Treadwell (Ship of Fools). Brando should have gotten the Oscar here.Vivien Leigh pulled off a good one when she beat out Katherine Hepburn for the Oscar this year (1951). New Orleans was such a perfect setting for a tawdry tale like this one. Other authors believe that Leigh's Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone was nothing but a Roman Streetcar. Brokeback Mountain could be a Rocky Mountain Streetcar.This film is a must see for Leigh fans, southerners, and New Orleans lovers. They don't make films like this one any more. "},{"Title":"Definitive film","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Vivien Leigh was undoubtedly the Meryl Streep of her generation, and she takes what would be an impossible role for most actresses today (can you imagine this being done by Gwyneth Paltrow or Julia Roberts, two erstwhile Best Actresses? I didn't think so)and brings her to wide-eyed life on the screen. She owns every frame she is in; even when paired with leering and overtly sexual Brando (who is also astounding), the screen is hers. Another thing that works really well is the New Orleans setting-if you've never been there, it's 100% humidity every day of the year, even in January, and in August it's nearly unbearably steamy-quite a backdrop for a film about lies, sex, rape, and the descent of the heroine into psychosis. To me, this is a far better performance by Leigh than 15 years+ earlier in Gone With the Wind-Scarlett O'Hara is spoiled, petulant and ruthless, but nowhere near as layered and nuanced as Blanche DuBois. Hats off to Tennessee Williams for his creation of some of the finest female characters the screen and stage have ever known! "},{"Title":"A movie without Streetcar","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie after Elia Kazan's (and before Marlon Brando's) death, and was overwhelmed. This was the first movie with Brando in it that I ever watched, and I was simply stunned by Brando's brilliance. His portrayal of Stanley was so convincing that one starts hating him, while watching the movie. Unfortunately, Vivien Leigh could not do justice to her role; her acting was utterly unconvincing. I watched her in Gone with the Wind earlier, and my impression about her acting was negative, which this movie simply reaffirmed. However, I failed to deduce any connection of the movie with it's name/title. The streetcar Desire appears only once in the movie (just for a couple of seconds, perhaps!) towards the very beginning; but then I'm no intellectual, and I guess,I thus must not question much! "},{"Title":"Even seeing clips brings tears to my eyes","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marlon Brando's recent death has once again brought attention to this outstanding cinematic gem for the ages.  The clips from Streetcar that have run constantly on television during rememberances for the actor had such a powerful effect on me that I was moved to tears.  And these teardrops were not for Brando.  They were for the beauty and timelessness of this movie that never seems to lose any of it's magical quality.  The raw, ferocious chemistry between Brando and Vivian Leigh sends an electrical shockwave through my body each time they share a scene.  The beauty of the sets and Elia Kazan's deft direction sweep the viewer into a story so alive that it never really leaves you.  The seductive use of sound, the supporting cast... If only one movie could be called perfect, this would be the one. "},{"Title":"Fast, Cheap and Out of Control.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Blazing and red-hot take on the Tennesse Williams play (he received an Oscar nomination for his adaptation) has psychologically tortured alcoholic Vivien Leigh (in a dynamic Oscar-winning role) visiting her pregnant sister (Oscar winner Kim Hunter) and her brother-in-law (the breakthrough part for Oscar nominee Marlon Brando) in the French Quarter of seamy New Orleans during the World War II era. Leigh is nearly a complete basket-case it seems and Brando immediately dislikes her as he wonders aloud what Leigh has done with some property that was left to her and Hunter. Naturally Leigh has already mortgaged the land and spent all the money she made from it. Friction rises to a fevered pitch between Brando and Leigh as Hunter gets closer to having her child. One of Brando's poker buddies (Oscar winner Karl Malden in his finest performance) falls hard for Leigh, believing her to be sweeter than she is. But could it be possible that Malden is not what he seems to be? A Streetcar Named Desire is arguably the best performed film ever. Three Oscar victories for its cast is still a record that will likely never be outdone (Network in 1976 is the only other picture to repeat this very rare feat). Hunter and Malden do the best work of their careers while Brando and Leigh are near the top of their credits as well. Director Elia Kazan (Oscar-nominated) created arguably his greatest film here as the movie was considered controversial, wild, frantic and totally crazed when it was released in 1951. Even by today's standards the production does not lose any of its structural depth or complexity. A pot-boiling achievement that lives forever as one of the cinema's finest additions. 5 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"In memory of Marlon Brando... (**** out of ****)","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE (1951)**** out of ****Marlon Brando, one of the best movie and theater actors of the 20th century, has died on Thursday, July 1st 2004. With the nickname of Stanley Kowalski, I couldn't let to pay my homage and post my comment on this wonderful film, where he plays Kowalski.It's not only Brando who shines here- A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE has to be one of the best-acted films I've ever seen. Vivien Leigh is indescribable as the doomed Blanche Dubois, while the late Kim Hunter and the great Karl Malden couldn't be any better. But it's Brando whom we most remember when we talk about STREETCAR, the best movie adaptation of a Tennessee Williams play. Kowalski, with his ripped shirt, screaming for Stella, is one of the greatest moments of the 20th century. And it tells us a lot about Brando himself and his method of acting. May he rest in peace! "},{"Title":"yay","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a beautiful film.  Because it was taken almost directly from Tennessee Williams' play, the dialogue is wonderful and heartrending, the characters tragic and fascinating.  One forgets that almost the entire movie takes place within a two room apartment.  Brando is perfect as the grunting, brutish husband, and Hunter, as his masochistic wife, is also magnificent.  Finally there comes Vivien Leigh, in a role that was to become one of her most famous, and eventually resulted in her being typecast as a fragile, broken woman for some time afterward.   This is a film to see again and again--you simply cannot understand all of it in one viewing. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This really is a superb performance of Tennessee Williams' classic play, with all the main players doing themselves and their parts justice. Elia Kazan wisely stays out of the character's way for the most of it, just providing enough in terms of lighting and choeroegraphy to let the actors excell.Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are both very good as Stella and Mitch but this was always going to rely on the two leads to really carry it. Vivian Leigh is excellent as Blanche, wonderfully balancing her performance between sanity and insanity. Although at times I feel she slightly overruns some scenes, she provides a great focus point for all the others to play off.But, much as the other's deserve credit, there is simply no denying that this is Marlon Brando's film. Like Vivian Leigh he had previously played Stanley on stage but even allowing for this, his performance is astonishing. Brando is Stanley Kowalski. There are no words to do him justice, I'll just say that if you have any appreciation for acting, you must see this film. Brando is brutish and animalistic yet exudes the kind of sex appeal that just cannot be found in modern cinema. He perfectly demonstartes the raw sexuality that comes with danger, and even though you know you shouldn't, you understand why Stella keeps coming back to him. This is one of the truly great Brando performances, one of cinemas truly great performances and it immoratalises the chararter and the film forever more. A magnificent film. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the Classics Just Are...","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great acting, great writing, great directing, and a great score (possibly one of the greatest musical scores of all time in my mind), this is old school Hollywood film-making at it's best, and for me the perfect example to show younger generations that some of those black-and-white classics can stand the test of time.  This is a great way to introduce young people to some of the icons of film history (Brando, Leigh) and one of the greatest directors of all time (Kazan).  The only legitimate complaint that I could foresee anyone bringing up is that it is a bit stagey, but that was the style for melodramas in the 1950's, and as such, this a great piece of film history. "},{"Title":"An Intense Drama","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This intense drama by Tennessee Williams was a wonderful play that I saw tonight at the local PCPA Hancock Theater in Santa Maria.  They all did such a bangup job!   I had seen the movie several times years ago, and at that time I was too young to realize the full impact of the story.  Blanch, is so unrealistic that she drives her sister and brother-in-law crazy when she moves in with them.  She is so conscience stricken and outlasts her welcome that she finally has to be taken away to a rest home(?)  It's no wonder that Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando, Kim Hunter were all nominated for Oscars that year 1951.  Another great actor, Karl Malden, played Harry, who tried to help her.  These actors are all gone now, but wow did they act their hearts out!  This is an almost perfect production 9/10. "}{"Title":"daring and rousing","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vivien Leigh really, really, really was born to play Blanche DuBois!! During most of the film I forgot that she was Scarlet O'Hara and was totally into her performance. I never got around to the play, but I presume (like many stage to screen adaptations during Hollywood's Code period) that there's some good stuff missing. Over the years I've been able to read into the sub-sub-subtext that Hollywood had to utilize to deal with controversial subject matter. A Streetcar Named Desire was therefore a really daring film to put out in 1951, but then again Elia Kazan was always on the edge (sometimes on the edge of public opinion, as is spoken of on another of his greats On the Waterfront). "},{"Title":"One of the most breathtaking, amazing movies of all time ...","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen A Streetcar Named Desire several times by now, and I have read the play. Yet still, I am never prepared for the actual movie because it always is better and means more to me than I remembered. This movie is a gem.  It has the stagey yet beautiful black and white direction by Kazan (On the Waterfront, Splendor in the Grass, East of Eden), flawless performances by Vivien Leigh (Gone With the Wind), and Marlon Brando (On the Waterfront, The Wild One), and fabulous and effective acting by the secondary leads, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden. I read the play before I saw the movie.  Tennesse Williams is one of America's greatest authors and you are truly moved by his words. However, I must go back to the phenomenal performances, for no one would think the words so great if they were acted without conviction and feeling.  Desire displays some of the finest acting in movie history.  As Pauline Kael said Vivien Leigh gives that rare performance that truly evokes pity and terror. and later went on to say ...but who cares when you are watching two of the greatest performances on screen and hearing some of the finest dialogue written by an American?  (I'm not sure if these are exact but they are extremely close without a doubt.) You can read the play, and read the words Hey, Stella! but it does not bring Marlon Brando's incredibly sensual, moving, effective acting in this movie.  You can read the line I don't want realism ... I want magic! And yet, it seems so different when Leigh says this. If you've seen the movie you know what I mean.  Her every move has the nervousness, jerkiness, shyness and feeling of tragedy. Her close-ups, when it focuses on her eyes - well, just see the movie, and you'll understand. This movie won eight Academy Awards if  am not mistaken.  And I believe it deserved every one - and one more, the Oscar for Best Actor should have gone to Marlon Brando. Some of the best scenes and acting in the history of dramatic cinema are displayed here.  So give close attention and let yourself get swept away with the magic of  A Streetcar Named Desire. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, I put off seeing this movie for a long time. It's not really my kind of movie but I rented it because of Marlon Brando. I've seen several of his movies and let's just say the man has a lot of talent. I rent the movie I start watching it and at first I'm not real impressed but this movie has a way of drawing you in. And not just Brando either. I really ended up liking this movie alot. Check it out you never know til you see it. "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies ever made! The acting is superb by Hunter and Malden. Brando is beyond superb, and beyond beautiful. Leigh is not a personal favorite and I felt another actress could have completed the role a little less melodramatically.I have a lot of personal theories on the message and inner workings of this movie and its characters but the one thing I will say is that Stanely Kowalski progressed into the uncaring man he is in the end. When you first meet him he simply seems uncouth, but I beleive his attraction to Blanche and her degrading of him and his relationship with his wife, drive him to an almost mindless need to destroy her.I also believe that Blanche was attracted to Stanely and he was all too aware of this. I believe somewhere in his self-consciousness, he was angry at her because they were attracted to each other. Like it was all her fault somehow.I believe Blanche put him down so much partly because of her attraction to him. She was in denial and also had a need to break up her sister's relationship with him because a part of her was jealous that Stella (though being not as charming or petite) managed to find a man who loved her and was happy, unlike Blanche's husband who apparently was a homosexual.Blanches need to be attractive stemmed from her insecurity about her husband and his sexuality. Her feminity and sensuality was shaken and she desperately needed confirmation that she was still appealing.But that appeal that she had is what undid her at the end. She was too appealing to Stanely and thus he had to remove her.Quite a sad movie all around.BRANDO ROCKS! "},{"Title":"A Real Eye-Opener for Vivien!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This picture made me quite uneasy after my first viewing of it. After seeing immaculate Vivien Leigh in Waterloo Bridge, and as the immortal Scarlett in Gone with the Wind, I was shocked at the way she handled her character. The blonde hair was an ugly quality of Blanche, and her uneasiness. She did not deserve to be treated so harshly and rudely by the brute Stanley (played by Marlon Brando, in an otherwise, offensive role). Her wishy-washy sister, Stella for Star, (Kim Hunter) hardly did anything at all to end the strife between them. The cinematography is excellent, portraying a common, humid, and putrid New Orleans. The city itself sort of tells us what kind of genre the picture will be. I never have seen a comedy in New Orleans, unless its a sitcom, such as Designing Women. I love Vivien Leigh, and her role as the very troubled Blanche, disturbed me, because I wondered, Did Vivien really act like Blanche in real life? It was originally supposed to be played by the late Olivia de Havilland, who turned it down, due to disbelief of a woman saying things such as Blanche did.10/101951 125 minutes CC. "},{"Title":"Great acting in a great movie!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite piece of  filmmaking. It was a movie that opened my eyes to older movies. It forces you to be patient. I am intrigued by the wondrous dialogue and even by some of the nondialogue. When Stanley and Blanche first meet it is classic. This is an actor's movie. It is as if the camera isn't even there. Because of this movie I sought out others like it. In terms of acting it is the pinacle I hold other movies against. If you like this movie I am sure you will like others that I discovered such as 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof', 'The Hustler', 'On the Waterfront', and 'All about Eve.'This movie will hold up to the test of time because it certainly continues to amaze me.  "},{"Title":"Searing  painful tragedy","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Illusion and blunt reality clash as fragile flower Blanche can't escape from her past or herself and Stanley can't resist the urge to break her spirit, because secretly, he's aroused by her, no matter how much he claims otherwise. And poor Stella is trapped in the middle, torn between lust/love and family obligation, to a sister who makes her uncomfortable. Everyone is in denial here. Stella can't admit Blanche may be a desperate manic depressive, Stanley can't admit Blanche excites him and Blanche can't admit she's at the end of her rope. It takes Stanley's violent personality to finally pound away the last nail of Blanche's scattered delusions; desire here being the catalyst behind everything the characters do (Stella stays with Stanley out of desire, Stanley taunts Blanche out of desire and Blanche uses desire to escape reality). Brando looks like a typical Hollywood icon here, especially in his sleeveless white t-shirt, which only him and maybe Burt Lancaster ever seemed perfect for. As for the rest of the cast, they're flawless. The definitive version of the story, altho the beauty of the play's language can be interpreted by any strong actors willing to dive into the depth of these tragic characters. "},{"Title":"Vivien Leigh gives her greatest preformance since Gone With the Wind","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vivien Leigh, one of the greatest actresses to have lived gives her greatest preformance as Blanche DuBois since playing Scarlett O'Hara in Gone With the Wind. A Streetcar Named Desire is an excellent film held by Vivien. She's comes to New Orleans to stay with her sister and brother in law played by Kim Hunter and Marlon Brando and she's senile. Stanley (Brando) doesn't like her as Blanche (Leigh) looks down on him. Over time Blanche's mental state gets worse and eventually Stella (Hunter) commits her to a mental home. This film is excellent as Vivien Leigh plays such as excellent role, and most people would say that the only reason she was good as she was a manic depressive herself but I think that she would have done fabulously if she'd have been in a correct mental state. This is a fabulous film and certainly Tenesse Willams best writing credit ever. "},{"Title":"A difficult, complex, multi-layered film that words cannot describe","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I usually have no problems writing my reviews about the movies I watch, but this one is harder. This is one of the most complex and compelling films I have ever watched. Vivien Leigh again gives a memorable performance as Blanche. She was one of the best actresses of her time, this and Scarlett O'Hara were the two most memorable characters on film. Marlon Brando is also wonderful as violent Stanley, driven to hate for Blanche, but passionate love for his wife Stella (Kim Hunter, also very good)  The story is one of passion, violence, betrayal, jealousy and psychotic actions. Karl Malden plays Mitch, Blanche's potential love interest. But Blanche has a past. This is also part of the complicated story. When I first saw this, I didn't like it, but I watched it again, and liked it a lot. Give it a go if you have an open mind, like enriching character stories, and stories of passion. Hey Stella! "},{"Title":"A Second-rate Streetcar","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I confess the reason I don't care for this film has nothing to do with the fine production, acting or writing. I'll even admit that my position probably isn't defensible.  (But I won't let a small detail like that prevent me from panning the film.)  My first exposure to A Streetcar Named Desire in any way was the television production starring Ann Margret and Treat Williams.  Of course I was quite familiar with the line STELLA!!!! and also the line I've always depended upon the kindness of strangers. Those lines have become part of the popular culture.  But when I saw the Ann Margret version, I had no clue whatsoever about the plot of Streetcar, and I had no idea how these lines figured in the story.  So, when I first experienced Streetcar, I was completely blown away by the power of the Tennessee Williams play.  I was so innocent; so gullible.  And then I suddenly understood what had been going on back at Belle Rive, and I still haven't gotten over my horror.  Oh, poor Ann Margret.  Oh golly.  Oh no. So...when I tried to watch the Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando version, I knew everything that was going to happen.  There were no surprises in store. And I was left with comparing Vivien Leigh's performance to Ann Margret's performance.  I know what you're thinking This guy's about to say Ann Margret's a better actress than Vivien Leigh.  Well, maybe.  And also, maybe, I find it easier to believe Ann Margret depending upon the kindness of strangers.  Vivien Leigh wouldn't have escaped Belle Rive alive, I think. She's just too delicate.  And just a little too nutsy.  So I can't buy into the Leigh/Brando movie.  I certainly hope the Ann Margret version reappears on TV some day so I can tape it and show it to my friends who are convinced that the Leigh/Brando version is the definitive version.  "}{"Title":"Great Theatre turns cinematic","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Theodore Dreiser once said that Our civilization is still in a middle stage, scarcely beast, in that it is no longer wholly guided by instinct; scarcely human, in that it is not yet wholly guided by reason. Streetcar is essentially about the conflict between reason and instinct. The two women protagonists both aspire to a life of culture and refinement. However, they cannot quite overcome their base sexual passion for the uncultured and unrefined Stanley Kowalski, played magnificently by a young Marlon Brando.The defining scene in the movie is about fifty minutes into the film. Stanley has just made an exhibition of his violent self in front of guests which prompts his pregnant wife Stella to move upstairs to a neighbor's house in indignation. After the anger subsides, Stanley comes back to his senses and has what have i done written all over his penitent face. He's afraid he might lose Stella for ever. He yells out Stella...Stella beseeching her pardon. Stella finally comes down the staircase and hugs Stanley passionately. Her face as she walks down the stairs betrays not her pity or pardon but her carnal passion which has prevailed over her rational faculties. It is a very powerful scene about the masochistic nature of romantic love.Few films of any era can boast of four extraordinary screen performances. Brando's performance is justly hailed as being extremely influential on movie acting. However, the performances of Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are just as brilliant. "},{"Title":"I'm still filled with emotional effects of this movie!","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a film! It's got everything one could ask for. Powerful original play and script, potent directing and unforgettable acting. Young Marlon Brando with his magnetic physical semblance plays a wonderful performance as Stanley Kowalski. Brando's talent and power make you believe Stanley, love him, understand him, baffles by his brute and cruelty, misunderstand him and detest him at the same time. Roger Ebert hit the nail on the head when he says Marlon Brando performing as Stanley is the most influential performance in the history of cinema. His character lingers in your mind for a long long time.Having said this all, I soberly say Vivien Leigh surpasses Brando in this one. I've seen Anne Bancroft in The Miracle Worker, Kate Winslet in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Audrey Hepburn in My Fair Lady, Katharine Hepburn in Lion in Winter and many other great performances by actresses but Vivien Leigh excels them all as Miss Blanche DuBois in this movie.Don't miss this movie and don't miss Blanche DuBois. "},{"Title":"Streetcar To Hell","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another movie that I expected to be mildly bored by that swept my off of my feet. Although it certainly isn't easy watching. Two Southern belles have dropped out and into New Orleans. One is married to a wifebeater, the other has dropped out altogether and is grappling with mental insanity. Everything is great in this movie, but especially the performances by Marlon Brando, and especially again by Vivien Leigh, are awesome. Stanley became the ideal all wifebeaters have modeled themselves after, and Blanche the anathema all girls have desperately tried to avoid becoming ever since. Blanche is going to haunt you more than Freddie Kruger and Hannibal Lecter rolled into one. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Streetcar named Desire is a classic movie because of very fine acting performances done by Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh, and Kim Hunter. The directing of this piece was also superb job done by Elia Kazan. Marlon Brando plays Stanley a character who is a drunkard and is struggling to get through life and is constantly in conflict with his wife Stella played by Kim Hunter. Vivien Leigh is Blanche Stella's sister who has come to live with her and Stanley. The conflicts that Marlon Brandon is able to show vividly that occur between his character and these women is truly astounding. He is able to accurately depict the emotion and rage that his character feels. Vivien Leigh gives a great performance playing her southern bell character that is distraught about the mishappenings of her life. This is a fine piece of cinema and will be a classic for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Beware the Sirens","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan's black and white film adaptation to Tennesee William's 1947 play A Streetcar Named Desire. A superb effort by Kazan sharing it's place amongst his other films such as East Of Eden, On The Waterfront, and Gentlemen's Agreement. Cinematographer Harry Stradling who would be the future DP for My Fair Lady and Funny Girl, places the characters in light and shadows capturing the growing tension on a New Orleans set.Blanche Dubois (Vivian Leigh) is seeking a streetcar named desire in the opening of the film. A young sailor points her the way. It is here where Blanche Dubois displays a subtle glimpse into her true nature however, she has a streetcar to catch and a close sister, Stella Kowalksi (Kim Hunter) to lean on. Desire and the past pursue Blanches journey.If anything A Streetcar Named Desire is Sexy and it's desire pours off the screen with the entrance of Stanley Kowalski's (Marlon Brando) sweaty t-shirt allure in the 1940's steamy and wild city of New Orleans. The moment Blanche lays eyes on her sisters husband the heat immerses off the screen. Marlon Brando is a screen presence with his sex appeal and brooding puppy eyes. Director Kazan captures the actor in his primal sexuality like a God of Desire. Stanley will be Blanche's antagonist and the scenes between the two actors are gripping and powerful.The Film is a parable to the journey of life. Great Ullysses tried to show us in The Odyssey as he tied himself to a pole and plugged his ears with wax to the songs of desire as the Sirens sung that forces beyond our imagination and control can lead us to decay as it does Blanche Dubois whose past wanderings and addictions destroy her world. "},{"Title":"Great American play brought to life with passion and fury.","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A great American play brought to life with passion and fury, 'A Streetcar Named Desire' had censors on their toes upon its release in 1951. Now more than 50 years later, audiences are finally getting a chance to see this remarkable piece of cinema in its entirety, subtleties and all. Tennessee Williams' unique vision, now in the hands of the man who gave us some of cinema's most memorable classics, Elia Kazan. Together with an explosive ensemble cast, including the landmark and unforgettable performance from Marlon Brando, 'Streetcar' is a modern day tragedy, and it rightfully takes its place among America's greatest.There are subtle nuances that have to be appreciated and pondered before fully realizing the scope of this story. It is an extraordinary project, made all the more impressive in its ability to touch on certain subjects (rape, homosexuality, sexual promiscuity, insanity) without ever really facing them head on, it's probably the only way the play survived its time. It makes 'A Streetcar Named Desire' a more rich, contextual piece of work that relies primarily on individual interpretation. It adheres so faithfully to the original play that watching it is nearly like watching it unfold on-stage. And though it does feel very theatrical and over-the-top, it doesn't feel stiff or smothered. It is a film alive and bursting of raw emotion not typically seen in 50s cinema.One of the greatest acting ensembles ever assembled can be found in 'Streetcar'. Blanche DuBois is played by Vivien Leigh, whose every moment of slipping sanity is almost too heartbreaking to watch at times. It's difficult not to feel sorry for her, as she has created one of the most fascinating characters on film. Kim Hunter gives a more tender hearted performance as Brando's wife (Stella! Stella!), but effectively hints at something more unrestful bubbling beneath the surface. But alas, it is the only nominated actor in this film who did not win the Oscar that gives one of the most important performances in history, and his name is Marlon Brando. Few actors have made such an impact in the world of film, and fewer performances have created more lasting ripples. Unrestrained and unabashedly emotional, Brando showed us early in his career why he was a powerful force to be reckoned with.More reviews rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public "},{"Title":"Neurotic and beautiful","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've always depended on the kindness of strangers, is a very difficult line to read convincingly. Recent years have brought us a plethora of *Blanches DuBois*. Just ask Jessica Lange or Ann-Margaret how hard that line is to read &#150; neither of them came close to convincing us of it. But Vivien Leigh &#150; the ethereally lovely and vastly skilled actress who brought us the immortal Scarlett O'Hara &#150; utters the line in such a way that makes the heart ache. Leigh, who won Best Actress for her performance, plays the seminal Blanche. She is flighty, unstable and riddled with neuroses, and the very apex of Tennessee Williams' dysfunctional but immense creativity. Her character is strongly contrasted by that of Marlon Brando's crude, Neanderthal-like Stanley Kowalski, and both of them, perhaps because of their personal parallels to their characters, excel at these playing parts. The recent re-release restored several minutes of sexual tension to the film that had been hacked out by the censors, notably filling out Kim Hunter's Oscar-winning role as Blanche's beloved sister, Stella. Despite the stifling mores of the Fifties, the film also garnered awards for Karl Malden, and Best Art Direction. "},{"Title":"Performances From Leigh & Brando That You Won't Forget","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are several strong points in this adaptation of Tennessee Williams's A Streetcar Named Desire, but what stands out most of all is the pair of impressive leading performances by Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando. They do an amazing job of bringing their characters to life, and their performances stick with you well after the movie has ended.Brando is perfectly cast as Stanley, a role that allows him free rein to use all of his strengths. Practically everything he does is effective, and even those who do not like Brando's style would have to acknowledge that hardly anyone else could have portrayed Stanley as convincingly.Leigh, likewise, is completely successful in the challenging role of Blanche. She is excellent both in establishing Blanche's convoluted, erratic personality and in her interactions with the other characters.The clashes between the two are the highlights of the movie. Filled with emotions of all kinds, they are tense, often even unpleasant, always compelling. For all that you would not want to spend much time with either character, you sure do want to find out what will happen to them.The two main characters tower over the rest, but the supporting cast does a solid job as well, with Kim Hunter and Karl Malden working very well in complementing the two leads.Likewise, Elia Kazan deserves credit for setting and keeping the right tone. The screenplay adaptation works very well, also. The play itself might not have quite the complexity of themes as there are in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof or The Glass Menagerie, but it is carefully constructed and it has particularly vivid characters. This production makes full use of what the play has to offer, and gives its stars every chance to shine. "},{"Title":"Un unforgettable trio","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to tell that i was a great fan of Brando in The Godfather movie.But i nearly wasn't of his first movies he made.I mean i'm not a great fan of classic old movies...until i saw this Street Car named Desire.I suddenly was looking to all kind of old movies such as Cary Grant ones and even much older stuff.This movie at first looks like a typically family tragedy one.But no,it's more deep and even tragic than that.It's Tennesse Williams story and also Elia Kazan's direction that made this movie so controverted in that days.It was even censored part of it but now this can be helped cause it has been realesed on DVD with no cuts.Marlon Brando represents the anger and insatisfaction of a Kim Hunter husband,maybe even frustrated because of his social economic status in that ol' days.Kim Hunter makes a great performance representing her wife so that she won an oscar as best supporting actress.Hunter is a wife who's so in love with her husband that she can accept however he is.But she also sometimes can stand for Stanley(Brando's character) because of his rudeness even with the coming of Stella's(Hunter's character) sister,Blanche.Vivien Leigh made the character of Blanche.She is maybe with Brando and of course Hunter the three wonderful and of course unforgettable trio of this masterpiece made by Elia Kazan. "},{"Title":"Not sexy.  Just spitfire dialogue in a murky apartment. spoilers","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tennessee Williams was a sadist.  While this movie is Mary Poppins compared to The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone probably the most cynical movie you'll ever see, Streetcar is also mean.Vivien Leigh's Blanche DuBois is very annoying.  We've got Vivien as a 38-yr old blonde bombshell (to escape the brunette Scarlet typecast) who moves in with her poor younger sister and her husband, Stanley Kowalski the POE-lack.Stanley (Marlon Brando) is vulgar and hateful.  He verbally decimates Blanche, who is a harmless, yet crazy, flake.  The end is fascinating because Brando apparently rapes Blanche....thus proving that her opinion of his brutal violence and mean-streak were correct all along.Blanche at one point is insinuated to have affairs with young boys around 17 years old, which doesn't make her a pervert.  She's just stuck in the time-frame of losing her young dead lover, and as she ages, in her eyes HE doesn't, and that is her infatuation with young boys.  The prostitution bit has probably more to do with loneliness than nymphomania.Direction is plain.  The reason to see Streetcar is Vivien (who is irritating yet that's the character, not her) and Marlon Brando.  Brando was one-in-a-million.  Even Marilyn Monroe had a crush on him.  His volatile yelling and ruthless savagery are intriguing here, and come on...I could spend all day watching Vivien Leigh.Good writing.  GREAT characters.  A classic (yet very dry) adaptation of the play.  See it once.  Your status will increase. "}{"Title":"The definitive version of 'Streetcar' still has power...","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So many well-written reviews of this film have been posted that there's little I can say that qualifies as additional commentary. Suffice it to say that I think all four leads are excellent, particularly Vivien Leigh who gives one of the all-time great performances as Blanche du Bois. I think her nerves were so frazzled by the time she did the film (after doing the play in London under her husband's direction), that she drew upon all these factors to produce the raw emotions needed for the role. Brando, too, makes the perfect Stanley and Malden and Hunter are equal to their tasks.No one has mentioned that Vivien Leigh was not the first choice for the role. Oddly enough, did you know that both Marlon Brando and director Elia Kazan wanted Olivia de Havilland for Blanche? She had just won her second Oscar and I believe they figured her work in 'The Snake Pit' proved she could do justice to Blanche. Her husband at the time (writer Marcus Goodrich) told her she was too ladylike for such a role and she ended up turning it down and taking temporary leave of the screen to do theater work for two years.  I'll always wonder what de Havilland might have done with the role--many think that she was too wholesome for such a part. At any rate, Leigh is brilliant and deserved her Oscar for Blanche. She and de Havilland, although vastly different types, were often up for the same roles during the '50s (including 'My Cousin Rachel').The jazz music in the background is an original idea for the score by Alex North in keeping with the New Orleans background. 'Streetcar' is one of Tennessee Williams' most intriguing works--and as a character study of both Blanche and Stanley, it is superb "},{"Title":"Hard to watch for some, but exceptional in its depiction of horribly screwed up people!","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE is not a film you love because it makes you feel good or because of some sweet message! No, you instead watch and admire the film and perhaps love it due to its brave depiction of seemingly real people--real but severely screwed up people. In fact, considering how screwed up they are and plot, I am shocked the film got made in 1951! After all, this is a very adult film and NOT one for kids.Blanche DuBois is an incredibly deluded and annoying woman. She lives in a world that is the way she wants it to be--not how it really is. In her screwed up existence, she is a lady--a person of refinement and gentility--even though she is from the lowest strata of society and you would assume survives by selling herself to men. While she says she gets by due to the kindness of strangers, only a lunkhead back in 1951 wouldn't have known this meant she was a kept woman or street walker. Regardless, by the time the film begins, she's down on her luck. Due to the ravages of age and an annoying personality, she is without a home or support and is forced to move in with her sister, Stella (Kim Hunter) and her neanderthal husband, Stanley (Marlon Brando). However, over time, her genteel faded belle routine wears very, very thin--and apparently gives Stanley the justification in his own mind to rape her and teach her a lesson (now THAT'S sick). The trouble is, Blanche has lived and talked so much about her dreamworld that now no one believes she was raped. The film ends with the sister and brother-in-law having her institutionalized! This was a very abbreviated summary, but as you can tell, this is NOT a feel good movie. But, it sure has some amazing performances and characters. I loved Vivian Leigh as Blanche--she was perfectly suited to play this sad, faded belle. Perhaps Leigh's own personal struggles with Bipolar Disorder helped her to get in touch with the character.The rest of the cast were really good, but I am about to say something that will no doubt irritate many...so hold on tight. As for Marlon Brando and his much lauded performance, while much of what he did was very good, his standing in the rain and yelling STELLLLLA is one of the most iconic and annoying things about the film. To me, this is a prime example of overacting, while many feel this is transcendent. Unlike the other performances, his seemed to be, at times, overdone. Okay, hit the not helpful button now.Still, I really am glad I saw this difficult movie--difficult to watch though thoroughly fascinating from start to finish. I nearly gave the movie a 10, but only reserve this for truly perfect films. Imagine, then, the surprise that An American in Paris beat out this film (along with A Place in the sun--The African Queen and Ace in the Hole didn't even get nominated in the category) for Best Picture! What were they thinking?! "},{"Title":"Best Blanche, Best Streetcar","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Elia Kazan-directed film version of Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire, with Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh, is the best big-screen adaptation I have seen of any classic American play. (Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf is a close second and Long Day's Journey Into Night might be a contender, but I can't stay awake through O'Neill.) In fact, it's my favorite production of Streetcar and I've seen it a lot -- onstage with Gary Sinise and Kirsten Fitzgerald, on TV with Alec Baldwin and Jessica Lange, and on ice with Brian Boitano and Nancy Kerrigan. (I made that last one up. Please don't do it, anyone.) What makes Kazan's movie so much better than the rest? Well, Brando is the definitive Stanley Kowalski, of course - brutal, sexual, magnetic, all the superlatives you've heard and a lot more. Anyone who tries to play Stanley valiantly tries to summon the same feral intensity that Brando brings to the legendary STELLA! scene, and everyone fails miserably. (Sinise wasn't a bad Stanley, but I had to stifle a few giggles during his attempt at the staircase breakdown.) Still, Streetcar is not about Stanley, it's about Blanche DuBois, and no one will ever equal Vivien Leigh in this role. Leigh had the most expressive eyes in film history, and outside of Brando's chiseled pecs, the most indelible images in this picture are the expressions on Blanche's face -- the uncertainty with which she first regards Stanley, the sickeningly sentimental hunger with which she sizes up the poor sap who comes to collect for the Evening Star, the haunted reflection in the shattered mirror during the horrifying climax. Why did this lovely British lady walk off with two Oscars for portraying women from the American South? Maybe it was because her extravagant emotionalism worked far better in vibrant, expressionistic American movies than gritty, realistic British movies. (Imagine Viv in Room at the Top. Not pretty, is it?) Maybe it's because she was a self-dramatizing neurotic and therefore uniquely suited to act as surrogate for the self-dramatizing neurotics that Dixie used to turn out by the gross, like Margaret Mitchell and Tennessee Williams. Whatever the case, Southern belles were her muse and she created devastating art out of them.It's a pretty good movie outside of Brando and Leigh, too. In a concession to the genre Kazan broadened the scope of the piece by adding extra sets -- sure, it's disquieting to see a supposedly refined lady like Blanche in a bowling alley, but one of the themes of the play is entrapment, and moving the action out of the Kowalski home dilutes some of the claustrophobia. The ending of the play is softened for the film, too, although it's still pretty damn tragic. Whatever, the cinematography is gorgeous -- you can tell it's New Orleans because everything looks smoky or steamy -- and the supporting cast is magnificent, especially Karl Malden as Stanley's buddy and Stella's beau Mitch, who comes off like a sensitive lug but turns out to be, well, an insensitive lug. (Trust me, by the end of this movie you'll hate him even more than you hate Stanley.) After Streets of San Francisco and those stupid American Express commercials, it's easy to forget that Malden was once the best character actor in Hollywood, but he earned an Oscar for this role (and deserved one for On the Waterfront). I'm not sure why Streetcar isn't considered an American masterpiece on par with The Godfather or Casablanca. Maybe it's a bit of theatrical snobbery -- it's merely a film, whereas Williams' stage script is taught in playwriting classes like the Talmud is in Hebrew School. Or maybe it's the fact that Kazan is, to put it charitably, not the most popular man in Hollywood. (How many Lifetime Achievement award winners inspire their own Oscar boycott?) This is not the place to debate whether Kazan naming names during the Red Scare was an act of patriotism or cowardice. It is, however, a place to lament the tarnished reputation of a great American artist and wonder what else the man might have achieved were it not for some unfortunate personal choices. Watch Streetcar, it's a classic. "},{"Title":"Deserves it's classic status.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A truly sensational film with two of the greatest performances I've ever seen on film. The contrast that we see early on between Stanley and Blanche is truly fascinating and does a wonderful job of portraying the two polar opposite types of American citizens during the time period. Stanley is the typical American male; a brutish, hotheaded strong worker who looks out for himself and is extremely arrogant. Blanche comes from the wealthy and the grandeur. She constantly feels the need to show off her very classy ways and makes it a point to show everyone around her that she is a sophisticated, mature woman. But further and further into the film, her character is dissected (mainly through Stanley) and we realize that she is hiding many secrets and is very far from being this sophisticated, mature woman that she pretends to be. When we finally see her in a completely broken down, mentally ill state, my heart almost stopped. It's such a shocking revelation, and Vivien Leigh's phenomenal performance only enhances the extreme catharsis that the final moments of the film had on me. Brando is a revelation in one of the most brutally absorbed performances I've ever seen. The film definitely feels like a play, with the four amazing performances being the highlight of the entire picture. A truly great work in every aspect of it. One other very interesting thing that I would like to point out is the paradox of the title, named for the streetcar that brings Blanche into these people's lives. The idea of desire being personified by a streetcar (a loud, blaring, quick and incredibly powerful force) was absolutely fascinating to me and brought some real intrigue to an already brilliant film. "},{"Title":"On rare occasions everything comes together","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie pretty much has it all acting, cinematography, score, you name it.I think a case can be made that Brando's performance here is one of the most significant in movie history. I've seen a lot of pre-50s movies and can think of no performance that comes close to the intensity and realism that Brando brings to his portrayal of Stanley Kowalski. Even though he behaves like an inconsiderate brute, he has a vulnerability and sexual presence that makes you understand why his wife Stella (Kim Hunter) is attracted to him. Compare Brando's performance with that of Temuera Morrison in a similar role in Once Were Warriors - as excellent as Morrison's performance was you could never get beyond his character's brutishness. There has hardly ever been anything to compare with Brando's electrifying performances in the 50s - think of his roles in On the Waterfront, Viva Zapata, Sayonara, and one of his best in the greatly under-appreciated The Young Lions. It wasn't until the 70s that Brando showed his brilliance again in Last Tango in Paris, and The Godfather. It's unfortunate that Brando could not have maintained the quality of his best performances throughout his career. He has influenced actors and acting down to the present day - can there be any doubt that he was the best screen actor of the twentieth century? Amazingly, in Streetcar Vivien Leigh (as Stella's sister Blanche) and Kim Hunter hold their own against him.A lot of thought went into how to film this. The black and white cinematography is uniformly excellent; there are many exceptional scenes like the last scene of the flower lady, back-lit to haunting effect, and the scene toward the end, filmed in soft focus, with Stella's standing in front of the curtain delivering her soliloquy about being soft.Ultimately the power of this film comes from Tennessee Williams' play. There are scores of analyses of this play that are easy to find if you are so inclined, so I will mention only a few things that struck me. If conflict is the basis of drama, we have conflict in spades from the moment that Blanche comes into the home of Stanley and Stella. Blanche is horrified by the lower class living conditions she sees and by the crassness of Stanley. She herself is at the end of a series of come-downs. She speaks of having lost the family home, Belle Reve, as if it were Tara, but she lives in such a fantasy world that I never had a good picture of what Belle Reve was really like. Not only had Blanche lost the family home, but she had been removed from her teaching job due to acts of moral turpitude. By the time she winds up on Stella and Stanley's doorstep she is desperate. The scene where Stanley and Blanche first meet is wonderfully subtle, and it sets up one of the basic tensions running throughout. Stanley's reaction is definitely more than, Hi, so you're Stella's sister, glad to meet you. With just a few facial expressions Brando gives that little extra something that says, Well, here is a different bird, something that could make things interesting. And Vivien Leigh subtly tips off Blanche's immediate reaction to the undeniable sexual presence of Stanley. Poor Stella is caught between Blanche, who is urging her to better herself by getting away from her degraded life, and Stanley, whose baby she is carrying.While Blanche is presented as being a weak, delusional neurotic she can come alive and be combative as when she throws the papers documenting the loss of Belle Reve at Stanley and when she responds to Stanley's questions about her past affairs and says, I stayed at a hotel called the Tarantula Arms...Yes, a big spider. That's where I brought my victims. Yes, I have had many meetings with strangers. In fact Blanche seems to have a compulsive desire for young boys - she lost her teaching job as a result of an affair with one of her seventeen-year-old students. After Stanley's attack on Blanche she does not have the strength to face the world and retreats into fantasy. Blanche's situation causes us to ask ourselves what we would do if we had played all of our cards and finally had nowhere to turn.The movie has the feeling of being the filming of a play, but maybe Kazan decided not to tamper with success. I wish the movie had been more specific about indicating that Blanche's young husband was homosexual, since that is crucial to understanding Blanche's guilt over his suicide and provides the motivation for her recounting of having told him, You're weak! I've lost respect for you! I despise you! Without the knowledge of her husband's sexual orientation her comment is out of character.Stanley has a facility for language and expressing himself that is probably more Williams than Kowalski, but this can be interpreted as his coming off as having an undeveloped keen intelligence.I first saw this in the early 60s and, upon recently watching it, was surprised by how many of the scenes I recalled fairly vividly. To me that is a signifying quality of a classic movie. "},{"Title":"Poetry - and more - in form of film","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film perfectly encapsulated the essence of the play.  Every nuance of emotion that can possibly be tweaked from Tennessee William's painful story is formed with wanton sorrow.  From the makeup and lighting used to emphasize Blanche's aging, tissue-paper skin, to the romantic, destitute settings (superb art direction), to Alex North's evocative, opulent, though hauntingly dread-ful score, this movie dwells in dark emotional territory...which can be trying.  Who wants to spend a couple of hours dragged down?  I must, because I find the movie a purifying view.The dynamic between each of the characters -- Kim Hunter's Stella to Marlon Brando's Stanley, Stanley to Blanche, Karl Malden's ultimately repulsive wannabe gentleman to the pure I never lied in my heart Blanche is painfully satisfying, because all of these relationships are paradigmatic -- relationships that are pursued by circumstance to fill a void while real desires are denied by circumstance.  And that is it  the story that is perfect in its organic arrangement -- this violence of Stanley's, this madness of Blanche -- the denoument is inevitable (I have read the play, long prior to seeing the movie, and must say that both conclusions are quite emotionally effective).Blanche DuBois ('White Woods'), is a symbolic character for Tennessee Williams.  She perhaps represented the irrelevant, decaying Southern aristocracy that his mother did. She also presented a rarefied aesthetic sense that could only be tethered through certain motifs  the frailty of a Chinese paper lamp, an inscription on a silver cigarette case - a quote by Browning, the languor of certain hues like della robia blue, a seahorse pendant...these clues to her highly vulnerable soul were her only armor in a world where chivalry was dead and hence a piquant, almost abstract sense of beauty was unable to cope. Vivien Leigh is absolutely flawless in establishing and maintaining the pitch of this character.  (I must say that I wish I was old enough to have seen Jessica Tandy's stage performance of Blanche, as well.)This is what makes the movie highly enjoyable for me  I am able to visit a sort of time and place that is irretrievably lost through the insidious culture of violence.  As the representation of such violence, Marlon Brando's Stanley Kowalski is a force of nature, a breaking storm.  Though I'm not generally a fan of his acting, he is breathtakingly effective as the carnal villain.  He has managed to make a stereotype not a caricature, but the reverse, to undo the stereotype -- he has imbued Stanley with flinching tenderness and mischief, more of a naughty boy in the body of a man.  Of course he is strikingly handsome, but that doesn't often signify real sensuality.  Brando has conformed his own sensuality to Stanley's Tiger-like, dangerous kind of sensuality which makes the innuendo of the storyline become 'real' and electrifying.Lastly, though I was terrifically moved by all of the major performances, I must say that I was duly impressed by Karl Malden's Mitch.  He is more than adequate in creating the sense of potential debasement that is ultimately realized -- he is at first soft and retiring, but only comparably so.  He is first a man, and a man of his time who cannot tolerate a 'morally loose' woman, but desires that type of woman.  He is there at the first climax, and he horrifies me!  His stress of the word mummy (mother) is over-the-top, but he is so disgusted at Blanche's past that he is no longer human, but rather, a monster.  I'd say that this is an excellent read.All in all, I could say much about the film.  I don't like the fact that Kazan was the director because of his very regretful role during the Red Scare, but nevertheless am glad that this film was made as-is.  I don't think any remake can capture the funereal essence so well, even if it were to be remade in b&w. "},{"Title":"A sweet transition from stage to screen","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Few plays have made the transition from stage to screen as sweetly as Tennessee Williams' classic, brooding melodrama. Having premiered in New York in 1947, 'Streetcar' is arguably the pick of Williams' renowned plays, including such hits as The Glass Menagerie and Sweet Bird of Youth. Here, director Elia Kazan captures the steamy New Orleans atmosphere with polish, meaning that few who board this 'Streetcar' can be disappointed.At the height of his powers as an actor, Marlon Brando commands the screen with a stirring performance as the fiery Stanley Kowalski, whose modern man persona juxtaposes dramatically with that of his incongruous and deluded sister-in-law, Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh), who symbolises the mannerisms of yesteryear with a strong sense of irony. Brando's physical prowess provides the perfect antithesis to Blanche's frailties. The play, and indeed the film, laments the passing of good manners, universal respect and moral values, questioning the inability to live and deal with present circumstances.Winner of the Pulitzer Prize and countless other drama accolades as a play, it is little wonder that the play stands as up so well on screen. The memorable film performances of Brando et al mean that, for any theatre companies brave enough to tackle this dramatic script, pulling it off on stage is a tough challenge.  "},{"Title":"A mix of all emotions","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Streetcar is definitely a movie that makes you think.  It makes you pity Blanche, hate Stanley, wonder what is wrong with Stella, and half hate, half pity Mitch.  The ending is so sad, especially when Mitch sees Blanche, crumpled and writhing on the floor, and he hits Stanley, screaming, You did this to her!  I think he loved her, but just couldn't accept her past.  That's the thing that leaves Blanche teetering on the edge of sanity, and when Stanley rapes her, it just pushes her off.  The performances by the main characters are absolutely brilliant.  Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden were all nominated for Oscars.  They all won, except for Brando.  But he lost to another worthy actor, Humphrey Bogart for The African Queen.  They should have given out two Best Actor Academy Awards that year!A Streetcar Named Desire always gets mixed reviews, but I think it's a masterpiece.  It really does the Tennessee Williams play justice. "},{"Title":"A Film Of Sublime Artistry","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This filmed version of one of this century's greatest and most profound plays, is a remarkable landmark on many levels. Firstly, considering when it was made, (and despite the cuts made by the American censors the line, `I want to kiss you softly and sweetly on the lips', reduced to `I want to kiss you softly and sweetly' (!!), and Warners' shameful readiness to agree to them), it remains a key film in the development of American cinema; a film that is powerful, intelligent, moving, adult and compassionate, and, because of the miraculous qualities of film, preserves forever what I consider to be one of the greatest ever screen performances, that of Vivien Leigh as Blanche DuBois. Mention too must also be made of the radical breakthrough represented by Alex North's musical score; again, one of the most memorable ever, and this, aligned with faultless technical credits, and powerhouse, immaculate performances from Marlon Brando, Kim Hunter, Karl Malden and every other single role, make this one of my most admired movies of all time.I wonder when, however, those who write TV movie programme columns, as well as others who really should know better, will finally cease to refer to Blanche DuBois as a `nymphomaniac'? I find this constant reference deeply unsettling, disturbing and sexist, since Blanche is, if anything, the very opposite of a nymphomaniac, but rather a highly vulnerable and ill-starred character who, on a subconscious level at least, knows that Eros and Thanatos are twin reflections of the same reality. As she says, `Death... the opposite is desire, so how could you wonder? How could you possibly wonder?'. Far from being a nymphomaniac, she is the only character in the play whose sexuality is not driven by any subconscious and hidden non-sexual agenda.This is, without doubt, Tennessee Williams' greatest play, (the dialogue has the rhythmic quality of blank verse), and that Elia Kazan should have filmed it so faithfully, and with such dedication and atmosphere, is one of the true blessings I have experienced in this life! Neither am I ashamed to admit that after countless viewings, this film, and in particular Vivien Leigh's sublime performance, never fails to move me to actual tears. An undoubted masterpiece, and, in a haunting and compelling way, one of the most soulful films ever made!   "},{"Title":"Timeless classic","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It has taken me 24 years to see this film, and I couldn't have chosen a better time to do so.  Vivien Leigh is STUNNING in this film, outshining her performance in GWTW ten fold.  At any other time in my life, I may have seen Blanche as a crazy, one-dimensional dame, but now, oh, now I see her as a multi-faceted character with real humanity and soul.  She is not crazy, but beautiful in her heart-rending quest to find stability.  Though the film is somewhat stagey, there is some magnificent camera work and there are some impeccable shots of Vivien Leigh, in particular.  Karl Malden as Mitch also delivers a stunning performance. "}{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Masterpiece","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe Elia Kazan wasn't to trust in as a friend, or as a secret keeper; but he definitely was one of the most reliable cinema directors ever. I'm not gonna judge Elia Kazan for what he did outside the cinema studios, that's not my business; and, anyway, who am I to judge anyone?I'm here to talk about him as a cinema director and in particular about A Streetcar Called Desire. One of the best cinema adaptations ever made from a Tennesse Williams' play. Everything is superb in here. Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh play the roles of their lives. Perhaps Vivien Leigh it better known as Scarlett O'Hara than as Blanche Dubois, but let me tell you her performance in A Steetcar is far greater than Gone With The Wind's. She changes her voice tone depending on the scene (now she talks like a respectable young woman, innocent and naive; and the minute after she talks like a middle-age woman who's been through every kind of personal tragedies). Just perfect. And what to say about Brando's performing? That rude and arrogant Stanley Kowalski. No one could've played it better than Marlon. NO ONE. He made a lot of remarkable performing along his career and some of'em approached to this one (Waterfront, Godfather...) but never overcame this character.A Streetcar Named Desire = A piece of art from 20th century.  "},{"Title":"Missing some of the electricity and unpredictability of a live performance...","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A deluded Southern belle goes to stay with her pregnant sister and her swaggering brute of a brother-in-law in their tacky New Orleans flat, but his pent-up passion and the belle's fluttery innocence/insanity clash in dramatic and sexual ways. Vivien Leigh is exceptional as quixotic, somewhat irritating Blanche DuBois, and this highly-theatrical material only comes to life cinematically when she is on the screen. Talk-heavy Tennessee Williams play seems a bit smoothed over, with the breathy lines of unreal dialogue occasionally landing with a literate clatter. Personal taste will have to decide whether the writer's penchant for melodramatic speeches and irrational behaviors are touching, theatrically-charged, or just perverse (sometimes they are all three). It's a beautifully filmed piece, and with Oscar-winner Leigh as Blanche it is nearly a success. Kim Hunter and Karl Malden (as a milquetoast friend of the husband's) won Supporting Oscars. Marlon Brando (as tortured Stanley Kowolski) works and works at carving out his character with such angst that he may leave some viewers cold. Arduous, occasionally intriguing and involving but also extremely heavy-going. Remade twice for television, in 1984 and 1995. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had been meaning to see this movie forever. But every time, I passed it up. Well, finally, last night (9-28-03) it was on Turner Classic Movies. My mom talked me into watching it. By the end of the movie, I had cried, laughed, gotten scared, and I didn't blink for 3 hours. This movie had me sitting mesmerized for the entire film. I was in a trance watching Marlon Brando and Viven Leigh battle it out. I'd say the only thing I didn't like, was Kim Hunter's hair. Other than that it was PERFECT! The moment Viven Leigh asked I'm supposed to take a streetcar. A streetcar named Desire, I knew I was hooked. And when Marlon Brando cried HEY STELLA! It was official. I always knew that A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE was supposed to be a great movie, but I didn't know it was that amazing. A Streetcar Named Desire is now my favorite movie. I recommend it to anyone and everyone.  "},{"Title":"A Literary Masterpiece on Film","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is almost hard to believe there was once a time when a film this intelligent and thought provoking could also be a commercial success.For people not used to this kind of movie, I recommend reading the play first.  Think about the imagery the words evoke.  Blanche says that intentional cruelty is the only unforgiveable sin, and is something she has never been guilty of. See if you agree with her or if you think she is a hypocrite. Think about why you think Blanche became the way she is. Is she good, evil, insane, or tragic? She refers to herself as a destitute woman, but is rich inside. What does she mean by this and is it true, or is she deluding herself?If you read some of the negative comments about this film on the website, I think it shows how today's audiences have been dumbed down into viewing film at a superficial level and can not interpret anything other than in the absolute literal sense. To get the full value of this film requires listening to the dialog and unraveling the puzzle of each character; which is a lot more than many of today's audience are willing or able to do. But for those willing to put forth the effort, it is very rewarding. "},{"Title":"Mass Transit","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The vast majority of films use someone else's vocabulary, so when you can run across one that helped create that vocabulary it is cause for celebration. Usually the originality is in the vision of the filmmaker, but here it is in the manner of acting, indeed what an actor is.Brando changed the nature of society's mind with this. Changed even how actors move in your dreams. Think of it.To this point, actors existed in as many as two worlds playing the character in their world; and working on the stage to exaggerate in such a way that the audience was affected. But the character's world was always viewed from the `outside' of the stage. The `method' changed that.In the method, you literally become the character. The two dimensions and the center of gravity are changed. That center is now placed not on the stage but in the character's world. In other worlds, the play is not set in your mind, rather you are transported to an artificial world outside your mind. Film alone has the power to do this repeatedly now, so in a very real sense film starts right here.So the two dimensions are now watching the character in his world, and watching the actor manage the transformation. Brando is pure, at least from here to `Godfather.' But he opened the door for actors to annotate their management of the transformation, with messages to the audience. Usually those are of an ironic form because it is easy. Sometimes -- as with Sean Penn -- the real power of the performance is all the extra metadialog that gets overlain on the base of the character.Leigh tried the transformative bit, and it eventually drove her mad. "},{"Title":"What's so great about it?","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hey STELLA! That is virtually a signature line for this movie, and it is laughable. But other than that, what does the movie have to recommend itself? Of course, Vivien Leigh did well in the role of the mentally ill lady she was, Kim Hunter did well as the abused wife whom you had to pity, and Karl Malden did well in his role, one of his best. But Marlon Brando as Terry Kowalski was nothing but a horrible, sorry brute. You can't feel anything but anger toward Brando for being the type person he was, a sorry, no-good bum. New Orleans was dark and horrible-looking, the story was strange, and basically it was simply a sick movie. Though Tennessee Williams was a very capable writer, this has to be among his worst...if not his worst...opus. It was ridiculous at best, one of the worst movies I ever saw. The first time I saw it I was totally negatively impressed by it, and still do feel that way, and would never see it again. "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando...Thank god your in this film","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've read the Tennesse William's play of A Streetcar Named Desire and I thought it was rather well done but I couldn't really get immersed into the story or the characters. None of the characters in the play appealed to me like they do in other novels, plays and films.I like the basic story line of the movie and how it remains simple and focuses on a young woman named Blanche who really depends on the kindness of strangers but realizes different after Stanley's abusive behavior. While this story works in a play, I just don't think it works all that great in a movie. Here's why... In a play/novel, you can simply enjoy one by reading in depth without much story but here in a movie, much of the film really seems boring and the fact that most of the film occurs in the dark really annoys me, even though I understand how its like in the play.There's nothing wrong with the acting. I thought Vivien Leigh did a fine job but easily the stand out of the film is the great Marlon Brandon...R.I.P. Had it not being for his portrayal of the abusive husband Stanley, this film would've been far less entertaining than what I could get of it in the end. In the film and the play, Stanley seems to be the only character with any real tone to him. In the play, I always imagined Blanche to be a rude woman and in the book, I always imagined Stella to be a disrespectful woman in the name of her family. However, in the film, you can clearly see that Stella is someone who suffers from Stanley's behavior and that Blanche is someone we are supposed to feel for. However, this film does something that makes a movie much a fail. That is, in films, we are normally supposed to be emotionally connected in some way to the protagonist. Here, Blanche is depicted as an annoying, eccentric woman (who was depicted the same in the play but also seemed to be normal)who talks in an extremely annoying and difficult to understand accent. While reading a play, we either view Blanche as a woman who is broken down by everything in her life (and so we pity her)or as someone we are portrayed to in the film (in which case, we don't care) I must admit, Mitch was quite a disappointment to me. In fact, the only character I enjoyed was Stanley who was depicted true to William's work. I must also point out that the entire script for the film is what Tennesse William wrote for the play and it annoyed me. Using parts of it is different to simply using the dialogue in the play. It doesn't add too much new to a film. In fact, how hard could it be to make parts of a script up????? NOT THAT HARD!!! I must also point out that the music used in the film really bugged me. I'm not expecting any epic music...NOOOO! But I expect some melodramatic music for a melodramatic film. In most scenes, the music did not suit the film and it felt too merry when it was supposed to be sad.Overall, many will love this film but I found it boring and annoying. Marlon Brando's superb acting and portrayal of Stanley saves it for me! "},{"Title":"Stanley Kowalski is the man","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was my first Brando movie and I fell in love with him right in front of the monitor. The movie is like a play, a condition which maximizes it's beauty being a screen adaption of a play. The actors are brilliant esp. Ms. Dubois, her character is intelligent, clever, poetic, suave, soft-spoken and yet manipulative, complicated, vulnerable, a liar and an intelligence driven madness ending in an asylum. Mr. Kowalski on the other hand is BRASH, loud, a lover, a rapist, a force of nature, very handsome, very manly and very aggressive with a hatred for pretense of any sort. Besides being all that Mr. Kowalski is also, the strongest character who not only dominates and humiliates Ms. Dubois but also, crushes her pride and her fantasy world under his macho-ism and chauvinism resulting in the victim's nervous breakdown. What makes this movie brilliant is Ms. Dubois's character which starts as a pity sight, a someone stuck in time with the death of her young lover trying to look happy, making peace with her desires. But then the drapes are soon removed with the entry of Mr. Kowalski, who she stares at with lust despite having shown her dislike at his rowdiness in the bowling scene. She does her best but can't escape Stanley, hence a confession before the life altering scene. This movie left a mark on my mind, it's one of the best. Even long after watching this movie it's difficult not to fall in love with the characters, esp. Stanley Kowalski. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie of madness, mystery, and love. It is timeless and filled with brilliance. It has all the makings of a great cinematic masterpiece. There is the magnificent acting if Miss Vivien Leigh and her slow slip into madness. The portrayal of sweet and warm-hearted, Stella, by Kim Hunter is compelling. Then we have the truly incredible acting of Mr. Marlon Brando. He is what gives the story so much power. It is a struggle to get past his brutal actions and words, but once you do, you see clearly that there is heart behind every word spoken and every swing taken. Just the feeling and aura of the 1950's New Orleans makes this movie a legend in it's own time and ours. This movie is a classic and will be remembered for all time. "},{"Title":"I always depended on the kindness of strangers","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Getting off the train and then hopping on a streetcar named Desire to take her to her sisters Stella's, Kim Hunter, place in the down trodden section of New Orleans Blanche DuBois, Vivien Leigh, is hoping that Stella's husband Stanley Kowalski, Marlon Brando, would except her in his home as one of the family. Blanche feeling that she has no where else to go and may very well end up in a mental institution if he didn't. Even though Stella treats her delicate and mentally unbalanced sister with as much kindness and understanding you would expect from a family member or anyone else Stanley finds that Blanche is not only invading his turf or home but is turning Stella, who's pregnant with his child, away from him.Right from the moment that he laid eyes on her Stanley had it in for the well bred and high faulting acting Blanche who tried to put him down on how animalistic and uncivilized he was. Hoping that it would turn Stella against him only to soon realize that Stella loved the caveman like treatment she was subjected to by the uncouth and, what at first seemed like, insensitive Stanley. The two were made for each other and nothing, Blanche or anyone else, could do would tear them apart.When Stanley in his prodding and badgering her begins to realize that Blanche in her inability to take care of the family finances lost the rich and sprawling DuBois ancestral Estate at Belle Reve that he together with his wife Stella were both entitle to half of that he really starts to turn to screws on his sister-in-law. Stanley does this by lifting the phony sense of honor and respectability that Blanche masked herself in making Blanches life with him and Stella a living hell. Not caring what Stella felt about his treatment of her sister Stanley slowly drives the already mentally ill Blanche to the point of a nervous breakdown with the sadistic-like mind games that he plays with her. But he doesn't do it all by himself Blanche in her fantasy world, that Stanley exposes, does a good job of driving herself insane as well.All Blanche ever wanted in life was someone to care and love her. We find out that Blanches mental illness started when she was in her teens when her fiancé killed himself and left her a mental cripple for the rest of her adult life and unable to have any normal or emotional attachment to a man utter then a one-night stand.One of Stanley's mechanic friends that he works with as well as former army buddy the sweet and caring momma's boy bachelor Harold Mitch Mitchell, Karl Malden,fell in love with the attractive but somewhat strange Blanche and was about to marry her, which may well have helped her overcome her depression. When Mitch found out about her life in Oriole, where Blanche came from, and her many affairs that lead her to be fired from her job there as an English teacher he walked out on her. Only after treating poor Blanche like a hooker, where he almost attacked and raped her, that lead her to completely fell apart and lose all sense of reality.Stanley got his way at the end of the movie by having, in his treatment of her, Blanche committed and put out of his life forever but it turned out to be somewhat of a hollow victory on his part. Stella, who had just gave birth to her and Stanley's son, and Stanley Jr left him for good or until, like earlier in the movie, a heart-broken sincere and apologetic Stanley gets her to change her mind as he helplessly let out his famous cry as the movie ended Stella!Ahead of it's time in how it showed raw and naked sexual and emotional passions on the screen A Streetcar Named Desire made 27 year-old Marlon Brando, who also played the role of Stanley Kowalski on Broadway, an overnight sensation and one of the all time greats of the silver screen. Brando in fact has the unique distinction of being looked upon as the greatest actor of not only his time considering all the actors who later came along imitating his powerful and convincing acting techniques. Even the old timers never once had a bad word to say about his acting and considering Marlon Brando to be without as much as a second thought the greatest actor of all times. "}{"Title":"Vivien Leigh vs Jackie Robinson","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   The awesome genius of playwright Tennesseee Williams is of course acknowledged. The issue we now weigh is the human dignity of Ms Vivien Leigh as contrasted with Mr Jackie Robinson. Who could reasonably contest the fact that Rogers Hornsby was the greatest 2nd-baseman ever with Nap Lajoiie a distant 2nd and Mr Robinson a remote third. Jackie, if I may presume upon my being an ardent Dodger fan in a Yankee prone housing project, to refer to Mr Robinson thus, hit .342 in 1949 and stole home often and audaciously. His courage and dignity may have been equal to the valor and talent of Ms Vivien Leigh. Afflicted with a profound psychopathology she did nightly render the excruciating decline of the human spirit in adversity as the playwright had wrought it. Whose courage was the greater? "},{"Title":"Wait, did that movie just butcher Tennessee Williams play?","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry, I don't care how the times were.  This movie was Streetcar named desire for the meek (an oxymoron).  It's like taking out all the questionable material in Last Temptation of Christ.  The play was meant to convey a hopeless loss, not a sorrowful victory.  It's supposed to be compassion vs. The Animal, with The Animal winning easily, taking all. This movie was made to be a safe moneymaker, and that annoys me. "},{"Title":"A classic adaptation of a classic play.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Most actors prefer the theater to the movies. I understand them. In the theater, you have an adrenaline rush. A rush that tells you you can't mess up. Feeling that rush is exceptional. It becomes like a drug. In the movies, if you screw up, all they do is another take. Every day, when you film a movie, you film for six hours straight and might end up with 4, maybe 5 minutes of usable material. It's understandable. However, in the early days of cinema, basically everything was a filmed play. This didn't necessarily mean that the actual filmed plays weren't as powerful as they were on the stage. A Streetcar Named Desire is one of them. (Spoilers included.)Blanche Dubois (Viven Leigh) is a Southern belle, one who had every man in the palm of her man. Blanche moves in with her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) and her husband, Stanley (Marlon Brando) in a small, grotty New Orleans apartment. Blanche's family owned an estate but lost it and now Blanche has gone to live with her sister, much to the animal-like Stanley's dismay. Stanley hates her, hates her with a passion. Once she arrives, hell breaks loose between Stanley and Stella, who is pregnant. Stanley gets his contacts and finds out some unsavory stuff about Stella. The ending is a real punch in the gut, even when you see it coming.The story is stunning. In 1951, it was censored for being too `steamy' but the reissue is rated PG. The dialogue is startling, beginning with the ever-famous `STELLA! STELLA!' that is being used ad-nauseam to refer to the theater. The interpretation is fabulous. Vivien Leigh won an Oscar for her brilliant portrayal of Blanche Dubois. You see her gradually break down during the movie, finally leading down to the climax. Marlon Brando shows off his immense talent as Stan. Stan is a brute, a violent, tempermental man but at the same time, he's still a good guy deep down. (Really deep.) Brando's typical mumbly style works very well here for this uneducated and impolite man. Kim Hunter also won an Oscar for her portrayal of Stella. Her character is like the donkey that carries the burdens Stella, Stanley, her unborn baby. Her controlled performance is great and well-fitted to the character. The other main character in this is Mitch, Stan's friend and Blanche's one-time lover, flawlessly portrayed by Karl Malden. He also won an Oscar. His character isn't here for much of the movie, but his presence is instrumental. He is one of the fundamental reasons why Blanche goes crazy.The main aspect that I look for in a filmed play is if this adrenaline rush is present. In Desire, the adrenaline rush is ever-present. The actors have superb chemistry and function like a well-oiled machine. If I had to name one play that functions as well on film as on stage, this would be it.A Streetcar Named Desire also takes with itself the less-appreciated aspects of theater The characters go into mad fits of screaming and pushing stuff everywhere. You've seen it done, it's over-the-top but then again, it's a staple of the genre. Characters also don't like to face each other. Sometimes, during a conversation the character will turn, take a deep breath and start a long monologue, preferably in front of a window. Some people may not like it.A Streetcar Named Desire is not for everyone. It's basically all talk, and people with low attention spans will not enjoy themselves. Then again, what's the chance that someone with a low attention span will pick up this movie? As it stands, Desire is a classic of the stage and screen, and well worth your time. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A hard hitter, carried by near-perfect performances","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This fifty year old gem is a true classic carried by strong performances and a powerful story.  I think the true appeal of A Streetcar Named Desire is the characters in the film that can all at least partially be related to.  Brando's version of Stanley is a real tough everyman that can be difficult to like (especially at the end) yet we cannot help but admire his cool, upfront attitude throughout the movie.  Leigh's Blanche is as difficult to assess as her character, yet we can identify with at least a portion of the identities that she portrays.  In my opinion, Mitch was the most deserving oscar-winner here, showing us a subtle vulnerability that works so well in his relationship with Blanche.   This is an excellent adaptation of a play that does not lose any of its drama or characterization.  This movie rightly moved Brando towards star status and began a push against entertainment censorship standards of the time.  This is a genuine film that works on so many levels and incorporates so many layers.  Still a classic after fifty years, I am sure it will survive another fifty as a common favorite. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies made","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Streetcar named Desire is, in my opinion, one of the greatest movies ever made.  The fact that it didn't win Best Picture proves that it is leaps and bounds ahead of its time.  At a time when schools were still segregated, this movie tackles racism, promiscuity, homophobia and alcoholism -- when other movies wouldn't even hint them.Tennessee Williams' brilliantly written script and Elia Kazan's phenomenal directing bring this masterpiece to life.  And it is also one of the best ensemble acting performances I have ever seen.  I cannot believe that Marlon Brando did not win Best Actor for his portrayal of Stanley.  It should have swept the acting awards.  At least they honored Vivien Leigh, Karl Malden and Kim Hunter with awards (Vivien Leigh was a shoo-in).I hope this movie is appreciated for the barriers it broke.  "},{"Title":"Stanley and Blanche","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Streetcar Named Desire is superbly excellent play. William's stage instructions are very detailed and precise leaving no room for the director to interpret the play in their own way. I think that this is good and this makes the play entirely Tennessee Williams and can have all the glory to himself which he is entitled to, definitely. I did not think that the film would lead up to my expectations but it proved me wrong. Marlon Brando was a great choice for the part of Stanley, I honestly don't believe that anyone else could play him better, he was exactly how I saw Stanley. Although Blanche was played very well I did sometimes become tiresome with her false innocent voice, she wasn't played as I portrayed her so I was disappointed in her performance. On balance though the film was a staggering 10/10 and performed by some of the most talented actors of their time, definitely a play that i would recommend to watch and an awe-inspiring play to read! "},{"Title":"Great can be used here","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film presents everything well...violence, passion, disgust, distrust & betrayal.  Set in seedy New Orleans which only lends itself to the seedy characters, all except the trusting, loving and forgiving Stella Kowalski (Kim Hunter), It's a story which reminds the audience of a rose wilting.  Blanche DuBois (Vivian Leigh), sister of Stella, comes to visit after being fired from her teaching job at a high school. She is unfortunate enough to meet Stella's husband, Stanley Kowalski(Marlon Brando).  Stanley and Blanche clash right away and everything, including Stella & Stanley's relationship, is downhill from there.  Blanche, who was in perilous mental condition before, suffers even more from being thrown into this fray.  What she projects to be is not always what she is.  She only flashes her real self ..Tarantula Arms, that's where I took my victims every once in a while.  Stanley is the King of the Caveman, making sure no one or no thing has the one-up on him, even a pair of sisters who mean him no harm.  He lets no opportunity go by to prove his masculinity, It's obvious that he suspects everyone of secretly looking down on him. Stella ignores Blanche's warnings about her husband being untrustworthy.  Stella is pregnant, wants to see the good side of Stanley and is mesmerized by his sexuality.  The film's climax is one not to be missed. Oscars to Karl Malden(Mitch) as Blanche's love interest, Vivian Leigh and Kim Hunter. Brando is magnificent, and Miss Leigh shines as Blanche.  Camera work is great and inventive...Broadway plays always seem to suffer when brought to the big screen, but not this one. Elia Kazan?  I'm not sure how he fits into this?  Did he really DIRECT these people?  Probably the supporting cast but I don't see him contributing much to Leigh, Brando or Hunter. And I've never heard any of these people saying so. Tennessee Williams' play tapped into a raw nerve and you need to tap into this film. "},{"Title":"a tortured woman","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Elia Kazan illustrates the social environment for a woman coming to visit her pregnant sister.A violent Stanley Kovalski will attack the confused Dubois at every occasion.In the birthplace of jazz,New Orleans at a time when poverty was in the first line,Vivian Leigh plays the fate-struck English teacher that will be contempted by the vulgar master of the house impersonated by Marlon Brando.The impact of bad memories will be apparent in every human interaction.Tennessee Williams gives the way for the study of woman's psychology in relation to a opponent attitude by the man.The spouse of Kovalski will not be able to see the gap formed by atrocity,social humiliation,urban poverty and the waterproof norms of modern America.Blanche will not hide her dark past and will not give any effort to hide things from an admirer.People fall victims of their own wrongful doings and they are willing to accept the consequences in life's struggle.Women suffering like the ones in Almodovar's 'All about my mother',a movie that persisted in showing excerpts from this Williams' play. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the best films I have ever seen! My reasons for renting the film was purely superficial; Marlon Brando looked like a semi-god on the video cover and I had never seen a film with a young Brando. I was just curious to see if he was a brilliant actor from the beginning. Of course, Brando is exceptional in the film. While Vivien Leigh and Kim Hunter are both brilliant it's Brando that shines. His performance as Stanley is intense and awe-inspiring. The film itself is also intense and awe-inspiring. A masterpiece full of emotions, sensuality and pain. Pure brilliance by Elia Kazan. (10/10) "},{"Title":"Vivien Leigh's greatest performance","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like I said in my summary, this is, IMHO, the greatest performance of the lovely Ms. Leigh's career, bar none. It's sad to know that she had disturbing mental problems during filming(and it might as well have pushed her over the edge for good)but she brought all her real life troubles into the role of Blanche DuBois and delivered a great performance. In fact, I believe A Streetcar Named Desire is one of the best acted films of all time. Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are superb in their supporting roles as Stella and Mitch. But, it's Marlon Brando who steals the show and matches up with Leigh as the brutal Stanley Kowalski. Brando was one of my favorite actors during this time period--it's too bad that later on(about Apocalypse Now)he became really lazy and picked some really hideous crap(The Island of Dr. Moreau, anyone?). This is one of my favorite films of all time. "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    The first film of the fifties that gave the Production Code something to worry about, this film is powerful and incredible.  Vivien Leigh is amazing in a difficult role.  Dealing with promiscuity/nymphomania, rape, and her descent into insanity, she is remarkable at conveying all the feelings.  Marlon Brando is also magnificent as Stanley, and this movie was a precursor to On the Waterfront.  The supporting cast is also ideal.  A film definetly worthy of it's place on the AFI, and one of the five best of 1951. "},{"Title":"Leigh is superb","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vivien Leigh plays the most challenging role that I've ever seen, and she does it with so much passion, conviction and skill that she monopolizes all interest in the movie. Marlon Brando is fine as Stanley, but he has lost the impact he had in the fifties.   "},{"Title":"Great movie in a great theatre.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As one of the few people who saved our magnificent 3255 seat Regent Theatre here, it was always a matter of pride to tell people I took on tours of the theatre for the National Trust, that her two greatest films were screened here. The other? GONE WITH THE WIND of course! The latter has just had a return season in honour of the 60th anniversary of its initial release.As well as Leigh's brilliant performance in STREETCAR, Brando was also superb. The scene where Stella has left him, and he stands at he top of the stairs wailing like a baby gets me every time. "},{"Title":"An impressive adaptation of an incredible script","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Streetcar Named Desire was a breakthrough in cinema, as well as an impressive vehicle for the talents of Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando, and Karl Malden.  In the world of film, Streetcar was preceded, with the exception of Citizen Kane, by mostly stagey movies films with static camera work and unimaginative direction.  Elia Kazan's use of shadow, variety of camera angles, and his depth of camerawork makes Streetcar a landmark film.  In addition, Brando and Leigh play their characters with conviction, and the cast as a whole does justice to Tennesse Williams' complex and intriguing script.  Streetcar also pushed the envelope for appropriateness in film and, despite censorship, made clear the basic sexual moods of the charcters through the acting, and through Kazan's skilled directional work.  All in all an impressive piece of cinema's history, as well as an incredibly respectable adaption of one of America's finest plays.  "},{"Title":"Acting and Sublime meaning bring A Streetcar Named Desire to the forefront of storytelling.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ms. Leigh, as Stella Dubois, is the quintessential fading belle.  Her use of voice pitch, really brought the character to life high and flowery when fantasizng, deep and hollow when facing reality.  Kudos to Hunter and Malden.  I feel that Mitch said the most sinister line in the movie with ...you're not clean enough to to ring in a house with mo...  Brando was Brando; no more need be said.  While this movie lacked in actions (it was a play) the acting tension kept it flowing, interesting and made it the most memorable movie for me.  As for the Streetcar, it was the deliverer.  Mr. Kowolski road block Blanche's final desire, Mr. Mitchell. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Streetcar Named Desire is one of the greatest movies ever. Probably Leigh's and Brando's best performances on the silver screen. This is one of my favourite movies.  "},{"Title":"Vivien Leigh is great!","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vivien Leigh is brilliant and bright. Marlon is also very good. Screenplay, directing are also good. I LOVE VIVIEN LEIGH "},{"Title":"Where to begin praising this movie?","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What can I say? A Streetcar Named Desire is a superb film, elevated especially by superb writing and performances. The film does look beautiful, the photography is very skillful especially. Alex North's music is nice and authentic, while the story is always gripping and the direction very good. As I have said already, the script and the acting drive A Streetcar Named Desire. Like with Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, the homosexual references are cut/not as prevalent, but I still cannot deny that the script was superb, dark, witty and tense. The acting is excellent too. Karl Malden is indeed great, but Marlon Brando gives one of his finest performances ever as the brutal Stanley, while Vivian Leigh also excels in a difficult role as Blanche and the pair while together sizzle with sexual tension. All in all, brilliant. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Poker Should Not Be Played In a House With Women!","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" They don't come much better than this. The story isn't complicated, at least not on the surface, and is probably described elsewhere in detail, so I'll summarize it by saying that a fragile, fading Southern belle Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh) loses her teaching job and comes to say at the ramshackle New Orleans apartment of her sister Stella (Kim Hunter) and her brutal husband Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando). It's a crowded two-room place in the French Quarter. Everyone bumps into everyone else a little too often. Blanche is briefly courted by Karl Malden before Brando drives her nuts and she's taken away.I can hardly bring myself to watch it all the way through these days. For one thing, I've got the memorable dialog memorized. I think that with a few hours of practice I could play any of the parts. Not that I'm such a quick study but the dialog itself is so striking. When he first meets Blanche, Stanley strips off his sweaty shirt, stares down at Blanche while chewing gun, scratches his armpit, and mumbles, I guess I strike you as bein' the unrefined type, eh? ALL the dialog goes on like that. Don't you just love these long rainy afternoons in N'Awlins, when an hour's not just an hour but a little piece of eternity dropped into your hands -- and who knows what to do with it? Okay, okay -- it's precious, but remember this is an ex teacher of English literature talking.The production design and set dressing are superb. The film shows its stage origins and it's claustrophobic, as it should be. Alex North's musical score slouches along ominously with its Southern intimations in the background.Three of the principal actors won Oscars, as they should have. Marlon Brando gave one other magnificent performance, a few years later, in On the Waterfront. It's a positive blessing that this play, cothurnal as it is, was committed to celluloid -- and by Elia Kazan, one of the best directors in the business.I mentioned that it's hard to sit through to the end because I've got it memorized, but another reason is that it's so terribly tragic. It's like watching some school kid squashing a fledgling that has fallen out of its nest.Tennessee Williams has informed the story with some fairly subtle dynamics, but they'd require a book to even skim through.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire is a film of sheer quality.","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Streetcar named Desire is a thorough and faithful adaptation of Tennessee Williams' play. Despite 1951 being the height of cinematic censorship, this film escapes achieving all of the effects the original play wanted to achieve.The performances were bold and excellent. Marlon Brando will always be considered as one of the greatest actors of all time. He plays the primitive brute, Stanley Kowalski. His performance was amazing to watch; hes cold, clumsy yet has an odd emotional side that occasionally seeps out. There is no doubt Brando deserved an Oscar for the performance and this should be considered as one of his greatest performances next to Godfather. Vivien Leigh also pulled off a stunning performance as the nervy and unstable Blanche DuBois. Her Oscar was very well deserved.Elia Kazan implemented some cunning direction in the film. The lighting was also greatly-executed. It was always very shadowy and dark, much like the decaying streets of New Orleans.A Streetcar named Desire achieves on all levels; its whimsical, tense, chilling and questioning whilst having 2 of the greatest performances ever achieved.Sheer Quality 8.2/10 "}{"Title":"Extraordinary  performance of Marlon Brando that changed the way of acting","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the great films in the history of cinema with extraordinary performances of Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh. This is a film especially for people who like good dramas.The plot of the film is about a working class couple where the man of the house is Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brandon). This couple is visited by the sister in law of Stanley, Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh), a high school teacher who has a dark past and can not get along with her brother in law because she likes to be treated like a lady and Kowalskis is a tough guy.This movie is a must see for the people who consider themselves real movie lovers. "},{"Title":"One of the best plays put to film!","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting in this movie was simply amazing. Vivien Leigh put on one of the best performances I have ever seen. She may have been a classical actor but I still think she did better than most of the method actors right alongside her even though they did awesome as well. Some critics complain about Marlon's performance but I think he did a great job, he really captured Stanley's dirt and grittiness to perfection. I seriously think this is in his top 3 performances obviously following On the Waterfront and The Godfather. I also thought Karl Malden was the man playing Mitch, he's just so endearing that his words really go straight to your heart. To make it in film with a nose as big as his is no easy task so that alone tells you just how great an actor he is. I wish he was in more movies though, so far I've only seen him in the other Brando movie mentioned about and Patton which he did extremely well in too. This is a very sad story and has a messed up end coming from a moral standpoint so don't watch it if you only like feel-good movies. However it is an awesome story and didn't get outdated at all. It's no wonder that most of the cast won Oscars for this. I love this film!Final BeckoningMovies  I'd go see it there in a heartbeat!DVD Purchase  Is definitely worth it!Rental  Do it, if you haven't already!  "},{"Title":"Very good performance by the actors.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The screen chemistry between Vivien Leigh and Marlon Brando was really good. Its a fabulous film about a mentally disturbed person portrayed by Vivian Leigh. Marlon Brando portrays a rough brute with perfection. Overall a good film to watch. "},{"Title":"changed my standards for watching old, even new, films","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing STREETCAR, my standards for watching films have changed. Every film performance I see now, I compare to the brilliant Marlon Brando's Stanley Kowalski. Even current movie acting (which has progressed so much since the over-dramatic acting of Old Hollywood) is compared to Brando's and is found inferior. This is my favorite film, my favorite director, and Brando is my favorite actor because of it. I strongly recommend anyone to see this to realize what true acting is, what a brilliant performer can be. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, based on a great play","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Streetcar is a very good movie, but it doesn't (cannot) do justice to a truly great play.I have just revisited the movie having (at last) seen a fine production in the theatre at the RNT in London (Glenn Close, Iain Glen, Essie Davis). I had forgotten that the end of the movie was softened up for the 1950's censors.  I understand the constraints of the time, but the movie's ending sucks.  The ending of the play is far more dramatic and plausible.I know that Vivien Leigh's performance is highly regarded, but she doesn't really work as Blanche for me - she was simply too good looking still in 1951 to carry off the faded belle routine. I seem to recall reading that Leigh was a late substitute for the movie version although she had played Blanche in the London stage premiere (Jessica Tandy had launched the role on the US stage).  I think it is an example of a good actress almost carrying the part off, despite bad casting. Marlon Brando is great as Stanley. His drunken slurring annoys some, but I think the realism of it is worth the strain to hear him at times.  Kim Hunter and Karl Malden are also great.  It is telling, reading Kim Hunter's obituary the other day, that she was blacklisted soon after winning an Oscar for this film.  But Hunter forgave Kazan his McCarthyite cowardice some time before she died, as I suppose we all should.  Kazan made some excellent movies in his time.  This movie is very good but not great, in my view, but Streetcar is a great play.  If you are unable to get a hot theatre ticket to see Streetcar (RNT has already sold out prior to press night, I hear) then watching this movie comes a very good second.  "},{"Title":"Two hours of pure suffering","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie probably is the most overrated one I have ever seen in my whole life, after Das Boot. I know, I know, two different styles, but the pretty same bad taste.A Streetcar Named Desire, has histrionic characters, plain progression, bad sound effects, not the best photography (which explores always shadows in the exactly same way), bad romance, disconnected scenes and at last, poor speeches.All that Brando does throughout the entire movie is either to shout or say incomprehensible words, as if he had marbles in his mouth. Terrible acting. Stella is a submissive wife and suffocated by the stupidity and aggressiveness of her husband. Blanche, i the other hand, is by far the most complex and convincing character, with some highlights of poetic speeches, philosophy and reflexions. But that is all.Story telling is sufferable, maybe because I've lost some of the lines (English is not my primary language) and the movie ending is as a bad as its beginning. If you enjoy black and white movies, watch La Dolce Vitta instead, a Fellini's pearl. "},{"Title":"A Tawdry Lesson in Life","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is too much movie here to do it justice in two or three paragraphs. I'll leave that effort to others. However, I'd like to comment on certain aspects that I thought might be mentioned but which I haven't read so far. Perhaps the most shocking and funny scene was the one in which Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando) beats his fist on the door and screams at his sister-in-law, Blanche Du Bois (Vivien Leigh), to get the hell out of the bathroom. She'd been living with him and her sister, Stella, for the past five months (after arriving with little warning) and by then the atmosphere in their seedy New Orleans apartment had really deteriorated. In fact, Stan could no longer stand the sight of her. Gradually, she'd elbowed her way into their humble abode at least in part by driving a wedge between Stan and Stella and interfering with his simple if obnoxious lifestyle. In defense of his home against this eccentric interloper, Stan goes about methodically destroying her. His tactics range from alarming, if amusing, to unforgivably ruthless and cruel. True, this sophisticated and refined woman is not quite what she seems, but one gets the distinct impression that what she would like to be is more or less what she really is, and certainly not the fallen woman in the tawdry history dug up by Stan in order to discredit her. As the movie progresses, one can't help but feel increasingly sorry for her and to see her as both beautiful and very sweet. By the time Stanley has exposed her shady past, she has won us over and we are willing to believe that most of his research is composed of ugly gossip, slanderous distortions, and outright lies, even though she admits to the essential details while denying the ugly interpretation given them by leaders of the Mississippi town who drove her out of their midst, or by Stan, who is more than willing to believe the worst. Of course, in seeking refuge with them, she HAS seriously imposed on the young couple, basically transforming the dump they live in from an extension of the brutal filth and white trash society just outside the door to her own special little alcove. Stan detests her influence on his wife and strongly disapproves of everything she does and stands for, perhaps represented most by the way she begins taking baths (hydrotherapy) every time she turns around. To him, this interfering old broad is a giant pain in the ass whose endless visit he can no longer tolerate. She has been a thorn in his side from the moment she showed up in New Orleans (after losing the family plantation) to the point where he cannot stomach having her around another week. So he does everything he can to take her down bit by bit (even on her birthday), slowly driving her over the brink, and finishing her off at the conclusion by raping her when his wife is in the hospital delivering their baby. He then claims she has gone completely insane and made it all up. Oddly, his white trash peers, including her own sister, dutifully circle the wagons around him and against her, helping to commit Blanche to a sanitarium in the country. In an ironic twist, the man who comes to take her away recognizes something special about her and treats her as if she really is what she has always claimed to be. Thus, she accompanies him willingly. All of this, just so Stan can be left in peace and have things the way they used to be before she showed. The handsome and muscular young Brando is such a convincing pig as the animalistic Kowalski that we can't help but wonder how much of his performance is just being himself. What's interesting is the way he turned into a sobbing little baby when his boorish behavior pulled the rug out from under even himself, driving his similarly half-wild/half-sweet little wife upstairs to a friend's apartment. Begging her to come back, his Stella, Stella, Stella bit is of course one of his classic lines. Between Brando and Vivien Leigh, we are simply grabbed and throttled by this movie. Throw in Kim Hunter, who provokes her volatile husband by playing her sister against him, and Karl Malden as the spineless mama's boy who loves Blanche and then rejects her when Stan tells him about her past, and you have a thoroughly captivating film. In an era when depressing movies were all the rage, this one must have led the pack. I have a book about Brando by Peter Manso, in which he depicts him as Stanley Kowalski personified, only worse. It's hard to tell how much of the tome is strictly hatchet job and how much is the real man. "},{"Title":"A beautiful classic and unforgettable performances, especially from Brando!","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have heard a lot about A Streetcar Named Desire, especially from that hilarious Simpsons parody A Streetcar Named Marge, just classic. So, overall I knew what would happen, this movie was just incredible.I just want to get into how remarkable Marlon Brando's performance, Stanley was so chilling and yet somehow you could see how Stella fell for him. I never knew really how a simple world like Stella!!!!!! could be so well remembered when it came to film, but when I saw how Brando gave that speech begging for Stella to come back to him, he was so incredible. You could see how crazy he was and yet so dedicated to keeping what was his.Vivian Leigh, in some way, she over acted a little, but she was supposed to act crazy, so I'm not sure, I think she ended up doing it just right. But she actually made me cry when she cited the line I have always depended on the kindness of strangers, it was just so heart wrenching. She and her sister were amazing and I enjoyed their performances. I would always highly recommend this film. I mean, it seems like the best time for movies are the classics, especially from the 50's. They have heart and it seemed like the directors and actors had a passion for what they were doing. Not just to make a blockbuster or anything like that. Please watch this movie, you'll know what I'm talking about.10/10 "},{"Title":"Slow-moving, too much shouting, much ado about nothing","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had this film for ages on tape. At last, I decided to give it a go. After 20 minutes of watching it I got bored with all the pointless shouting and screaming in the movie. They do talk too much in it. Well, can't argue with such great actors as Brando and Leigh being involved, as well as such top man as Kazan being at the helm. this movie may be considered a classic, a powerhouse, and one of the top films from the 50's, but for me it is a total waste of time. One of those totally overrated movies, in my opinion. The tape went straight into the bin. At least I have watched it... well, I've tried. Life's too short to waste it on shouting and pouting, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Warsaw dance in New Orleans","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Years after I first learned of Tennessee Williams's famous play from the Simpsons episode on which Marge plays Blanche DuBois in a musical production of the play, I finally see Elia Kazan's movie version (I still have yet to see a stage production). Watching this exercise in Southern Gothic, one realizes what a profound character Blanche (Vivien Leigh) is. Blanche is probably the woman who Tennessee Williams wanted to be.I get the feeling that, more than just the story of a faded southern belle who clashes with her brutish brother-in-law, A Streetcar Named Desire looks at the changes that had taken place in the United States over about the previous fifty years. Blanche, the embodiment of the Old South from rural Mississippi, moves to New Orleans - a metropolis, thereby representing the industrialization of America - comes face to face with Stanley Kowalski (Marlon Brando), whose Polish background brings to mind the mass immigration in the late 1800s and early 1900s. The old version of America is fading just like Blanche's gentility is.Obviously, the movie had to remove the parts about homosexuality (Tennessee Williams was gay in real life). But even so, ASND is definitely a real cinematic achievement. Just like Baby Doll - also written by Williams and directed by Kazan - it knows exactly how to create a steamy look at the south through the eyes of a woman stuck with an unpleasant life. Certainly one that you should see, whether or not you depend on the kindness of strangers.Also starring Kim Hunter, Karl Malden, Rudy Bond, Nick Dennis, Peg Hillias, Wright King and Richard Garrick. "}{"Title":"Everything that I intended, and much that I had never dreamed of. - Tennessee Williams","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tennessee Williams is a master in crafting plays about deterioration in the American family, the changing of cultural values, and the differing moralities of characters. A Streetcar Named Desire tells the story of Blanche Debois, her life while staying with her sister Stella and her common man husband Stanley in New Orleans, her history before moving in, and the troubles that plague her after.Vivien Leigh as the central character Blanche Debois (a role I prefer to her Scarlet O'Hara in Gone with the Wind) left me with chills all down my neck, spine, arms; Tennessee Williams described Vivien's performance as everything that I intended, and much that I had never dreamed of. Blanche is an old-fashioned southern belle who lives in a world of fantasy and runs away from her problems under make-up, dark lighting, and poetry. I could not help but sympathize for Vivien's character (despite her somewhat annoying, manipulating, flirtatious personality at times) as her mental health disintegrates before our eyes. The tension in my body as she revealed her dark past only increased as I learned of the burdens lying inside this truly tragic belle. Vivien Leigh who was affected by bipolar disorder in real life felt portraying the broken down Blanche worsened her condition and for this, I can only sympathize yet, I also applaud her for her magnificence despite adversity. She truly delivered an amazing performance.Marlon Brando in his breakout performance plays Stanley Kowalski, a role I prefer to Terry Malloy in On the Waterfront. And Kim Hunter plays Stanley's wife Stella. Both played their character as well as Vivien portrayed hers (though I believe Vivien stole the film) Marlon as a dominating, forceful, stone age, brute Polack who uses his sexuality to his own advantage and Kim as a passive wife who tends to her sister's every need and continues to reconcile with her husband despite his aggressiveness towards her.And let's not forget Karl Malden as Mitch, a genuine and troubled man searching for love.The actors are perfect in each of his or her roles in this film in my opinion, Leigh and Brando's performances are among some of the best in film history as are Hunter and Malden's some of the best supporting performances. One reason to watch the film is to see the quite interesting contrast between Brando's method acting and Leigh's traditional, both of which work very well despite the pre-supposed clashing of different acting styles. This just parallels an important theme of the film in which a more traditional lifestyle of Leigh's Blanche (who serves as a metaphor for the traditional Old South) clashes with the modern, urban life of Brando's Stanley, though in this case, one imposes and ultimately overshadows the other.I recommend everyone to see this wonderful piece, not just for the aforementioned reason, but just to experience a perfectly haunting, dramatic story full of characters with realistically flawed human qualities and of a deteriorating mind lost due to a series of uncompromising circumstances that is Tennessee William's successful play, A Streetcar Named Desire. It'll make you think and interpret, however you like, this cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Masterful Adaptation of an American Classic","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Vivien Leigh so perfectly embodied Scarlett O'Hara that I didn't think I'd ever see her give a performance as perfect as that one....until I saw her take on Blance DuBois, perhaps one of the most famous female characters in American literature.Director Elia Kazan gave us a provocative, blistering adaptation of the Tennesse Williams play that remains the definitive screen version of the classic, no matter how much more liberally later versions were able to elaborate on the drama's dicier themes. Kazan's movie fairly drips with sexual atmosphere, with Marlon Brando charging around the screen like a bull, giving a performance unlike anything a film audience had seen to that point, and supporting players Karl Malden and Kim Hunter offering terrific shadings in their smaller roles. But this movie belongs to Leigh, who gives a devastating and heartbreaking performance as Williams's delusional Southern belle.Kazan prevents his film from feeling stagebound. Despite taking place almost entirely in one location, Streetcar feels distinctly cinematic--there's as much to admire in the compositions and camera work as there is in the acting.A triumph.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Four Great Performances","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The central character of A Streetcar Named Desire is Blanche Dubois, a schoolteacher from a small Louisiana town who after losing her job arrives in New Orleans to stay with her sister Stella and Stella's husband Stanley Kowalski. Blanche begins a romance with Stanley's old friend Harold Mitchell (Mitch), but this is sabotaged by Stanley who has taken a dislike to Blanche and tells Mitch some home truths about her past. He claims to be doing his friend a good turn, but the desire to do Blanche a bad one seems to rank just as high in his calculations.A central theme of the work is that of social class. The Dubois family are old-established Southern gentry whose history dates back to the time when Louisiana was a French colony, but who have now fallen on hard times. Until recently Blanche lived in the old family mansion, but this has had to be sold in order to pay off debts. Despite the decline in her family's fortunes, Blanche still sees herself as a genteel, cultured lady and is horrified by the idea that her sister has married beneath her and gone to live in a run-down apartment in the French Quarter of New Orleans. The working-class Stanley is young and good-looking, but in Blanche's eyes he is irredeemably vulgar, a crude brute with no finer feelings. It is, therefore, hardly surprising that Stanley should take such a dislike to her, regarding her as an arrogant snob.Stella lacks her sister's social pretensions, and is torn between family loyalty and her love for her husband. On the one hand she wants to stand up for Blanche against Stanley's criticisms; on the other she resents Blanche's assumption that she must want to get out of her marriage. On the contrary, it is clear that she is deeply in love with Stanley and equally clear from the way in which Marlon Brando and Kim Hunter interpret the roles that their love is based upon a strong physical passion for one another.Physical passion, however, is something alien to Blanche's nature. She sees it as something animal, which is one reason why she despises Stanley so much. She is looking for a more refined, spiritual love, and believes that she has found it in the shape of Mitch. Although he is Stanley's friend, he is considerably older and quite different in character; their friendship seems to be based on their shared wartime experiences in the same Army unit rather than on any similarities in nature. Mitch is less handsome than Stanley, but seems to be more quiet, reserved and gentlemanly.What dooms the romance between Blanche and Mitch is that she has not been honest about her past. There are a number of mysteries about her. We never, for example, learn exactly how old she is. She claims that Stella is the older of the two, but we do not know if this is true- certainly, it is Blanche who seems older. (Vivien Leigh was actually nine years older than Hunter). We never learn the full truth about how the family home came to be sold- Stanley suspects Blanche of having made a profit on the deal and of trying to cheat Stella of her share of the proceeds. Blanche claims to have been emotionally scarred by the tragic suicide of her young husband many years earlier, but we can never be sure how much of this story is true and how much is Blanche's invention. As the story progresses, Blanche grows increasingly unable to distinguish fantasy from reality. What is clear, however, is that Blanche has deliberately been trying to conceal the truth about one area of her life. What Stanley reveals to Mitch is that Blanche was notorious in her home town for promiscuity and that she was sacked from her job for having an affair with a seventeen-year-old pupil.As was common with films based on stage plays during this period, there is no attempt made, as there probably would be today, to open it up by shooting on location; the film was clearly made in a studio on theatrical-looking sets. Nevertheless, Elia Kazan still achieves some striking photography, particularly in his use of close-ups, which prevents the film from simply looking like a piece of filmed theatre.All four leads were nominated for Oscars and three of them won. Now that he has become such an icon of the cinema it may seem surprising that Brando was the one who lost out, although this becomes less surprising when one realises that this was only his second film and that the eventual winner of the award was Humphrey Bogart in The African Queen. This is, however, one of his best screen performances, bringing out the animal, sensual side of Stanley's nature as well as his capacity for violence. Kim Hunter is also very good as Stella, but for me the two best performances were from the older members of the cast, Leigh and Karl Malden as the two doomed lovers Blanche and Mitch. There is both a poetry and a pathos about their romantic scenes together which contrasts strongly with the more emotionally fraught scenes involving Brando.This has not always been my favourite play in the theatre; I was rather prejudiced against it by a production I saw in London about fifteen years ago, when it came across as two hours of hysterical shouting by actors with dodgy American accents. It was Kazan's film, with its four great performances, which revealed to me what a powerful work Tennessee Williams's play is. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Successful play.....classic film.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the successful play this film gathered an ensemble of some of the most talented actors and actresses of our time, which includes Sissy Spacek, Sam Shepard, Tess Harper, Diane Keaton, and Jessica Lange. Taking place in the south, we follow the story of a family's relationship and how they are dealing with their sister shooting her husband. With the strong female cast we can't help but to feel their pain through their emotions, relationship with each other, and how they deal with life. Great strong character choices, yet sisters with something even greater in common....love of family, and loyalty. There are many lessons to learn in this film and one of the most important is you can't turn your back on your family, even when you run away they will be there for you. The acting is superb, the honesty is great and in all a wonderful film to see. A true classic and if you haven't seen the play, read it or rented it.....do it now...you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Streetcar Named Desire (1951) ****","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the all-time great films for me, mostly due to outstanding performances from everyone in it - Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh, Kim Hunter and Karl Malden. The power and the emotion overcomes what could have devolved into a talky and stagy piece of material. This is my first Marlon Brando film other than THE GODFATHER, and it's quite jarring to see such a good looking Brando here. His acting is superb, even though I had to strain to understand him because he tends to deliver his lines like he has marbles in his mouth. Vivien Leigh was a bit much to take at first, but since it becomes understood that her character devolves more and more into neurosis as the story progresses, I became more tolerant of it and thought she was very good in the part. Karl Malden was a real standout and a pleasant surprise as Blanche's tentative but goodhearted fiancé. Kim Hunter deserved her Oscar for her portrayal of the gullible Stella Kawalski. This is the best thing I've ever seen her do (other than her Zira character from PLANET OF THE APES). **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Ultimate Brando film","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Streetcar Named Desire *Spoilers*I first came this film when I start the college. I saw this film at library so I checked it out and watch it in my friend's dorm room. Needless to say, I was very entertained by it. This film made Marlon Brando, along with On the Waterfront. The acting style in Streetcar is unlike I have seen anything in cinema before. Marlon Brando had left a big impression on me. I had analyze the film but it's just such amazing piece of cinema.Vivien Leigh play Blanche Dubois, which is very brilliant role I've ever seen. Probably surprassing Scarlett O'Hara in Gone with the Wind. She playing fade Southern belle who went to live with her sister Kim Hunter in superb role of Stella. But Marlon Brando play very outstanding role of Stanley Kowalski, so excellent that he almost steal whole movie from Leigh.I supposed that Brando's acting complete revolutionizes the film industry, which is very interesting since Leigh's training is much different from Brando. At one point, they really clash with their styles but it works for film itself. Elia Kazan must be given credit for this particular film because it change the way we look at cinema. Karl Malden is very brilliant as Mitch, who is courting Vivien Leigh. But Leigh isn't appear what she look and she can't fool Marlon Brando so they really clash a lot in the film. Look for that dinner scene. Whoa, man! It would be bit difficult to release this type of film if it was being made today because it's just shocking. This film prove to be brilliant when it garners 3 oscars in 3 seperate acting categories. Brando could have easily won for Best Actor but Academy Awards award the Best Actor to Humphrey Bogart for The African Queen as consolation for Casablanca. It's shame, really. I hope that future generation would appreciate this film a lot.****/**** "},{"Title":"A better movie than I thought It would be. After this movie, I started watching old movies.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was shown on TV in Sweden as a matine and I taped it. I didnt think it would be a good movie just because it was old, but I wanted to give it a shot, just because Marlon Brando was in it. I ended up watching the movie several weeks after I had taped it and I was actually stunned by how good it was. The acting was great and the dialogue too, but you could clearly see that it was theatre acting and not screen acting, not that there is anything wrong with that. I think that anyone who has the oppertunity to see this movie, should do so.  "},{"Title":"Ladies and Gentlemen...Mr. Marlon Brando","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE (1951) **** Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh, Karl Malden, Kim Hunter. Above average screen adaptation of Tennessee Williams' classic Broadway smash play about aging Morning Glory Blanche DuBois (Leigh, Best Actress) and her downward spiral to madness during her visit with her sister Stella and brutish brother-in-law Stanley Kowolski (Brando's star-making icon bravado perf) in New Orleans. Outstanding direction by Elia Kazan (Best Director) and Best Supporting Awards for Hunter and Malden. Brando lost to Humphrey Bogart for The African Queen. "},{"Title":"acting is better than story","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Speaking the truth, the acting is great, though I don't like the story very much.  Just an old-fashioned psycho problem story of a woman.  By whatever reason, she always had imagination of music then a sound of gunshot.  I don't know what it suggests. "},{"Title":"A kind of heavy atmosphere throughout","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I've admired the actors in this film, the story itself seemed too violent, the overall impression of raw emotions too heavily oppressive to regard it as entertaining, so I seldom cared to watch it over the years. Obviously the kitchen sink variety of scripts hold little attraction for me perhaps because they portray the realities of life all too well. This movie does just that, hardly leaving much to the flights of imagination or allowing anyone to have their 'dream' in life. However, this is just my personal point of view. I take my hat off to Vivien Leigh's portrayal of Blanche, all the myriad of emotions she struggled with made one wish to do something to ease her troubled mind but alas the turn of events only added to her burdens. A good drama, no question of that, but to be sampled sparingly on occasion. "}{"Title":"good-short review","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The landmark performance of Marlon Brando blew me away. Stanley.k. is a fantastic character to watch and hear. The great script and directing, along with the top performances combine to make this a memorable film that you can watch over and over again...10/10. enjoy! "},{"Title":"Brando...Brando...Brando...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brando is amazing in this version of the Williams classic about a hard headed New Orleans factory worker and his wife's emotionally fragile sister. His performance is a seething portrait of brutality and sensuality. As for Leigh, while the Academy awarded her, I cannot help but press the fast forward button when she's on the screen. The woman simply could not act. She did not capture the physical anguish of Blanche. Her idea of capturing the essence of her mental and emotional anguish is overacting and she does a lot of it here. The best way to describe her performance is sheer repugnance.Malden and Hunter are incredible in their performances. Malden's Mitch steals every scene from Leigh's Blanche. His height. His baldness. His signature big nose. All perfect. Hunter is fragile. She actually carries the physical and emotional anguish better than Leigh does.If I lived in 1951, I would have put my money on Ms. Jessica Tandy as Blanche, who originated the role on the stage in 1947.Elia Kazan's direction is sharp in some spots, but not his best. The fog used in the scene with Blanche and Mitch was a bit much even for 1951. Keep your eye on the little things that Brando does in the picture. It's not Method or any of that crap, it's real. It's thought. It's perfect. Brando...Brando...Brando!  "},{"Title":"A Streetsuck Named Desucksuck","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a pretty cool movie. Cool if by cool you mean bad. I think it was actually pretty bad. I will tell you why in my review. Check out my other reviews I have done, it was my dream to have people read my reviews I have written here on IMDb the website this review is on. Anyway, my favorite movie is Halloween H20. Anyway, my review for other ones are on my account. Check my account for the other reviews, if you are interested in reading the reviews you can find them on my account. Brando, he really sucked up the screen in this one. I desire that he hit the rest of the cast with his streetcar, because I didn't care much for this blockbuster classic title, here in my review on IMDb.com. THis review is on my account, much like my other reviews I have written here on IMDb, the internet movie Database. You can find lots of reviews here, especially mine if you appreciate my unique skewed take on the world as we know it, see it and live it. if you want to live a good life, check out Terminator 3. "},{"Title":"Surreal&#x85;","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well that's a word to describe. I love thinking home every Christmas and do myself a favor after a tiring voyage from school. Marlon Brando had always never failed to portray that eccentrically misleading character, which leaves people wandering until the end of the film what side does his character envelops. I could describe the film as surreal, deep and understandably compelling, though not that compellingly entertaining compared to other genres like adventures or thrillers. Admittedly I was even puzzled how Vivien Leigh's character (Blanche Dubois) establishes. I was provisionally entranced by the way she spoke and delivers her thoughts effortlessly. One would thought of her to be mentally stable were in fact she's absolutely not. Her own issues and mental problems didn't outwitted Marlon Brando's character (Stanley Kowalski), which is also a throw back and addition to Brando's naturally captivating eccentric character. I got myself in the middle of two huge boulders upon staying tuned with the story. Which of the characters should I believe? I always got this contemplation when I watch films involving commonly the protagonist and the other. Marlon Brando's brute, peculiar yet straightforward character and Vivien Leigh's esoteric then knotty character led me to listen closely how the story progressed. It was good they had such baffling plots effectively plotted in the film. I watched it almost four times and never get tired of being impressed how the lead characters managed their roles. The supporting ones where also notable. They've built the atmosphere just how the two lead roles managed it all throughout. Karl Malden's character made me bits of laughs and nods. Kim Hunter was also undeniably striking. No wonder she got an Oscar achievement for this job well done.All a while when I sit on my couch, set either my laptop or DVD component, this film belongs to my watch-again-list of old times just like The Philadelphia Story, On the Waterfront, It's a Wonderful Life, Gone with the Wind and other old films that candidly portrayed drama, romance and comedy. "},{"Title":"Marlon Brando from the stage to the big screen","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Blanche DuBois arrives to New Orleans with a streetcar named Desire to her sister's place.There she also finds Stanley Kowalski, who's the husband of her sister Stella.Stanley has a problem with Blanche and he digs out all kinds of secrets about this English teacher.One of them includes her and a 17-year old student.Slowly we learn what kind of a woman Blanche DuBois is.Elia Kazan's A Streetcar Named Desire (1951) is based on Tennessee Williams 1947 play.This movie has all these complex characters and they all have just the right performers to portray them.Method actor Marlon Brando gives one of his finest performances as the hot tempered Stanley Kowalski.Brando did the same role in theater so he knew the character beforehand.It's a really powerful moment when he shouts Stella.Kim Hunter works great as Stella, the woman who loves this violent man despite everything.He breaks stuff and she stays by his side.Vivien Leigh as the neurotic Blanche is just amazing.She makes Blanche a somewhat likable character with all her problems.A really great performance is also given by Karl Malden.His Mitch, the lonely man who falls for Blanche and has a mother who's ill at home is a man you feel sorry for.This is a spectacular film which deals with topics such as mental illness or domestic violence.It's a true classic, something you have to see. "},{"Title":"Pole Dancing","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gadge wasn't really interested in redirecting his Broadway successes for the screen - Death Of A Salesman, for example, was directed on film by Laszlo Benedek - but Tom Williams prevailed upon him to replicate Streetcar on celluloid so that this may be the nearest we get to experiencing the feel of Gadge on Broadway. Almost by definition the play had to be opened out and arguably this works best in the opening when Blanche (Vivian Leigh) emerges from a cloud of steam at the station in New Orleans even then contriving to look ethereal, bewildered, bruised and possibly two cards shy of a full deck. It wouldn't be Tom Williams if we didn't get a touch of symbolism so she asks a friendly stranger directions to sister Stella's apartment, sprinkling the highly emotive names like wayward hundreds and thousands on the crumbling cake of her sanity. This scene does double duty because the most famous line in the play 'ah have always depended on the kahnness of stranguhs', which is, in fact, the last dialogue spoken by Blanche, is now the instrument that leads her to the rendez-vous with Stanley (Marlon Brando) which finally does for her sanity. All the performances are sound and after 50 years it still holds up. "},{"Title":"The Acting Is Almost Dreamlike In Its Perfection","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The iconic image of the film actually works quite well. Stanley Kowalski and Marlon Brando are the epitomal embodiments of each other. Rugged, thoroughly masculine, animal, combustible manliness, someone who could have sex in the most uncomfortable place with anyone and not have any problem. Brando's famously impulsive methods for inhabiting a role glimpse for us, to his knowledge or not, a shade of himself, which makes the performance so raw, so honest, so bold, and one of the classic examples of the art of drama. My god.And Vivien Leigh launches every ounce of drama possible in the dynamics between her and Stanley. She is the extreme opposite, as someone whose tender sensitivity has been raped throughout life and is near a breaking point all through the story, constantly on the borderline between a dream world and where she presently is. She is truly wrenching as someone who we come to believe, through the elusive tendencies of Tennessee Williams's writing and Leigh's performance, feels so deeply that she is virtually a walking refracting mirror.Kim Hunter, playing the famous Stella, is actually quite modest in basically a middle man role. She's bound between her loyalties to the two people who are constantly at odds, and displays great duality in both worlds, one as a victim of her own explosive sexual attraction to Stanley and as an achingly loving sister to Blanche.Whoever you are, I've always depended on the kindness of strangers, is perhaps the most heart-breaking single line I've ever heard in a film before. It speaks volumes about a Blanche's life. She's a victim of life, and everything that Stanley finds out about her and dumps on Stella leaves her as a reacting victim. "},{"Title":"The Honeymooners, Episode III","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From New Orleans, 10 rounds, local rules apply, 10-point must. In the black trunks, Stanley Kowalski undefeated heavyweight champ. Kowalski, a hard hitter, is also known for psychological warfare. He's been accused of using questionable tactics but never punished, leading some to suspect officials are in his corner. In white, the challenger, Blanche DuBois, lightweight, coming off a string of out-of-town losses. DuBois best known for defense, but is often distracted trying to protect herself against what isn't there. Can't take a punch. Decision? A knockout. Brando/Leigh, to the moon. Limited parking, public transportation recommended. "},{"Title":"Bluffing Our Way Through","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Concept 'Psycho' meets 'Waterfront' meets Lite NoirTennesse Williams never was a great writer, even for stage.  Theatrical writing is bound to the language, never plot or characters, and Williams never showed a grasp of either vocabulary or dialect.  Heller caught on to this and made 'Catch-22', the film version tried fusing this understanding of words with film's primary concern, visual space.  Thus, a great movie was born only to suffer scathing insults.  This is your only spoiler warning...Since acting comes second in film, a smart director (Gilliam comes to mind) thinks visually before working out the humdrum of human situations.  But, since we like having other humans to identify with rather than abstract concepts, a clever director throws us the bone of interesting performances--Scott knows this, Kazan doesn't.  'Waterfront' sealed his fate as a talent-waster.  Here he uses stagy architecture--dated even by 80s standards--and typical atrocious music.  Alex North wasn't a great composer; it took Hermann, Morricone, and Bernstein to change our ears.  Why do we see Kazan's camera as primitive today?  Because he thinks solely in terms of characters, not the combination of mood, subtext, and emotion.  I bet Nichols learned from that failure of vision.Heck it's only because of the waste that 'Waterfront' was that I respect this project as much as I do.  In 'Waterfront', Brando was the Chaplin-esque little man taking on the big man.  Such a cliche, we've seen it too many times since.  Here he's the monster that later transformed into Kurtz, complete with the mist-shrouded compound.The rest of the actors don't know what he's doing, so they remain straight.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"The acting, the set the cinematography....","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marlon Brando and Vivien Leight are fantastic together. The cast is perfect but I actually liked Marlon Brando the most(even if it were Leight who got the Oscar). It won four Academy awards. The script are VERY good and I loved the sets and the black and white cinematography. This film is a classic, from the start until the famous ending. 8+/10 "}{"Title":"A Movie About Love, Passion, and Desire","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *A Streetcar Named Desire*Over my short life I have seen many movies.  Some movies have left me cold in my seat and others had left me asleep in my seat.  A Streetcar Named Desire left me wanting so much more.  *Spoilers Ahead!*I instantly fell in love with this movie within the first five minutes when I was introduced to the scenery.  What a lively place New Orleans was!  Where it didn't matter if you were poor, just have fun!I than became acquainted with the characters.  This movie has some of the best characters ever. We meet Blanche (Vivien Leigh), who at first comes off as a chatter-box, completely full of herself.  Later in the movie I found myself puzzled over her.  Is she crazy?  Old?  A pedophile?  Her character puts you in a depressed mood that you can't escape from. I can't type another sentence without commenting on how much Leigh deserved that Oscar.  The Next character we meet is Blanche's sister, Stella(Kim Hunter).  She comes off as a sweet young women who gives in to her husband every time they are in a fight.  She stays that way until the very end.  The next character, a very complex fellow, is Stanley (Marlon Brando).  He is almost hard to describe...  I guess you could call him a drunk.  Many people detest his character because of the actions he takes.  But Stanley to me, was different.  Sure when he was drunk and he could be brutal and awful but when he realized what he did to Stella he is torn up and ashamed.  We see him, a strong brute of a man, break down at Stella's feet.  He loves her.  He just can't control his actions when he's intoxicated.  And there you have your three main characters which build the story up into a complex and brilliant picture.I suppose at the time (I wasn't born until long after this movie was released) it was considered more of an acting triumph.  Kim Hunter,  Karl Malden, and Vivien Leigh all won Oscars and Brando was nominated too.  But to me, it was the best film of that year.  One of the best of that decade.  It was not only a triumph of acting and directing, it was a story triumph.  An amazing and unique story that after you watch you want to know more. *10/10* "},{"Title":"Staggering filmization of Tennessee Williams' timeless play, with four performances immortalized.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This stark, monumental film steered Hollywood into a new era of frankness, showing exactly the kind of raw, seething power available in presenting adult, mature matter.  Sure, by today's standards, the film safely skirted touchy social issues (homosexuality and rape, in particular) but is nevertheless served up as potently as one could honestly hope for in 1951. Method director Elia Kazan, who directed the Broadway play, is confident enough not to hide its stagy origins, allowing the tight, claustrophobic confines of a dingy New Orleans tenement flat to underscore the closed-in desperation and closed-up minds of its inhabitants.  The same goes for the taut, highly theatrical performances.  They may show their age and era, but it does not undercut their credibility or effectiveness.  Treating the script like God or Shakespeare, Kazan wisely stayed true to playwright Williams, allowing his brilliant words to carry the movie, which was also bolstered by a superb, jazzy blues score and ultra-bleak photography.In short, a refined, unstable, aging Southern belle arrives unannounced at the seedy doorstep of her younger sister and her highly uncouth husband for an indefinite stay, immediately setting her sights on breaking up the marriage.The captivating, iridescent Vivien Leigh as Blanche Dubois reaped critical bouquets and awards for her work here, giving what surely must be one of the most grueling performances ever caught on camera.  The only lead not to appear in the triumphant Broadway production (she replaced the splendid Jessica Tandy, who was not a film star at the time; Vivian appeared, however, in the London production), Leigh won bookend Oscars for portraying the two most immortal Southern belles in Hollywood history (the other, of course, being Scarlett O'Hara).  Leigh was in delicate physical and emotional health when she began filming Streetcar but utilized these frailties admirably here while exposing every fragile nerve and wringing every ounce of anguish out of this gilded lily.  Trapped in a world of numbing, child-like illusion, slipping in and out of reality at the drop of a lacy glove, Blanche's final descent into madness is alternately piteous and harrowing.Marlon Brando introduced the combustible Stanley Kowalski in only his second film and became an instant icon, tearing into the meat of his kitchen sink sluggo like a starving coyote, eating gristle, bones and everything else in its path to get at the raw essence of this brute.  It is a remarkably cagey, medieval performance, playing on his animal magnetism and puppy-dog-for-brains appeal to counter the more obvious cruel and sadistic qualities inherited in this breed.  Brando singlehandedly brought the tee-shirt (although grimy and torn now) back into men's fashion after Clark Gable so insensitively cast it aside in 1934's It Happened One Night. As the relatively new kid on the block, Brando was the only one of the four not to take home the Oscar.  An injustice to say the least.Kim Hunter is outstanding as the plainish sister and wife Stella, the stabling factor and territorial prize of this piece, caught in an unholy clash of two worlds and two unstoppable forces.  An intelligent but unsatisfied woman who abandoned her well-to-do but restrictive upbringing to find surprising contentment (much to sister Blanche's utter consternation) in the dreary, vulgar, sensual, often violent playground offered by Stanley. Karl Malden's Mitch is every bit as coarse and inarticulate as his work pal Stanley, but shows infinite more promise on the evolutionary scale.  As the sensitive galoot temporarily sucked in by the coy, dainty charms of Blanche, Malden gets a chance to show off his acting chops as he strikes back like a wounded bear upon discovering Blanche's deceit.But, aside from playwright Williams, the show belongs to the radiant Leigh and mesmerizing mumbler Brando for their supercharged cat-and-mouse byplay. The prim vs. the primitive; beauty vs. the beast.  Survival of the fittest. To watch these two formidable foes square off is like having a ringside seat at Madison Square Gardens, and just as memorable.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vivien Leigh gives a flawless performance as Blance Dubois in this brilliant film based on the Tennessee Williams play. Marlon Brando is also superb as Blanche's rowdy brother-in-law Stanley. Leigh, and supporting cast members Kim Hunter and Karl Malden all won Oscars. Film was remade in 1984 with Ann-Margret and in 1995 with Jessica Lange. **** See also CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF if you like Tennessee Williams' style, which stars Paul Newman in one of his finest performances.  "},{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A great movie with the excellent performances of Leigh and Brando. SND is an impressive tragic story about a lonely woman who's arrived to her sister's home after many years and make her sister's life and her husband disturbed. Vivien Leigh's acting is wonderful. One of the great movies in history of cinema which is absolutely unforgettable.   "},{"Title":"Faithful Desire","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Readers of the play tend to sympathize with Stanley Kowalski, my instructor in an English class devoted to the works of Tennessee Williams said.  Spectators tend to sympathize with Blanche DuBois.  It's not hard to understand.  Stanley, though a bit of a boor, is no dummy.  Blanche, though a seemingly gentle but broken spirit, is something of a meddler, coming between Stanley and his wife, Blanche's sister, Stella.  When reading the play, Stanley is more likeable than Blanche, at least until the moment he rapes her.  On screen, well, Stanley is inhabited by Marlon Brando, and even though he was a good two decades away from becoming the circus sideshow freak of Apocalypse Now, he effortlessly projects the characteristics of a slob; his T-shirt soaked with perspiration as he swaggers through his kitchen, at one point quoting Huey Long about every man being a king, and violently banging the table.  Poor Stanley, described by Blanch as an ape, is without defense now that he is inseparable from Brando. The film, directed by Elia Kazan, manages to skirt over the brief reference to homosexuality (Blanche was once in love with a boy who turned out to be romantically involved with another man), and conveniently fades out during the rape scene (as well as eliminates Stanley's revealing words to Blanche We've had this date with each other from the beginning), but is otherwise faithful to the original play. But getting back to Brando... It's fashionable these days to ridicule this great actor.  After all, he let himself go, both physically and artistically.But all it takes is one look at Brando's portrayal of Stanley Kowalski to be convinced that this actor is, as his co-star Karl Malden once said, a genius.  Every move he makes is effortless and unquestionable real.  It is a performance for the ages. "},{"Title":"One of the all time greatest films!!!!!","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was EXCELLENT, it was SUPERB!! The acting is top notch by the entire cast but especially from Mr. Brando himself. His performance, literally, blew...me...AWAY. I was, literally, gasping for breath after the film ended. The scrpt, the score, the acting I give all a 10/10. I believe that Brando should have won a Best Actor Oscar for this movie.His performance is out of this world.Greatest movie EVER!!!Greatest acting EVER!!!!Deserved every Oscar it won!!!See it!!!!!! You won't be disappointed!!!! "},{"Title":"Not brilliant, but interesting.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An interesting drama with a very convincing Brando, and an insanely animated (or animatedly insane), hoity-toity Vivien Leigh. Malden is good, too. The very ironic thing is that I had no trouble at all understanding Brando's (supposedly) incoherent mumbling, but that I had difficulty on a couple occasions with Vivien Leigh's lines. There are some scattered laughs, here and there, but Tennessee Williams is generally out for blood - all-out drama between the characters. Conflict, conflict, conflict; Brando is constantly shouting and braking things, and Leigh is on the verge of a major nervous breakdown every five minutes. Williams knows no pardon when it comes to his characters. So the film ends at a down-beat note Brando rapes Leigh, she finally loses her mind because of it, gets picked up by the people in white coats, Malden is in despair about the failed romance with Leigh, and Brando's wife seems to be planning to leave Brando with their new-born. Those good old Hollywood happy endings! If you'd like to read my parody-biographies of Vivien Leigh, Marlon Brando and other Hollywood personalities, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Brando and Leigh Command the Screen in a Classic","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Four years after premiering on Broadway, Elia Kazan brought Tenneesee Williams' A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE to the big screen with most of the Broadway cast intact (Vivien Leigh replaced original Blanche Jessica Tandy, though Leigh did play Blanche in the original London production). This powerful and steamy classic is the story of a mentally fragile woman named Blanche DuBois (Leigh) who arrives in New Orleans to visit her sister, Stella (Kim Hunter) and immediately becomes involved in a battle of wills and souls with her sexy and brutish brother-in-law. Filmed in beautiful black and white, this movie beautifully creates summer in New Orleans, you can practically feel the sweat dripping off the characters. The acting, in a word, is brilliant. Vivien Leigh creates such a delicate china doll character in Blanche that many believed she was mentally ill when she was making the film. She wasn't, she was just that good an actress. Marlon Brando ushered in a whole new brand of leading man and a whole slew of unforeseen acting techniques in his performance as Stanley Kowalski. Brando electrifies the screen in this performance...so powerful, so sexy, so animalistic, so intense...when he's on screen you can't take your eyes off of him. Stanley is like a traffic accident...you can't look and you can't look away. Probably one of the five greatest performances by an actor in cinema history, it must be experienced to be believed. Leigh and Brando get rock solid support from Kim Hunter as Stella and Karl Malden as Mitch, Stanley's co-worker and Blanche's potential beau. Leigh, Hunter, and Malden all received Oscars for their performance. This is was the first film in history to win three of the four acting Oscars (this feat would not be duplicated again until 1976's NETWORK) and, surprisingly, it was Brando who would be overlooked, losing to Humphrey Bogart for THE African QUEEN, but there is a school of thought that Brando was robbed and I agree. Kazan's direction is steady and despite the cleaned up Hollywood ending, this is still a bold and penetrating motion picture experience that will haunt long after the credits fade. "},{"Title":"Brando erupts!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The young Marlon Brando exploded onto the stage, and then into the cinema, with his performance as Stanley Kowalski in Tennessee Williams' play 'A Streetcar Named Desire'. The plot centres on flighty, flirty Blanche Dubois, a woman who resembles Gloria Swanson from 'Sunset Boulevard', or Emma Bovary allowed to grow old. Elia Kazan's film retains the theatrical structure of the piece, but alleviates it effectively with some clever usage of camera angles. Unfortuantly, Vivien Leigh, playing an innately theatrical character, does so unnecessarily theatrically, her unbearable Blanche completely failing to win our sympathy. Brando's acting is in another class altogether, all brooding menace and rippling muscle; Stanley is not a quiet man, or an articulate one, but there's subtlety and eloquence in Brando's portrayal. Althoguh there's a whiff of unfashionable melodrama about the whole movie, it's decidedly more interesting than Kazan and Brando's subsequent collaboration, 'On the Waterfront', in spite of that film's fame. With performances like this, Brando set the template for a generation of actors to follow. Too bad the man himself grew bored of acting, and often let it show in his later, lesser work. "},{"Title":"Vastly overrated film saved only by Brando","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was a Brando late bloomer, as I only became aware of his genius within the last few years after watching him in the Godfather (what I consider to be the best acting, ever). Needless to say, I was curious to see this movie as it was the role that made him completely world-reknown ....within one film. Watching Marlon Brando act is like watching Tchaikovsky conduct the Nutcracker , and my eyes never left him in any frame of this movie - he is truly a superb actor. His dialogue is timeless and accessible because it is common, everyday people speech, unlike the pretentious dialogue that Blanche DuBois chatters continuously. The movie feels very old....black and white films by nature feel less lively, the poor and inappropriate soundtrack that should have been used for a high school play, the cheezy directional effects (like the rinings of voices in Blanche's head), and the EXTREMELY theatrical writing (my, in all heavens, daylight has never exposed such a lie).....who talks like that, really? This film is far from being the masterpiece that many film critics claim it is- and the plot and the progression feels very unsatisfying....This movie, in my opinion, is only worth watching if you either a) have an appreciation for B-theatre (this does not feel like a film but a play with a super8) or b)an enthusiastic Brando fan (like me). Otherwise, you will probably feel the same disappointment I did. At least the users have agreed it does not deserve to be in the top 250- 6.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great, but could have been better","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Leigh is a real good actress. But she didn't get close to the character written by Tennessee Williams. Have you read the play? It's a very difficult role. Maybe only Kim Stanley could have given it justice. But Leigh's acting style doesn't help either. And it seems Kazan wasn't much help in getting her deeper into the role. Her performance just skims the top of a character who's dereliction has reached the point of obliteration. She was kicked out of skid row hotel. Have you ever seen the people that stay in a skid row hotel? Blanch was so bad she was kicked out. What kind of behavior would you have to exhibit to accomplish that? Think about it. Leigh obviously didn't. The only part she understood was the desolation of the death of her one true love in life who killed himself because of his homosexuality. That's the obvious part. But Blanch was a drunken sot, with skid row residences lined up at her door, to the point that the establishment had to kick her out on the street. Where was that in her performance? Why do you think Stanley hated her so much? He saw right through her. Maybe Kazan understood the role but the studio's didn't want to portray such a unattractive character. But people would have understood Stanley better if they had. He still would have been seen as a insensitive dog, but with deeper understanding for the story in general. Brando was the star of this movie. One of the greatest performances in cinema history. Without him the movie would have been a failure. But because of him it's still one of the best movies ever "},{"Title":"classic melodrama","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elia Kazan's film version of Tennessee Williams' melodrama A Streetcar Named Desire has both great artistic and historical value, since it brings 3 out of the 4 primary original cast members to the screen, presents Marlon Brando in one of his first screen roles, and represents a still life picture of the developing style of method acting such as it existed at the time. Really the only things that keep me personally from fully embracing it is its unrelentingly morose style, which seems sometimes too heavy-handed for the material, and the jarringly non method performance from Vivien Leigh as Blanche Dubois, the faded aristocrat whose last refuge is the exceedingly humble apartment rented by her sister (Kim Hunter) and her abusive husband Stanley Kowalski (Brando). Karl Malden puts in my favorite performance as ________, a relatively gentle member of Stanley's clique who secretly loathes his own affability and sometimes obedient disposition.Now I hasten to clarify myself because I don't think Vivien Leigh is a bad actress or that she gave a poor performance in the film. On the contrary in the handful of her movies I've seen she's been more than adequate and in this movie she was exceptional. But her acting is decidedly different from the type of method acting that everyone else is doing, and to me that made her performance seem oddly out of place. In some ways I could accept the argument that the film benefits &#150; after all, Blanche really is from a different world than Stanley and his friends. But the difference between her performance and her sister's (Hunter) is equally jarring and there's no intrinsic explanation for that. I think it takes the film down just slightly, but obviously this is still a classic film full of memorable performances.I particularly like Malden and I think he among all the principals was able to figure out how to work with Leigh, which makes it all the stranger that he says in the commentary that he preferred Jessica Tandy from the original cast while Brando preferred Leigh. I guess Brando found Leigh sultrier, sexier&#133;. I think I'd rather see Tandy.I guess I really don't have a lot to say about the film. It feels pretty stagey but not as bad as some other 50s films of this type (theater adaptions) I've seen like Separate Tables or All My Sons. Kazan coaxes a great performance out of Kim Hunter, who never really rose to that level again (maybe she wasn't given the opportunity? Most movie fans know her mostly from her work on the Planet of the Apes series). He gets a fantastic performance from Malden, a good performance from Leigh, and an enigmatic but powerful one from Brando. Whatever Brando was doing, he made me absolutely HATE the Stanley Kowalski character. I wouldn't be able to spend more than 5 minutes in the same room with that animal. And frankly it was difficult watching him on screen. That's not bad, but it's also not hugely enjoyable. I didn't find him to be a fascinating sort of villain, just the type of scumbag who actually fill the streets of our cities. That's just depressing, but I suppose the character is worthwhile in the service of the larger story of Blanche. Basically I thought Brando did good work but the character is too one-dimensional, despite his realism. He's not all that interesting to me because he has no potential for change or growth, either for better or for worse.So it's a good movie that accomplishes what I think it's attempting to accomplish, but not the type of thing that I personally would hold to my heart and watch again and again. I'm glad to have finally seen it though. BTW those who enjoyed this film should seek out Baby Doll, from the same director and writer and featuring Malden in a sort of comedic version of his character in Streetcar opposite Eli Wallach. Not really better than this film necessarily but I enjoyed it more. "},{"Title":"An intelligent  and honest portrayal of faulty human nature","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is not just about class in a society but the world at large and the deeper prejudices that produce them. Stanley is a brute that is staunchly prejudiced against what he perceives as privileged or sensitive as he feels degraded.This on the surface seems understandable but the real truth doesn't let him off the hook so easily. His character flaw and immorality is played out as he wishes to degrade and punish what is innocent in order to satisfy his jealousy or contempt. The tragedy begins as what he percieves as wrong in Blanche is not blanche at all but a selfish society. Blanche is a tragic victim but is not altogether innocent herself but what she is struggling to save in herself actually and poignantly is. What is powerfully brought to life on this surface interplay is not what is really going on. Blanche points out that intentional cruelty is unforgivable. For all her mistakes, she realizes in the end she really wanted sensitivity in an insensitive world. Stanley is a tragic figure in the sense he is too morally weak and embraces brutality and in the end intentionally. The real tragedy that is showcased so brilliantly is the punishment and scapegoating of the innocent and true piece of the soul in a world of competing and irrational egos and selfishness at the expense of what is truly of value (humanity) and ultimately willing to sacrifice and do the unthinkable to ourselves and others. "},{"Title":"Maybe a bit dated....","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this movie must have really be something when it came out back in 1951.  However, watching it for the first time recently, I was rather unimpressed and slightly disappointed.  I can see how, compared to most of the other films at the time, the realism and top notch acting must have been a blast of fresh air and rather revolutionary.But 50 years and hundreds of great movies later, this movie strikes me as rather dated.  The story and characters are interesting, but not engrossing enough to make this a true classic. "},{"Title":"Scarlett O'Hara Gone Insane","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only reason to watch this film is Vivien Leigh's performance. I simply cannot imagine another actress playing Blanche. You wince in pain for this character; her vanity, her delusions, her fragility, her deep yearning to return to the romanticism of what was once the Old South, when men were gentlemen, and women were ladies, and a kiss meant a proposal of marriage. When Karl Malden's character is cruel to her you almost want to cry, Escape Blanche, get out of there, before they all destroy you completely. One can easily imagine a Scarlett O'Hara type becoming a Blanche type in the right circumstances old age, her support system gone, the world changing and becoming more brutal, no money. I am sure this thought must have also occurred to Vivien Leigh, because you can almost see flashes of the old Scarlett in her performance. But alas, Blanche isn't strong enough to withstand the brutality and piggishness of a Stanley Kowalski. In the last scene you wish you could take her, instead of a mad house, to a beautiful country plantation in Georgia, where she could spend the last days of her life in peace, attended to by servants who fan her while she sips lemonade sitting on a big sunny veranda. I am sure there alot of Blanches out there still who could do with the kindness of strangers. "},{"Title":"it sucks","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ok, maybe if it were 50 years ago, and I could see the movie in another cotext I'd enjoy it, but this movie made me physically sick.  Watching Vivian Leigh made me want to puke.  She has to be the worst actress I have ever seen.  She reminded of a third grade girl in a school play.  Her overacting was apparent every time she talked, her accent was atrocious and every time Marlon Brando looked like he may hit her, I cheered for him to beat her to death.  The only redeemable quality of this movie was that Brando was great.  His character was very developed, and perfectly presented.  Stella, his wife, was also a very good character, although how she could actually like her sister is beyond me.  If you are looking for a modern day comparison to Vivian Leigh in this movie I'd say William H. Macy in Fargo, only difference is Macy was great and Leigh sucked.  I am talking merely in terms of how much you want the character dead, and dead quickly.  Streetcar was another one of those classic movies that make you uncomfortable because the movie is so painful to sit through.  It would have been a great service to American society if this movie was never made, and anyone who likes it has poor taste. "},{"Title":"Brando is cool, but.....","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently watched the film, in my college film course, and I have one question Am I supposed to like/identify with Blanche?  Because, while Vivian Leigh's performance as Scarlet, the later years was very impressive, as a character I hated her.  Brando on the other hand, was extremely likable as Stanley.  So as far as a recommendation, I'm only giving this one a 6.  Decent acting, especially from the supporting cast (Karl Malden)  but as far as a film I want to watch and watch again...well it just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"A relic ... fit for museums","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Somebody give me a break. There are any number of movies that are the biggest hits of their time, but seem absolutely out of place in this day and age. Streetcar, Casablanca, GWTW ... the list goes on.The one factor that absolutely puts me off is the acting. One has to be grateful to Brando for changing the paradigm of acting on a movie. Streetcar shows you how Brando stood apart from the crowds that made no distinction between acting on stage and emoting in front of a camera. The movie is worth a watch (i'd say for 30 minutes) just to see the genius of Brando.May i also add that it is not all movies that are relics. Happened to watch Monsiuer Verdoux the day before i watched Streetcar. I daresay that Chaplin wouldnt have changed much of the movie if he made it with today's principles, technology and technique. Another movie that spring to mind is M (Fritz Lang).The nostalgia for movies such as Streetcar seems to come from a bunch of critics that are past the age of 50. These are the movies they grew up on and have a pathological need to promote them.To the future...! "},{"Title":"Worst movie adaption ever of good stage play-watch it on stage","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"11 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Streetcar, despite what those individuals who never read or saw any other Tennessee Williams plays say, isn't close to his being his best play (The Glass Menagerie is far and above his masterpiece.) Still, the play is a great play, and deserves better performances and direction than what is given here. Blanche Dubois visits her married sister, Stella, but Stella's husband, Stanley, immediately dislikes Blanche, while Stanley's friend, Mitch, becomes interested in her. The play, as written, shows the characters as being much more complex than what the movie shows. In fact, I have seen two stage plays, both of which were superior in every category to the movie, sorry to say. In this movie, Stanley is portrayed as a comic book style villain. Brando's performance is ludicrous, and to be fair to Brando, it is his very worst performance ever. Mitch is too underplayed by Karl Malden. Stella, the play's weakest and least likable character, comes across better in the movie only because the other characters are such clowns, even considering the time period. If you read the play, or watch the play performed by a capable theatre, you will see that the characters and plot is much smarter. The worst adaptation ever of any Tennessee Williams play. "},{"Title":"Dinosaur Acting - Warning This comment knocks Leigh's acting","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"18 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brilliant acting by Marlon Brando but totally soiled by Vivien Leigh. Can't stand her phony acting. I almost vomited when she talks and when she moves. NOBODY talks and moves like that!!! And this movie is not a London Theatre movie it is a day-today life type of movie putting an actress like Leigh in this movie is like putting mud on a cake.If you like Leigh and think it is super great artistic acting then I have news for you... It is dinosaur acting - which has been extinct for centuries! Nobody acts like that anymore. Any actor/actress acts like Vivien Leigh will go starve because, s/he will be kicked out of the movie instantly. Nowadays, people can no longer tolerate phoniness - even with Hollywood movies!! "}{"Title":"Great Acting... but that was it!","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK...  Maybe it was a case of high expectations leading to a let down, but seriously, this movie was just not that good.  The acting was great, Brando looks great... but what else was there?  The story was honestly a little corny and unrealistic at times.  It dragged on and really was uninteresting in our opinion.  The only reason we would recommend it is that it shows Brando in his prime... quite a shocking contrast to what we see today.Its almost tough writing this type of commentary when the masses regard this movie so highly.  But hey, you have to be honest about what you think and we just were not impressed. "},{"Title":"The PG rating is inappropriate for this film","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie doesn't deserve a PG rating. It should be at least rated R.This movie contains graphic depictions of rape and domestic violence.All other reviews posted on this site don't seem to mention that little fact.Maybe they say Brando revolutionized acting. Then it is Brando to blame for the fact that domestic violence and rape are such big problems, if a film like this gets glowing reviews. I would appreciate if you warn the readers about the inappropriate content of this film. Thank you. "}]