[{"Title":"Ladies and Gentlemen and Children of All Ages..........","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"58 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show on Earth is a Cecil B. DeMille extravaganza, maybe the best one he ever produced and directed. Unlike his religious films or his historical films, this film is a nice tribute to an American institution, the Ringling Brothers&Barnum&Bailey Circus and as such it does not attract the controversy of some of his other films.The Best Picture Oscar for 1952 that this film won was more of a tribute to a Hollywood institution. Cecil B. DeMille in fact directed the first Hollywood made film, The Squaw Man, forty years earlier and this Oscar was essentially a tribute to him for the work of a lifetime. Not the first time or the last time the Motion Picture Academy has done that.This is DeMille spectacle at it's best. The circus as a cinema subject, so full of color and life, is ideal for a DeMille production. Wonderful camera work marks this film, both of the circus acts and the reaction shots into the crowd of the children of all ages.Cecil B. DeMille himself narrates portions of the film showing the work involved in putting on the Greatest Show on Earth. His was a familiar voice to the American public because for 10 years DeMille came into American households via radio narrating the Lux Radio Theater. In fact until Alfred Hitchcock got his own anthology TV series, DeMille's voice was probably the most known to the American public of a film director.And only his name and that of Walt Disney's of people behind the camera were guaranteed box office in the days of the Hollywood studio system.Spectacle was his thing and DeMille was the master. As a director of players and a judge of good modern writing, DeMille left a lot to be desired. Because of the nature of the subject, no great historical or religious events, the grandiloquent dialog present in so many DeMille films is kept to a minimum here.This was Charlton Heston's first big break as a star and his second film under a Paramount contract. He had done a film called Dark City, a good noir thriller that got good reviews, but did little for him personally. DeMille saw the six foot two Heston walking on the Paramount lot one day and just said to himself that this was to be the circus ramrod for this film.But Heston was fourth billed behind Betty Hutton, Cornel Wilde, and Gloria Grahame, all better known than him at the time. Wilde and Grahame were independents as was James Stewart who played a clown with a hidden past.Stewart in fact had always wanted to play a clown and took this supporting role with smaller billing just for the opportunity. At the time he agreed to do this, his wife Gloria was pregnant with their twin daughters. Stewart had it in his contract a clause that gave him permission to leave the film temporarily to be with Gloria when her time was near. In fact Gloria McLean Stewart had a rough time with the birth and Jimmy exercised that option and totally enraged DeMille who had to shut down production for a few days. He and DeMille did not get along after that though Stewart finished the film and was great in it.Gloria Grahame may not have been the most beautiful woman in Hollywood, but she was the most seductive operating in 1952. That was a banner year for her. She got a Best Supporting Actress for The Bad and the Beautiful on top of this DeMille film. As the elephant girl she attracts the unwanted attentions of Lyle Bettger who plays an elephant trainer.Bettger was a great player at that time who played a lovely variety of psychopaths on the screen. He pulls out all the stops here and its his unwanted attentions to Grahame that set up the final scenes.Dorothy Lamour was here also in a supporting part and she gets to sing Lovely Luawanna Lady in sarong and the reaction shots of the crowd focus on a couple of familiar faces who panted after her in a few Paramount films.The story itself is a standard four sided triangle involving Heston, Hutton, Wilde, and Grahame with Bettger horning in. You have to see the film to find out who winds up with who.However the high point of the film involves a circus train wreck. DeMille got a lot of notice for wrecking a train in Union Pacific back in 1939. So he doubles the excitement and wrecks two trains here with circus animals pouring out of busted cages. Great stuff.Betty Hutton was coming close to the end of her film career. This and Annie Get Your Gun would be her biggest triumphs. Given DeMille's limitations on directing players, Hutton is surprisingly subdued here and effective. She also sings a couple of nice songs here as she bids adieu to Paramount in her next to last film for them.When The Greatest Show on Earth came out and was doing great box office, Charlton Heston related a story that DeMille came over to him on the Paramount lot and gave him a newspaper clipping and said he would never get a better notice ever, no matter how long a career he had. Heston read the thing and the critic from some small town paper praised all the actors like Stewart, Wilde, Hutton, Grahame, and Lamour said they were great, but that C.B. DeMille must be the greatest director in the world to get a performance out of that circus ramrod.For all of DeMille's faults here, he created a circus picture that set the standard for any to follow. "},{"Title":"Hey, doesn't anyone remember Last Emperor?","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" It constantly amazes me that people carp that this won best Picture, as though no movie before or since ever won when maybe they shouldn't have. It was a big picture, it had a great story, it gave a lot of bang for the buck and that has always been a factor in grabbing the Oscar. It does seem a bit dated to us now, used to high flying special effects, different acting styles, and quick cut editing, instead of letting the scene play out as it so often does here, but it's such a great story. The circus itself is a character and the way Demille used the audience to make them seem so individual is wonderful. And I'm not just referring to the Hope/Crosby cameo. Remember the fat guy with the kid scarfing down the ice cream laughing his head off while the kid looked confused? You could tell he was reliving his childhood and he became EveryMan to us with only seconds of screen time. That's mastery. The integration of the real circus people with the actors was seamless and if nothing else this movie captures a time when the circus was really a circus. Carp all you want, guys. But I think you may be too spoiled by ultra realism to appreciate the subtler gems in this very respectable film. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining and informative","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've never been to the circus, so I think of this movie as my trip to the circus.  Charlton Heston is great as Brad, the all business manager of the circus.  But my favorite character is James Stewart as Buttons the Clown. It's a very different role for him, but it's great.The Best Picture of 1952, The Greatest Show on Earth is wonderful, especially if you've never experienced it.  I think this is one of Cecil B. De Mille's finest movies, and I recommend it to everyone.  So I give it a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Great show and story","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I know that some people are down on this movie, but I absolutely LOVE it. It has great ideals and good (not great) acting.  It tells a story about the circus in a pseudo-documentary.  The story has love, action, and humor. Three things that are missing from much of today's movie.  I also love the color and the dramatic feel of the film for that era.  It's a wonderful, wonderful, piece of 'Americana'. "},{"Title":"Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde are superb in their 'flyer' roles!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film in a theatre when it first came out and, had forgotten a great deal of it, until I saw it again last evening.Much of the film is actual footage of the REAL Barnum and Bailey Circus, setting up, tearing down and loading up for the trip to the next venue.I had also forgotten how superb both Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde are doing a great deal of their own 'flying'!  While you realize that they  have a net just under the view of the camera, they both perform physically demanding stunts with the camers right in their faces!  I can't stand on my head on the floor much less on a swinging trapeze!!Wilde's front summersault from one swinging bar to another swinging bar is breathtaking!!Some of the action is quite dated and the trainwreck is...well, DeMille's rendition of a massive trainwreck.  The plot creaks a bit here and there, but the many performers do their bits with conviction.Hutton and Wilde steal the show from Heston and Stewart.  I recommend this film to Circus lovers everywhere and to people who appreaciate actors placing themselves in Harms Way to create illusions (be they VERY dangerous illusions) of the REAL thing! I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"I like this one","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film several times and each time I am more impressed. I don't look at a film to rate the acting, but rather I look at a film for its entertainment qualities. This film shows a behind-the-scenes look into circus life that most people would never have a chance to see. The circus acts shown are typical and entertaining, the characters have some qualities that are not always seen in a movie of this magnitude. I am always interested in special effects and how they are used in a film. The train wreck is obviously done with models but it is so well done, it rates mention. There are many considerations in making special effects seem real and all of those are carefully used in this film. Of course, the circus acts were NOT done with special effects and are very entertaining. If you have not seen this picture, please do so with an open mind and expect to be impressed. "},{"Title":"A colourful, light hearted and entertaining epic","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  It would validate this film best if I state outright at this point that I am a great fan of the movie SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, also released in 1952 and generally ignored by the Academy, seemingly due to the shower of accolades handed out to AN AMERICAN IN PARIS. THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH did not win many Oscars beyond the coveted best picture award, but even this fact has poisoned my viewpoint of the justification of the Academy's decision, and that this in itself displays the incomprehensible factor that the statuette ended up at Paramount, not MGM. However, my eventual purpose of viewing this film was threefold to see Jimmy Stewart, Dorothy Lamour and one of the final best pictures of the 1950s, which I had not seen. All my SINGIN' IN THE RAIN prejudices aside, I was very pleasantly surprised.Cecil B. DeMille's opinions of the circus as a &#145;human machine made up of many parts' is interesting as it evokes the assemblage of any motion picture, and certainly, an enormous production such as this one. The script, generally convincing in its theme, can deliver on its expectations and bring to life a drama-comedy-epic-action-romance-musical that actually works, all elements and sub-plots played alongside. Even if these aspects make for melodramatic story lines, I have assumed that the purpose of the film is generally basic entertainment. And the basic story&#133;the dramatic lives of circus performers culminating and reaching their peak underneath the glamour and colour of the big top isn't too bad either. DeMille's well-handled direction is intriguing and always expectantly, a job well done.There are many good examples of an all-star ensemble cast, but this one ranks close to the top&#133;Betty Hutton, Cornel Wilde, Charlton Heston, Jimmy Stewart, Dottie Lamour, Gloria Grahame&#133;each may bear no resemblance to their character's personalities, but play their parts interestingly well. Generally, I found Stewart's portrayal as Buttons the clown, masked behind a multiple personality, to be the best performance in the film. It is difficult also not to mention the many great and entertaining real-life circus performers that truly made up the spirit of THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH, and continue to do so in their differed entertaining medium today, so it is really quite a nice tribute to their dedication.To satisfy the varied genres of the film, each character is where they are to fuel the particular element. Angel (Grahame) enhances the comedy with her natural talents, and Phyllis (Lamour) and Holly (Hutton) to fill out the musical aspects with an extensive musical program, including `Jumpin' Jack' and the title song. Romance is demonstrated in a series of different love triangles involving five of the six lead characters. Drama is seen with the integration of all these aspects, involving Buttons (Stewart), tension between Sebastian (Wilde) and Brad (Heston), and the case of post ANNIE GET YOUR GUN competitive one-upmanship between Holly and Sebastian on the trapezes. Finally, in the case of action, the sensationalism of the train scene brings all these emotions to a halt&#133;to create one of the biggest epics of 1950s Hollywood, and to destroy some of the colourful and glamourous illusions of circus life.Despite the fact the film definitely exceeded my original expectations of it and the fact that it filled its three-hour plus running time certainly impressed me. However, I would like to continue to retain my position on the unfair juxtaposition of SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, and it is doubtful my opinion will swing to favour THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH any time soon.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"magical movie","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Since this film was released in 1952, some scenes in the film will really be outdated (effects). But other than that, the film is a feast to the eyes and if you're sentimental, to the heart. With a seemingly thin plot, Cecil B. deMille made the film work with visuals and moments of suspense that is missing from a lot of big films nowadays. Mr. deMille is a master of epic films and this is one example. He made the circus one of the main characters in the film, that you will find yourself missing it at this day and age. A guilty pleasure? For me this is a magical pleasure.    "},{"Title":"Brassy Big Top Corn","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Every one was shocked when THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH won Oscars for Best Motion Picture and Best Screenplay; there was nothing about the film that could be considered great art. At the same time, however, SHOW was a lot of fun, and certainly audiences of the day flocked to it, making it the single biggest grossing film of 1952.The story is purple-prose soap opera. Circus manager Brad Braden (Charleton Heston) is doing a balancing act between rival arielist stars Sebastian (Cornel Wilde) and Holly (Betty Hutton)--the later of whom is torn in her affections between the two. Add in a lovely but common show girl (Dorothy Lamour), a jealous elephant trainer (Lyle Bettger), the object of his affections (Gloria Graham), a clown with a mysterious past (Jimmy Stewart), high wire accidents, and a train wreck--all mixed well by Cecil B. DeMille's eye for larger-than-life spectacle. The result is brassy, silly, corny, and thoroughly enjoyable.Seen today, the big attraction here is the chance to see the circus when it was still traveling by rail and performing under the big top. Filmed with the cooperation of Ringling Brothers-Barnum and Bailey, SHOW allows us to see what was involved in organizing the lavish show that was the circus in the 1950s, a world filled with roustabouts, elephants, barkers, peanut vendors, acrobats, and all the rest. One of the more interesting aspects of this is Emmett Kelly, one of America's greatest clowns, who appears throughout the film as himself.THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH is lots of flash and dazzle, a little song and dance, Charleton Heston in his first major role, Betty Hutton in one of her final films (she did most of her own stunt work), and lots of corny charm. It might not really be the greatest show on earth, but it is very picturesque. The film isn't restored, but it isn't in bad condition; sadly, there are no bonuses at all.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"It sure is.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite Cecil B. DeMille picture and it rightfully deserves it's title. The cast is well cast. Heston makes a fine circus manager and a perfect don't take nothing from nobody type of guy when it comes to dealing with local gamblers. Cornell Wilde is perfect as the typical heart-throb of a trapezist. Betty Hutton is good as the daring young star fighting for the center ring. Last, but certainly not the least, James Stewart is wonderful as the lonely clown with a terrifying secret (I will not give it away!!! See the movie!!!). Cecil was a man of tremendous persona with a hunger for showcasing spectacle by means of careful, intense, and thorough research. He achieves amazing success in portraying (to the best of his ability of the times) the most realistic circus acts without the use of raw footage, and covering the stories behind the characters involved. The thing that really moves everything along though, is the musical score. Two words on that GOOD GOD!!! The music will make you want to go to the circus, even if you didn't like this picture. For those of you who didn't like this picture, why not go to the circus instead? You may be entertained to the point that you'll end up silencing your bad reviews. I'm not saying you have top like this picture, but if you haven't seen it yet, and it's because of the certain bad reviews it got from some people, you're really going to miss something. "}{"Title":"Maybe it didn't deserve an Oscar but it's still a classic","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I am entirely unfamiliar with Cecille B. DeMille's work or even what the public reaction was to his career although I've heard a few negative things, and I've heard a lot more negative things about this picture's Best Oscar win (since it won over such AFI top 100 entries as High Noon and A Place in the Sun).The film is somewhat metacinematic It brings the joys of the circus to the viewer in the same way that it does for the audience in the film. With authentic circus acts thrown into the mix, these scenes are very exciting. But the film extends beyond just bringing footage of the circus to a movie audience as it effectively captures the drama backstage and brings you into a unique world.The film is slightly more spectacle than story, in the sense that it sometimes feel like the story is secondary to the lions, tigers, and other circus acts. The plot bobbles through multiple story lines, but mainly centers around circus manager Brad (Charlton Heston), trapeze primadonna Holly (not much of a circus name, I know), and a womanizing Frenchman named Sebastian who becomes the circus' new headline trapeze artists and hopes to steal the heart of the woman she stole the spotlight from. Also featuring heavily into the story are Angel (Gloria Grahame), a past flame of Sebastian; Klauss, an elephant tamer with an obsessive desire for Angel; and Jimmy Stewart as a wise old clown who has been hiding a couple of secrets.Among the cast, Heston, Grahame, and Stewart really stick out for excellent performances. Heston's circus manager is a man of very strong character who you come to empathize with because he's got the careers of thousands of people on his backs and is willing to sacrifice his personal relationships, his health, and his ego (when dealing with cocky people like Sebastian) to see to it that the show is a success. Gloria Grahame brings such wit and sass to one-line jabs and insults that it makes a convincing character out of what would otherwise have been a two-note shill. Lastly, Stewart is classic Stewart but he delivers that Midwestern persona underneath a veneer of make-up and in a supporting role. "},{"Title":"Stardust mixed with sawdust","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In making preparations to shoot The Greatest Show on Earth, producer/director Cecil B. DeMille had certainly done his research by soaking up a great deal of the circus atmosphere while touring with the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey. The finished product is probably the grandest circus picture ever made, with a great cast including Betty Hutton, Cornel Wilde, Charlton Heston, Dorothy Lamour, Gloria Grahame, and my favorite actor, James Stewart. On the other side of that coin, for all the fine leading cast members, the numerous circus acts (most of which are well-executed), the love triangles, and the general danger and excitement that goes along with circus life, this two-and-a-half-hour picture tends to bog down at times. Adding to this is the somewhat tiresome voice-over narration by DeMille himself. (Don't read the next couple of paragraphs if you have not yet seen this picture.) James Stewart must have had tons of fun in his portrayal of Buttons the clown. He apparently had always wanted to play a clown and relished the opportunity to work with one of the most famous of all circus clowns Emmett Kelly. Buttons puts on a brief sideshow for the spectators as he lets various objects (e.g., flowers, fuzzy spheres, and lengthy strings) pop into the air. He also sings a duet with Holly (Hutton) entitled Be a Jumping Jack as they bounce together on a trampoline. But his most crucial moment in the film (which makes me feel sorry for the poor clown) comes when he reveals himself as a doctor wanted for the mercy killing of his wife. Before he gets hauled off by a detective (Henry Wilcoxon), the soft-spoken, lovable, kind Buttons saves the life of the tough, no-nonsense circus boss Brad (a perfect role for Heston) by giving him a blood transfusion.Here are some other highlights from this picture. The train wreck caused by the insanely jealous elephant trainer Klaus (Lyle Bettger) is absolutely frightening. The initial trapeze duel between rival aerialists Holly and Sebastian (Wilde) keeps the spectators on the edge of their seats. Brad physically banishes a crooked Midway operator (John Kellogg) off the premises. An elephant's trunk snatches Holly away from Sebastian. And the lovely Phyllis (Lamour) sings a nice rendition of Lovely Luawana Lady. To summarize, The Greatest Show on Earth had so much effort put into it (it won the Oscar for Best Picture of 1952), and yet it sometimes appears to drag. But don't allow that to stop you from enjoying the good points of the movie, particularly the excitement and risk involved with being a part of the circus. Cecil B. DeMille had fulfilled his dream of bringing the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus to the big screen, and The Greatest Show on Earth pulls out all the stops. "},{"Title":"My first trip to a circus!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie was actually like going to the circus!  The cinematography is brilliant as are the costumes.  My favorite character is Buttons the clown played by Jimmy Stewart.  It is a different kind of role for him, rather than his usual, but he definitely is very well cast for the part and carries it off beautifully.  I love the trapeze acts with Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde as well as their admiration for one another and the competition between the two of them.  Add Gloria Grahame's snappy sarcastic remarks and the singing voice of Dorothy Lamour and Charlton Heston in his best role and you've got yourself areal great picture!  Enjoy the drama, music and the fun!  A 10 out of 10 stars!   "},{"Title":"A good film if you like circuses or have an interest in classic films","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This film does a good job of showing the behind-the-scenes lives of circus performers, as well as showing circus performances. It is not filled with thrills and constant excitement, but it is an entertaining film that leaves one feeling sentimental for the days when the circus really was the greatest show on earth. I would recommend this film to circus fans, Betty Hutton fans, and Jimmy Stewart fans (Jimmy is really charming in this as Buttons the Clown). Also, it is fun trying to spot the cameos in this film. Look closely during one of the show scenes and you'll see Bob Hope and his favorite adversary watching Dorothy Lamour. "},{"Title":"Amusing and and entertaining film  about circus world for children of all ages","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Spectacular and overlong story of a traveling three circus combined show , plenty of diverse characters as a tough manager (Charlton Heston) , a swaggering ringmaster , and a mysterious clown (James Stewart ) with a dark secret who never takes off his disguise . Furthermore , it includes the aerialist acrobat girlfriend (Betty Hutton) , a French somersault artist rival (Cornel Wilde) , and an evil elephant trainer (Lyle Bettger) , among others .Cecil B. DeMille is an expert in realization of high-budget films with glamour where the greatness does not lack even a moment , here gets to make a nice tribute to the circus world and its surroundings . This hugely agreeable film is a faithful reflection of the title . This is tone of the best Cecil B. De Mille, here in all his epic glory , he is the great director of the greatness. It has a fantastic scenario, great mass movement, and even spectacular scenes for the time, as a car driving toward a train on the railroad tracks and subsequently crash. The story is fine , wrought with romance , love stories , and impressive scenes with enormous pedigree. The film is a melodramatic and romantic tale with the classic triangular love story between Heston-Hutton-Wilde and meshing drama with events offstage along with some scenes in documentary style . The movie is wrought with romance and glamour but is a simple , and also contains an intriguing story about a doctor pursued by the justice . It packs some patently faked ones with players in front of obvious blue real projection. This colorful and dramatic flick packs amazing shows and exciting final . Extraordinary cast and good performances , especially from Charlton Heston and James Stewart as likable clown , both of whom are top notch under Cecil B De Mille's correct direction . Furthermore , some scenes the actors perform their own stunts . Some surprising guest-star cameos as Bob Hope , Bing Crosby watching their usual partenaire , Dorothy Lamour . Lavishly produced Henry Wilconson who plays a police , he's Cecil B. De Mille's usual . Unfortunately the circus at present time , in total downfall, is far from the magic in which they lived in that time. Here are united the Ringling Bros , Barnum and Bailey in combined shows and three-ring circus with colorful parades . The movie deservedly won two Oscars as Best Picture and Story , however the complaints of reviewers and moviegoers ever since , who don't believe it worthy of the honor . Although long-term, it becomes very entertaining and does not superfluous nor a minute. It's a fantastic and spectacular film that achieved big success at Box office . There are frames that children may never forget as the train wreck and an aerialist falling to the soil . Rating  Better than average . Worthwhile seeing . "},{"Title":"It's a fantastic film.","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Cecil B. DeMille is an expert in build films of long-term where the greatness does not lack even a moment, here get amply make a tribute to the world of circus and its surroundings. The film is a faithful reflection of the title. This is the best of Cecil B. de Mille, the great director of the greatness. It has a fantastic ambiance, great mass movement, and even spectacular scenes for the time, as the accident of the train. The story is correct, and the performance of its players could not be object nothing. Unfortunately the circus at present, in total decline, is far from the magic with which we lived in that time. Although long-term, it becomes very entertaining and does not superfluous nor a minute. It's a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Circus Movie on Earth","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Epic director Cecil B. DeMille manages to direct the greatest filming of a circus movie in the history of motion pictures. This film, like so many others shows that he was not just another director but a craftsman as well. Charton Heston's third film and first major leading role gives a hint of the long and illustrious career to follow. You really get the impression that he knows, loves, lives and breathes the circus. Cornell Wilde, Betty Hutton and Dorthy Lamour live up to their roles as well, along with Gloria Graham, all of them were required to actually perform the stunts that their characters did in the film. Of course Jimmy Stewart helped make the picture memorable even though hidden beneath the clown make-up all the way through. But the real stars were the hundreds of people from the Ringling Brothers, Barnum and Bailey Circus and their endless dedication to making it truly The Greatest Show on Earth. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show On Earth - But Not The Best Picture","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" As a circus buff, I can't imagine anybody BUT Cecil B. De Mille having the scope of vision to do justice to a show deliberately created to be so big that one person simply can't take it all in, and the stories and subplots that abound under the biggest of the Big Tops. That said, I do have to wonder what on earth the Academy was thinking when they voted TGSOE the Oscar as Best Picture of 1952.That year saw the release of High Noon, Ivanhoe, The Quiet Man and Singin' In The Rain, any one of which could lay better claim to the title of Best Picture in terms of writing, plot and cinematography. Why did TGSOE win the Oscar? I believe it is because the film was seen as a last chance vote for De Mille; particularly ironic given that C.B. received the Thalberg that year for creating and producing consistently high-quality movies. De Mille's best work was decades behind him when he filmed the 1951 edition of the Ringling Brothers - Barnum & Bailey Circus. The subplots, purple prose and some of the situations have more in common with the silent cinema spectacles for which De Mille is justly famed than they do with the realities of running a three-ring railroad circus plus midway under canvas on the road for an 8-month season.One subplot almost derailed the production, in fact. From its beginnings, Ringling Brothers was renowned for running a totally honest show. Considering that at one point Ringling had been nicknamed 'the Sunday-School Show' for its total intolerance of grifters, pickpockets and thieves, the subplot involving a crime boss planting a team of con men on the show to run the midway's games of chance was about as welcome to the circus's management as a skunk at a picnic. There were rows between De Mille, Art Concello (Ringling's Director of Performance) and John Ringling North (the show's owner) over this subplot until C.B. convinced them he needed that plot line to set up the climactic train wreck at the end of the movie. (Ringling's management didn't like THAT much either, because RB&BB hadn't had a train wreck since 1892!) However, Ringling Brothers extended itself beyond their usual standards to accommodate the filming. Concello, a famous aerialist in his time, even gaffed The Great Sebastian's fall for De Mille. Despite the tensions engendered by the needs of two different forms of entertainment (there is a circus legend that De Mille got a royal chewing-out from Concello for moving the lighting around without asking so he could film better, thus nearly causing a trapeze artist to fall because he couldn't see his catcher), the principal photography is a marvelous chronicle of circus life in and out of the ring. The photography, in fact, is what makes The Greatest Show On Earth such an important picture. De Mille succeeded in capturing on film a way of life that even then was starting to die; John Ringling North would strike the Big Top for good midway through the 1956 season and convert his circus into an 'arena show.' Forget the corny subplots involving Brad Braden, Angel, Holly, Buttons the Clown, Klaus the elephant trainer and The Great Sebastian. Watch this movie in a documentary frame of mind and you will realize not just how important the circus used to be back before television brought the world into your living room, but the sense of wonder that has been lost from our faster-paced, wider-ranging lives. Glory in the music as well, much of it written either for the movie or the 1951 Edition. Victor Young's The Greatest Show On Earth March instantly sets the circus scene just as well as Fucik's Entry of the Gladiators ever has. Remember that all those acts are doing their thing in real time, not with the help of a green screen and CGI. Those are real people really risking their necks out there! (Oh yes and that really IS Betty Hutton working on the single bar above Ring One. She was doubled for the sequences on the flying trapeze, but she learned and performed her own routines on the single bar. There is an extant film clip of her being presented with an award from Photoplay Magazine by C.B. De Mille, who had to ride up on a camera crane to give it to her while she was rehearsing under the Big Top.) We owe the great Cecil B. De Mille many thanks for documenting The Greatest Show On Earth at its peak. I personally believe this movie should rank high on the AFI 100 Greatest Movies List. However, as I've said, the best picture of 1952 it isn't, not by a long shot.Even so, buy the DVD and go to the circus again... and again... and again! Bring the young 'uns! Bring the old folks! Come again! "},{"Title":"My thoughts","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I have never been to a circus before and I am 41 but I saw this movie when I was young (a sucker for oldies - thanks dad. With Sunday mornings and only 3 channels, we watched old movies in the late mornings all of the time) and really love it. I watch it whenever I find it on, regardless of how much I missed of it. I guess it is my way of enjoying the circus along with a little bit of behind the scenes life. Emmett Kelly was the greatest clown of all time and it was great to see him in this movie. So Jimmy Stewart doesn't get any credit in this movie? He played an integral part in this movie even though you never see his face. "},{"Title":"Overblown De Mille malarkey, but Stewart & Wilde are great","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Most everything that needs to be said about this film has been said that it is typical Cecil B. De Mille hokum, that it is wondrously undeserving of the Best Picture Oscar it nabbed for 1952, that it manages to capture a world that doesn't exist anymore, etc., etc. And a great deal has been said about James Stewart's fine understated performance in perpetual clown makeup. Charlton Heston has been a fine, sometimes brilliant actor, but here he was very early in his career and hadn't quite worked out the use of nuance in the tough leading man role, and in the nuance department, not many people compete with Jimmy Stewart. Stewart makes every moment real, even though his character takes some suspension of disbelief. (Years in the circus without ever taking off his makeup and he has aroused neither suspicion nor terminal eczema?) But seeing this thing again after many years, I was quite surprised to see how Cornel Wilde absolutely leaps off the screen. Though I've long been a fan of his, nothing prepared me for the charisma that he radiated in every frame. He's not the actor Stewart is -- maybe not even that Heston is -- but if he had been an unknown when he made this film, it would have made him a star the way Thelma and Louise made Brad Pitt a star. Though some have quibbled with his accent, apparently not aware that Wilde was fluent in French, German, Hungarian, and several other European languages, it is the sheer dazzling quality of his presence that is now for me the most memorable part of this movie. As the movie started, I was surprised to realize that Wilde has top billing among the male actors. But moments after his entrance, I realized why. "}{"Title":"Entertaining from start to finish!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  An All Star Cast, Director of epics and of course the many circus scenes make this Best Picture film of 1952 well worth watching. For the most part this movie shows a part of Americana that's, sadly, long gone. 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"I Can See How This Has Earned Its Notorious Title of Worst Best Picture Winner","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This may not be the worst movie to ever win best picture but its up there. Well on second thought this is probably the worst film to ever win best picture. Still though you would expect it to be a worth while film. That in fact though if questionable as well. The film contains almost no depth and is just fun after fun if you want to call it that. At first its very interesting but it seems as if everything is exaggerated on so many levels.The acting was not spectacular to watch but it was quite interesting seeing Charlton Heston in his first lead role. I found many of the characters like the tone of the movie annoying after awhile. Who I did like a lot was James Stewart as the philosophical clown. He to me saved the film in that he gave it a much needed extra layer. Sadly though after Stewart there was not much else.The directing of the much respected Cecil DeMille was non existent to me. I found the movie corny at times and his use of Betty Hutton was a mistake. The look of the movie was very good at times but it did not generate that magical feeling that classics need to have. The writing was actually pretty good considering how shallow much of the movie was.From movies like this did the term Hollywood Trash come up. There is no depth, no valid attempt at drawing emotions out of the audience and simply no artistic value to the film. Then of course the many holes in the plot throughout. This movie was consistently annoying and frustrating. I even had a sense through this film that much of what I was watching was not only and inaccurate depiction of circus life but instead the opposite of how it really is. Why this won best picture is beyond me but its not like the first or the last time the Oscars will and have made a mistake. "},{"Title":"The mother of all circus films","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" There is one thing we have to give to this film, and this is that it could only be made at the time when it was made. Because only Cecil B. De Mille had the power and the backing to undertake a feat of this magnitude, and no other director has existed ever since who could be matched to him. He was the quintessence of the absolute director/producer of the golden era of Hollywood. Everything he says, goes. The first time I saw the film was in 1986. As a child I had been to the circus three or four times and it left me with that feeling of wishing being part of it. But the circuses I was at were small and cheap in comparison to the one in the film. This one was absolutely staggering. I just saw the film again today, and even if my boyish amazement of twenty-eight years ago is long gone I still find the film very entertaining and colourful. Even the soap opera plot-line with Chuck Heston, Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde scoring points off each other while Jimmy Stewart looks on, is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A Truly Good Film","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This film has the reputation of being the least deserving of the Best Film Academy Award winners, and that may be true (though I personally think Oliver! deserves that designation). However, don't conclude from that that this is a bad movie. In fact, it is a very good movie.At the end of the day, The Greatest Show on Earth succeeds primarily because it's good entertainment. Cecil B. DeMille knew how to do spectacle, and there is plenty here to please the senses fun songs and costumes abound and the circus tricks bear up even by today's standards.The film's many solid casting choices don't hurt either. Charlton Heston is perfect as the brusque workaholic circus manager, succeeding in remaining likable and sympathetic. Betty Hutton tackles the extremely difficult task of being girlish, enthusiastic, and breezy without being annoying. Both Hutton and Gloria Grahame provide some good drama and are thoroughly convincing as circus performers. Dorothy Lamour provides some nice comic relief, and James Stewart is (of course) right on target, giving a melancholy aspect to the tale. It's a pity the creators thought it necessary to have Cornel Wilde fake a French accent; otherwise, his performance is quite good.It's also refreshing to see actors (especially from this time period) doing their own stunts, actually touching the animals, and otherwise throwing themselves into their roles.While the romantic subplots flirt dangerously with cheesiness, they do succeed in building genuine romantic tension.My biggest complaints are the stock villains and the deus ex machina resolution of one of the love triangles.Still, this is good solid entertainment. Movie lovers will find plenty to interest them including Jimmy Stewart shown exclusively in clown makeup, Charlton Heston's first star role, and cameos from Bob Hope and Bing Crosby. "},{"Title":"Fascinating spectacle from another era","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" It's quite astonishing how many reviews of this movie appear to read along the lines of all it shows is a circus and no plot to speak of and then suggest this means it is boring. I would beg to differ. Indeed, there really isn't much of a plot that ever develops, but then the title is 'The Greatest Show on Earth', not 'The Greatest Romance/Comedy/Tragedy/Story on Earth'. But that does not, by any stretch of the imagination, mean this movie is dull or boring. Watch it with an open mind, expecting a semi-documentary about one of the greatest spectacles and logistical exercises imaginable, and you won't be disappointed. Speaking as someone who has never and will never be able to see a circus with all of the incredible acts seen here, I found it quite incredible and very fascinating. The amazing feats performed by both animals and humans had me almost on the edge of my seat at times, wondering just what could go wrong. The portrayal of a very large 'family' of circus entertainers, complete with their menagerie of various small and large animals, trained to perfection, is something that is carried off very well by director Cecil B DeMille. I have to agree with other reviewers that the acting, in terms of dialogue and emotion, leaves a lot to be desired - though Gloria Grahame does an outstanding job with a mediocre script. The real stars of the show for me were the elephants - I'm very glad that these days we know better than to cage these creatures for entertainment, but having said that, what incredible talent their trainers and the animals themselves had back in the day when they were used in the circus. And we get to see lots of that talent here. I'm surprised that this movie won 'Best Picture' - especially given the competition, but that said, for sheer 'wow factor', watch this on a large screen, forget the plot and dialogue and just enjoy the 'Greatest Show on Earth'. "},{"Title":"The best circus ever!","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Cecil B. DeMille is the master of the epic, I wish we had a director and a studio around now that would take on an epic sized film. The closest thing we have had recently was The Lord of the Rings Trilogy and even that was way out of the ordinary. I kind of feel that if directors put more time into there projects instead of just pumping them out as fast as possible our movies would be a lot better. Anyway back to the film, it's better then going to any circus I have ever been to or seen anywhere before. DeMille's voice as narrator is amazing and makes everything he says feel grander and epic. The cast was good but were more of a back up to the spectacle. Heston does his best work of the film towards the end and Stewart is great as always. I only wish these two would have shared more screen time or gone on to star in another movie together, two amazing talents. I have heard this movie be lumped into conversations about the worst best picture winners ever and I could not disagree more. The only other movie I have seen from that year was Singin' in the Rain which is also very good but no where near the epic feel. As you can tell by now I am a sucker for epics especially older ones of this kind simply because I am amazed by the planning, vision, patience and determination it would have taken back then to make a film of this scope. "},{"Title":"Piece of History","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The film is entertaining, and reveals the behind-the-scenes action of a circus in the days when they performed in tents. While growing up, I attended circuses, in tents and once at Madison Square Garden. Tents were much better.Spoilers follow In his autobiography, Cecil B. Demille said of this film that he wanted a plot so simple that a young child could follow it completely. That he succeeded is echoed in comments/complaints that the plot is thin.He also related that Jimmy Stewart jumped at the role he was given. Demille related that Stewart always wanted to play a clown.Those points being said, there is another Demille touch actors appearing in other of his films would show up in yet others. Thus, Hopalong Cassidy appears as a circus guest (William Boyd appeared in earlier Demille films). Demille also appeared as a cameo (a photographer) in a Bob Hope film; Hope and Crosby in this one.Toward the en of the film, after a train wreck, Holly helps organize the circus by organizing a parade to set up the remnants of the show, albeit without the tent. She indicates that the activity would be cherry pie. This wasn't really explained, but it was circus lingo for working without pay. "},{"Title":"Up Minyakh, Up!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite line in the movie delivered with realistic fear by Angel, aka Gloria Grahame, while trying to raise an elephant's foot (probably a rubber prop) from an inch above her face. G.G. is an actress I always admired. She was definitely underused by Hollywood, and not really used to her full potential in this film. However, she fared better here than Dorothy Lamour, as the iron-jaw girl, whose only ongoing (and very orally fixated) theme in this movie is being hungry while being attired in spectacular circus costumes, especially as Marie Antoinette in a huge plumed hat perched atop a high powdered wig, and as the Goddess of the Moon waving from atop a parade float and chewing gum. Dorothy also sings a Hawaiian song Lovely Luawana Lady attired in a very spiky looking pineapple inspired costume. Not to be outdone, Gloria also has a white powdered wig costume and shares a horsedrawn carriage with similarly attired Betty Hutton. Betty also rides a float attired as an American Beauty Rose while Gloria is attired as a Christmas ornament sitting in a holiday wreath dangling from the mouth of an elephant, which is where this critique began. The circus costumes are great! All in all, a really fun and enjoyable movie. Kudos to all (Betty, Cornel, James, and Moses) especially to Emmett Kelly, Cuccillo, and all the other circus stars who provided much of the authentic depth. A really delightful piece of romantic '50s Americana that deserved its Oscars. This film made me a lifelong circus fan. "},{"Title":"Buttons the Clown","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I don't know about you, but I feel sad for Jimmy Stewart's performance as Buttons the Clown. Its a happy ending for the circus, but Button goes to jail for a crime he didn't mean to commit many years ago. He performs a good deed by helping somebody live after the train wreck. Still, Jimmy must go to jail to pay for his crimes. (In the 1950's) Sending a good message to all criminals out there who are running from the law. I wonder how this film would have ended with Button's character if it took place 40 years later in the 1990's. Maybe a more realistic and truly happy ending. "},{"Title":"Another one for the top 10 of all time movies.","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Although the film is directed to adults rather than children, it still is a movie for everyone except the really young. This movie shows the lives of the circus people as real people with real issues. You can't beat real. Each character grabs your attention for different reasons, yet they portray a family working together for the same goal ... do your job and do it the best you can; and when times get tough, you work together even harder to get the job done. There's drama, laughs, romance, and greed. Now if that doesn't describe life, what will. And all of it in, around, and under the big tent. You don't see that anymore. Why don't we see this one on TV? A great movie to see. pj "}{"Title":"solid movie","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The general claim is that The Greatest Show on Earth is the worst Best Picture Oscar winner of all time. I just finished seeing it though and I think it is a good. It beat out High Noon for the top award, thus the debate.The Greatest Show on Earth is a solid movie though. I enjoy movies which take me into a world and to places that I would never otherwise get to know. This movie takes you behind the scenes of the circus when it was in its hey-day and, sadly, on the way to being marginalized as an entertainment spectacle. I appreciated the fact that the movie wasn't depicting some fictional circus but instead was showcasing the real Ringling Bros., Barnum & Bailey Circus. Nearly all of the acts in the show were real circus acts and most people my age or older will recognize the immortal clown, Emmitt Kelly---and be startled to see him without his clown-face on after the train wreck.The plot is essentially a soap opera set against the backdrop of the circus. Charlton Heston is Brad, the relentlessly driven circus boss who has sawdust in his veins. Holly (Betty Hutton) is the trapeze artist who loves Brad and wants the center ring. But Brad gives the center ring to the greatest aerialist in the business, Sebastian (Cornel Wilde). Holly and Sebastian begin to try and one-up each other and Sebastian seeks to add Holly to his roster of romantic conquests. Angel (Gloria Grahame who won an Oscar that same year for another movie) performs with the elephants and is also smitten with Brad and she is also one of Sebastian's former lovers. Jimmy Stewart rounds out the cast as Buttons, a clown who never takes off his whiteface make-up and who has a dark, secret past that he's running from.You'll have to watch the movie to find out who ends up with who while the circus moves from town to town like an unstoppable army. I found the narration by Cecil B. DeMille to be silly but the movie is very handsome and must've looked spectacular on the big screen. The acting is solid although Betty Hutton's singing is pretty bad. This is the movie that catapulted Heston to stardom and a couple years later he and DeMille teamed up for The Ten Commandments. I may be mistaken but this may have been the only Best Picture winner that Jimmy Stewart was ever in. That an actor of his stature would take a supporting role says a lot about the depth for the cast and Stewart obviously enjoyed the role enormously. More impressively, Hutton and Wilde, do much of their own trapeze stunts which were dazzling. Wilde looks great, every inch the glamorous, hunk circus star who has women falling all over him. "},{"Title":"Childhood revisited","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Watching the Greatest Show on Earth took me back to my childhood when visiting the circus was one of the highlights of the year. It was very insightful to see all that was involved behind the scenes in getting a circus operational. I liked the story line. It was also entertaining to see the audience reactions and to see the occasional celebrity in the audience.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show - A Sure-Fire Oscar Winner!","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Favorite Movie Quote Forget it! You're not gonna put that guy's blood in me! Ladies and Gentlemen! Step right up for Cecil B. DeMille's spectacular, Technicolor, circus-show extravaganza!... Yes, folks! It's all here under the big top! We got - Inflated egos! And, Thrills! And, Chills! And, surprises galore! And after the show's all over there's even a really swell train wreck to entertain you, that, literally, beats the band! I have to tell ya - This film truly is The Greatest Show On Earth. This is the best 2 and a half hours I've spent, watching a picture, in a mighty long time.The Greatest Show On Earth is a colossal package of fun-fun-fun, complete with hokey performances, clichs for days, and plenty of behind-the-scenes backstabbing and infighting.For its overall entertainment value, I highly recommend this picture. Even though it's over 60 years old, this is some of the best movie-entertainment that you're likely to come across. No matter how jaded you are, I guarantee it, you're sure to enjoy The Greatest Show On Earth.Starring the likes of Charlton Heston, Cornel Wilde, James Stewart, and Betty Hutton, this film also features some great cameos by some of Hollywood's biggest stars of the time, as spectators in the big-top audience.So.... Come one! Come all! P.S. - Being the sometimes hard-to-please critic that I am. (Ha! That's an understatement!) I was all prepared, right from the start, to hate this movie with a passion. What a pleasant surprise it turned out to be.(Golly! Gee! Just like a kid at the circus, I'm beside myself with joy!) "},{"Title":"The Real Meaning of Show Business","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The beauty of this picture is that you are witnessing an era which is now gone never to return - the era of the great traveling circuses who put on their shows under the canvas Big-Top. One can appreciate the thrill for children of all ages when the circus came to town because it represented an opportunity, however brief, to be part of a world of wonderment and make believe. More to the point, not only is the institution of circus one of the stars of this film, but you are also treated to seeing some of the great performers in their environment. The presence of the great clown Emmett Kelley has been mentioned elsewhere. For anyone who is a musician you get to see Ringling's circus band - the Windjammers - in operation under the direction of probably the most famous of any of the circus band directors - Merle Evans.But there is a message in this film as well - a message which is the core of any facet of show business. That is - whatever else happens - the show must go on. The bulk of the movie deals with all of the human conflicts and problems existing among this troupe of artistes - and how they must all be resolved by Charleton Heston's character if the circus is to perform. But the ultimate recognition of - and tribute to - the principle that the show must go on is found at the end of the movie. The psycho elephant trainer has caused a massive train wreck between Sections One and Two of the circus train. The equipment is busted and wrecked - the animals are escaping - artistes are injured. And yet, they have a show the next day. Maybe Betty Hutton's character is a little too gung-ho in inspiring the troupe but her conduct is not entirely implausible. The result is that the circus parade limps into town - the band sitting on a farm trailer pulled by one of the elephants, the lion's wagon partially boarded up because iron bars were bent in the train wreck, and most of the acts walking because their transport lies busted next to the train wreck - but the parade WILL be done. And guess what? The citizens of that town respond in kind - they follow the parade in droves to the open field where the crews have set up the poles for the aerial acts - a show under the sunlight because the tent is also hors d'combat with the wrecked train. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the show DOES go on. "},{"Title":"Forget the award, The Greatest Show On Earth  entertains enough.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Hmm 1952, the year where if what I have just read is right? Was actually the biggest miscarriage of justice in the history of cinema, yes, we all know that Monkey Business should have won best picture hee hee.The Greatest Show On Earth, bold and brash seems to be the words that come to mind after just taking in my first viewing of the Cecil B. DeMille love song to the circus way of life. The film exudes all the grandness one expects from a director who seems to have single handedly invented the word epic! It has enough nouse to feel like a very believable story, a sort of up close and personal look into the nitty gritty world of circus performers, whilst it also manages to keep it on the right side of glossy with a series of strands that can't help but keep the viewer involved.The negatives are evident for sure, tho, because I'm a James Stewart fan I can't help being annoyed at the background part he plays in proceedings, especially as his character has such a brilliant story that could have been fleshed out to give us so much more, it's just a waste of talent when you look at the array of picket fence acting that surrounds him. None of them cover themselves in glory, and I was rather surprised at just how poor Heston was, and don't get me started on Betty Hutton, boy that woman has a voice that can curdle milk from a mile away.Yet the wooden performances and the overwhelming belief that High Noon & Singing In The Rain were robbed of a gold statue can't take away from the fact that the aerial trapeze scenes are wonderful, the clowns, the Elephants, the hidden back story of Buttons, the tricks, the who loves who basic human fallibility, and that flipping train crash makes for a dam enjoyable film. I only go 7/10 for it myself, but anything less than that is unfair as far as I'm concerned.come to the circus, the greatest show on earth "},{"Title":"From an English view","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" An English guy of a 'certain age'. I am exploring the movies my sister took me to see at a very tender age. Train mad, I remembered the wreck; a huge steamer with streamlined coaches ramming the fancy Yankee car and then ploughing into the back of the stationary train. A model? Who cares, I still enjoy it. More though. I agree with am earlier comment about the 'raising of the top' sequence (the only black people in the whole film)and the street sequences as 'Americana' of a very precise period.However from my perspective now, the animal sequences - especially, the elephants, sickens me. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Bloated, Sometimes Entertaining; Does Have Some Very Good Moments","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Overall, this is a rather bloated spectacle that could have worked better as a much shorter, simpler movie. It is sometimes entertaining, and it does contain some interesting material. The grand-scale treatment really only works, though, when the subject matter is large enough to support it. Regardless of what one thinks of movies like DeMille's The Ten Commandments or Wyler's Ben-Hur, the subjects of those pictures are undeniably significant enough and complex enough to justify a large-scale approach. Here, in The Greatest Show On Earth, there is just not enough to be able to to stretch things into a three-hour spectacle without having the seams start to show. At the same time, it does have some very good moments and some satisfying sequences, because DeMille's usual skill and resourcefulness still make large parts of it work all right.James Stewart as 'Buttons' has the most interesting character, and he could have been the kernel of a pretty good movie. As it is, Stewart is good as always, and the most interesting parts of the movie usually involve him. The problem is that there is too much other material that is cobbled together in a rather cumbersome fashion, so that the focus never stays in the same place for long. Charlton Heston and Betty Hutton are both well-cast in their roles, but neither of their characters are especially interesting in themselves. A couple of the secondary characters are of some interest, but others are extraneous, and too much time is expended on uninteresting material.It's still worth seeing, because Stewart is always very good, the other stars do all right with their characters, and it does have some good moments. It was so acclaimed in its time largely because, in almost any era, spectacle too often gets more attention than substance, and DeMille always knew how to construct a spectacle. Because of its excesses, The Greatest Show on Earth looks very much out of place when compared with the best movies of its own era, such as On the Waterfront and All About Eve, but at the same time it's not as bad or as boring as some of the even more excessive productions that have won undeserved acclaim in more recent years.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show of 1952","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This film goes inside the heart of a circus to unveil to us the dynamics of the circus and who puts The Greatest Show on Earth on.  Truly a great film, everything about it is superior.  No, the plot isn't the most sophisticated or creative but it is effective.  The stunts are thrilling and Jimmy Stewart gave yet another marvelous performance as the Clown/Fugitive/Doctor.  I could watch this film over and over and over.....  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show On Earth (1952)","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show On Earth takes us behind the scenes of a travelling circus. Through the eyes of the fictional characters, we're shown what a circus of a time gone by was like.The trouble is, maybe we're shown a bit too much. What makes this movie watchable for me is the character driven moments, but just when things are getting interesting and you want to learn more about characters, the story cuts away and we're lumbered with a ridiculously long parade scene that will have you itching to press the fast forward button. Although some of the circus scenes aren't so bad and are to be expected in a movie that's about the circus, there are some that are almost pointlessly long.As for the plot itself, it's hardly complex, but it's a decent enough storyline for a movie of its type and time. Most of the story revolves around Holly, a flying trapeze performer, and Brad, the man who runs the show. Holly is struggling to deal with the fact that Brad's more obsessed with the show than her and when Brad's new headline act, The Great Sebastian, comes along, Holly finds her own attentions drifting, even though Holly and Sebastian try to out-do each other show after show because Holly's desperate for audience attention. There is also rivalry over Sebastian's affections between Holly and Angel, another circus girl, while Brad obviously has feelings Holly even if he doesn't always show it in obvious ways.A lot of the animosity towards this movie appears to stem from the fact that it won a Best Picture award at the Oscars, beating films like High Noon. While I agree with those who don't think it deserved a best picture award, I can't dismiss it as a bad film. Putting it together, filming and setting up those circus scenes, must have been painstaking, and although I moan about the overly long parades and circus moments, it does look grand and impressive. These days a movie like this would probably be bogged down with CGI special effects and stunt people. What I especially like about this film is the actors did a lot of their own stunts. The movie has heart and feels like a very genuine and raw portrayal of old school circuses.If it has a real negative flaw it would be the acting. Most of the performances are treading an extremely thin line from just about watchable to bad. Betty Hutton is near to appalling in most of her scenes and overacts so much it stands out even in a movie like this. Heston is okay, but the character is wooden so his performance could be perceived as that too. One of the better performances comes from Cornel Wilde as the arrogant Sebastian, but the show stealer is undoubtedly James Stewart as Buttons, a clown who is on the run from the police and is using the circus as a means to hide. Stewart's performance is warm and sensitive and quite underplayed, and it works beautifully.As a whole, the movie is worth seeing if you're a circus fan or like movies from this era, but I think to most modern audiences the acting, overly long circus scenes, and the rather corny and dated love story would be a turn off. If you do choose to watch the film, go in with an open mind and don't expect too much. For what it is, it's enjoyable enough. And if you get really bored you could always play Spot The Guest Celebrity Star in the scenes that focus on the circus audience! "},{"Title":"Not the greatest script on Earth...","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" High-flown malarkey under the Big Top! With the cooperation of Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey behind him, director and showman Cecil B. DeMille delivers a colorful circus-spectacular full of animals and acrobatics, however the overripe screenplay (worked on by four credited scenarists) combines stardust and sawdust of the most melodramatic kind. Trapeze artists Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde vie for the center ring--but when Wilde is suddenly injured, his spotlight isn't dimmed for too long (DeMille glosses over the rough stuff; he's not a filmmaker interested in details and he likes a happy ending). Charlton Heston is the financial manager and boss of the traveling tent-show, yet, aside from some monetary disputes at the beginning, we aren't told very much about the money-end of the show or how the performers spend their checks on their down time (do they have off-season lives at all?). DeMille is also uninterested in the freaky end of carny life--to him it's all in the family--though he does touch upon the corruption of the midway and some of the back-biting amongst the starlets. A little trimming might've made the picture more immediate (some of the parades go on too long, and I would've cut Dorothy Lamour's Hawaiian number, though it contains a surprise cameo which gets a big laugh). Betty Hutton, who sings like a brick, must be the most masochistic trapeze chanteuse who ever defied death, but Gloria Grahame is fun as a wisecracking elephant assistant and Heston strikes an appropriately no-nonsense stance which, while largely wooden, works for this picture. As for James Stewart as Buttons the Clown, he's supposed to be a little mysterious, a question mark, but DeMille and his editor cut to Stewart far too often and he's on-screen far too much (they want to make sure we don't miss a trick, such is the way the unsubtle drama is mechanically laid out). This Oscar-winning Best Picture is big-big-big, but like all epics this one has its peaks and valleys. It's really corny, but like the man said, You can shake the sawdust out of your shoes, but not out of your heart! *** from **** "}{"Title":"Anne Get Your Gun  round two.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this semi-documentary and the also highly regarded High Noon as a kid, back in '52. This film impressed me as generally interesting, and scary at times. High Noon was a bore. Yet, most professional critics of the time or later love to hate this film, and deride its Oscar and Golden Globe award for best picture. Singing in the Rain was another legitimate contender for this honor, but seemingly disadvantaged by An American in Paris winning the Oscar the previous year. The present film was the clear box office winner that year. Another thing it had going for it was as a symbolic lifetime achievement award for DeMille the thinking being that he wouldn't likely top this with a better future film. Of course, a few years later , he came out with The Ten Commandments, which broke all box office records, but failed to win the 'Best Picture' Oscar.Betty Hutton was the dominating female presence in this film, as she had been in the previous, very popular, Anne Get Your Gun. It seems clear from review comments that either you love her or hate the 'Blond Bombshell'. She was famous for her triple threat of a cute, very emotional, lively, little girl-like, persona, along with her comedic and singing talent. Unfortunately, in this film, the latter 2 are subdued, thus she doesn't seem quite herself. However, near the end, after the devastating double train wreck, she belts out a couple of the equivalents of There's No Business Like Show Business, she(along with others)finished Anne... with, in dramatic style. In essence, these performances are saying that circus people are used to the occasional disaster, and will soon rise from this disaster to continue bringing spectacular live action entertainment to audiences. Of course, the reality was that the days of elaborate traveling tent circuses were, by then, numbered....Another commonality with Anne.... is the 'battle of the sexes' angle, in which she competes with a top male star with similar talent to be the world's best or most popular an intense love-hate relationship. In this film, her rival the 'great' Sebastian, is played by the impossibly handsome beefcake Cornell Wilde, who looks marvelous, at age 40. Unlike in Anne...., this competition eventually leads to tragedy, as Sebastian eventually winds up with a useless right hand/arm from a trapeze fall, when he tried to outdo Betty. Betty(as Holly) then feels guilty that she egged Sebastian on to try ever more risky aerial tricks, to maintain his status in the center ring a position Betty formerly held and covets to regain. At the same time, the two have developed a romantic relationship , competing with Betty's frustrated ambition of a similar relationship with the circus manager Brad(with sawdust in his veins), well played by the young Chuck Heston. Which one will she end up with, after both have suffered serious physical injuries)? There is some bad blood between Brad and Sebastian, as Brad initially refuses a lifesaving transfusion of Sebastian's AB blood(Incidentally, AB persons are universal receivers!). Jimmy Stewart, as Buttons, one of the clowns, is another main character, hiding from snooping detectives behind his painted face. Just after temporarily reverting to his former profession as a medical doctor, to save Brad's life after the train wreck, he's handcuffed by a FBI agent hot on his trail, in a tearjerker scene. Thus, all the main male characters have been compromised by the end of the film.DeMille required the actors to learn to do their circus stunts no doubles allowed! Gloria Grahame, as the pixie-like Angel, functioned as the lead 'elephant girl', including having an elephant foot held just above her prone face. Like Betty, she had romantic ambitions with the aloof Brad, who acted as if disinterested in either. Dorothy Lamour the third featured actress, didn't really seem like she belonged in this film. Her main act was as part of a South Seas dancing act, reminiscent of her concurrent role in the Hope-Crosby Road to Bali film. The latter two are seen in one of the too many corny shots of the audience. Like Betty, Dorothy's career as a film star was essentially finished with this film. Gloria is probably best remembered today for her role as the girl 'who couldn't say no' in the smash hit musical Oklahoma, a few years later, although she won the '52 best supporting actress Oscar in another film. She comes across as coyly impish, rather than blatantly sexy.The spectacular train wreck was done with models. DeMille had previously staged 2 train wrecks in Union Pacific. But, this one was much more spectacular, involving a collision between 2 trains, both carrying part of the circus. Lions and leopards are seen escaping from broken cages, adding to the shock. The stoppage of the first train was carried out by 2 psychopathic members of the circus. One, the elephant trainer, had a fixation on Angel, wanting to impress her with a wad of cash stolen from the caboose. Insane!. Nor is their racing down the track to warn the second train, too late, of the unexpected stoppage, believable. Nor is the quick recovery from the wreck, to put on a show for the locals, believable.As in a few of his other films, DeMille begins the film with quite an impressive statement about the significance of his subject. The real RB&BB circus is often featured, with a great variety of acts, often several simultaneously. Some of the set up and take down chores with each location move are also shown. Among the mostly white-faced clowns, was included the distinctive sad-faced 'Weary Willie character, created by Emmitt Kelly, based on the numerous hobos of The Depression. DeMille would again feature Heston as Moses, in The Ten Commandments, and, as Andrew Jackson, in The Buccaneers the last film DeMille is credited with having a part, as the producer. "},{"Title":"Can you pour it on a little extra heavy this time?","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" When it comes to creating a massive spectacle for the screen, is there any shame in borrowing from real life? Some might say that The Greatest Show on Earth is stealing the glories of the circus to make lesser triumphs on the screen. But in the motion picture industry, it is not about what you present, it's how you present it. And no-one could show off a spectacle like Cecil B. DeMille.Perhaps there ought to have been a great painter of the circus &#x96; you know, like CM Russell was for the Old West. DeMille as always displays his subject with a painterly eye, making the real life circus acts not so much one-by-one showcases, but part of a vast tableau, continually pulling our focus in different directions, backing one spectacular stunt with spinning acrobats, counterpointing another with a pratfalling clown. But what is quite special about DeMille, it's not just how he shows off the best of Barnum, Bailey and Ringling's attractions &#x96; his shots of the audience are equally evocative, each one playing for a different effect. Some are comical, some comment on the action, but each is laid out with exquisite aestheticism and impeccable timing.The practice of borrowing for The Greatest Show on Earth runs through every aspect of the production. Even the Victor Young score only has one or two original themes to it, the rest being cobbled together from all over the place, including the (uncredited) melody of the Victor Schertzinger song Dream Lover, which was written for the 1929 musical The Love Parade. But Young is like DeMille in that he puts the whole package together well. The Dream Lover number is a good example &#x96; a stirring love song in its original incarnation, Young revives it as both a light-hearted waltz for Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde's trapeze antics, and as a soulful air to accompany their romance on the ground.This picture really needs that kind of sparkle and gloss, borrowed or otherwise. As with almost every DeMille picture, the screenplay for this one is a practical but ultimately dull creation. The efforts of Fredric Frank et al make a nice job of weaving a plot in and out of the showmanship, but really it is just drama-by-numbers, full of trite turning points and one-dimensional characters. One of the daftest moments comes early on, when Jimmy Stewart's ability to wrap up a rig neatly (a bit like a bandage!) is given as clue a clue to his once having been a doctor.The acting is not much better, with DeMille as usual selecting players for their physicality rather than their talent. A young Charlton Heston is strikingly handsome, and despite his youth does look like the kind of guy that could inspire a weary army of performers and roustabouts to follow him all over the country. Still, his inexperience shows and he is a little lacking in believable passion. Still, Heston looks like a consummate professional next to the third-rate melodramatics of Betty Hutton. And even she looks good next to the idiotically grinning woodenness of Cornel Wilde. There are a few saviours among the cast though. Jimmy Stewart does a great clown act, making his personality shine through the makeup. Gloria Grahame is smooth and consistent as ever, although she is unfortunately sold short by the lousy dialogue. Finally there are a few brief appearances by Laurence Tierney as a mob boss, memorable for the mean presence that actor could bring to any picture.The Greatest Show on Earth has been slammed as an undeserving Oscar-winner, presumably being a safe choice over the controversial High Noon. And yet while the HUAC shenanigans going on at the time were a travesty, this doesn't mean we should automatically tar the academy electorate with the same brush. For a start, this picture's closest contender for the top prize was probably The Quiet Man, not High Noon. Secondly, 1952 was an incredibly egalitarian year at the Oscars, with John Ford winning Best Director for The Quiet Man, and High Noon bagging four awards to The Greatest Show on Earth's two. And finally, hard as it may be for pretentious film geeks to swallow, there is a lot to like about this picture. For once, DeMille is not claiming to be a spokesman for God or a dubious chronicler of American history. Now the words of that authoritative voice are factual and informative, making this more documentary-like than any feature of Fred Zinnemann's. And if neo-realist classics like Bicycle Thieves and Shoeshine can borrow from real life on the small scale and be lauded as art, why can't this be treated the same for borrowing on a big scale? "},{"Title":"We bring you--the circus! . . . ","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" So Cecil B. DeMille orates in his opening introduction to this flashy film. Yet what is the circus but abundant flash, glitter, spectacle, and thrills? When one goes there, one knows it's about all the things DeMille deals with in this broad drama. He doesn't pretend it to be great art, merely sprawling entertainment.When a retrospective of DeMille occurred in 2009, it was Steven Splielberg who commented, DeMille knew himself, he know exactly what he was. I don't. I'm all over the place. Well, Spielberg was right. Like him or not, DeMille knew exactly what he wanted, and created an astonishing number of box office hits over the years, often drawing in millions of patrons.When it came to the circus, he was right at home. The circus is corny entertainment to begin with, akin to amusement parks with their thrill rides, side show barkers, cotter candy and popcorn. DeMille was a master showman, at home directing spectacle, heaving emoting and lush romance.When it came to his two last films, it seemed he opted to just let it all hang out and wind up his career with broad strokes and theatrical flourish. The Greatest Show on Earth isn't by any means a bad film. It's true to its subject, while providing the audience with a lot of fun and some love and thrills thrown in for good measure.As for its winning awards or having conservative political supporters, those are side matters. This penultimate work stands with his Ten Commandments finale as a respectable way to wrap up a commendable career. Even John Ford expressed professional respect for Blount. "},{"Title":"Cheezy at times but very entertaining","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  For those who have spent plenty of time watching Charleton Heston in larger-than-life roles (NRA spokesman, astronaut, Moses), the Greatest Show on Earth will give you a chance to see him in a more down-to-earth role. True, he's still barking orders at people but amid the sawdust this time.Also, there's not only a love triangle but something resembling a trapezoid. Heston is caught between high flyer Holly (Hutton) and elephant trainer Angel (Grahame), who gets some of the sassiest dialog in the movie. Then you've got the gum smacking Dorothy Lamour who is always there for some saucy lines. Add Cornel Wilde as the rival high flyer Sebastian the Great (even in high-heeled shoes and a satin cape he's all man) and you've got a cast worth watching. It never stays dull for long.Jimmy Stewart is stellar in his role as the clown on the run from the law. Of course, in my cynicism, I have to wonder why nobody ever asked this guy why he always wore makeup 24 hours a day, even in the heat of Florida. But it IS a movie. His sensitivity and comic timing is one reason to watch this movie. True, some of the rather overdramatic narration is cheezy during the scenes of how the circus sets up and breaks down. And the musical acts can get corny. But it does give you a glimpse of an otherwise unknown world and what an ordeal it is to move from town to town. You also get your fair share of tension, humor and romance. Who can beat that?See you in the center ring!  "},{"Title":"One of DeMille's greatest films, it truly deserved its Academy Award!","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show on Earth, one of Cecil B. DeMille's greatest films, is very underrated. I believe DeMille made this film because he wanted people to understand the hard work behind a circus, and he succeeded in telling a great story behind a great spectacle. The film's drama is very interesting and will always keep you on the edge of your seat. The screenplay is witty and smart. The acting, as in all of DeMille's films, is excellent. The cast should have also received Academy Award nominations for their performances. This film deserved its Academy Award for Best Picture (no matter what anybody says) because everything in it blends perfectly. Samson and Delilah and The Ten Commandments, two of DeMille's other great films, also deserved Academy Awards for Best Picture. "},{"Title":"Lusty triumph of circus showmanship and movie skill","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Watching The Greatest Show on Earthrecently I was struck by a sense of dj vu as I realised just how close the plot is to that of another circus drama, The Big Circus. Both films feature thefollowing elements-An opening scene in which the circus management meet with the show's financial backers and it emerges that the business is in trouble. A tough and unsentimental but honest and decent circus manager as the main character (played here by Charlton Heston in one of his earliest starring roles, and by Victor Mature in The Big Circus). A clown whose smiling face hides a tragic or guilty secret. (The character is played here by James Stewart, who is never seen without his make-up). A mysterious saboteur intent on ruining the circus. (His motives are, however, different in the two films. In The Big Circus he is in the pay of an unscrupulous business rival. Here he is a dishonest sideshow operator bent on revenge after being sacked for defrauding customers). A train crash. A stoical the-show-must-go-on philosophy, taken to absurd lengths in both films. We might today bemoan Hollywood's inability to come up with original story lines, but things were not necessarily any better in the fifties. I should, however, point out that The Greatest Show on Earthwas theearlier of the two films by several years, so the responsibility for any plagiarism lies with the makers of The Big Circus, not with Cecil B. DeMille. The story of The Greatest Show on Earthis a relatively simple one; much of the responsibility for the film's long running time lies with its lengthy documentary sequences describing how real-life circuses operated. The circus featured in this film, Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, is a real one, and many of their acts are featured. (The Big Circus, by contrast, was about a fictitious circus). DeMille himself acted as narrator for these sequences, describing the circus's operations in some rather purple prose. (A fierce, primitive fighting force that smashes relentlessly forward against impossible odds That is the circus).The main plot line involves a love-triangle between the circus manager Brad Braden, his girlfriend Holly, one of the show's trapezeartists, and another trapeze artist, The Great Sebastian, who has a reputation for arrogance and for being a successful womaniser. At first Holly and Sebastian, who are competingfor top billing, loathe one another, but later an attraction grows up between them, and Holly finds herself torn between Brad and Sebastian. The triangle becomes first a quadrilateral then a pentagon when Angel, a female elephant trainer, also falls in love with Brad, arousing the passionate jealousy of her boyfriend Klaus. There are subplots involving the mysterious Buttons the Clown and Harry the dishonest showman who is in league with gangsters. The film was a huge success at the box office and was popular with many critics; Bosley Crowther called it a lusty triumph of circus showmanship and movie skill and a piece of entertainment that will delight movie audiences for years, Its reputation, however, has declined over the years, largely because it was a victim of its own success. Film buffs have been unable to forgive it for winning the Academy Award for Best Picture ahead of revered classics like High Noon or Singin' in the Rain, and it is regularly voted among the contenders for Worst Ever Best Picture. The Greatest Show on Earthis not in my view a film in the same class as High Noon, Singin' in the Rain, or some of the great Best Picture winners from the fifties such as From Here to Eternity, On the Waterfront or Bridge on the River Kwai. High Noon was a victim of politics- its producer and screenwriter Carl Foreman's communist sympathies had alienated the more conservative elements in Hollywood- and of the Academy's long-standing dislike of Westerns. (1952was also the year in which John Ford won his record fourth Best Director Oscar; not one of those awards was for a Western, the genre with which he is most closely associated). As for Singin' in the Rain, that is a film whose reputation has grown over the years; it was very much under- appreciated in its day and was not even nominated for Best Picture in 1952. And yet I would not really regard this as a serious contender for Worst Ever Best Picture; the horribly mawkish Terms of Endearment would be my nominee for that particular accolade, with the likes of Gentleman's Agreement (winner for reasons of political correctness, or its forties equivalent) and Mrs Miniver (winner for reasons of patriotic sentiment) also in the running. The Greatest Show on Earthcertainly lacks any great acting performances- Heston, Stewart and Gloria Grahame were all much better elsewhere than they are here- and the plot is not particularly original. As a spectacular piece of film-making, however, it is really rather splendid. DeMille is able to endow a film on a modern subject with something of the grandeur he brought to his Classical and Biblical epics. To my mind Bosley Crowther's verdict still rings true today. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not quite as great as its title suggests, but I don't think it deserves the maligning it gets","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" When I see a discussion about best Picture winners, I can't count the number of times the Greatest Show on Earth has been headlined as one of the worst. I am going to be honest, I do not think this movie deserved Best Picture over The Quiet Man, High Noon and the un-nominated(???) Singin' in the Rain. However, I do not think it is a bad movie, and as far as best Picture winners go while it was for me undeserved it is better than Braveheart, Cimarron, Crash and The Hurt Locker.The Greatest Show on Earth does have its flaws. The film does have some uneven dialogue, some is good but some is very corny, the story is a little overstuffed with a lot going on and with so many stories going on with its length and purposefully done pace it could have been better developed too, and Betty Hutton overdoes it a bit.That said, it does look wonderful. The costumes, scenery and cinematography are wonderfully lavish. The music is a plus, it isn't heard all the time, but when it does play it's quite nice. I liked the rousing number at the end, though it did take some time to get accustomed to the singing. The direction was good, quite corny but efficient all the same, the trapeze work is excellent and the pacing while mannered is fine. The acting is good enough, aside from Hutton. Charlton Heston is interesting here, and Cornel Wilde is quite nice. The most memorable performance comes from James Stewart, he has been better and he has been in better movies than this, but he does do a great job as Buttons, the film's most interesting character. On a final note, the last half-hour was quite riveting.All in all, far from a masterpiece but it isn't awful either. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Maybe not the greatest movie, but still great","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I watched this again today for two reasons to pay tribute to Charlton Heston, who died this week, and because Entertainment Weekly, in their tribute to Heston, referred to it as a soulless epic. They also dragged out the often-repeated line that it's the worst movie to win the Best Picture Oscar.I don't know where they got soulless from, because the final scene of the circus people picking themselves up from the (still-amazing) train wreck is, along with the finale of The Red Shoes, the most moving depiction of the show-must-go-on spirit I've ever seen in a movie. De Mille knew a thing or two about that - he was a consummate showman to the end of his days.This film can proudly take its rightful place among the other Best Pictures of the 1950's, along with another one that's always being unfairly attacked, Around the World in 80 Days. "},{"Title":"Colorful tale under the big top with DeMille and company...","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Circus life takes center stage while the trite backstage story involves a three-way romance between CHARLTON HESTON, BETTY HUTTON and CORNEL WILDE that is only occasionally moving. Hutton downplays the boisterous side of her personality to give dimension to her role as Holly, conflicted by feelings for Wilde and Heston that run from hot to cold.Wilde is impressive in his stunts but hampered by an atrocious French accent that comes and goes. For added interest, GLORIA GRAHAME plays a feisty girl with a talent for tricks with an elephant, and DOROTHY LAMOUR plays a gum-chewing wise-cracker who gets to do a South Seas island number as a tribute to her Road films with Crosby and Hope (who are seen among the circus audience crowd).Romantic complications have Gloria Grahame pursued by LYLE BETTGER but more interested in CHARLTON HESTON. Then there's the darker side of the circus story in the JAMES STEWART clown character, Buttons, who uses his clown face to hide from the authorities who are looking for Stewart who is actually a doctor who murdered his wife ten years ago and is on the lam with the circus.All the gaudy threads of the story are held together by DeMille's taut direction which manages to show details of circus life while keeping the backstage story flowing smoothly against colorful backgrounds. The climactic train wreck is well staged and adds some dramatic wallop to the story's conclusion. HENRY WILCOXSON and LAWRENCE TIERNEY are effective in minor roles.Among the circus crowd extras enjoying the show MONA FREEMAN, NANCY GATES, BING CROSBY, BOB HOPE--and EDMOND O'BRIEN, who has a bit as ringmaster for the film's final shot.Summing up An extravaganza that's a tribute to the Ringling Bros. circus in the DeMille tradition of showmanship. Whether it deserved that Best Picture Oscar is still debatable. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible!","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Not only did this picture not deserve to win the best picture Oscar, no human being should be forced to sit through this 2.5 hour monstrosity.In a vain attempt to create an over the top spectacle Cecil B. DeMille fills half the movie with circus acts and parades. As a boy I loved the circus as much as anyone, and even now I have great respect for the amazing athletic ability of circus performers, but if I wanted that I would watch Cirque de Soleil.Granted, Charlton Heston does a fine job playing circus boss Brad, but comes nowhere close to saving this mess.Jimmy Stewart definitely drops a few pegs in book for his boxy portrayal of Buttons The Clown.With such legendary movies as High Noon and Singin' In The Rain also made that year, The Greatest Show On Earth had no business even being nominated. "}{"Title":"Worst Oscar Winner on Earth, The","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Pick a word that describes mediocre dull, hackneyed, cliched, stereotypical, boring....  Yep, this movie has it all.  In the world of Oscar winners, this movie is the worst.  It is hard to believe that people could have found this movie better than the nominated High Noon and The Quiet Man, let alone the unnominated Singin' in the Rain. "},{"Title":"We bring you the circus...","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I suppose if one is fixated on the idea that this film didn't deserve it's Best Movie Oscar, then it will affect your entire enjoyment of the picture. Maybe what's best is to view this one in a couple of different ways. For it's pure spectacle and color it has few rivals, and the train wreck sequence near the finale was rather impressive, even if the mock-up toy trains were more than evident. If I were to disqualify the picture from it's top award, it would be for the ridiculous attempt at a love story angle between the principals. The romantic pairings bounce off each other like ping pong balls and aren't credible in the least. So there, I've said it and now I've got that out of the way.The thing I think a lot of the reviewers on this board don't appreciate is the sheer immensity of the effort to put on the Big Show. It was mentioned at one point that the Circus employed fourteen hundred and it took a veritable army of people and equipment to move it from one town to the next. Even the filming of the roustabouts putting up and tearing down the Big Top didn't quite capture the enormity of the task, not to mention the skill and precision required to keep it all in some semblance of order. I could only marvel at the effort.As for the show itself, I thought the filming did a good job of presenting a huge array of entertainers as they made their way into the Big Top. The costumes were marvelous and the parade of entertainers and animals made you want to be part of the action. Every now and then you had to get a kick out of the expressions on the faces of the customers. Many quite obviously were filmed without their knowing it, as the unbridled happiness and laughter was entirely evident, and I got a particular kick out of youngsters who might have sat expressionless not knowing what to make of it all. Every now and then an unexpected cameo appearance made it's way on screen, Hopalong Cassidy as a one night stand was pretty cool for example. An even better one might have been Hope and Crosby downing their popcorn as Dorothy Lamour did her 'Lovely Luawana Lady' routine.Regarding the principal players, I thought they did an adequate job apart from the romantic angles I mentioned earlier. It became apparent later in the story why we never saw Jimmy Stewart's real face except in a photo. Personally I thought his character might have been let off the hook after saving Brad Braden's (Heston) life, but you had to consider justice being served. Funny, but you never hear Emmett Kelly's name mentioned any more, he being the sad faced clown who appeared every few scenes. His name used to come up between my friends and I back in the day, along with Bozo and his infamous 'Eat it, Clown' comment that I'm chuckling about as I write this. Yeah, those were the days.So I don't know if you need to have ever been to a real, live circus to appreciate this picture but I don't think it could hurt. They're few and far between these days, and it seems when they show up there are plenty of free passes to go around, so their allure as an attraction has probably passed. A shame in a way, as watching the picture today brings back memories of a life gone by when families could enjoy the simple things together and have fun doing it. You could see it in the faces of the crowd. "},{"Title":"Old fashioned fun","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The film that inspired Steven Spielberg, this grand DeMille drama set against the thrills and spectacle of a 50s circus gives us a behind the scenes peek at the unlikely bunch that put on all sorts of shows for the public. These include the under pressure manager (Heston) his girlfriend/wannabe starlet (Hutton), world class trapeze artist The Great Sebastian (Conrel Wilde) and Buttons, the clown with a mysterious past (Stewart).Corny, melodramatic and clich though it may be, this circus tale from, fittingly, one of Hollywood's greatest showmen is not without charm or a sense of fun. A game cast all embrace their larger than life roles well, with Stewart shining as both the funny yet poignantly tragic Buttons. And as expected of DeMille, the film offers tons of great, large scale spectacle (including but not limited to elephants, aerial acrobatics and the famous train crash that actually still holds up okay as a tense action scene), all set to some very cheery, smile-inducing songs to create an old fashioned type of charm and warmth that carry the picture over its weaker points.The disdain against the film's win back in 1952 stems from being seen more as an arbitrary honouring of the aging DeMille, and 'Show's' sketchy plot, stretched to over two hours, and stock characters don't do it any favours in trying to defend its title. It's all very routine soap opera that, were it not for all the wonderful sights and osmosis surrounding it, would be really by the numbers and uninspired. Plus, there is some shoddy 'early greenscreen/keying' done for some stunts which stick out painfully, However, in spite of all that, I was left with a smile on my face by the film's end. Films like this define terms like 'feel-good' and 'they just don't make 'em like this anymore'. "},{"Title":"The Show Must Go On","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The DVD release for The Greatest Show On Earth plays down its Best Picture win. Hang on, isn't this supposed to be the highest accolade in the film world? Why would you downplay that your film won the award? Probably because the Academy Awards are a farce. Yeah, total shocker. I normally have a rule when reviewing movies not to mention the Oscars because I feel it is so redundant to do so. How did this beat 'x' picture?, Why didn't 'x' get an Oscar nomination?, such tiring statements. Best Picture winners attract viewers to a film which they would unlikely watch otherwise, and because of this many films get a bad reputation as the film which beat such and such for Best Picture.The Greatest Show On Earth is one such film, made out to be worse than it is due to attracting an audience who would otherwise never watch it if it wasn't for its Best Picture win. The Greatest Show On Earth is tons of fun; at times I had a care free feeling that I was at an actual circus, minus the smell of elephant dung. The acrobatic scenes are suspenseful and you really get a sense of the scope and the whole thing even feels like it has weight to it, so I can forgive the odd jumpy edit. You could look at it cynically and say it's a commercial for Barnum and Bailey, well it's a very entertaining commercial at that, and a very informative one. The movie packs a lot of material into its run time, and I felt like I got my money's worth.When your movie stars James Stewart (albeit a supporting performance), is it any surprise he's the best aspect of the film. I believe his role of Buttons is an underrated performance of his, and one of his most tragic. He has a permanent smile on his face (really, his make-up never comes off at any point), yet has a dark, troubled past. OK its obvious symbolism but you can feel his pain throughout thanks to his quiet, subtle performance. As the movie progresses it takes a surprisingly dark turn, not only with the shockingly intense train wreck sequence, but also the implication that Buttons assisted his wife to kill herself. Surprising that a mainstream blockbuster would have an assisted suicide subplot in an era controlled by censorship. "},{"Title":"Landmark film and  the real circus is used.","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" DeMille had a thing for big, epic movies. This one runs almost 2 1/2 hours. It features fictional stories overlaid on the real Ringling Bros.-Barnum & Bailey's circus and in fact filmed at its winter quarters in Florida. Some of the scenes involved actual circus performances. This was a glorious time for traveling circuses, something that seems to pretty much faded from our history.Of particular interest to me are scenes in the movie, documentary in style, showing how the roustabouts erected the large tents, then later how they took everything down.This movie came out when I was only 6, I didn't see it right away but do remember seeing it when I was quite young. The most vivid scene that remained with me was the trapeze artist falling without a net. I saw it again today on the Movies! channel.A 30-ish Betty Hutton is Holly, one of the featured trapeze artists, when Cornel Wilde as The Great Sebastian is hired. Even though the two trapeze artists are competitive with each other, always wanting to try something more difficult, a love affair also blossoms. Then there is the fall that Sebastian takes, Holly blames herself for challenging him. When he returns from the hospital he seems fine but his right hand is paralyzed.Also 30-ish Charlton Heston plays the hard-driving circus master Brad Braden. Perhaps the most interesting role is James Stewart as a clown, we never see his face without makeup but his voice is recognizable as soon as he speaks. He is being hunted for a possible murder. "},{"Title":"Dated and bloated epic but it does have some memorable scenes","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show on Earth follows the trials and tribulations of performers in a circus. It's very much of it's time and a very long and bloated film but is not without some merit. At times it does get repetitive especially during the middle section. The last quarter is probably the best section and is very much out of place with the rest of the film. However, it is a welcome diversion. Although there are plenty of superfluous scenes there are also some very good ones. I'm sure this is one film that wold have benefited from being shortened. There are plenty of decent performances, a young Charlton Heston makes a good and charismatic lead. The great James Stewart is unrecognisable as the clown Buttons. A surprising part for the actor maybe but he does a fine job. This film is all about the spectacle and this it delivers. I was surprised this won the best Oscar but maybe that was what went down well at the time. Though it has plenty of flaws this is still a fairly enjoyable film for those that appreciate older films. "},{"Title":"A Fun Look at the Ringling Circus","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The dramatic lives of trapeze artists, a clown, and an elephant trainer against a background of circus spectacle.These days (2015), circuses have fallen out of favor. Kids are not as interested in them as they used to be, and they have taken on a lot of criticism from animal rights groups. (And, you know, some of that criticism is more than fair.) I have to have a little bit of pride in the circus, though, especially the one focused on here Ringling. These guys came from Baraboo, Wisconsin and until relatively recently have kept that as their headquarters. This is barely more than an hour from home for me, so circus history is something very local. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show on Earth is still mostly entertaining but didn't deserve the Oscar for Best Picture of 1952","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" After first watching this on commercial TV 20 years ago, I just viewed this again on DVD just now. This is still pretty entertaining with some of the melodrama and especially that train crash near the end. Musical numbers by Dorothy Lamour-in which a couple of her famous co-stars from other movies make an audience appearance-and Betty Hutton with Jimmy Stewart joining the latter on a trampoline also are fun to watch. And some of the actual circus acts are pretty entertaining though they're better viewed in person than on film. But this is a bit overlong and somewhat old-fashioned and doesn't really deserve the Best Picture Oscar it got for 1952. That should have gone to the really creative Singin' in the Rain which wasn't even nominated in that category (nor was it for writing which TGSOE won for Original Story). Besides the stars I mentioned above, there's also Cornel Wilde, Charlton Heston, and Gloria Grahame to look forward to. Stewart appears in clown makeup throughout for a reason revealed near the end. Only a photo of him shown on screen has his more-familiar face. And producer-director Cecil B. DeMille's narration may be a little corny, but it still works for me. So on that note, I partially recommend The Greatest Show on Earth. P.S. While this film marked a reunion for a couple of stars from my favorite movie-It's a Wonderful Life, Jimmy Stewart and Gloria Grahame, they hardly have any scenes together and rarely have dialogue between them. "},{"Title":"Watch it with a 1952 lens","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" A lot of people seem to have a problem with this film because it won 2 major Academy Awards, including Best Picture of 1952. I think critic Leonard Maltin may have put it best when he said that like most of DeMille's movies, this may not be art, but it's hugely enjoyable.You have to begin by remembering that the year was 1952, Yes, Milton Berle and Lucy and Martin & Lewis had arrived, but only 34% of the homes in America had television sets. So, for many communities it was still a big deal when the circus came to town, and a big deal when a movie like this came to the local movie theater.Second, I think this film is important. In fact, probably more important today than it was in 1952. What better source do we have for seeing what a circa 1950 big circus was actually like? None. And make no mistake, despite a plot and movie stars, what you see in this film is a lot of real circus acts. Yes, for most you get only glimpses, but this movie still preserves what the mid-1900s circus was like better than any reference book.And what about the plot or plots. Well, you have a love triangle -- Heston, Wilde, and Hutton. You have the sub plot of how the mighty can fall (literally in this case). And you have another sub plot about revenge. Such plots and sub plots are not uncommon in pictures...in fact, they are the most common themes. Here they just happen to take place at a circus.In terms of the actors, this kind of part was perfect for the wacky Betty Hutton. If Lou Grant had known her, he would have said she had spunk! This is probably the only film I really like Cornel Wilde in. I guess the one who comes out pretty bad here is Charlton Heston. Of course, his greatest successes, including Ben-Hur, were a few years off. Frankly, his performance here is rather wooden and he shows his limitations quite profoundly. It's interesting to see James Stewart just clowning around...literally...in perhaps his most unique role. Dorothy Lamour is rather typecast. This may be the only film where Gloria Grahame acted like a normal human being...and did it quite well. Interesting, also, to see the venerable Henry Wilcoxon, her as the FBI agent. And the cameos are fun, including Bob and Bing.This really was quite a Cecil B. DeMille production. But, of course, DeMille was very old school, and it showed. And DeMille had yet one more miracle up his sleeve for a few years hence -- The Ten Commandments.TO enjoy this film, remember the era which it represented, which was over 60 years ago. From that perspective, it's pretty damn good. "},{"Title":"An entertaining picture, just not the Best Picture","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show on Earth is a good movie and it's entertaining enough, it's just not an Oscar-winning caliber movie. As other reviewers have noted, this film was probably given its Best Picture Oscar as a kind of life-time achievement award to Cecil B. DeMille. It wasn't that the Academy felt that they had unjustly snubbed DeMille in the past for any specific film, it was just that he had always made those kind of epic cast-of-thousands types of pictures that drew in the audiences but that rarely won Oscars. Plus, a large body of DeMille's work had been done before the Academy Awards even came into existence in 1927. The whole thing seems especially unjust when you look at the competition that year. Two of the other nominees - High Noon and The Quiet Man are considered unique and classic to this day. Also, there is a film in the top 10 of AFI Best Films from that year that didn't even get nominated for best picture - Singin' in the Rain - which is arguably the best musical film ever made. It's rather ironic that just four years later the Academy could have probably awarded DeMille more legitimately when he made his last movie, the epic The Ten Commandments, in 1956.This movie is basically a documentary on how the Ringling Brothers circus operated in the early 50's, and large chunks of film are taken up showing how the Big Top was assembled, the manual labor involved, how the entire circus - including wild animals - was transported via rail, and basically just all of the hard work that went on behind the scenes. There is also a pretty spectacular scene near the end of the film involving the two trains as they are transporting the circus from one town to another. I say was because the circus as it is portrayed in this movie closed down and ceased to exist in 1956. The truth is that the Ringling Brothers circus never fully recovered financially from the double whammy of the Great Depression and a fatal fire that killed over 100 people in Hartford, Connecticut in 1944 and thus was in the process of failing even when this movie was made. The plot of the movie is very thin, the main thread being an uninspired love triangle involving the two stars of the trapeze act, Holly and the Great Sebastion, played by Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde respectively, and the managing boss of the traveling show, Brad Braden, played by Charleton Heston. The subplots include an elephant trainer who is obsessed over a girl in the show who doesn't care for him, some small-time mobsters whose crooked games get thrown off the lot by Brad, and Buttons the clown, played by Jimmy Stewart, who never takes off his makeup and who seems to have a mysterious past. All of these plot lines are just there to hold the documentary part of the film together and also as a backdrop for all of the circus acts that are numerous and quite spectacular to behold, especially the acrobatic acts. Quite honestly, one-fourth into the movie you can see the outcome of the dramatic portion of the movie coming at you from a mile away. This makes the fact that this movie won Best Motion Picture Screenplay an even odder decision than the Best Picture award.There is some interesting trivia involving the film. Famous clown Emmett Kelly can be seen at one point in the film without makeup - a fact that Mr. Kelly was not happy about. Also, Dorothy Lamour has a supporting role in this film, and during one of her musical performances in the show the camera pans to the audience -as it often does in this film - but this time you get a brief glimpse of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope enjoying the show. The inside joke here is that Lamour, Crosby, and Hope were the costars of the popular series of Road to ... movies of the 40's and 50's. "}{"Title":"Big top","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The story about an important circus takes the center ring in this film that chronicles the life of the people that give so much pleasure to audiences of all ages. Surely, things have changed quite a lot from the time when this picture was shot. Audiences, in general, are more sophisticated these days. Newcomers like the Cirque Du Soleil have changed the perception of the experience in attending an the circus by streamlining, enriching, and changing the dynamic of one's expectations. Comparisons are not fair, though, this was the real thing during most of the last century.Cecil B. DeMille, a director known for his epics, tried his hand at bringing that world to the viewers of that era in a larger than life account of the Ringling, Barnum and Bailey's circus. What comes out in the film is a reflection of those more naive times in the way people reacted to the spectacle they were being offered. There is a bit of everything for all types of moviegoers. Basically, the drama behind the scenes is what keeps the movie going. This film was a crowd favorite when it first came out. The story about the rivalry between Holly, an trapeze artist that sees her spot in the main ring given to the Great Sebastian, is at the center of this tale. There is also a clown with a criminal past hiding behind his mask. The man in charge of running the show torn between profits and his passion for bringing the circus to a wide audience in the country. There is also an elephant tamer whose love for one of his aides is not returned, who stages the tragedy of the derailment. There are criminals who want to take advantage of the unsophisticated people from small cities. In other words, this circus had it all.Charlton Heston plays the stone faced Brad Braden, the man in charge. Betty Hutton is Holly, the woman that feels cheated out of the spotlight she deserves. James Stewart is the mysterious Buttons, the clown, a tragic figure because of the pain he carries inside him. Cornel Wilde doesn't quite convince he is the French trapeze artist. The excellent Gloria Graham makes a lot out of her Angel. Lyle Bettger, Dorothy Lamour, Lawrence Tierney, are featured in the film. A lot of famous faces are seen in the audience such as Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, who appear as their pal Dorothy Lamour does a hula dance.The music of Victor Young is disappointing. In fact, most of the songs originally created for the movie don't add anything to the success of the picture. Mr. DeMille, who does the narration, created a spectacle that is worth a look although it feels dated by today standards. "},{"Title":"Not Best Picture Worthy, But Not a Bad Film","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show on Earth One of the oddest choices for Best Picture, The Greatest Show on Earth is not a bad film, per se; it's just not a great one. The fact that this film won Oscar's top honor just goes to show how whimsical Academy voters can be. And how difficult it may be to pick films that will stand the test of time. When looking at the films of 1952 fellow Best Picture nominees High Noon and The Quiet Man stand out as superior films and the virtually shut-out (only 2 noms) Singin' in the Rain is by far the most popular today.So, what made Academy voters choose The Greatest Show on Earth? Well, it was the highest grossing film of the year, and it was directed and produced by sentimental favorite Cecil B. DeMille. The deciding factor, however, may well have been its neutrality as opposed to the politically charged High Noon, which should have won. And the film does provide a rare behind the scenes look at the trappings of a traveling circus. The plot is dubious at best with the cheese factor cranked up by the unnecessary voice-over narrator. DeMille wanted the circus itself to be the main character and in that he succeeded. By using real circus performers supplemented by actors whose star-power didn't overshadow the film, the action of the film becomes its driving force. One must remember that Charlton Heston was not a household name until after this film and James Stewart remained virtually unrecognizable in his clown makeup for the entire film.The film thus focuses on the breath-taking acts that make up the circus, with a couple of love stories thrown in to keep things interesting. Perhaps the most interesting is the one between high wire daredevils Holly (Betty Hutton) and Sebastian (Cornel Wilde) as they compete for the center ring. In typical Hollywood fashion they begin as foes, always trying to one-up the other, which leads to tragedy when Sebastian takes a nasty fall, effectively ending his career. However, this only makes Holly realize she actually loves him.Cinematographers George Barnes and J. Peverell Marley managed to create some beautiful images of acrobatics in what must have been very cramped conditions, as they did film most of the acts on location. Lighting the big tent &#x96; especially for early color film &#x96; could not have been easy either. Their hard work, which went unrecognized by the Academy, did garner them a Golden Globe.Perhaps the most intriguing storyline is that of Buttons the clown (Stewart), a doctor who euthanizes his wife to end her suffering and uses his clown disguise to hide from the authorities. His secret is found out when the circus train crashes en route to the next show and his medical expertise is needed to save Brad (Heston). The controversial issue is treated surprisingly sympathetically in the film. Stewart apparently greatly enjoyed the role and loved the freedom the clown makeup afforded him &#x96; he didn't have to worry about facial expressions as a smile was painted on his face. His eagerness to work with DeMille lead to his acceptance of the small role and final billing and James Stewart as Buttons, a clown. It also proved to be the second of only two Best Picture winners that Stewart appeared in. The other being You Can't Take It With You.The film remains an oddity to me though. Historically it does capture a, what was even in 1952, fading piece of Americana; however, it remains one of the weakest, artistically, of the Best Picture winners. "},{"Title":"Circus Drama.","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Cecil B. Demille directed this Academy Award winning(best picture) that stars Charlton Heston as circus manager Brad Braden, who feels compelled to hire a egotistical trapeze artist named the Great Sebastian(played by Cornel Wilde) to cohabit the center ring with his girlfriend Holly(played by Betty Hutton) which she doesn't take well. They then embark on a game of oneupmanship to see who can pull off the more daring stunt, which will of course lead to tragedy... Gloria Grahame, Dorothy Lamour and Jimmy Stewart costar in various subplots. Extravagant but overlong and overbearing film has a fine cast but lays everything on too thick, including a big train wreck ending! "},{"Title":"A very impressive show, but not the greatest on earth","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Steven Spielberg commented on this movie at the golden globe ceremony last year, and ever since, I had been meaning to see it. Being a movie goer, I am a little embarrassed at having never seen a complete Cecil deMille picture, I only saw bits of the Ten Commandments. A lot of critics have named Renoir, Hitchcock and Welles as the greatest directors of the 20th century, but deMille was the most grandiose. He was the James Cameron of the 40's and 50's and this picture is proof.In terms of spectacle, The Greatest Show on Earth could be considered the Wizard of Oz of the decade. There are more animals than any ten zoos, there are more costumes than any dozen Broadway shows, and there is a paint job as big as Disneyland. (which didn't even open until two years after this)I can't say much for the plot however. It amounts to little more than a soap opera under a big tent, but it is less hokey and frequently cute. The plot intentionally progresses like a circus, with basically one act following another, but surprisingly, it never gets dull. Like all circuses, the movie ends in a bang, and what better way to set up the climax than with a train wreck! The events which follow manage to bookend all the quirky little subplots and deliver a happy ending. I can see now why a film like this could capture the imagination of kids like Spielberg back in the early fifties. In this day and age, It won't capture or hook you in deeply, but it is an easy film to admire. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Fair Outing By DeMille","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Cecil B. DeMille, the conceited, egotistical, huge-headed tyrant whose viewpoint of cinema measured quality only by quantity, surprised me with The Greatest Show On Earth, despite its conveniently big-headed title. Though this epic is unabashedly American, the extensive, laborious circus scenes are not simply spectacle. They're actually very reminiscent, to me at least, of Fellini, not just in the capturing of a large-scale slice of a culture but also in its pacing.It fills in its blanks unexpectedly well. The three main characters are caught up in the routine romantic triangle, of course, and Bob Hope and Bing Crosby have gratuitous cameo roles as circus spectators, and Edmond O'Brien has a similar unbilled appearance, all simply to add to DeMille's relentless braggadocio, but other subplots involve performers played by Dorothy Lamour and the magnificent and super-sexy Gloria Grahame, and a mysterious clown who never removes his makeup, played by James Stewart, delivering my favorite performance.Backstage melodrama rotates with its Felliniesque sequences of realistic circus performances in over-the-top costumes by the great Edith Head and others. Towards the end, which gives new meaning to The show must go on, a great scene entails a colossal crash of the two trains that lug the circus from town to town. The real Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey's of the time, with its quantity of over a thousand people, hundreds of animals, and 60 carloads of gear and tents appears in the film, which I imagine made it easier on the film's own crew, and DeMille got to sit back and watch in leisure his production grow in scale. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the circus!","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Cecil B.DeMille's The Greatest Show on Earth (1952) is set in the world of circus.Charlton Heston plays the manager Brad Braden.His girlfriend Holly (Betty Hutton) is a trapeze artist.The Great Sebastian (Cornel Wilde) is a new comer and he starts competing with Holly in the air.They have something going on on the ground as well.James Stewart plays Buttons the clown who never takes off his mask.Does he have something to hide? I've always been intrigued by circus.It's a world of its own.Watching those spectacular stunts they perform is really something.The recently deceased Charlton Heston fits perfectly in the role of the tough circus manager.This film made Heston a star.Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde do fantastic work on the ground and in the air.Dorothy Lamour plays Phyllis and Angel is played by Gloria Grahame.They're both great.My favorite must be Jimmy Stewart as Buttons.This amazing actor, who was born 100 years ago tomorrow, nailed any role, whether it was a clown or a western hero he was playing.Some cameos are seen in this movie.The comic couple Bob Hope and Bing Crospy are seen as spectators.The Greatest Show on Earth is great family fun both kids and adults can enjoy.Watch this movie and enjoy the magical world of circus. "},{"Title":"The film is about as entertaining as a real circus, i.e., it's moderately entertaining","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" DeMille's Best Picture winning circus epic, generally considered one of the worst winners of the big prize. I have to admit that DeMille's films are a guilty pleasure of mine. He's really an awful director, maybe the single worst of the major Hollywood directors, ham-fisted and in love with giant, fake-looking spectacle and bland performances. But his films provide me with some cheesy fun, and I do enjoy me some spectacle. The Greatest Show on Earth provides it nicely. It focuses on Barnum and Bailey's Circus. Charlton Heston plays the manager of the circus, who is one of those classic business always first type of characters. He has a romantic relationship with the show's trapeze star, played by Betty Hutton. But he jeopardizes the relationship in the name of business when he hires Italian playboy Cornel Wilde to take center ring from her. Enter the love triangle. Or love square, if you count Gloria Grahame, who tries to move in on Heston. Also in the mix are Jimmy Stewart as a clown who is hiding something and Dorothy Lamour as, well, Dorothy Lamour. She's not given much to do, although during her big musical number there's a cute cameo by Crosby and Hope. The story may not be all that interesting (although I liked the Hutton-Heston-Wilde triangle), but it's pretty to look at. The costumes and cinematography are fine. So it's not one of the worst Best Picture winners, but certainly a mediocre one. I do prefer it to its two more famous competitors for that title, High Noon and The Quiet Man. Eh, maybe not The Quiet Man, but I don't have much love for that one, though I should try it again some day. "},{"Title":"the circus comes to a DVD player near you","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This classic movie now on DVD comes to life bringing the circus in your home in vivid colour.Cecil B DeMille brings all the spills and thrills of the circus in its full dramatic form.There are plenty of stars on view,Chuck Heston as the driven circus boss,Cornel Wilde as the trapeze artist with an eye for the ladies, but perhaps its the Ladies who have the best parts in particular Betty Hutton and Gloris Graeme who play their parts with gusto and charm.James Stewart and Dorothy Lamour also appear and there is a cameo from Bob and Bing but don't blink or you will miss it.The film gives circus acts from around the world a chance to perform to a global audience.As in most DeMille movies there is action and sub plats along the way,its a fun way to spend a couple of hours and still entertains after all these years. "},{"Title":"Very impressed by Betty Hutton","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I think The Greatest Show on Earth, while a good movie, isn't up to the standards of a DeMille classic. At least not in the plot line, which is average, at best, IMO. Normally, I would give an average movie 5 stars, but I give it 7 out of 10 mostly because of the great trapeze work of both Betty Hutton and Cornell Wilde. I knew Wilde was a great physical actor, and certainly he looks the part with his tremendous physique and athletic prowess, but I was very surprised to note that Betty Hutton was also in great shape for this film. She performed a lot of her own stunts and I was quite impressed with her high level of physical prowess, as well. It's rare to see two actors like this doing some of their own stunts, particularly ones so physically demanding and difficult, so my hats off to the both of them.Heston doesn't portray the type of bigger-than-life character he would later come to portray, but his is a strong performance as well, and Jimmy Stewart is fine as a sad-faced, down on his luck clown who hides behind his face paint mostly in order to elude the police who are slowly catching up with him as he travels from town to town. It was a surprisingly small role for a man of Stewart's stature at the time, but the reason for this has been stated elsewhere within these reviews.The score was amazing, which is another reason I give this movie more stars than the writing deserves. It's truly a spectacle if watched on a wide screen television, with a cast of hundreds, and I recommend this film to anyone. The plot may not be spectacular, but the acting is above average and the stunts are amazing, especially those performed by Mr. Wilde and Ms. Hutton. "},{"Title":"Entertaining  but  Not  that  Great","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In a year when The Quiet Man and High Noon where released it is difficult to understand why The Greatest Show on Earth got the Oscar for best film. In fact when you think of Cecil B. de Mille's pictures this is one you usually overlook and The Ten Commandments, Unconquered or even Samson and Dalilah are the ones that usually come to your mind first.It is true that de Mille's classical luxurious and expensive touch is here, but in fact this movie is a documentary picture about the circus world and problems with a couple of added stories around.The all star cast doesn't change that fact. Aside from James Stewart and Gloria Graham's good performances (as usual), the rest of the acting is just correct (Cornel Wilde, Dorothy Lamour, Lyle Betteger, Henry Wilcoxon) or even poor (Charlton Heston looks wooden and Betty Hutton clearly overacts).There's an adequate musical score, excellent color photography and excellent circus numbers, but the feeling is that the picture sort of lacks substance and impact.Don't get me wrong The Greatest Show on Earth is a watchable and entertaining circus product but I think is not in an Oscar winning level or among the best of de Mille's spectacular products. "}{"Title":"A Real Piece of History","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" It is wonderful that Ringling Bros. got put into a movie back in it's glory days. My Daddy used to wake me up in the middle of the night to go down to the railroad to watch the circus train come in. Then we'd go to the fairgrounds and watch them put up the tent. The movie shows it exactly like it was. My Daddy had went to the circus since he was a little kid and knew a lot of the people. Then in 1956 I got a letter from Ringling Bros. saying they were going out of the tent. That's when they ceased to be a circus. Without a tent they are just a bunch of acts performing in an arena. You don't have a circus without a tent. Something most people don't know is that it took 3 years to make that movie. And they didn't have all these computerized special effects back then. They just traveled with the circus and filmed a great movie. I am so glad I have it on tape. The movie is so real it makes you feel like you're really there! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show on Earth (1952) ***","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" It took almost half the movie for this non-deserving Best Picture Winner to appeal to me, but it got more and more intriguing as it progressed and in the end I found it to be a good, if not great, experience. I'm not a big fan of the circus or parades, so there was limited appeal for me although I can appreciate Cecil B. DeMille's efforts and I think he did an admirable job of capturing the true feel of the Big Top. Charlton Heston is stubbornly effective as the no-nonsense boss who lives and breathes the circus life at any cost. James Stewart is interesting in his part as a clown with a very secret past. This is a gorgeous film to look at, in stunning Technicolor (and the new Paramount DVD is mesmerizing). The famous train crash that I'd heard so much about lives up to its spectacular reputation and must be seen. On the negative side, I really couldn't stomach Betty Hutton in this film, over-emoting and going all theatrical on us. Someone get her out of here, please. Cecil B. DeMille's consistent narration is intrusive and very hokey and obvious. I didn't like this in THE TEN COMMANDMENTS and it feels even more needless here. The movie has its share of corny dialogue and situations and really could have been much shorter. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"A Touch Over-the-Top, But Still Worthwhile","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Let me say that the acting, which would be considered hokey and overdone by today's standards, was pretty much the norm for the time it was made. No one can fault Heston or Hutton for their overdramatic turns here, and you can't blame de Mille for the almost stage-like feel of virtually all the acting. If not for Jimmy Stewart's gentle, layered performance, it might not even be noticeable. That said, the color and spectacle of the film is stunning, and Hutton's mid-air duels with Wilde really are breathtaking. It's a longish movie, but it never drags and satisfies to its cataclysmic climax to its heart-rending denouement. "},{"Title":"Academy Award Winning Producer","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** After the success of 'Samson and Delilah' (arguably DeMille's finest feature film), he followed it up with the story of the circus in 'The Greatest Show on Earth'. Not a biblical film or a historical film that creates anticipation of epic proportions, but a spectacle none the less when the train carrying the circus and the crew crashes into the car of one of the antagonists. Having also won an academy award for 'Best Screenplay', one wonders the story was all about. There was no clearly defined antagonist (although the powers that be that try to close down and ruin the circus company could be regarded as the very general antagonists), and the objective of the protagonist, Charlton Heston, was to make sure that the circus runs the full season in the major cities. This is only made possible when he ropes in the 'Great Sebastian' (Cornel Wilde) who is guaranteed to pull in the crowd. The leading lady played by Betty Hutton has to move aside to make way for the Great Sebastian, but only finds herself being distanced from Brad's (Heston's) heart. As a result, she begins to flirt with Sebastian in an attempt to make Brad jealous and to make the most of him being the centre of attention, but ends up discovering by the end that it is Brad whom she really loves. By the end of the film when Brad is injured in the train crash and Hutton's character is left to pull the audience via creative measures, she becomes the woman that mirrors Brad at the beginning with 'sawdust' in her veins and putting the show first rather than her feelings for the man that she loves. Brad looks at her as though he is watching an extension of himself. But that alone does not make the film stand out. DeMille never received an academy award for being the Best Director of any particular year possibly due to the fact that his style was somewhat Mosaic. With the success of 'Samson and Delilah' you expected him to have maintained a credible track record throughout his career as a film director, but unfortunately, with films like 'Unconquered', 'Reap the Wild Wind' and 'Northwest Mounted Police', DeMille maintained his stage directing style throughout his film career with long dialogued scenes, wooden acting, and an overall lacking of pace. The only exception to this track record is 'Samson and Delilah' which stands head above shoulders from the rest of his films. For this reason, DeMille was awarded with being the Best Producer of 1952 because he pooled together the collective talent of James Stewart, Charlton Heston, Cornel Wilde, Betty Hutton, Gloria Grahame, Dorothy Lamour, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Victor Young (composer) and Edith Head (costume designer). The long dialogue scenes can still be traced in 'The Greatest Show on Earth', but is absorbed by James Stewart's performance as Buttons when an air of mystery is created around him. Is Buttons the murderer of his wife as stated in a newspaper article that Betty Hutton discovers? For a first time in a DeMille film you get the taste of a Hitchcockian thriller that maintains your interest throughout the rest of the film. You care for Buttons, even though you don't get to see James Stewart's face for the whole of the film, and even his make up as a clown makes him an interesting and mysterious character. Perhaps if DeMille took a leaf out of Hitchcock's book by adding a bit of mystery to his previous films ('Samson and Deliliah' excluded), then maybe the pace of his previous films would have picked up and won him an award as Best Director. "},{"Title":"Impressive Best Picture of 1952","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Greatest Show on Earth is one of those films that has been somewhat forgotten over the years, but is still a dominant movie that has aged gracefully.  The title says it all as the subject is the Ringling Bros., Barnum, and Bailey Circus and those that risk life and limb to show that they are the greatest on earth.  Charlton Heston is solid and so is Cornel Wilde.  However, it is James Stewart that gives the movie substance and heart.  This is easily his most under-rated performance as he stars as a clown with a secret.  Cecil B. DeMille's direction is lavish and overall exceptional.  The screenplay is smart and the attention to minute details make The Greatest Show on Earth a hidden treasure.  Watch for Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in cameo appearances.  4.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"   Who amongst you wouldn't like to join the Circus ?","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Cecile B. Demille is credited with some of the finest films to date. 'The Ten Commandments 'and Samson and Delilia' are just a couple in his commanding repertoire. In this offering, he invites the entire family to visit the Show of Shows under the Big Top. To that end, he spares no expense at bringing all the Glits and glamor of life under the great canvas. Stands to reason that for such a visit, he would also bring the top Hollywood actors and actresses. Along with James Steward and Edmond O'Brian, he includes Cornel Wilde, Charlton Heston and Henry Wilcoxon. Together with spectacular high wire acts, trapeze artists, colorful costumes, circus clowns, trained Elephants and wild lions. All in all, this film alone is worth more than a visit to a circus, it is a trip of a life time. The movie is more than a circus, it tells the story of a famous doctor on the run and a special F.B.I agent sent to find him and bring him to justice. Altogether, this effort on behalf of the cast and director create a lasting memory of a one in a lifetime event for most of us. Recommended to the entire family. **** "},{"Title":"The Greatest Snooze on Earth","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In a year when Singin' in the Rain and High Noon were released, this overstuffed turkey somehow won the Oscar for Best Picture. Half the film is nothing more than circus performances. The other half is soap opera and melodrama. Heston and Wilde both overact, although they are models of restraint compared to the annoying Hutton. Playing a self-centered trapeze artist, Hutton acts like an overzealous high school student in a badly produced school play. Grahame is the only cast member to turn in a decent performance. DeMille has no interest in telling a good story, only in creating an overlong spectacle, no matter how dull. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie on Earth","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie!! With excellent performances by Charlton Heston, Betty Hutton, and James Stewart, Cecil B. Demille has made another classic.  The plot is never boring, and the trapeze stunts keep you on the edge of your seat.  A great insight into the lives of circus stars. Makes a perfect Saturday night movie.   "},{"Title":"Mild fun but some truly awful moments!","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" OK, the whole circus setup was interesting, and there were some enjoyable bits.However, the bit with Jimmy Stewart as Buttons the killer clown (OK he didn't do it, but keeping the makeup on was a bit much) was pretty bad.The saved up the worst for what was, at the time, a very good literal train wreck towards the end of the picture. Although parts of this wreck are well done, the actual trains used were obviously models and didn't look right at all. Other parts of the wrecking with animal cages breaking open and such were actually well done.However, it's what happens after the train wreck. Charlton Heston crushed under things and bleeding from his artery, and continues to bark instructions. The the star of the show blabbering that she'll get the show started in the field next to the train wreck! Everyone is cut, bleeding, hurt, but heck, the most important thing is the show for the next day. Absolutely, incredibly bad.Then Heston, fortunately for us, passes out and stops talking, as Buttons administers a blood transfusion...yes, that's what I said, right in the middle of the wreckage with a little hand crank thing and some cables. Of course, there's a guy right there with the exact same blood type and RH factor, which he knows, as does Heston.You'll turn it off at that point, if you can stand up from your laughter.One of the hokiest movies you will ever see. "},{"Title":"Cecil B. DeMille's Best Film","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  The film is about Charlton Heston who wants to make money for the new circus season. He decides to hire Cornel Wilde for the center ring.This causes Heston's girlfriend, Betty Hutton, to become jealous. She used to be in the center ring as a trapeze artist so she gets angry.Hutton and Wilde become rivals and try to out-do each other during the performances. Other characters have their own subplots in the film. Including the past of Jimmy Stewart.The is a great film, despite what some people say. It's one of my favorites and it never gets old. One of the scenes is very realistic. It involves a train crashing into a car. But I won't ruin it for you.It won two oscars, Picture and Motion Picture Story. It was nominated for three other oscars, Director, Costume Design, and Editing. "}{"Title":"Best picture of 1952??","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Greatest Show... as best picture of 1952? Now there's an interesting choice, especially when you consider that John Wayne's The Quiet Man and Gary Cooper's High Noon were also nominated.True, Greatest Show... is a fun picture, magnificently camp, but Academy Awards give it a weight it doesn't deserve. The performances are all, pardon the expression, over the top, with Betty Hutton the worst of all.  "},{"Title":"Shocking winner of the Best Picture Oscar","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I think this was one of the greatest injustices in Academy Award history that this film won Best Picture Oscar ahead of Singin' in the Rain, which wasn't even nominated, until the Raging Bull/ Ordinary People debacle came along. James Stewart probably had the best part, a clown with a mysterious past but I thought some of the other actors were slightly wooden especially Hutton. Some of the Heston lines were especially corny, in particular the ones spoken to Hutton. Some great footage of actual circus performers and a spectacular train wreck at the end. This film was a typical DeMille cornball- overblown, over the top, corny, I wanna be a blockbuster stereotype. "},{"Title":"Definitely not Best Picture material.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The movie which criminally took the Best Picture Oscar of '52 when John Ford's The Quiet Man and some other notable entries were much better and are better remembered now. Cecil B. De Mille, along with producer David o. Selznick, was the most brash showman and the worst artist in Hollywood. I've never been a fan of his movies which always offset impressive spectacle with contrived and cheesy fluff. Here it is no different, though of all DeMille's pictures this is probably his most entertaining and fitting. Some eye catching circus acts and detail highlight a bloated epic which degenerates in the last hour, climaxing with a disastrous Lionel Train pile-up. In the aftermath everything but Mickey Rooney and Ronald Reagan is thrown at us in an attempt to get the show up and running on time. Because of the highly realistic dearth of ambulances, firefighters, and police getting in the way this goal is accomplished with a maximum of DeMillian hokum. A shame as the picture could have been much better if a real director had taken it on.Acting wise, Chuck Heston is quite solid as the Boss man in an early role looking like Indiana Jones in his fedora and leather jacket and walking capably around like a young John Wayne. Betty Hutton on the other hand gives a terrible performance aside from her well done trapeze antics. Cornel Wilde is hit and miss with a one dimensional character and Jimmy Stewart fools no one, then or now, under all that clown make-up he wears throughout the movie.Dorothy Lamour never was a very good actress, all her best moments were with Hope and Crosby and here they drop by to get a laugh in a brief cameo.A watchable picture well worth the time invested to watch it but a semi-classic at best and FAR from being the best picture of the year! "},{"Title":"Grand weak movie","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Brad Braden (Charlton Heston) is the general manager of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus which travels the country on their railroad train. His girlfriend Holly (Betty Hutton) expects to be in the lead trapeze spot. He is forced to hire trapeze star The Great Sebastian (Cornel Wilde) to keep the circus going. That starts a trapeze competition and a love triangle. Buttons the Clown (James Stewart) has a secret and is hiding from the law. Harry runs crooked games in the midway concessions. Elephant trainer Klaus is obsessed with Angel who rejects him.It is a technical marvel with many of the circus performers filling out the background. The combination of Cecil B. DeMille and P. T. Barnum results in an extravaganza but the stories don't hold up. I can admire the grand facade but in the end, there is nothing there. None of the actors are doing good work and the characters are too thin. Jimmy Stewart is probably the most interesting but he's a supporting character who is in clown makeup most of the time. All too often, these stories and characters feel grafted onto the circus. "},{"Title":"The Heartbeat Story of Circus People","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" There are two reasons I wanted to see this movie. The first reason is that it won Best Picture and 1 other award at the Academy Awards. The second reason is that Charlton Heston is in it. Not to sound harsh, but it really didn't matter on both counts. I have no idea why this movie won Best Picture. Not that it's particularly bad, but it's not really what I think of when I think of a movie that deserves that much respect. It's basically like going to the circus for most of it. And it's 152 minutes long, which is a sign of bad film editing. Charlton Heston is a great actor, but it really didn't matter that he was in it. Almost anybody could've been in his place and it'd be just the same. If you're curious about this movie then nothing's stopping you from seeing it, but I personally don't recommend it. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Slow on Earth","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Director Cecil B. DeMille gets in some colorful camera angles, but The Greatest Show on Earth couldn't possibly be as exciting as the real Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus - much of it is like watching the annual Pasadena Rose Bowl Parade on television. This leaves you with the clichd high-wire love triangle, with nothing interesting added. It's played attractively, but nondescriptly, by Betty Hutton (as Holly), Cornel Wilde (as Sebastian), and Charlton Heston (as Brad). Sultry elephant girl Gloria Grahame (as Angel) makes sure everyone gets some sugar. The extras, including some real circus people, are more enjoyable than the stars. And, Jimmy Stewart plays the clown. Since you probably know some horrible high wire mishap is going to occur, Mr. DeMille goes outside the tent, and includes a train wreck.***** The Greatest Show on Earth (1/10/52) Cecil B. DeMille ~ Betty Hutton, Charlton Heston, Cornel Wilde "},{"Title":"Awful (ly Interesting)","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Let's get it out of the way up front. Watching this movie can be as painful as falling off a trapeze or being mauled by a lion at times. I'd imagine especially for folks like Dorothy Lamour who is in some of the most dreadfully dated costumes and musical numbers. In fact, all of the musical numbers are pretty awful and Betty Hutton's singing which is interesting comedy material has no place anywhere near real music. So why watch it? Because it literally brings back history. With circuses nearing extinction like one of the animals they show off it is a treat to see what they were like in their glory days, especially with the legends that made them what they were such as Emmett Kelly the definitive clown. You also get to see (through make-up) Jimmy Steward and Ado Annie in unusual roles.Perhaps I'm prejudiced because I've only seen one real circus in my life while in college. They came to our campus and I discovered that I was sitting only two bleacher rows away, a short hop for him, from a tiger who was licking his lips and staring at me as if he'd just realized it was lunch time and he'd like to try some Italian (which I am) food. Thankfully his keeper distracted him before he could try me out. And I have the opportunity to watch on a big (50+ inches) screen TV so it's like watching a circus through a window in my living room. But I'm sure for others as well it would be an interesting experience. We know that the stars are protected from anything really dangerous but they do enough of their own stunts as we read in the trivia section here on IMDb that Cornel Wilde actually got hurt. And you can see (which surprised me) that he was actually in good enough shape that he could probably have done the entire professional acrobat routines had his contract and insurance allowed. And you realize while watching the other acts that there is no trick photography involved with the sword swallowing, elephant riding, bareback riding, trick dogs (and all sorts of other things that would probably be banned by politically correct folks today). So, despite Wilde chewing scenery with bad acting and a wildly bad Pepe Lepew-like accent, despite the awful dialogue and sometimes sexist lines, you find yourself entertained in site of yourself.There are enough surprisingly blatant sexual remarks and double-entendres, and there is some real humor here. But most of all, under the greasepaint are human beings who made history and it's just plain fun to see what all the fuss was about. "},{"Title":"Not the Greatest, but not the worst.","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I stumbled upon this page one day after seeing this movie as one of the best picture winners. As I snooped around, I saw how hated this film is around here, you people are really brutal. I just finished watching it and I liked it. It was a bit long in the tooth, but the performances were very good and the film had an epic scope to it. Back in the day, this film was probably a blast to watch, it is huge. I haven't seen the other four nominees, but I enjoyed this movie. There are some lines I liked in the movie and thought the behind the scenes stuff was cool. I have been more upset with other best picture winners than with this one. Definitely check this one out! "},{"Title":"More cheese than a battered cheese stick, but kind of tasty, too...","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I've heard from SO MANY PEOPLE how crap this film is, how it's the worst Best Picture winner ever. Okay, it definitely didn't deserve to win over Ford's excellent The Quiet Man or the un-nominated Singin In The Rain, but Oscars aside, I quite enjoyed De Mille's circus spectacle. It's so gaudy, melodramatic and overdone, but it kept me entertained throughout. Maybe I just have really poor taste in films, or a penchant for melodrama, but I quite enjoyed the plot, and I lapped up the old-hat romantic triangle between Betty Hutton, Charlton Heston and Cornel Wilde. Oh, there's heaps wrong with it of course. For starters, Hutton's annoying overacting kind of suited Annie Get Your Gun and Preston Sturges used it advantage as the hysterical-anyway Trudy in Miracle At Morgan's Creek. But here she ruins many scenes. Heston, even though I hate the term, seems fairly wooden as the circus manager, although he brings his usual authority to the role. Cornel Wilde verges on ridicule at times as the clichd Sebastian, world's greatest trapeze artist. James Stewart is buried under make-up the whole time as a clown on the run from the law (it's not one of his best performances).De Mille's direction seems to consist of just placing the camera in front of the circus tricks (which seem to go on and on...). He occasionally moves in for a close-up, but that's it. Oh, and he uses what seem to be a a billion (actually, it's more like 40-50) wipes to cut between scenes. Someone should create a drinking game out of that. And Dorothy Lamour's scenes don't add anything at all. As mentioned earlier, the script is pure melodrama. BUT, but, I liked it because a)Gloria Grahame is spunky as Angel the elephant trainer (Chuck, please throw off the Hutton and get with Gloria!), b)the plot, silly and melodramatic as it was, kind of sucked me in, c)I find the circus interesting in general, d)I just really like Chuck, e)Cornel Wilde's body is HOT (shame about the face and most of the acting, though), f) I enjoyed the rather clever cameos, g) I enjoy a bit of cheesy spectacle, h)I love the line and Oscar Wilde poem that Stewart's character's fate centres around (Each man kills the thing he loves...) and i)it runs fairly well for 2.5 hours. So enjoy it, hate it, whatever! "},{"Title":"Ignore the Script; Enjoy the Circus","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This could have been a really great movie, if it had a decent script. The script is really awful, and Betty Hutton is totally miscast in the lead. By far, the best performances of the entire movie are by Cornel Wilde and Jimmy Stewart. Charlton Heston over-dramatizes his part considerably, but that is probably to be blamed on the script and the director (Cecil B. DeMille). One thing it does demonstrate is DeMille's penchant for the spectacular. It is presented with an unseen voice-over commentator, which makes it appear to be much like a documentary about the circus world, but (again) with a ridiculous script. The best point in its favor is the use of the real performers of the Ringling Bros./Barnum & Bailey Circus. I could watch it again, maybe. "}{"Title":"Arguably - the greatest...certainly the most lavish!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show On Earth is Cecil B. DeMille's epic melodrama of tragedy set under the auspices of the big top. It's a mind-bogglingly overstuffed bon-bon of oddities (James Stewart masquerading as a clown, Betty Hutton lampooning a trapeze artist) and overblown over-acting (Chuck Heston attempting to part a herd of elephants as though they were the Red Sea). Beefcake, Cornel Wilde and sultry, Dorothy LaMour are also in the cast &#150; you know, as eye candy. He takes a tumble, she almost get trampled by an elephant. Ho-hum won't the woes of circus life ever cease? Nevertheless, this is one heck of a good piece of 50s kitsch, a real barn burner that will make you want to book yourself a seat at the nearest circus and, oh yes &#150; almost forgot &#150; an Academy Award winning Best Picture.TRANSFER The picture is full frame, as it should be. Colors are rich, bright and bold. Age related artifacts crop up now and then but nothing that will terrible distract. Shadow and contrast levels are bang on. There is a slight hint of edge enhancement and some pixelization but these do not distract. The audio is a big fat mono but nicely balanced. There are NO extras. "},{"Title":"Great backdrop...poor direction","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  DeMille apparently loved to deal with crowd scenes and scenic backgrounds, but he was sloppy in his handling of the acting aspects, even with top quality, professional performers. THE GREATEST SHOW... is magnificent in its circus scenes, capturing the gritty, yet glittery, feel of the circus circa the late40's-early 50's. And it is apparent also that Betty Hutton, Cornel Wilde and Gloria Grahame enjoyed the work that had to learn for the film (aerial work, elephants, etal). Gloria Grahame manages to find a characterization BUT the rest are helpless with the inadquacies of DeMille's alleged direction of actors and the utter hopelessness of the script and the infantile dialogue. Worst is Charlton Heston, never much of an actor but, here, at his poorest. Betty Hutton, a superb entertainer, is helpless playing against his overacting... so she overacts.  Wilde finds a character and uses whatever there is to advantage as does Grahame, James Stewart, and Dorothy Lamour (the last named much more comfortable than in other films).  The audience shots include Crosby and Hope, Nancy Gates, Mary Murphy, among others.  There are some splendid moments that work only as a photographic second.  But, again, the circus itself is wonderful to watch. This film won the Oscar for best picture of its year...a foolish move. BUT if the rest of the work had been on a level with the circus performers, it might have been understood.  "},{"Title":"Where's Jimmy Stewart?","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Jimmy Stewart, not Charlton Heston, was the featured actor in this movie. Why isn't he listed in the cast? I'm really surprised to not see his name anywhere. Other than that, this movie is one of the best movies I've ever seen. As a ten year old, I saw it at least six times when it came to town. The only other movie I recall seeing more than once was War of the Worlds. The brilliant use of colors, along with what at the time seemed like an exciting story with the circus as a backdrop was awesome. A few years ago I saw the movie again and except for the train crash special effects (maybe Lionel?) it was still a great movie! The circus scenes bring back a lot of memories of what it was like back in the fifties when the Greatest Show on Earth came to town. "},{"Title":"Outsized, bland, overrated--unless you like an almost plot-less series of circus vignettes","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show on Earth (1952)Maybe if you want a colorful, well-filmed, sanitized look at the big top circus in its final heyday, this will keep you interested. Or maybe if you like following some true stars in roles of various sizes&#x97;James Stewart in a small role as a clown, Gloria Grahame in her small role primarily riding an elephant&#x97;this will be at least rewarding. Or maybe you just like a simple, large extravaganza, the type that director deMille became known for by this point in his career.None of this worked magic for me. A lot of the screen time is frankly circus performers, many of them actual Ringling/Barnum stars, and this has a kind of glossy documentary flair to it. But the story (which won an Oscar for best story!) is dull as yesterday's grits, and the overall impact is just engorged emptiness. It seems to want to be more than this, but it just isn't. And yes, it won Best Picture that year (instead of High Noon, for one example of a far better movie).So the question is simply do you bother to see this? I say no. Don't bother. Unless you are a Grahame fanatic&#x97;it is great to see her so comfortable on an elephant. "},{"Title":"Buttons' Fate (Spoilers)","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" He may even have gone to the chair, this being as you say Fifties' America! I thought the detective was going to let him off when he helped him save the Boss Man's life - when he took him away, I even thought he was going to come back and say it had all been a misunderstanding! Still, the circus folk had forgotten him within a couple of hours, laughing, joking and getting on with their love lives. And I wonder what the kid's parents said when she turned up with a dog, saying the clown gave him to me!Good job they rounded up all those lions and tigers too.I was amazed at the size of the crowds - these were simpler times, and people, not as jaded as today, were more easily amused. "},{"Title":"THIS CIRCUS NEEDS A CLEANING","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have been watching this movie since it first came out on Paramount Home Video in the early 1980s on a single video cassette. When Paramount decided to re-release this movie on 2 tapes I thought My God they lost their ever loving mind. This movie is not 4 hours long but they tried to make that way being that Charlton Heston is in it and Cecil B. DeMille directed it. The same went for Cecil's earlier Bible story Samson and Delilah starring Victor Mature and Hedy LeMarre. Getting back to Greatest Show on Earth this movie has really bad editing because post production was rushed and not given enough time. In Hollywood there is never enough time to make the movie the way the Director really wants. Its always rush rush rush and in the end result a good movie with both chopped up scenes and chopped dialog. Steven Spielberg says this movie is his childhood favorite and the reason why he got into movies in the first place. Steven Spielberg should put his money where his mouth is, get over to Paramount Pictures, buy out the rights to this movie, and digitally restorate this movie like he and Martin Scorsese did Lawrence of Arabia back in late 1980s early 1990s. Charlton Heston is the last survivor of the original cast who are now resting at peace. Steven and Charlton could do a voiceover if and when the DVD comes out. There is always talk in Tinsel Town about film preservation and I know for fact AMC TV overlooks this one. Seems you can resorate any movie out there all you want but not this one because no ever thinks about it, at all ! With computer restorating this movie would look and sound 100 times more better than it ever has. This year 2002 marks the 50 Year Birthday of Cecil B. DeMille's Circus Film, The Greatest Show on Earth and although it would be a year late next year Paramount Pictures and Steven Spielberg along with Amblin Entertainment could release a 50th Anniversary Copy on 2 DVDs featuring all kinds of bonus materials and those ever seekable DVD easter eggs that everyone chases after.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show on Earth? Hardly.","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The late critic Gene Siskel once had a test to see which movies were deserving of a thumbs up or a thumbs down, and it all boiled down to one simple question Is this movie more interesting than a documentary of the same actors having lunch? Well, even if Cecil B. DeMille had a made a documentary about either the Barnum and Bailey circus or the same actors having lunch, that wouldn't make this film redeeming enough to merit the Best Picture Oscar it won over The Quiet Man, High Noon and the un-nominated Singin' in the Rain. I'll admit that the stunts are inspiring and it actually is pretty fascinating to see all the trouble that goes into putting that huge canvas tent up, but when DeMille tries to go for drama he's pretty clueless, for to call the acting by Charlton Heston, Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde hammy would be an insult to Christmas dinner; even the reliable Jimmy Stewart is covered in clown make-up for the whole. Entire. Movie. The all-too familiar love triangle only makes the audience feel jerked around, and it's trite (He tried to save me! He loves me! Twenty minutes later to suitor #2 His arm is paralyzed and he didn't want to tell me! He loves me! Lather, rinse, repeat for three hours). The only performer who's reliable for laughs and relief is the underrated Gloria Grahame, spunky as usual. De Mille thought he was making a circus movie. I think he made a train wreck. "},{"Title":"Harmless mild entertainment.","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The Greatest Show On Earth is commonly regarded as the worst Best Picture winner at the Oscars. Of course, it doesn't stand up to its competition at the time but it's harmless entertainment to have half an eye on in the background. It's formed of pretty tepid melodrama, a love triangle you can't love or hate. The plot is usually simply bland, only awful during lovable Jimmy Stewart's sudden storyline and Jumpin' Jack song. It's totally bloated, often spending several minutes at a time just observing the show that they offer the on screen audience, though that never really lives up to its name. Hard to shake off the idea of the abuse the animals may or may not have gotten. What's interesting about the film is that it's part- documentary while it explains how the circus operates, but that kind of feels accidental. It does seem that legendary producer Cecil B. DeMille does not have an eye for directing and cannot blend those aspects in an interesting way, often opting for screen wipes. For a film of such scale, it doesn't have much boldness to offer. Still mildly enjoyable though.6/10 "},{"Title":"Best picture?","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" OK, here's the short of it... this movie is full of corny dialogue, over the top acting, and a threadbare script.There are moments that intended to be very dramatic but simply come off humorous because of the over the top acting and poorly written lines. I couldn't help laughing at moments that were meant to be very serious. The bright spot in this movie is the circus. Seeing the circus in its heyday was certainly a treat.There are moments that come through as good. But then it nosedives right back into B-movie territory. I was tempted to stop watching it several times.I certainly don't know how it won best picture, however. It must have been a slow year! "},{"Title":"Was it Really The Greatest Show? ***1/2","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" 1952 Oscar winner for best picture. It's true that Cecil B. DeMille was a master in film-making. While the film's Oscar win would cause controversy, I think in the long run that the Academy got it right.We are dealing with a circus troupe-their loves, their problems, their lives. The Big Top offers plenty of action and suspense as well. The film shows that a family relationship can certainly exist among circus members. Despite differences, they were there to work for the show. Look at the wonderful interaction that took place among them after the train wreck.James Stewart steals the show as a clown who is literally masquerading from the police. Seems he murdered his wife 10 years before and has been on the run since then. Henry Wilcoxon, a faithful employee to DeMille in so many of his other films, is the detective who pursues him.Bette Hutton, Gloria Grahame and Lyle Bettger create plenty of tension with literal fireworks as the circus performers. Bettger is an insanely jealous type. 1952 was a great year for Grahame. Besides appearing in this Oscar winner, she won the best supporting actress Oscar award for The Bad and the Beautiful. Children will be attracted to this film because the acts performed by the players are well done. Moreover, there is a fine performance from Cornel Wilde, as a trapeze artist, a womanizer who inflicts permanent damage on himself in order to impress Betty Hutton. Hutton is terrific here as another aerialist who has strong emotions for Wilde and Charlton Heston, boss of the circus. After seeing Heston's performance here, it is easy to see why De Mille picked him to play Moses in The Ten Commandments, 4 years later. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Show on Earth","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I've hardly ever been to a real circus, so that is one reason for me seeing this film, to see an idea of what it is like at a circus. Basically it is showing some of the personal stories between performers at the circus, the relationships they share and the lives they live for the circus. Charlton Heston as Brad Braden, the manager of The Greatest Show on Earth is quite a nice guy, but sometimes he worries about his circus performers disappointing audiences. But for me, the actor that stole most of the film, never without makeup on, was James Stewart as Buttons the Clown. He really steals the show near the end of the film when the circus train crashes and he acts as a doctor. It won the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing, Motion Picture Story, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing and Best Director for Cecil B. DeMille, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Cinematography, Best Director and Best Motion Picture - Drama. It was number 32 on The Ultimate Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Greatest SHAM on Earth!!","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In an injustice that made the Angels weep, HIGH NOON got hosed by this pedestrian collage of infomercial, musical, circus show, murder mystery, and spectacle that promises more than it delivers and is less than the sum of its too-many parts. Thousands of people just like you have voted the wonderful 1952 Gary Cooper flick HIGH NOON a consensus rating of 8.2, while people who take the time to slog through this 153-minute endurance test give it a rating of only 6.7, one of the lowest ever for a so-called Best Picture Oscar winner. It only got five total nominations, and won just one more tainted statue--for writing, a category in which mad witch hunter Joe McCarthy had driven most of the competition to freer and braver countries (if they did not allegedly commit suicide first). Summing up, if the Oscar race were baseball, GREATEST SHOW winning would be like the umpire declaring a runner safe at first when the baseman had the ball solid in his glove with the hitter 20 feet away! I gave HIGH NOON 10 of 10, meaning it is 25 per cent BETTER than my 8-rated GREATEST SHOW, and nearly everyone agrees NOON has at least 25% more class. One explanation for this fixed result was suggested by the red-headed expert on the also-nominated that year THE QUIET MAN DVD making of feature, who noted John Wayne graciously telegrammed his like-minded Academy buddies imploring them not to split the FATHER KNOWS BEST-vote by polling for his Fess Parkerish weird foray into Ireland, but to tap the Charlton Heston vehicle, instead. Apparently, when the Duke spoke, the Academy listened! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show on Earth?  Hardly.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Brad Braden (Charlton Heston) runs the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. A trapeze artist named Holly (Betty Hutton) is in love with him but he doesn't feel the same way about her. A trouble-making trapeze artist Sebastian the Great (Cornel Wilde) joins the show and Holly starts competing with him. Angel (Gloria Grahame) an elephant trainer is attracted to Sebastian AND Brad. Buttons a clown (Jimmy Stewart!!!) has a dark secret. The film also has insipid narration driving the story on.Overblown and silly but very colorful circus epic by Cecil B. DeMille. This was made with the complete cooperation of Ringling Bros. so a lot of their acts appear on screen...and that's the big problem with this. These acts which look fantastic live just don't come across on TV. I did see this on a large screen many years ago--that way it worked. The acts are front and center and are lots of fun. On TV they just come across as boring and more than a little silly. It just doesn't work and there are LOTS of them. Add that to the fact that the stories are clichd and full of unbelievable characters. We have some talented actors here giving their worst performances. Only Wilde and Stewart are good.There are good parts--it is VERY colorful and there's plenty of cheesecake (Hutton and Dorothy Lamour) and beefcake (Wilde is hunky and shirtless a LOT as are the other male trapeze artists). There's also a great train wreck at the end. Still this is overblown, far too long and just basically pretty dull. Hard to believe this won Oscars for Best Story and Best Picture. However this isn't the worst movie to be awarded Best Picture--that honor goes to American Beauty. "},{"Title":"Maybe at the time it was made","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  A lot of so called excellent films made in the 50's and 60's do not stand the test of time, and DeMille's Big Circus show is one of them. Hugely enjoyable when initially released, when viewed now it has far too many clichs, but worst of all the acting was pretty bad. but the effects for its timing, were quite good, though the train smash clearly shows the use of models. Back to the acting,- clearly Betty Hutton was Paramount's No. 1 star at the time, but she does not come across at all well, and the musical numbers put in for her, are big mistakes. Dorothy Lamour has nothing to do, and is only there for marquee value while James Stewart always in clown makeup could have been played by anyone. Cornel Wilde loses you because his accent is too phony, while Charlton Heston glowered dramatically most of the film. To have won the Academy Award as Best Picture proves there is no justice! It is just an interesting spectacular film, but by no means, great!  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Show on Earth . . . not . . .","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" We've come a long way, baby, when tripe like this was considered a big deal, and Betty Hutton was the highest-paid actress of the year.So desperate to be liked/loved was she, on screen, that she couldn't utter, Hello! without mugging. She has not ONE believable moment. A total mystery, as a short-lived star and actress, since she always hit one hammy bombastic note in her films and stayed there.And Charlton Heston? What can one say about a career that seems to have been an endless audition for Ben-Hur (in which he was perfectly cast, and superb), and afterwards seems to have been a plea to, Remember me in 'Ben-Hur'? The supporting cast, uh, supports just fine. James Stewart, as always, provides layers and nuance to a cardboard character and draws more emotion from his brief scenes than anybody.Gloria Grahame looks believably sexy (again, as always) and provides the film's tense high-point -- as an elephant delicately positions its foot over her famous overbite and its trainer threatens to take things further by crushing her.Dorothy Lamour, already too long in the tooth for on screen l'amour, is game as usual.Cornel Wilde is terrific and affecting, both before and after his fall.The special effects, for which De Mille was famous, are pathetic. The miniature train collision could have been filmed by a child at home in the den. The green screen shots didn't work then, and don't work now.But what the heck. Everybody got paid well. And The Greatest Show on Earth survives as evidence of what ballyhoo and P.T. Barnum are all about.There's a sucker born every minute. "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz,....what??? Is it over yet?!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie has done the impossible. It somehow finds a way to make circus life look BORING. How? My assumption is that it all boils down to Cecil B. DeMille. Although an important name in Hollywood history, his movies tend to be much bigger than the stars. In other words, the dialog and development of character is, at best, secondary to DeMille. Instead, he is the master of the spectacle--HUGE overblown scripts incorporating casts of thousands. From the silent film days until his last picture, DeMille films had the same distinct flavor--bland but spectacular. And, I think that is why I was so indifferent to this movie. The stunts looked great but the story bogged down in the quieter moments. I honestly believe this (and other DeMille films) could have been improved with 2 directors--DeMille for the BIG scenes and anyone else for scenes involving PEOPLE.If you don't agree with me, I challenge you to watch this film--or even better, watch The Ten Commandments. Observe how good actors and actresses often totally overdo their lines (as if performing for a high school play) because that was what the director wanted. "},{"Title":"Not Quite a Train Wreck (Though There's One in the Movie)","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" If you want to do a garish, ponderous epic, Cecil B. is your man, as he proves with this Ten Commandments-sized circus story. The Greatest Show on Earth represents just about everything bad about 1950s film-making, but it also happens to be one enjoyable howler of a movie. DeMille always seemed to know that his movies were destined for camp, and there's always that sense that he's laughing at his earnest spectacles right along with you. Give me The Greatest Show on Earth over Ben-Hur, or any other number of oh-so-serious Hollywood epics, any day.There was no excuse for DeMille to inflict Betty Hutton on audiences a mere 2 years after her migraine-inducing performance in Annie Get Your Gun, but she's about the worst you'll have to contend with in this movie. As usual, Charlton Heston's acting is so bad it's good and Cornel Wilde looks like a plastic action figure of himself. Gloria Grahame single-handedly infuses the picture with some much-needed va-va-voom, and she has more chemistry with the elephant she's paired with in one scene that any of the rest of the cast has with each other. James Stewart shows up as a homicidal doctor disguised as a clown (I'm not kidding), and fills the role of the obligatory prestige actor that all such trashy ensemble films must have (think Fred Astaire in The Towering Inferno or Helen Hayes in Airport).The film is ugly as all get-out; the Technicolor looks terrible, and the costumes are tawdry. There's nothing to distinguish the entire production except for the entire cast's apparent commitment to the material and DeMille's belief that this kind of movie is worth caring about. He's such a capable, if not especially artistic director, that he almost succeeds in convincing you that it is. Plus, there's a really cool train wreck at the end.Grade B- "}]