[{"Title":"Lancaster has given the modern cinema more pure enjoyment than almost any other major star!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's doubtful whether any pirate ever looked like Lancaster, rigged out in a succession of exaggeratedly modish outfits and bleached-blond hair... He is the 18th-century pirate swashbuckler to end all swashbucklers!With his mute, but athletic side-kick friend Nick Cravat, Lancaster leads an island's people in rebellion against the tyrant Baron Gruda... His damsel is Eva Bartok, the freewheeling European beauty... I don't know how many times I have seen this buccaneer saga, and still I love it... The film provides lots of thrills and laughs, lots of adventures and excitement ... Great fun all the time...Lancaster's sense of comedy was evident enough for critic Alton Cook to call him one of our most amiable and strenuous comedians.For me, Lancaster will be always remembered as the actor who has given the modern cinema more pure enjoyment than almost any other major star... "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling at its best!","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the late 18th century Caribbean a group of pirates led by Capt.Vallo become embroiled in the revolutionary activities of some islanders against the King.That's about all the plot that you need to know, for this film doesn't concern itself with historical accuracy or the like. What it does is to place it's tongue firmly in it's cheek and take the audience on a thrilling romp in the best swashbuckling style.Burt Lancaster plays Vallo with real gusto and exuberance, ideally suited to the all action role. He did all his own stunts, being paired on screen with his one time trapeze partner Nick Cravat as his mute sidekick. In these days of CGI overkill it's refreshing to see smartly choreographed action set pieces with real people performing breathtaking feats of agility. The support cast is filled with familiar faces from the period all giving good value in their respective roles.The whole enterprise is lavishly mounted and shot in glorious vivid Technicolor. This was possibly one of the last of this type before Cinemascope and widescreen in general became the norm. As mentioned previously, accuracy isn't an issue here. In the finale we encounter prototypes of Gatlin guns, tanks and flamethrowers among other things!I hadn't seen this since childhood, so I took the opportunity of catching it on the BBC at the weekend. With 'Pirates Of The Caribbean' still relatively fresh in my mind, it seemed appropriate to revisit this old classic. I'm happy to say that it's lost none of its appeal, quite the opposite in fact. Rollicking good fun - recommended. "},{"Title":"Lancaster At His Best","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is probably one of the best films I have ever seen.  It had a perfect mix of adventure and comedy due to the fact that it pokes fun at all the pirate cliches.  Also, it really gave the legendary Burt Lancaster a chance to show of his acrobatic talents.  Too bad they don't show this on television anymore.  This film would probably appeal not only to older fans but to children as well.   "},{"Title":"Burt never smiled brighter","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Movies do not come any more swashbuckling than this one.  Hey, we have pirates, the Caribbean, villains, heroes, damsels in distress, sword fights, sea battles, inventions, acrobatics aplenty.  And all delivered with Burt's legendary smile.  It is not a genre spoof, but it does not take itself seriously either.Watching this film one can perhaps understand why some people took a while to accept Burt Lancaster as a real actor.  Not that his acting in this film is bad, but the excellent acrobatic skills we come to admire betray a different background.Enormous fun.  "},{"Title":"It's silly, and I love it!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's impossible to recapture the absolute bliss of seeing this film forthe first time, in all its impudence and style; but watching it yet again this afternoon, I found a broad grin back on my face within minutes. Burt Lancaster's cocky Captain Vallo -- golden-haired, silver-tongued, and sporting a fine taste in trademark crimson trousers -- is a Technicolour pirate straight out of the pages of legend, and it's a toss-up as to whether it's more fun watching him dazzle and bamboozle his way through the ranks of the dastardly Spaniards, every sea-rover's traditional foe, or seeing him taken down a richly-deserved peg or two when events don't go quite as anticipated. If Vallo had it all his own way, he'd be insufferable; but fortunately for the film, circumstances -- and the script -- conspire to unseat his schemes, with results both hilarious and touching.Lancaster and Nick Cravat play off their old acrobatic routines against each other, separately and together, in a virtuoso display perfectly integrated into the action of the film. In The Flame and the Arrow, the acrobatics felt shoe-horned in to show off the star's abilities. Here they develop naturally from the conventions of the genre, and the grace of the big man and pugnacity of the little one make for a gifted double-act. In the role of the loyal mute Ojo (as the leader of their rebel captors observes dryly, 'this one can't talk and the other can't stop talking!') Cravat repeats his eloquent, quickfire mime from the earlier production, providing the last 'word' for the film's ending and comic moments throughout.The character of the first mate 'Humble' Bellows, with his Quakerish speech and rigid adherence to the old ways, is also a triumph. Implacably opposed to his captain's flashy plans for a double- and triple-cross on the grounds that it's more like business practice than honest piracy, and unmoved by Vallo's gift of the gab, his doom-saying has the unpalatable habit of seeming to come true as one complication after another arises. Yet he has a stubborn integrity of his own, and his loyalty is to the ship's company where Vallo's veers like a weathercock. He is a complex character we cannot in a way help but admire.But above all, the essence of The Crimson Pirate is that it's *very*, *very* *silly*. Gloriously silly. This isn't about realism -- this is comic-strip stuff, where battle consists of tossing your enemies overboard into the water, laying them out cold with a belaying-pin, or stacking them up one by one on the floor of the captain's cabin; where a man with a sword can duel a man with a swinging block on the end of a piece of rope, and an athletic fugitive can escape down narrow streets by using awnings as trampolines and washing-poles as parallel bars. Like Galaxy Quest, this film is both an affectionate spoof of its genre and a gripping contribution to that genre in its own right.This is Adventure with a capital 'A', with a colourful unrepentant rogue of a hero, with devious Dons, thickwitted soldiery, heroic rebels, treachery, cruelty and gallantry against the odds - and generally an unexpected laugh around every corner. It's utterly impossible, of course, but -- believe only half of what you see... if that! "},{"Title":"Pure joy","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'The Crimson Pirate' is pure joy. Maybe the most entertaining movie of the 50's - as far as 'pure entertainment' concept goes, and one of the greatests adventure movies ever made.  Burt Lancaster was then at the apex of his powers, and shows very clearly what a good piece of Errol Flynn he could easily have been, and this was not an easy task at all, mind you.  Bowing his personal idol Douglas Fairbanks, the dashing, wide-grin, elastic, self-assured Lancaster has marked a whole generation of youngsters - and adults as well - with this wonderful, colorful, funny, action-packed, greatly-soundtracked adventure-spoof, quite probably one of his bests movies ever, although even him surely never realized how good it was.Popcorn at hand, I watched this masterpiece goggle-eyed, then, and do it very, very fondly now.  Burt Lancaster was the man who thought me to love movies. My sincere thanks to him. "},{"Title":"This movie is pure happiness, for kids and adults","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Crimson Pirate is pure happiness, for kids and adults. Everything contributes to the mirth of the audience the bright colors of the beautiful, careful photography, the frenetic, pyrotechnic action, the outstanding acrobatic performances by Burt Lancaster and Nick Cravat, the humour of the dialogues and also (why not?) the loveliness and charm of Eva Bartok and of the other supporting actresses. A common question asked by parents seeing this movie with their children  What character did you like best? The unanimous answer by the kids will be Ojo! In fact, Ojo (Nick Cravat) can deservedly compete for the title of the nicest character in movie history. And the great actor-legend Burt Lancaster (captain Vallo) is just perfect in his smiling auto-irony. By the way, when I happen to see again the video of The Crimson Pirate (my daughters know it nearly by heart), I am always stunned by how beautifully this movie is made. Certainly it is a major work, somewhat hidden behind its extreme fun. A final remark the director of this masterpiece of comic and adventure is Robert Siodmak, a former great specialist of dark thrillers and noirs (The Spiral Staircase The Killers). This gives an idea of how deeply talented the old Hollywood masters were. "},{"Title":"Rousing, ridiculous fun","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Once you suspend disbelief you can have a glorious time at this movie. The Technicolor looks fabulous on DVD, Burt Lancaster is an Adonis if ever there were, and there's silly fun to spare all around, from the striped tights to the giddy pitched battles and doofus redcoats to the springy Cravat.You can easily see Spielberg and George Lucas learning their pacing and craft from this director, as well as outlandish stunts and fantastical conceits. You can't help but get caught up in it.Not only that, those two kisses shared by Burt 'n Eva are HOT. Yumm.For contrast, view Lancaster in Sweet Smell Of Success. Utter control.  "},{"Title":"Great movie with great memories","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was 16 my Grandpa came to town early and it was just me and him. He looked at the TV Guide and started laughing. He looked at me and said one of his favorite movies was coming on. From the moment it began I was captivated. The opening sequence sets up the rest of the film. It is a very tongue in cheek movie that keeps you laughing and enjoying every minute of it. Lancaster and Cravat are one of the great film team-ups, comes from their days in vaudeville together. The film is just a good time. I was already a horror film fan at that time and was surprised to see a young Christopher Lee in it too. My grandpa was larger than life as this film is too. Everyone who has sat and watched this film with me laughs as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Bold high energy fun","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big production values, bold, bright colors, great use of music, high energy acting.  Add me to the list of people who have watched this fun movie a zillion times.The Crimson Pirate ages not.  This 1952 movie taking place in time over 200 years ago will remain appreciated for years to come. "}{"Title":"Include Crimson Pirate in your kids' memories of Home","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I finally got around to watching The Crimson Pirate.  What a blast!  Burt Lancaster is the Pirate.  His schemes and brainstorms are unconventional and funny.It's a kinda goofy story, so you have to be in the mood for fun.  (For example, the pirate's enemies are silly nitwits, like Keystone Kops or Hogan's Heroes.)  Don't expect historical accuracy-- this is total Hollywood pirate caricature.  But it's very creative, and everyone on the set, stars and stuntmen, looked like they had a blast filming it.Burt Lancaster outdoes Douglas Fairbanks.  He shows off his great acrobatic training and even  paired-up his stuntwork with his old acrobat partner, Nick Cravat (btw, Nick happened to be the airplane-assaulting gremlin on the original Twilight Zone Terror at 20,000 Feet.)I feel like I missed out as a kid by not seeing it.  Everyone has their own traditional FamilyTime movies (Wizard of Oz being a universal example). I wish I'd seen this one as a kid.  My parents would've liked it too-- it's very enjoyable for all ages. "},{"Title":" Gather  'round lads,   gather round ","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Caribbean Pirates have always been a staple for Hollywood. For that matter, pirates of the open sea are selected because there's always a colorful (if you consider black to be colorful) character within most sea epics. If Hollywood were to make a realistic movie of the exploits of real pirates, the film would be condemned. True depiction of actual pirates would include brutality, torture, robbery, butchery, ravishment, rape and wanton murder and would have investors scrambling for an army of lawyers. But since American audiences are not ready for realistic pirates, they can only provide us with child-proof ones. In the nineteen fifties, Hollywood created the rousing tale of the Crimson Pirate which starred handsome, debonair, wide smiling Burt Lancaster, as Captain Vello. A fun film to be sure and one which includes, his old friend, Nick Cravat as Lt. Ojo, Torin Thatcher as Humble Bellows, Leslie Bradley as the villain, Baron Jose Gruda, Noel Purcell as Pablo Murphy and of course, beautiful Eva Bartok as Consuelo. It's an old formula, boy pirate hopping for a big score, falls for lovely girl who's idealistic father is in prison by royal decree. Smitten, the courageous and action oriented outlaw, is reformed and with love as his goal, risks all to redeem himself and his crew. An interesting and fun adventure for Lancaster fans. **** "},{"Title":"Pirates in an anachronistic heaven","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the early 1950s, as he was stretching his abilities as an actor and star, Burt Lancaster did as series of films where the settings and historic eras were quite colorful. Other films in this period were HIS MAJESTY O'KEEFE (set in the Pacific, on an island, in the early 20th Century), and THE FLAME AND THE ARROW (set in 12th Century northern Italy). THE CRIMSON PIRATE was the best of these films, giving Lancaster a role that he ... err, could sink his teeth into.The role was colorful, as a cheerful, conniving Captain Vallo who even wears outrageously crimson colored pants. This is a salute of sorts to Lancaster's silent film hero Douglas Fairbanks Sr., who had played THE BLACK PIRATE. Like Fairbanks (who would do his famous cutting the sail of the captured boat with his cutlass, and descending to the deck that way stunt in THE BLACK PIRATE), Lancaster turned this film into a showcase of acrobatics with his old partner Nick Cravat (as the mute Ojo), trying to recapture Consuelo (Eva Bartok) and trying to even the score with Baron Gruda (Leslie Bradley) the Spanish colonial governor, and trying to prevent a mutiny by his crew, led by the intelligent but skeptical Humbell Bellows (Torin Thatcher - in what was his best film role). It's a neat set of plot balls that Lancaster has to juggle, and he does it with wit and aplomb.But the most memorable part of this adventure comedy was the involvement of James Hayter and Noel Purcell as two local patriots who are trying to free the colony of the Spanish government. Hayter in particular is interesting. He is Professor Prudence, who is a Ben Franklin clone. He has a worldwide reputation as a philosopher and scientist, and (as he is short, fat, bald, and myopic) he looks like Ben. When he gets involved with Lancaster and Cravat, he designs a set of weapons for them to use against the impregnable Spanish fortress and military sites on the island, including (this film is set in 1745 or so, remember) a balloon dropping explosives, a set of Molotov cocktails using rum bottles and wine kegs, and (in a last minute surprise) a submarine! It certainly gives Lancaster and his crew the upper hand at the conclusion of this spoof - the best one he made in his early film career. "},{"Title":"watch the Hollywood Machine at its peak","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Movies were made differently then. The stars, most of whom did not use their own names, were under contract to studios, studios run by the original mad men (nothing to do with advertising) and it was all about volume, not quality. The stars were expected to churn out so many pictures a year, and if one or more actually turned out to be memorable, that was merely a bonus. Into the mix comes Lancaster, one of the most physical actors ever to work in Tinseltown (former acrobat), a bunch of second-stringers, and voila you have the template which years later Johnny Depp would use so effectively to spoof the genre. Plot? What plot? It's about rip-roaring fun from the first scene to the last, and Lancaster delivers. He really could act, you know, but this film simply requires him to have fun and bring the audience along for the ride. One of the best of its kind. The sad thing was watching Lancaster age in the years to follow. Moreso than others of the era, he hated getting old because his work was so heavily based on his sheer physical presence. "},{"Title":"The best pirate film ever - full stop","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's no denying it, 'The Crimson Pirate' is the most brilliant pirate film to date. In fact it is so good, that you can see where other films get their ideas from (does the upturned boat in 'Pirates of the Caribbean' ring any bells?)Burt Lancaster and his hearty crew are at their piratey best showing us how the stereotype of the typical pirate should be portrayed, this makes it tremendous fun to watch.'The Crimson Pirate' is a great film that sticks to its story,contains some fantastic stunts that are hard to come by in modern film and some genuine humour to top it all off. This film has it all, a must see. "},{"Title":"Acrobatic pirate tale has lots of energy for action fans...","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" And while the above statement is true, it takes more than fancy acrobatics from star BURT LANCASTER and his sidekick NICK CRAVAT to make a pirate film that is hardly more than a series of stunts that turn the story into a cartoon version of reality.All of it looks mighty good in color, filmed in Italy with spectacular sets and costumes, but the story comes across as foolish and impossible to believe. But I suppose action film fans will overlook the ragged script with all of the plotting dependent on how our hero will get out of his next adventurous moment intact while swords flash. In true hero fashion, Lancaster's smile gleams no matter how dire his situations are.He's at the peak of his healthy muscled appearance and almost looks like Doug Fairbanks on steroids during all of his stunts, many obviously performed by the star himself. EVA BARTOK is the pretty girl he ends up winning and TORIN THATCHER makes an impressive villain without even twirling his mustache.But the story is kiddie stuff, obviously aimed to please the Saturday matinée crowd at the local theaters who probably delighted in seeing this kind of stuff on the silver screen, even if the mix of broad comedy and drama doesn't always work. Strangely enough, the film is directed by Robert Siodmak, usually associated with more dramatic or substantial fare. "},{"Title":"silly and lovable fun","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Anyone looking for a realistic portrayal of pirates should AVOID this movie like the plague. It is silly, action-packed and far-fetched but underneath it all it is great fun--a wonderful film for all ages provided you're just looking for mindless fun. And, for me, I sometimes want exactly that. I have seen this movie several times and each time I find myself pulled into a magical Hollywood version of pirates! Thank goodness the real-life pirates AREN'T portrayed--as who wants to see rapes, murders and alcoholism! Burt Lancaster plays the lead and his performance is completely bigger than life! His acting ain't subtle, but his charm and acrobatic maneuvers are something to watch. Give it a chance and sit back and be entertained. "},{"Title":"Gather 'round, lads and lasses....","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a fantastic movie!   The absolute best of classic Hollywood movie making. Burt Lancaster (literally) shines in this pirate adventure romp. Beautiful settings, fantastic camera work, great special effects, and captivating music make this film one of my all time favorites. I've seen it many times as a kid in our local cinema and only recently I got the DVD to see it again for the first time in over 25 years. It is as much fun now as it was back then. From the moment Lancaster swayed from one mast to the other the smile never left my face. Entertainment in it's Purest form. Absolutely wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Avast Ye lubbers!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If ever t'wer a man meant t' be a pirate, it be Burt Lancaster.  'e out acrobats Douglas Fairbanks an' out charms Errol Flynn.  'e got a mute sidekick from Brooklyn, a professer wi' wild idearrrrs, and a crew wi' names like Poison Paul and Humble Bellows.  That bilge rat Baron Gruda be no match fer a man like Vallo, an' Vallo be no match for a wench like Consuelo.This 'ere film be full of fun.  It'll make ye laugh and smile and wish they still made movies like this here one.  Burt be using his circus skills to liven up the film and Nick Cravat be a fine mime ('e gots a thick accent). Thar be action an' comedy till the midwatch.  Set sail on the Spanish Main; thar be treasure galore when ye serve wi' the Crimson Pirate.Yo ho ho an' a bottle o Mom's ol' fashioned cider! "},{"Title":"Amusing and funny adventure story  deemed  to be one of the best swashbucklers","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Burt Lancaster plays a 18th-century buccaneer called Capt. Vallo with a taste for action and acrobatics and pits his wits and brawn against the might of a villain nobleman ; as Vallo pretending to be a baron to infiltrate into a strongly-armed island and finding romance along the way . It starts when a ship of the king's Navy armed with thirty guns on a mission in the Caribbean late in the Eighteenth Century . There appears a famous pirate (Burt Lancaster who starred various swashbucklers and classic adventures) supported by bearded and short Ojo (Nick Cravat is mute because he had a thick East Coast accent and in actual life his previous circus partner) leading a band who involves himself in the goings on of a Caribbean revolution . As he saves the damsel (Eva Bartok as a hot-tempered woman who swoons over Vallo) in distress and , of course , seduces her ; furthermore he confronts a ruthless baron (Bradley) at an island . As Vallo poses as a Baron in order to penetrate a well-defended enemy stronghold .Agreeable pirate movie , plenty of action , thrills , bright cinematography and luxurious costumes . Although the story has been told before , tight filmmaking and nice acting win out . The picture is fast-moving , exciting and thrilling right up to the almost balletic climatic final confrontation between Burt Lancaster and Leslie Bradley . ¨The Crimson Pirate¨ results to be one of Lancaster's swashbuckling best and has achieved a classic status . This entertaining pirate movie is packed with noisy action , burlesque , poking fun , loads of ship battles , humor with tongue-in-cheek and impressive acrobatics adds interest to the ordinary swashbuckling . Considered by many to be one of the best pirate movies laced with comedy and enthusiastically paced . Interesting and enjoyable screenplay by Roland Kibbee ; however , the script started life as serious, nay solemn, but Robert Siodmak, the director, with all the sure touch of real tension behind him in The Killers and The Spiral Staircase, took stock of the material in forty-eight hours and turned it into a comedy . Hight budgeted film , including expensive battles at sea , as it overruns ballooned the original $1.1 million dollar budget to $1.85 million . Burt Lancaster is a complete show including spectacular acrobatic in which Burt performing his own stunts . Lancaster played this pirate movie in the wake of his man-of-action epoch when he performed three magnificent adventure movies that included ¨His majesty O'Keefe¨ and ¨The Flame and the Arrow¨ . Because of cost overruns on The Crimson Pirate and His Majesty O'Keefe, Warner Brothers insisted that future films from Hecht and Lancaster be limited to $900,000. Lancaster and Hecht's response was to strike a new deal with United Artists . Good support cast such as Torin Thatcher playing an astute pirate called Humble Bellows , James Hayter as Prof. Elihu Prudence and brief appearance of Christopher Lee who has a small character and gets to struggle with the main star .Colorful cinematography in Technicolor by Otto Heller , being filmed on location in Bay of Naples, Naples, Campania, and Ischia Island, Naples, Campania, Italy . Lively and jolly musical score composed by William Alwyn , well conducted by usual Muir Mathieson . The motion picture was splendidly directed by Robert Siodmak who realizes a skillful filmmaking . Robert had previously directed Burt Lancaster in two classic Noir films titled ¨The Killers¨ and ¨Criss Cross¨. The picture will appeal to Burt Lancaster fans . Burt plays at his best and he provides a lot of fun as his own acrobatic ability , ably assisted by little Nick Cravat . This is a real showcase for Lancaster and Cravat's acrobatic skills . Raing  Above average , 8 , very good good pirate movie , wonderful stuff . Essential and indispensable watching for swashbuckling enthusiasts . "}{"Title":"One of the best all around fun movies","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a movie I first saw as a kid, and ever since it was one of my favorites. It had humor, action and great scenes. Colorful characters, colorful sets and locations and all in all a film I will let my kids watch without any worries. This is a movie for kids and adults where the entertainment value is equal to both. How many kid friendly movies are there that bore an adult to death? It was this (and a few other movies) that inspired me to pursue a career in the movie business. Now after 30 years working in the business one tends to become cynical and every movie you watch you analyze and the real fun the real reason to see a movie is gone. To be transported , or sucked into a story and like a good book forget the real world for a little while. Few movies can do this to me, but this s one of them. "},{"Title":"Glorius Popcorn fun!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is wonderful for two reasons. One, its the most rollicking fun pirate movie Hollywood ever made. And in the age of Bob Hope's Princess and the Pirate, and Abbott and Costello meet Captain Kidd, thats really saying something. Two, the presence of Torrin Thatcher makes any movie automatically entertaining. Check out his role in The Black Shield of Falworth if you doubt me.Not until Johnny Depp's Pirates of the Carribbean has a pirate movie been this much pure, self assured fun. Note the scene between Depp and Orlando Bloom in that movie where they walk underwater holding a dingy over their heads for air originated in The Crimson Pirate. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Great swash-buckling fun","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I like swash-bucklers; too bad there haven't been that many really good ones made. This is certainly the most fun movie of that genre made. Burt Lancaster was an acrobat by training and this movie gives him ample opportunity to show his talents. His equally agile side-kick Ojo shows that one doesn't need words to communicate. Humble Bellows is the quintessential pirate. Throw in a brilliant scientist (you find them all over these little island you know) and you can have a smashing good time. "},{"Title":"Movie making at it's best. Marvelous Burt Lancaster.  Marvelous Movie fun.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the summer of 1977 they closed the drive-in movie theater where I had done a great deal of growing-up in the late 50's and early 60's.  On the last bill were The Crimson Pirate, Born Free and Abbott and Costello Meet The Mummy along with a bunch of cartoons and old Movie Tone News Reels.  It was a trip down memory lane for me, and a last chance to see what real Swash and Buckle really look like on a 40 foot high screen in Cinemascope and Technicolor on a hot summer evening.  It was truly movie entertainment at it's best, though not, I suspect, a place for the serious student of the film.Of course you have to take this movie with a grain of salt. (To be used later on the popcorn.)  Burt Lancaster is the absolute king of tongue-in-cheek farce.  There is no doubt that he believes himself to be The Crimson Pirate, but in any movie with lines like, Do 'em the dirty, Cap'in! and all the marvelous acrobatics, nothing can possibly be as it seems.  And why should it?  This is, after all A MOVIE.  And if The Crimson Pirate is the obvious progeny of Fairbanks in Robin Hood it is also the obvious progenitor of Star Wars, Indiana Jones.Well, drive-ins are pretty much gone now, but if you are lucky enough to live in a town with an old, restored movie house that plays Classic Movies you might try to get The Crimson Pirate on their list.  If not  Haul the big-screen TV out onto the back porch, invite the neighbors to bring their lawn chairs and insect repellent, butter up a bushel of popcorn and Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Burt Where Have You Gone?","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quite simply the best.How much fun could a Saturday Matinee be. Great color,great music,beautiful cinematography and Burt,at his swashbuckling best.Kravat was a great second bannana,but let's not forget Torin Thatcher as the treacherous mate.Do 'em the dirty,skipper!!! My kids loved this as much as I do! "},{"Title":"Very Fun Movie","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Technicolor swashbuckler with ample doses of humor. I wasn't expecting much from this film. The only classic swashbucklers I've ever really enjoyed were the Errol Flynn ones. This one always seemed very kiddy to me and in some ways it is. It does have an all ages appeal to it. But I tried it out because it has a great reputation and was directed by one of the premiere directors of the 1940's, Robert Siodmak. Needless to say I wasn't disappointed.The star of the film is Burt Lancaster but he's helped throughout by his real-life friend and former circus partner Nick Cravat. The two do many of their own stunts and it's very enjoyable to watch. Unusual opening where Lancaster talks to the camera seems like something that might have been shot for a trailer but then left in the movie. Rousing score and upbeat tempo throughout. Just a fun movie I would recommend to anybody who isn't a snob about the genre. "},{"Title":"It's a pleasure to watch Lancaster in action.","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For what it is, The Crimson Pirate is a simple, but genuine pleasure. Lancaster and his former circus partner have real chemistry on screen - they're funny when they want to be and dashing when the script calls for it. They do their own stunts in well choreographed set pieces, and they make it look easy (even fun). The heroes are dashing, the villains are nasty and conniving, the costumes and sets are a treat to behold, and the plot (which doesn't worry too much about little things like historical accuracy) moves along briskly. I've always liked Lancaster as an actor, but this was my first exposure to him as a sex symbol. Now I can see where the reputation came from. That dazzling smile seems to be at least a yard wide and the guy was built better than 99% of his leading man peers. No one ever looked so good in a puffy sleeved shirt. Even if the rest of the movie sucked, his role would make it worth watching. Really, really good classic stuff. If you have any interest at all in the Errol Flynn/Douglas Fairbanks Jr. swashbuckling genre, you ought to see The Crimson Pirate. "},{"Title":"Ideal for the Local Drive-In or a Saturday Matinée","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After capturing an English warship through sheer cunning and imagination Captain Vallo (Burt Lancaster) makes a deal with one of his prisoners named Baron Jose Gruda (Leslie Bradley) that he will capture a prominent rebel leader and hand him over for a price. Unfortunately, things don't go exactly as planned and Captain Vallo is forced to come up with new ideas as everything unravels. Now, rather than reveal any more of the story and risk ruining the film for those who haven't seen it, I will just say that this is the type of movie that was probably ideal for the local drive-in or a Saturday matinée when it first played on the big screen. I say this because it is a light-hearted action movie with plenty of humor which was well-suited for a family night out and the kids probably loved it. Howver, I don't think it has aged well and further I believe that those who are looking for something a bit more serious will probably be a bit disappointed. Again, those who prefer films showcasing style over substance may enjoy this movie. Conversely, those who prefer more realism may need to look elsewhere. In any case, this wasn't a bad movie and I rate it as about average. "},{"Title":"Comic Pirate Fairy Tale.","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Often these old pirate movies have some covert theme that's serious -- Errol Flynn fights genuine traitors at court or a hated king. This one doesn't even have a hemidemisemiquaver. There HAS to be a snarling and arrogant villain, of course, but he's fictitious and as much a cartoon figure as the handsome, radiantly fit Burt Lancaster. Oh, how I wanted to be Burt Lancaster when I was twelve years old, bare chested, wearing only candy striped leotards, swinging from mast to mast and shouting orders like, Humble Bellow, man that jib and marry the pelican hooks! Lancaster was much more than an ex acrobat who did most of his own stunts, not being particularly afraid of working at height, as I would have been. His earlier movies were echt-noir. Lancaster as the hapless dummy in the smoky atmosphere of The Killers and Criss Cross. Later, he turned arty on us. There was the recovering alcoholic of Come Back, Little Sheba and the wrecked middle-class madman of The Swimmer. But in the early 50s he turned out a number of extremely enjoyable and colorful action thrillers like this one and His Majesty O'Keefe and South Sea Woman, and it was always thrilling to see Lancaster himself doing the dangerous stunts -- Lancaster, the protagonist who, had he broken a leg, would have left the production without its star. Actually, he did injure his knee in The Train, an entirely sober film, but the director, John Frankenheimer, had the injury written into the script.The Crimson Pirate is a lot of fun. The whole family will enjoy the corny jokes and the back-flipping bodies and the exquisitely choreographed fights, most of which end not with death but with unconsciousness. There are extravagantly anachronistic weapons deployed for the climax -- a kind of Gatling gun, a hot air balloon with no hot air, a flame thrower on wheels. And there is Lancaster and his buddy, Nick Cravat, in drag, their cheeks painted rose, with mile-wide grins, strewing flowers in front of the filthy Baron Gruber whom they are trying to deceive. These peasant shapes are not to my taste, mutters the Baron.All of this takes place in the sunny Mediterranean of the Italian coast with real sailing ships and real wind ruffling everyone's hair. It's like sending your mind on a vacation. Freud called it regression in the service of the ego but the rest of us dummies can call it a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Filmed in the Mediterranean not the Carribian","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This would have to be one of my favorite films of all times and for many reasons. The Crimson Pirate was filmed on the island of Ischia in the Bay of Napoli in Italy. My parents were both from this island and they remember the cast and crew during the summer of 1951 when it was made. My mum to this day remembered Burt Lancaster sitting outside a bar, drinking a coffee and thinking Oh he is so handsome. Many locals were given parts as extras. I remember my first visit to Ischia in 1988. In a doorway opposite Castello Aragonese, sat an old man with a wooden leg dressed as a pirate. Who would sit there everyday having his photo taken with tourists as he made a name for himself as the pirate from the movie as an extra.Ischia has been used in other Hollywood films, notably Avanti starring Jack Lemon and Juiliet Mills, and The Talented Mr Ripley starring Jude Law, Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow and Phillip Seymor Hoff. "}{"Title":"One Glorious Romp","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before Burt Lancaster got his first Academy Award nomination for From Here to Eternity, the film he would have been most identified with, what could have been his career role, would have been The Crimson Pirate. It's also the film that he probably got to use more of his background as a circus acrobat than in any other.Unlike some of the films of known movie pirates like Errol Flynn, Tyrone Power and Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., The Crimson Pirate is set in some pirate never never land in what we think is the 18th century by the style of dress, but we're not really sure. It could be the Caribbean, most likely it is. But I remarked to another reviewer that it looked a whole lot like the Mediterranean. And then I looked and saw that it had in fact been filmed on the island of Ischia in the Bay of Naples with interiors done in the United Kingdom. I've seen very few actors enjoy themselves as much as Lancaster does playing Captain Vallo. At the same time Lancaster was desperately looking for serious roles so that he would be taken seriously as a thespian. When this was finishing Lancaster was signing up with Columbia for From Here To Eternity.But I'm not sure that Lancaster would have done The Crimson Pirate had it not had a hidden message about tyranny and forbidding freedom of expression which he felt the House Un-American Activities Committee was doing. The original script for The Crimson Pirate was blacklisted writer Waldo Salt, Roland Kibbee did revisions and later got screen credit. Salt himself forbid screen credits as he didn't want Lancaster to run afoul of the blacklist. All this is told in a recent biography of Lancaster.None of the rightwing lugnuts got it however as The Crimson Pirate was buried under layers of comedy and outrageous overacting. Lancaster is in the title role and in some complicated machinations about playing both rebels on some unknown Caribbean? island against some unknown European country authorities off against each other, he falls in love with rebel leader's daughter Eva Bartok. In the supporting cast the best parts are that of James Hayter as an eccentric inventor who's a century ahead of his time in some respects. His gadgets help save the day. The other really meaty supporting role is that for Torin Thatcher as the guy who inspires mutiny among the Crimson Pirate's crew for not hewing to pirate rules. Some people are fundamentalists that way.I can't fathom anyone not loving The Crimson Pirate. "},{"Title":"Burt....Boy Do We Miss 'Ya !!!!!!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you were a NY kid in the '50's/'60's you remember Million Dollar Movie on WOR Channel 9. The same move played each weekday evening and then three times on Saturday afternoon. I can still hear the announcer say...If you've missed any part of our feature, or wish to see it again, the next presentation will follow immediately. Wow...talk about creating a new generation of movie junkies. One of the very, very best of these movies was The Crimson Pirate and a rainy Saturday afternoon spent with Burt Lancaster was one of the best things you could do. Long before color televisions, this Technicolor film still looked rich and colorfuleven in black and white. Great music and lots of innocent laughs. And then there's Burt! Flawless! Watch this movie and then watch Field Of Dreams and tell me you don't see the same Burt in both films despite 40 years difference? Pure magic! Many a boy fell asleep dreaming he was Captain Vallo, and I trust we still feel the same whenever this great film comes around. May the next presentation follow immediately! "},{"Title":"Classic film with multi-age level appeal","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have used this film in high school social studies class to illustrate the history of the 18th Century questions include pirate self-rule, the struggle for liberty, the impact of science on rousing the masses to action against tyranny, the ability of people to change, etc.While not universally appealing to today's teens, the classic greatness of Burt Lancaster and the cinematography held many in the class spellbound.  "},{"Title":"Crimson tide","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An enjoyable, if at times, silly swashbuckler featuring once again Burt Lancaster in the energetic title role and his diminutive but equally all-action if non-speaking sidekick Nick Cravat. I say silly because at different times the pair hook up with a gentleman scientist who invents the hot-air balloon, flame-thrower, airship and just for good mention TNT, years before their time not to mention the three of them later dressing up as women to foil the nasty British governor's nefarious plans to tyrannise the locals.It's all very bright and colourful, with all the action, fighting and piratical clichés you can shiver your timbers at. Lancaster gets to jut out his chin and chest in between all his acrobatics, finding time in between to romance Eva Bartok as the native rebel-leader's daughter. Burt doesn't have his troubles to seek, as besides the double-dealing British, he has to contend with mutiny amongst his own men who are more interested in plunder and booty than regime change for the good of the local community, but it all works out in the end as you'd expect.Lancaster and Cravat get up to all sorts of high-jinks in an extended chase sequence at the start, a comedic impersonation of the governor plus one at a grand ball with Cravat updating (or should that be back-dating?) Harpo Marx's impishness with the gentry and of course a battle royal with all and sundry at the end.I've read that Lancaster and his production company were perhaps attempting some indirect political comment against the McCarthy witch hunt in Hollywood at the time with this tale of the oppressed underdog triumphing against the powers that be but that looks like a bit of a stretch to me.Better then just to admire the bright colours, acrobatic feats and romantic intrigue along the way, without over-analysing it, suspending some disbelief along the way. "},{"Title":"Lavish cinematography; excellent choreography","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I ranked this film very high for several reasons 1. I enjoyed the acrobatics in the film of Burt Lancaster and his former circus partner,Nick Cravat. They bounce and swing as if on trampolines and parallel bars throughout the movie.2. I especially loved the scene where Lancaster and Cravat are chased by the soldiers it is choreographed so amusingly.3. I would watch any film in which Eva Bartok appeared. She is beautiful and enchanting.4. How refreshing it is to watch a pirate movie where the sets are not so fake looking in appearance. And the quality of the cinematography is superb for 1952.5. Stellar cast. Besides Lancaster, Cravat, Bartok, add Torin Thatcher and Christopher Lee.6. It's fun a comedy. It satirizes pirate films while retaining the action and romance of the genre.Add some popcorn and you have an evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Incredible Fun","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've watched this film so many times, as a child and just now in 2012 and it held up so well for incredible fun. Its pure entertainment. Better than so many movies made even nowadays, its an awesome, huge spectacle of rollicking adventure.Burt Lancaster shows off his incredible acrobatic skills and delivers a great performance as the Skipper with his The film just never stops being incredibly fun, with ingenious new twists populating every new corner.Oh and one more thing it has some of the most memorable music in any film, especially the theme that plays in the climax showdown. Overall, a damn good ride! "},{"Title":"Gorgeous swashbuckler","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whether it is the best adventure film of all time is up for debate, personally I think not. But I cannot deny that the Crimson Pirate is a very entertaining and visually gorgeous swashbuckling adventure. The romantic interludes slow the film down a tad, but overall the film is so hugely enjoyable that any criticisms are minor. The costumes, settings and cinematography are nothing less than lavish, and the score is superb. Then we have some terrific action sequences and swordplay, a witty and fresh script and a mesmerising lead turn from Burt Lancaster. Not to mention Nick Cravat whose amazing skills are put to perfect use here.Overall, entertaining and gorgeous, simply put a must watch for any fans of the genre. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The non-supernatural Pirates of the Caribbean","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An early, light-hearted attempt to poke fun at the pirate genre from within. Burt Lancaster plays the title character, a typical charming scoundrel pirate named Vallo, who decides to try his hand at business when he agrees to exchange a freedom fighter, El Libre, for guns, but his plan goes horribly awry when he falls in love with El Libre's beautiful daughter (Eva Bartok). Before long, Vallo's up to his neck in trouble when his own crew turns against him, save for his loyal sidekick/first mate Ojo (Lancaster's real life friend Nick Cravat, playing it mute because of his accent), exile him with an up and coming scientist, with the daughter in danger of being married off to an evil tyrant. And it's up to Vallo to rescue his lady love in conjunction with saving his crew... and wearing red & white striped pants while doing it.Funny, flamboyant flick with Lancaster having fun - or at least pretending to be having fun - as the rascal pirate.The scene with Lancaster and his cronies walking on the ocean floor with the row boat over their heads would later be referenced in 2003's summer block buster Pirates of the Caribbean The Curse of the Black Pearl. "},{"Title":"The Adventures of Captain Vallo","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Captain Vallo, aka the Crimson Pirate, leads his band in a capture of a British ship headed to the Caribbean to capture a rebel, El Libre. Vallo says he will deliver the guns to the rebels, but plans to give them to El Libre to drive out the British from the island. Vallo, and his mute sidekick Ojo, are aided by El Libre's daughter Consuelo, but after Vallo and company rescue their target, they are betrayed by British representative Baron Gruda as well as Vallo's first mate Bellows. Vallo, Ojo, and traveler Professor Prudence are left adrift in a lifeboat while Gruda plans to marry Consuelo to the local governor to strengthen his rule, but Vallo plans to use the professor's scientific knowledge to win the final battle. A very rousing swashbuckler that ranks among the most entertaining of its genre. Lancaster and Cravat were some duo as you can see they did their own stunts and very well I might add. Alwyn's score is a plus in every place it is used with plenty of different tunes to go for all the scenes. The sound recording however is the big drawback of the film and all of the cartoonish sound effects during many of the action scenes left groans on my face. Excellent and action packed climax on the ship. Rating, 8. "},{"Title":"All time swashbuckling classic","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was one my favorite movies as a child. Viewed today it has lost none of its freshness and life, particularly in the vivid Technicolor DVD version.With its tongue firmly planted in its cheek the movie tells the saga of the last of the great buccaneers. Burt Lancaster, in a succession of outrageous outfits and dyed blonde hair, is the leader (Capt Vallo) of a motley crew of poverty-stricken pirates, desperate for a big score. Burt plays it as a fast-talking con-man with no effort to hide his strong NY accent (this was deliberate and adds to fun). My favorite line is when Vallo is told his crew is up against 200 Royal marines in a battle for control of the ship. Vallo muses and says hmm..,200 marines.. and I have 20 pirates.. dat puts the odds slightly in my favah.Burt and his former circus sidekick, Nick Cravat, perform many stunts that still look good today in this era of Matrix-like wire suspension. Cravat in fact, run plays a mute because his NY accept was worse than Burt's (see Run Silent Run Deep). Cravat plays it straight for comedy and is a real delight.The only negative is the somewhat boring romantic interludes between Burt and Eve Bartok. In true 50s style she goes from being an active leader of the rebels to a helpless damsel needing Burt to save her.All in all a wonderful film. "}{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A fun pirate yarn with Burt Lancaster and his old chum from bygone circus days Nick Cravat, given a chance to revisit their old act. Lancaster is impressive swashbuckling with the best of them,leaping from balconies,swinging from sails and sword fighting.His chemistry with old pal Cravat is infectious. Never meant to be a serious adventure movie but aimed at the kid that lives in us all,the movie succeeds magnificently.Shot in gorgeous Technicolor it's a treat for the eye too. I really laughed out loud at some of the anachronistic inventions of the professor (James Hayter).A fun movie that has pride of place in my collection of great films that I'll watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Lancaster is IN drag, but 'The Crimson Pirate' is NO drag.","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You likely won't have to search very hard to find films with better acting, or more technically well done, more modern in their presentation of the world, etc. But then you're also not likely to find a movie which is so honest about its own unadulterated sense of fun. 'The Crimson Pirate' is joyous in how much fun that it has with both the swashbuckler genre and with itself. It was an absolute joy to watch it and for two weeks now, every time I think of it I just start to laugh. Besides, how can you resist any movie where manly man Burt Lancaster lampoons his own image ... by dressing up as the ugliest dancing girl you'll ever (hopefully!) see?Old circus buddies Burt Lancaster and Nick Cravat star and Lancaster is in probably the best of his acrobatic performances. Some of his dramatic work was stronger, but this is one of his best comedic performances. I think Burt Lancaster easily matches the swashbuckling charm of, say, Errol Flynn. This is escapist fare at its best with great potential for a wide audience. Great for kids and with more than ample humour for the parents too. Pirates, interestingly, aren't given a very dark treatment here as the focus tends to be more on the sense of adventure in sailing the seas. Capturing ships and treasure is more a celebration of playful trickery and impishness than combat and death. Enemies in this film are subdued by being tossed overboard -- pistols, swords and other assorted mêlée weapons are generally props.Lancaster and Cravat are great to watch together and Cravat very nearly steals the film form Lancaster as his mute sidekick (apparently his accent was distractingly thick so they opted to make him a mute who pantomimed instead). His ability to express things through the looks he create on his face are just wonderful. One of his best scenes is when he's trying to decide if he should stick with Lancaster or side with the mutinous crew.Humour abounds. I love that the highly mutinous and hilariously named crew is ready to rape, torture, pillage and murder anyone who gets in their way, but always speak with impeccable manners. The ringleader is constantly interrupting Lancaster by saying things like Begging your pardon Captain but I was just wondering ... and so on. Important lesson for the kids even pirates need to use their manners! For one of the best extended comedic pieces I've seen in a while too, how can anyone not enjoy the pursuit through the streets of Lancaster, Cravat and the scientist with the boat on their heads? I laughed so hard I cried! Great family fun. Avoid only if you're miserably devoid of a sense of humour, good nature, or are too cynical and jaded for simple things. Fans of 'Pirates of the Caribbean' would do well to see where a lot of that film's sense of fun and humour came from. You could do a lot worse than spending time watching a wonderful film like this.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Burt's Finest Hour Or Two","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before the languid Johnny Depp feminised buccaneers, there was effervescent Burt Lancaster to show how it should be done.You've only got to see him in action here to realise what a discovery Lancaster was to the movie business. Strong, fit, athletic, and well-muscled without looking like a steroid-queen, whilst with a drop-dead handsome face, a smile that made wide-screen essential, and teeth to give dentists wet-dreams. Dare I say it; he was a beautiful man? And he could ACT. Just check him out in 'Seven Days In May'.Here he's at his outlandish best. More visceral than the whey-faced Erol Flynn, a rip-roaring champion of the underclass, a pirate touched with humanity. As a one-time professional tumbler and acrobat, he scorned the use of stuntmen and what you see here is largely what you get; Burtie jumping, leaping, somersaulting and swinging in a way that would leave young Depp in need of resuscitation. Even by middle-age in the later 'The Train' he hurt his leg during a jump, but just bashed-on, limping his way through the movie. What a geezer!Our hero has a perfect foil in the form of small mixed-race mute Oyo - played for laughs by diminutive Nick Cravat - and despite a mutiny, imprisonment and every kind of escapade he comes out on top, defeating the tyrant and winning the girl - a not-so-comely Eva Bartok.This is an action comedy par-excellence. It is certainly contender for No.1 in the genre. It's as worthy a watch today as it was on its first release almost 60 years ago. Surely never bettered.I defy anyone, whatever their age, not to enjoy this movie.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Genius and madness","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie after hearing that the walking underwater scene in Black Pearl was in reference to it. The comments that Bloom and Depp make during that sequence, about genius and madness, may have been meant to apply, as well. Crimson Pirate is uneven, with high and very low points. Well, it's bad enough that it makes Black Pearl look like classic fiction; and yet there is a Pythonesque quality to it I think comes from the team of Lancaster and Cravat. I hadn't realized Lancaster was a true acrobat, and the performances he and his partner give here are sublime. The big fight scenes, particularly the last one, are extremely well choreographed, too. I would easily have given this a 10 on that basis, and there are some other good performances (especially among the pirates), but overall not everybody seems to have gotten the word it had become a comedy, and a few of the actors also seem rather wooden hence the 6/10.I do think the luxury sea liner in the background on those shots was intended -- any Film-Making 101 student could easily have changed the setup to avoid it, particularly at this point in the movie, where there are so many near-vertical shots. Given Lancaster's instruction at the beginning of the film to only believe half of what you see (and he was exaggerating even then), it had to be part of the joke. Maybe it's considered a goof or anachronism because that type of humor wasn't very common in mainstream movies in the 50s.One thing to remember as you watch Lancaster's hair they didn't have mousse back then, or blow dryers. Wow! Also bring sunglasses, because the reflection from his teeth when he grins can be blinding (BG).All in all, it's not The Black Pearl, but it's overall fun to watch and the acrobatics and some of the fight choreographies are must-see scenes. "},{"Title":"It's really too bad that producers of 2011's THE THREE MUSKETEERS . . .","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" . . . did not watch THE CRIMSON PIRATE first! These two flops have the exact same spoofy tone and reliance on whiz bang gadgets both anachronistic and underwhelming, while featuring complicated story lines which leave no room for development of characters the viewer can actually care about. If the men behind the $75 million boondoggle THE THREE MUSKETEERS (which only grossed $20 million when it came out)--such as director Paul W.S. Anderson--had the business savvy to try to avoid repeating great failures of the past (2005's SAHARA, in which Breck Eisner directed Matthew McConaughey in a Clive Cussler yarn, which cost $130 million, but only returned $69 million, also comes to mind), then maybe Logan Lerman (as Percy Jackson 2, out now) could have learned to act, as did the other young stars who cut their teeth on the role of D'Artagnan in earlier, better versions of THE THREE MUSKETEERS. But no, Hollywood honchos apparently avoid watching other moguls' earlier flops like the plague! If Hollywood made cars, all we would have is Edsels! "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time!","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can watch this movie over and over and never get tired of it. Once you have seen this movie you understand where a lot of the later pirate movies got some of their stuff from.The plot is classic movie writing at it's best with just the right amount of everything. One of the other reviewer's mentioned that if they showed this on TV it would probably appeal to all ages and in fact it does. I had loaned my copy to a friend with young children (about 5 years old) and his children loved it.It has all the elements that make movie going worth going. I hope that one day they remake this one but it would be really hard to fill Bert Lancaster's shoes. He was the perfect pirate.With his team of new found allies he sets out on a mission to get what he really wants. The girl! It's an adventure and a love story. What could be better, right? "},{"Title":"Crimson Pirate-When the Tide Turns **","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Burt Lancaster is supported by a relatively unknown cast and has comic relief on the part of Nick Cravat, his very loyal companion.Burt certainly used his acrobatic skills that we would see four years later in Trapeze. The way the ship is taken at the beginning of the film is quite comical.There is more treachery here that is beyond belief with pirates turning on one another, another being in cahoots with the evil baron who then turns around and goes against the pirates.The film takes part in the latter part of the 18th century with some people in rebellion against the English crown. They're fighting supposedly for their freedom.Naturally, there is romance with Lancaster falling for the leader's fiery daughter.What's wrong with the film-weak writing, a governor who literally mouths his words on screen, and battle scenes which become comic in nature. The sequence in the air balloon made me think I was back in the land of Oz. "},{"Title":"Muscles and Teeth","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Crimson Pirate is a swashbuckling adventure film which has much in common with The Flame and the Arrow from two years earlier. Both have a historical setting and star Burt Lancaster as the leader of a group of freedom fighters. Both films allow Lancaster to show off his skills as an acrobat (before becoming an actor he worked in a circus) and also co- star his close friend and former circus partner Nick Cravat. In both films Cravat's character is mute, although he himself was perfectly able to speak; apparently the reason was that he had a strong Brooklyn accent which the producers felt was inappropriate in a historical drama. Someone should have told the producers that any American accent- not just a Brooklyn one- would have been anachronistic in 12th century Italy, and there is no reason why a New Yorker should not have served on an 18th century pirate ship. The film is set in the Caribbean some time the 18th century. (Don't ask exactly when; this is not a film which places a high value on historical accuracy). Lancaster plays the pirate chief Captain Vallo, known as The Crimson Pirate. He and his crew become involved with a rebellion on the fictional island of Cobra against the tyrannical rule of the King of Spain and his special envoy Baron Gruda who has been ordered to crush the rebels. Vallo also becomes romantically involved with Consuelo, the beautiful daughter of the leader of the rebels. The plot, in fact, is rather more complicated than that brief summary might suggest; Vallo starts off as a cynical double-dealer, playing Gruda and the rebels off against one another in the hope of maximising his profits, but eventually throws his lot in with the rebel cause, motivated partly by idealism and partly by love for Consuelo. There is also a sub-plot about Vallo's treacherous first mate, Humble Bellows, who is plotting to depose him as pirate captain. (For some reason Bellows always speaks a pseudo-archaic dialect, referring to everyone as thee and thou, although he often gets it wrong; thee be instead of thou art). The film, however, doesn't really do plot any more than it does historical realism. The story is little more than an excuse for some spectacular (at least by the standards of the early fifties) action sequences and plenty of acrobatic derring-do from Lancaster and Cravat, who plays Vallo's lieutenant Ojo. Vallo, his men and the rebels are eventually enabled to defeat the government forces because a brilliant scientist puts at their disposal not only a hydrogen balloon (possible within the time-frame of the movie, given that the first such balloons appeared in the 1780s) but also, anachronistically, inventions such as nitroglycerine (discovered 1847), a flamethrower (first used in World War I) and a tank (ditto). I was surprised to discover that the film was directed by Robert Siodmak, as I had always associated him with more serious fare such as The Killers (which also starred Lancaster) and The Spiral Staircase. He was clearly a versatile director, but on the basis of this film swashbuckling adventure does not seem to have been his strong suit. The Flame and the Arrow may have its weaknesses, but at least it has something approaching a coherent plot and does not descend into silliness in the way that The Crimson Pirate tends to, frequently abandoning both coherence and credibility, generally in order to introduce some more circus stunts from Vallo and Ojo. The denouement is something of a cheat; the heroes in a historic adventure film ought to defeat the villains by being stronger, braver or more resourceful, not by suddenly having modern weapons placed at their disposal. In the early part of his career, Burt Lancaster was sometimes dismissed as Mr Muscles and Teeth, although this seems unfair as even in his early days he was capable of producing fine performances in serious films like The Killers or From here to Eternity. The Crimson Pirate, however, is very much one of his muscles and teeth films, making demands upon his athletic abilities but far fewer on his acting ones, except perhaps the ability to grin occasionally. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Another Ridiculous Cartoon of a Pirate Film","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I generally don't comment on movies I don't like, but I HATED this film enough to speak up.This is yet another example of the jaw-dropping INANITY that has come to represent the pirate film, in Hollywood. And, like Cutthroat Island, it's another reason why we don't see more pirate films.I'm not saying that every pirate film has to be 100% realistic -- this is the movies, we're talking about, not a history lesson. But, can we please TRY, people? I mean, come on...SELF-PROPELLED TANKS AND SUBMARINES? SEMAPHORE? FLAMETHROWERS? NITROGLYCERINE? I guess this is supposed to be humorous or cute, in an anachronistic, Wild Wild West kind of way? It isn't -- it's LAME.Twice, in this film, a man at ground zero of an enormous explosion is left charred and smoking, like Wiley Coyote, with a stupid expression on his face. At what point does this cease to be the wildly entertaining pirate yarn that people seem to want it to be (it's even championed by Leonard Maltin), and become the RIDICULOUS CLOWN ROUTINE that it actually IS?I mean, Lancaster actually gives us a DISCLAIMER at the beginning of the film. Saying that we should only believe half of what we see (too bad he didn't tell us WHICH half was the believable one). This is the mark of a truly BAD film. I mean, how often do you go to the movies, only to have the star come out before it starts to tell you that you're about to watch a bunch of NONSENSE? It looks more like a retroactive decision by the studio, in a pathetic attempt to keep audiences from walking out of what turned out to be a STUPID movie.The movie's fans can keep this one; I'll take The Sea Hawk. "}]