[{"Title":"I could not disagree more with the Maltin review!!!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  Whoever reviewed this film for Maltin's Guide (I wish they'd indicate who the reviewer is by initials or something.  It'd make the book more useful) does not share my tastes.  I personally don't care that it bears no relation to Andersen's life.  They admit it up front.  Judge a film by itself, not on it's supposed relation to reality!  Given Andersen's real life and his moody, pessemistic nature, I doubt being more accurate would have been a good thing.  The score is beautiful, the sets and Costumes are great and Danny Kaye was wonderful!  I haven't seen the movie for a couple of years and I stll remember most of the score!  Granted, it's not one of the all-time greats, but it's better than the Maltin review implies.  A worthy effort.  Recommended.   "},{"Title":"A sugary children's movie?  -actually, it's rather daring","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  Every single biopic of a creative artist tells the same story, whether it's true or not the Philistine World, or some part thereof, rejects the artist, and fails to see his greatness; but later on, perhaps during his lifetime, perhaps not, it sees the error of its ways.  That happens here.  Hans Christian Andersen is a village cobbler whose compulsive inventiveness is little thought of until he makes good in Copenhagen, after which...But there's much more going on.There's no doubt that Andersen was a great artist, in some sense.  `The Ugly Duckling' and `The Emperor's New Clothes' are two of the greatest short stories - fables, folktales - all of these - ever composed.  But he had his limitations.  There were many kinds of stories he just couldn't write.  His fertile talent for anthropomorphising was often a millstone.  In many respects he seems to have been a childish and naive man.  But get this all of these limitations make it onto the screen.  Both the story and Danny Kaye's performance (a great performance) make Andersen into a human being who is NOT the greatest storyteller since Shakespeare, but who can be admired for what he is.The main story isn't the `unrecognised genius' bit it's a story of unrequited love.  While in Copenhagen Andersen spends most of his time banging his head against the wall over an unattainable ballerina, whose interest in him is, as they say, purely professional.  He manages to be quite cruel to a close friend in the process, right up to the point where it's unclear that a reconciliation is possible.  (Indeed, it's unclear whether or not one occurs.)  When he realises what a fool he's been he just trudges back, defeated, to his village.  And it's here we have the obligatory scene where the villagers realise how great he was after all, mainly by singing the highly memorable refrains of the movie's songs, one after the other.  Well, the film needed some ending.  I'm inclined to forgive this one.There's also a lengthy Little Mermaid ballet - seven minutes long? more? - danced in its entirety.  (We see a LOT of the ballerina's craft in Copenhagen.)  This sort of thing wasn't too unusual in the 1950s but it's a genuine gamble in context - and one that I think pays off.  By the time the ballet appears the cheery story of an eccentric village storyteller had become surprisingly dark.  Vidor, it seems, would rather risk having people leave the cinema than insult those who remain.  Good for him.  I can't claim that this film works in every respect, and perhaps you won't like it, but I'm sure you won't feel cheated by it. "},{"Title":"I love it....","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  This was the movie that caused me to fall in love with Danny Kaye.  I still love watching  this movie more than 20 years after I saw it for the first time on television.  I love his  gentle nature with the children, in particular the little girl he sings Thumbalina to.   Fabricated or not, this is one of his best films showing the true diversity of an incredibly  talented man.  Danny Kaye was surely one of the last of a dying Hollywood breed. "},{"Title":"The Frank Loesser score is an original gem.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  Watching this again (for only the second time) last night, I was just knocked out by the score.    Presumably because of a Broadway-is-better-than-Hollywood bias, the piece tends to be dismissed in the Loesser oeuvre but every single number is a gem -- and the fullest score for a family fantasy since THE WIZARD OF OZ.    I was particularly taken by INCH WORM, a really short song sung in counterpoint to the children's chanting of their mathematic tables after the schoolmaster has dragged them away from Hans' tales.    Not long enough to have a commercial future (outside of a soundtrack album) it tells us more about Hans than most of the scene that precedes it.As others have noted, Danny Kaye is totally bearable and the kitsch side of the film is now enjoyable for that.    (The colours also recall WIZARD.)This film deserves more recognition in the world of original film musicals. It's a rare classic score at the time of composer compilations or Broadway imports. "},{"Title":"More than just a film","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  You could describe this as a childrens film but it's rather more of a family/young at heart type of story. These days it just doesn't really appeal to the age range that flocked to see it when it was released back in 1952, but if you have a good understanding of fables and fairy stories you will appreciate this little gem. First off it clearly states at the beginning of the film it's not a biography of Anderson but rather just a made up story, much in the style Anderson would have wrote himself. Hans was very much one of those village idiots/dreamers in his native Denmark and here he is portrayed as the childish adult who lets kids skive off school and teach them stories and songs which actually have a lot more impact on children than just sitting in a classroom reading books. And he's right, all of the stories he wrote had morals. However the stern mature townsfolk don't see things his way and go about throwing the guy out of their precious village to stop him corrupting the young minds with these 'childish' meanderings. Hans and his good friend young Peter take a trip to Copanhagen (or Copen-ha-gen as they seem to like calling) and there we see the masters inspiration and imagination go wild. He falls for a beautiful French ballerina, who he suspects her husband is beating her, a very adult topic to delve into, he gets into trouble with the law and ends up doing freelance work for the Ballerina - fixing her shoes. he reads all the signals wrong and falls for her unaware that for him fact and fantasy are overlapping. Peter seems to be the more mature of the two and eventually gets tired of warning Hans about building his hopes and getting obsessed about things he can never have. Skip to the end... Han's realises that there is more to life than day-dreams and clocks and flowers and returns to his village, slightly deflated but more wordly wiser and lives happily ever after.There's a very good moral to the story but it's one you can't really explain, you have to watch it and see for yourself. Your dreams are china in your hands. Danny Kaye is fabulous as Hans he always brings with him that symapathetic, boish quality and the ballet sequences are stunning for their time. The characters are basic but are very important to the way the film evolves. Inaccurate and very outdated but beautifully told and well acted. "},{"Title":"Wonderful kid's film","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" A lot of the comments previously made here are true and this certainly isn't any kind of real biographical film of Hans Christian Anderson. But one must remember that Samuel Goldwyn was primarily making this film as children's entertainment. And on that level he succeeded brilliantly.In fact at the age of 5 in the cinema in Brooklyn this was the first movie on the big screen I ever remember seeing. My father was a big Danny Kaye fan so the whole family went to see it. And of course one of the first long-playing records we had in our house was the soundtrack to that film. Another reviewer said that Frank Loesser's score was the highlight for him in the film. I don't think Danny Kaye ever had better material to sing with on the screen. Up to this point he got by with stuff especially written for him by his wife Sylvia Fine. He proved here in Hans Christian Anderson that he could definitely succeed without it.Anyway when I view this film I'm five years old again. You will be too if you see it. "},{"Title":"It's not a story of his life, just a fairytale about a spinner of fairy tales.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" So the opening written words say to us the very thing that many across the site have failed to spot, namely they wasn't going for autobiographical, just a celebration of the name and his work.Who better to bring the great Dane to the screen than Danny Kaye, his ebullient approach to the topic befits the glorious color that sparkles in each frame. The story tracks the Cobbler Andersen as he leaves his hometown of Odense to seek a new life in the beautiful city of Copenhagen. It is here that he becomes known for his stories that bring much joy to the children of Denmark and here that he writes his glorious Ballet version of The Little Mermaid. He gets into scrapes, he falls for a pretty girl, and most of all he discovers his vocation in life, this is indeed a delightful fairytale.Sit back and enjoy The Emperor's New Clothes, Wonderful Copenhagen, Thumberlina and The Ugly Duckling, and then pray silence for the 15 minute showing of The Little Mermaid, smashingly buoyant film that may come wrapped up in treacle for some, but hey I got a sweet tooth and it works for me. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A delight for the whole family.","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" A fictional account of the life of storyteller Hans Christian Andersen. First, if you haven't read his stories, then you probably won't appreciate this movie as much as you should. It's a perfect excuse to read them with your family, then watch the movie. Second, if you're expecting a sophisticated, adult-oriented story, you will be disappointed; however, the morals to Hans' stories, as well as the movie's lessons, are very worthy. That said, the musical numbers are an absolute delight -- Danny Kaye never fails to deliver a wonderful performance, and where else can you learn to sing stories, instead of tell them, for your children? -- and the ballets are great for this venue. We even get to see the movie's choreographer dance in one of the numbers. This movie was nominated for several Oscars. It deserved those nominations. Don't skip this one, especially if you have small children. "},{"Title":"Goldwyn's garish Technicolor tribute to the Danish storyteller features a remarkably subdued performance from Danny Kaye and a superior score from Frank Loesser.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  This rather sophisticated musical appears to have been inspired by the visionary and dreamy Powell/Pressburger classic THE RED SHOES.  It's  as much a stylized romance as it is a kiddie picture, with Kaye refraining from indulging in the manic twittering he's generally known for, and becoming a rather poignant protagonist.  That's not to say the whole family can't get something out of it, but the script makes no small point of creating sexual tension within it's romantic framework.  Goldwyn wanted to make this picture for years, but couldn't find a script to satisfy him.  Moss Hart finally came up with this one, and it's a surprisingly multi-dimensional one.  Frank Loesser's music and lyrics are wonderful.   "},{"Title":"My children and I absolutely LOVED this movie!","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" I grew up watching old Danny Kaye movies. When I found this one, I couldn't resist.In the age of violence on TV, etc. I would sit with my girls and watch Hans and Peter leave their home and travel to Copenhagen and have wonderful adventures.Despite the other comment, both of my daughters sat riveted to the screen during the ballet sequences. They loved the beauty and elegance.But most of all, we all loved Danny. Hans was a character we quoted to each other on a regular basis. He said a few things that we still say. That's what's nice about the world - people! He reminds us that sex and violence don't need to be in entertainment in order to be enjoyable. "}{"Title":"On the ballet and subtleties in this movie.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" A few comments have been made about the ballet in this movie. More needs to be said. The ballet is really just wonderful. I am not a ballet fan, but this dance spoke to me. The movie itself tells a story of unattainable love and the ballet is placed in the movie at the point that Hans has just tried to approach the ballerina at the theater. The ballet then tells the story of the Little Mermaid in dance and ends with the little mermaid walking back to the sea. Thereafter Hans has the same experience. This was a much more enjoyable ballet than others I have seen, I think largely because in film one doesn't have the scene changes that are inherent in an on-stage presentation. Critics back in 1952 thought that the ballet was one of the best ballet performances that had ever been brought to the screen. In addition, that ballerina, ZiZi Jeanmaire, could act. Her performance as an woman in an odd relationship who found herself touched by Han's affections was nicely done.The more you read about Hans Christian Anderson, the more you appreciate this movie. Anderson's approach to his stories was, as he said, to take an adult theme and tell the story in a way children would enjoy it, but to have elements that adults would appreciate. This movie accomplishes this very well. Anderson's father was a cobbler. Anderson originally lived in Odense, a town that at that time was wedded to the past and tradition, who expected that people would remain in their class. He moved to Copenhagen where he found support and success. Eventually he started grammar school on a royal scholarship but was subjected to a stern schoolmaster who sought to put Anderson in his place and punish Anderson for his creative streak. Anderson was rescued by the kindness of others who saw his gift for writing. The movie itself tells the story of Hans Christian Anderson. As Anderson took an adult idea and made a children's story, this movie takes Anderson's life as a concept and relates a story that is enjoyable by children, but has much to say to adults watching. Anderson was confident of his abilities as a writer and movie Hans sang with confidence at to being a cobbler. He publicly courted two women both of which were unobtainable to him, and his infatuation with the ballerina in the movie paralleled this, as well as simultaneously expressing Anderson's love of ballet. He was also attracted to men, in later years one was a ballet dancer. The previous post about homo-eroticism with the boy in the movie being shirtless in one scene probably reflects that. (The movie doesn't have sexual tension between them. It is a father-son relationship.) For 4 years Anderson was at a school with a stern disciplinarian headmaster. The inchworm song, where the children in the background sing a rote sequence of math facts while movie Hans sings how the inchworm plods along measuring but ends up oblivious to the beauty of the flower was a short fable which both drew on Anderson's life and told a story to children, which was exactly the sort of thing Anderson would have done. Anderson frequently gave magical qualities to inanimate objects in his stories, and the scene where movie Hans had the table and chair relating to each other was charming in the same way. Another scene, where movie Hans tells the ugly ducking song to a child who had lost his hair ended with a shot of a policeman who was standing nearby giving Hans a nod and a smile to Hans for having done a kind thing for a child, which echo's how adults see messages in Anderson's stories. Anderson was not appreciated initially in his native Denmark, but after he had international success he gained great fame in Denmark. When he eventually returned to Odense he was welcomed a hero, which was reflected in the film and was a line where movie Hans said how nice it would be to return home well regarded for his success away from home. There was even a little match girl seen in the movie.Even the casting of Danny Kaye as Hans was inspired. Anderson was tall, lanky, awkward, and homely, but had a sweet melodious voice, and was able to tell stories so well that one forgot who was telling them and became enveloped in the story itself. Other than awkwardness, this was Danny Kaye.As many of Anderson's fairy tales were metaphors of his life, this movie is a metaphor of Anderson's life. Within the movie there is the ballet of the Little Mermaid. Thus there is metaphor within metaphor in the movie. There is subtlety in how this movie expresses facets of Anderson's life as there is subtlety in Anderson's fairy tales. Steve Hollandhttp//www.endicott-studio.com/jMA03Summer/hans.htmlhttp//www.powells.com/review/2005_06_03.html "},{"Title":"The most underrated musical I have ever seen!","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" This film is fantastic. The problem is hardly anybody has seen it, and anybody who hasn't is seriously missing out. It features Danny Kaye in his element here, as the fairy-tale author, and a superb score by Frank Loesser. All the songs are moving or humorous, and I recognised all of the fairy tales. I was moved by Ugly Duckling, laughing with delight at Thumbelina, and swaying in time to the music of Copenhagen, which has never looked that beautiful. The supporting stars are solid, most notably from Joey Walsh, Farley Granger and Jeanmaire. Speaking of the ballet sequences, I disagree that they were plodding. It may have been 20 minutes long, but the little mermaid, for me was the highlight of the film, and perfectly set to the music of Lizst. Hearing Schubert's Rosamunde was a delight, and when I heard the music to Anderson's dream(him trying to get Doro away from Nils), I genuinely felt I was watching a Wagnerian opera, with its devilish imagery and Flying Dutchman -like incidental music. Danny Kaye was fantastic in the song numbers, and although his voice isn't large, he has phenomenal breath control that is almost as good as that of the opera singer Tito Schipa. Watch this musical, which is perfectly-paced. If you don't see this, you're seriously missing out! 10/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Danny Kaye in a fairy tale","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" This is a movie that's based on the life of the Danish storyteller, H.C.Andersen (1805-1875).Except that it's not.It's more like a fairy tale of his life.Hans is a cobbler living in Odense, a small town in Denmark.He keeps telling fairy tales to local children, which makes the schoolmaster furious, since they rather listen to those fairy tales than attend classes.They then decide Hans has to leave.Hans' apprentice Peter doesn't tell him this, but awakes his old dream of going to Copenhagen.The pair sails off to big city, where he meets a beautiful ballerina, Doro.He falls in love with her immediately.Later he finds out she's married to her tyrannical impresario Niels.But he still keeps his dream alive of having her.Also, one of his tales, The Ugly Duckling, gets published in the Gazette newspaper.And The Little Mermaid is made into a ballet.It is Doro who gets to dance the lead.Hans Christian Andersen is directed by Charles Vidor.It's writers are Myles Connolly, Moss Hart and Ben Hecht.Samuel Goldwyn is the producer.This was his final production for RKO Radio Release.Danny Kaye is just the right man to play the lead.He was a great comedian, and he could nail the more serious roles, as well.The part of Doro is played by the now 85 years old ballet dancer Zizi Jeanmaire.This is her first film role.Farley Granger plays the husband Niels.Also her real life husband, Roland Petit, is in the movie as The Prince in The Little Mermaid ballet.The part of Peter is played by Joseph Joey Walsh.Philip Tonge is Otto.John Brown plays Schoolmaster.John Qualen is Burgomaster.Ex-dancer Sylvia Lewis is seen as Danseuse/Corps de Ballet.This is a wonderful film for kids and for the inner kids of us adults.It's a great musical with lots of brilliant songs that bring you in a good mood.Wonderful Copenhagen is very catchy.As are many other songs, including The King's New Clothes and I'm Hans Christian Andersen..It's a sweet moment when Hans sings the song of Thumbelina to the little girl outside the jail.The song was nominated for an Academy Award.Also a sweet moment is when he sings the tale of The Ugly Duckling to a friendless boy, who's head has been shaved due to illness.This is a positive movie, that shows us there's nothing a fairy tale can't fix.Of course life's not like that most of the times, but in a fairy tale anything is possible. "},{"Title":"Just a good holiday film...","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" as many other reviews have aptly described the technical aspects, it should be noted that this film was made for a younger audience, and unfortunately there are not many we see today, which may be cited for quality and originality.In particular, The Ugly Duckling story and The Boy Who Cried Wolf story- how many children have not read or even heard of these fables today? While it is a storybook land, small tales like this stay with us, which we may pass on to our children.This film used to be on during the 60's and 70's and was always a Christmas favorite. This along with White Christmas and Rudolf are a few I would heartily recommend for the holiday season. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Lode Of Cobblers","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" My vote is largely for the superb score by Frank Loesser; written a scant two years after his great Broadway masterpiece Guys And Dolls the most striking thing about it is its complete difference to the Broadway musical with the only commonality being the melodic melodies and literate lyrics. Danny Kaye, of course, phones it in, and whilst its easy to see how a child may be captivated by his easy charm the adult will note the cynicism at work and the calculation that goes into every smile to ensure just the right amount of sincerity, not too little, not too much, in some ways Kaye was the Olivier of the cinema. On the other hand Sam Goldwyn clearly instructed his creative team to come up with an entertaining, schmaltzy musical full of sentiment and songs and, let's face it, he got just that. "},{"Title":"A mixture of fun, music and ballet to tell the story of the wonderful Anderson...","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" Artistically, Hans Christian Anderson is wonderful to look at with beautifully designed sets and costumes and a sprightly score that uses his fairy-tales for inspiration. And there's no doubt that DANNY KAYE was highly suited to this kind of material with its major appeal for children.But there are drawbacks--the biggest one being the length which drags in spots and is uneven throughout. The performances are fine and almost make you forget that the slow spots are there. FARLEY GRANGER is fine as the ballet director dealing with a temperamental ballet star JEANMAIRE. However, it doesn't help that the climactic LITTLE MERMAID ballet is dull and much too long.The score saves the picture from being too sappy at times, with numbers like Thumbalina, The Ugly Duckling and Wonderful Copenhagen that brighten the story with clever lyrics and sprightly tunes.Kaye is less frenetic than usual as Hans and overall it's one of his best performances. Children should love it. "},{"Title":"Goes good with ice cream and cake","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out. I was about 7 years old, and I have been singing and dancing along with it ever since. I think all the kids in the family were doing the same. Most recently, my husband and I watched the excellent Blu-Ray edition to celebrate my 71st birthday.. Sugary it may be but it still goes good with ice cream and cake. It was a great celebration of life with music, dance, and story. Several times at my advanced age I still could not resist joining in. There are many wonderful songs in it, including the Oscar nominee Thumbelina and a tender melancholy song Anywhere I Wander, but I think my favorite for singing along is still Copenhagen (Wonderful, wonderful Copenhagen, salty old queen of the sea). "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Wonderful Danny Kaye-Hans Christian Andersen ****","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" A lovely film to inspire children and adults of all ages is this 1952 Charles Vidor directed film starring Danny Kaye, the magnificent, in the title role.With songs such as Wonderful, Wonderful Copenhagen and Thumbalina, how can you go wrong.As the cobbler who spins his tales to children, Kaye is inspiring as he finds the true meaning of life when he and the orphan he has adopted leave their small town in Denmark to travel to the big city of Copenhagen. Falling in with a tempestuous ballet coordinator, Farley Granger, and his wife Jeanmaire, Andersen sees the very difficult Granger and falling in love with his wife,the ballerina, he writes a ballet, The Little Mermaid for her.When he realizes at the end the two despite their differences love each other, he returns with Peter to the small town to bask in his triumph of success as he once more sings and tells his stories to children. "},{"Title":"A Classic Fairy Tale","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" Samuel Goldwyn was a genius. This is an oft-overlooked classic where the songs (by Frank Loesser) are better known than the movie Wonderful, Wonderful Copenhagen, Inchworm, Ugly Duckling and Thumbelina.Presented as a fairy tale, it bears no resemblance to a biography of Hans Christian Andersen, and says so right at the beginning. Hans is a cobbler in an obscure Danish village and wants nothing more out of life that the right to enjoy it and tell stories to the children. The schoolmaster wants Hans to leave town because he disrupts the school. He is persuaded by his apprentice to visit Copenhagen. So he does. He falls in love with a beautiful ballerina there.(Jeanmarie) He fantasizes marrying her and writes the story of The Little Mermaid, which becomes a successful ballet with her in the starring role. He makes special ballet slippers for the ballerina to wear. He returns home, after realizing that she is very happily married, where he is now a celebrated author, loved and respected by all the townspeople.The Emperor's New Clothes (The King is in the All-Together) is sung to the children, as are all the stories he tells. No animation here, although Walt Disney's Studios were considered. They are all well-acted out by Danny Kaye, especially Thumbelina, with a thumb puppet and a handkerchief. All of his stories have a moral and enrich the lives of the children that hear them.The ballet scenes are a real stand-out, but they might be a little slow for some, and were often shortened for TV viewing. Good special effects, and flying on wire to simulate mermaid swimming. Not exactly the Wizard of Oz, but very well-filmed in brilliant Technicolor, with beautiful sets and costumes.Some of the reviewers obviously do not appreciate this movie, making comments about the ballet and the film's dialog. I suppose they think that maybe Danny Kaye was gay just because he sang and danced? He was married and had one child, a daughter, Dora.Danny Kaye gives a somewhat subdued performance here and, as noted before, this film is often overlooked. I believe it is one of his best. "},{"Title":"Subdued musical for older children...","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" Danny Kaye is well-cast, if exceptionally low-keyed, in title role of storytelling Danish cobbler in the 1820s who travels to Copenhagen in search of a better life and winds up falling in love with an already-married ballerina. Moss Hart's screenplay doesn't attempt to follow the actual journey the real-life Hans Christian Andersen took to get from shoemaker to beloved author, and some of his dramatic incidents fail to cohere (such as Andersen being told by his apprentice that members of the ballet troupe were laughing at him, or Andersen landing a writing job at the newspaper but leaving town instead). There are two ballet sequences and a fantasy wedding which are lovely in design but slow down the pacing (the first ballet--a dress rehearsal--actually has nothing whatsoever to do with Andersen); in the meantime, we see Hans arrested for something he didn't do, while a moody kid who doesn't go to school enters and exits the scenario at whim. The pleasant Frank Loesser songs are hummable though not singable, while the proverbial saccharin-factor is kept at a minimum thanks to an even-handed direction by Charles Vidor. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Farley Granger, RIP","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" Yesterday would have been Hans Christian Andersen's 206th birthday, and I just watched Charles Vidor's musical about the famous Danish storyteller. The movie of course is not a biography but rather a fairy tale interpretation of the man's life. Danny Kaye plays Andersen, telling stories to schoolchildren while the teacher gets annoyed. Forced out of Odense, Andersen moves to Copenhagen, where he gets a job with the Royal Danish Ballet and falls for one of the dancers.I saw Hans Christian Andersen when I was about six, but only interpreted the scene where he turns his thumb into Thumbelina. Now that I'm old enough to understand the whole thing, I can say that the line sometimes a king is just a queen with a moustache sounds as if it refers to a man in drag! Anyway, it's the sort of movie that might make you say the sorts of things that the characters on Mystery Science Theater 3000 say, but for the most part it's pretty enjoyable. Also starring Farley Granger (who died a few days ago) and Zizi Jeanmaire. "},{"Title":"Gay subtext","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" Beautiful cinematography and set design. Plodding ballet sequences. Great songs. Blatant homo-erotic sub-tones....exactly why is Peter doing that scene without his shirt on? Peter jealous of Hans? The feeling is in every scene between the two leads. Intended? Check out the same situation in director Charles Vidor's Gilda. Anyway, nothing's better than Technicolor.And, since IMDb requires ten lines for a review (who needs to listen to pontification?), let's see what else I can say. How many kids do you think sat still during that long ballet interlude? The last half of the film drags considerably. I agree with a previous comment....Inch Worm is the best song, and it didn't even make it into the original theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Marvellous songs but what a pity about that ballet","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":" Firstly the 10 out of 10 is for the songs and NOT for the film itself.Watching this film again for the first time in about 50 years I was again impressed by the Loesser songs. The music, words and rhyming patterns of this man who gave us Guys and Dolls are just perfect for this film.The only part that bored me to tears was the interminable ballet sequence at the end. Fortunately, watching the DVD I could fast forward through this section.I also suspected a subtle homo-erotic subtext in the Andersen scenes with Peter (Joey Walsh) Was that bare-chested scene really necessary? Also the dialog towards the end might subtly suggest this Do you mind if I walk beside you? We both seem to be going in the same direction, and there is really only one road. By the way, modern research indicates that Andersen was possibly gay or asexual. "},{"Title":"Danny Kaye's Mistake","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Family, Musical","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Danny Kaye.Films like ON THE DOUBLE,KNOCK ON WOOD and THE COURT JESTER are enjoyable vehicles.THE INSPECTOR GENERAL is even better but his greatest achievement is the brilliant comedy THE SECRET LIFE OF WALTER MITTY,it is one of the finest comedies ever made with a superb cast(besides Danny Kaye there is the beautiful Virginia Mayo and Boris Karloff)and a perfect mixture of songs and adventure.HANS CHRISTIAN ANDERSEN is the worst Danny Kaye film I've ever seen.It doesn't have the story lines of the films mentioned above or a good cast.The worst part is the fact that there are much too many songs in it and it runs way too long,it should have been cut for 90 minutes not 2 hours.The ballet at the end is an anti climax that doesn't even have Danny Kaye in it and the story of Andersen has been changed for no reason at all.The focus in the film is much too much on the female ballet dancer Zizi Jeanmaire which takes away the comic touches. The songs are not convincing,the only enjoyable song is Thumbelina.Danny Kaye shouldn't have cooperated on this project.I would recommend Kaye's classic THE SECRET LIFE OF WALTER MITTY at any time over this film. 4/10 "}]