[{"Title":"Making movies","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"54 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful takes a look at Hollywood. This incisive take about how movies are made, directed by Vincente Minnelli, dares to go behind the scenes to show what goes on in the way the film industry operates. The film adaptation by Charles Schnee gives us a good idea of that unreal world of fantasy and hype.At the center of the story is Jonathan Shields, a young man with connections to the industry. He wants to follow his father's footsteps and goes at it vigorously, making friends and enemies along the way. Jonathan discovers he can be ruthless whenever he wants. His first victim is Fred Amiel, the talented director who Jonathan bypasses in favor of a more established one. Jonathan quickly forgets the friendship Fred and his wife showed him before becoming a big producer.Then there is there is Georgia Larrion, the boozy daughter of a famous actor. Jonathan shows how he wants Georgia to succeed in the business, personally taking care of selling her to star in his big project, only to betray her with another woman, a glamorous bit player. When Georgia discovers the truth, she flees Jonathan's mansion in a clear night that suddenly turns into a torrential downpour and loses control of the car, but she doesn't suffer a scratch!The last victim of Mr. Shields is the Pulitzer prize winner, James Lee Bartlow, who Jonathan coaxes into leaving his academic life to adapt his own novel for the movies. James is married to the flighty Rosemary, in whom Jonathan discovers a weak link that will do anything to hobnob with the celebrities. Jonathan makes it easy for Rosemary to fall into an affair with the star of Shields' film.When we first watched this film, it seemed much better, than on this viewing where a lot of things surface to make some of the story much weaker than before. Some viewers have compared this film with the fate of Orson Welles in Hollywood, and there are a couple of references that could be interpreted that way. Whether it was so, or not, it's up to the viewer to guess where the truth lies.Kirk Douglas gave a strong performance as Jonathan Shields. Mr. Douglas showed he clearly understood who this man was. He runs away with the film, in our humble opinion. Lana Turner, a beautiful presence in any movie, is good, but at times she appears to be overwhelmed by the range of emotions she has to project, especially with that phony car scene.Dick Powell and Gloria Graham put in an excellent appearance as the Bartlows. Barry Sullivan disappears after Lana shows up, not to be seen until the end. Walter Pigeon is effective as the studio head. Gilbert Roland is perfect as Gaucho, the Latin actor with a lot of charisma.Mr. Minnelli shows he wasn't afraid to portray the industry the way we see it in the film, not a small accomplishment, knowing well how it could have backfired on him. Hollywood is not forgiving to those who dare to show its ugly side and that's when the parallel with Orson Welles problems with the system and eventual exile can be drawn. "},{"Title":"A Tale of Three Betrayals","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"41 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Producer Jonathan Shields is in big trouble on a production and reaches out to three people he's befriended and betrayed in the past for help. All three are brought to Harry Pebbel's office where he makes a pitch for the help of each one. And we're told in flashback the dynamics of the relationships between Shields and each one.One thing about Tinseltown, they've never been afraid to show the seamier side of movie-making. Kirk Douglas's Jonathan Shields is a not too thinly disguised version of David O. Selznick. The same drive, the same ambition, the same overwhelming ego that Selznick was legendary for is a part that was tailor made for Kirk Douglas.The three betrayed people, director Fred Amiel(Barry Sullivan), star Georgia Lorrison(Lana Turner), and screenwriter James Lee Barlow(Dick Powell)all ring very true. One of the things I like about this film is that all three stories, each in itself, could be expanded into a film all it's own. Lana Turner's role as the ersatz Diana Barrymore is not to hard to spot either. It's so much better here than the film based on her own book Too Much Too Soon. If that voice of Turner's actor father on those 78 rpms she's playing sounds familiar, it's that of Louis Calhern. Turner's was a life lived out all too well in the tabloids and she brings all of it to bear in playing Gerogia Lorrison.Dick Powell, who was offered the lead as Jonathan Shields, opted to play tweedy professor turned screenwriter James Lee Barlow. This was Powell's next to last feature picture as an actor, it should have been the one he went out on. Powell was always ahead of the industry's cutting edge and he decided to concentrate more on directing and acting for the small screen.Powell's segment includes Gloria Grahame as his flirty wife. Post World War II Hollywood, whenever it had a part for a tramp, first call Gloria Grahame. Here she responds with an Academy Award winning performance. She hasn't many scenes, but as was said in another MGM picture around that time, what there is is cherce.I don't think there's ever been an actor who can go from zero to sixty on the emotional scale as quickly as Kirk Douglas. Check the scene when Lana Turner discovers how Douglas betrayed her. The intensity of his reaction alone is frightening and real. Douglas was also up for an Oscar, but it went that year to laconic Gary Cooper in High Noon.Vincente Minelli put all the pieces together just right and it comes out great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Entertaining backstage business","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Glossy MGM soaper has many things to recommend it, not the least of which is a surprisingly grounded, natural Lana Turner (looking great, even in ordinary jammies) playing a successful movie actress who, along with a top screenwriter and director, help producer-on-the-skids Kirk Douglas stage a comeback. Not especially revealing about Hollywood, which at this stage wasn't quite ready to unmask itself, but still engaging and intriguing. Douglas is well-cast (he spits out his lines with a terse jaw--nothing new--but he's right for this part and is commendable). Turner is a revelation and deserved at the very least an Oscar nomination for her work; the picture did go on to win Academy Awards in five categories, including Gloria Grahame as Best Supporting Actress; Charles Schnee, Best Screenplay; Robert Surtees, Best Cinematography, Black-and-White; Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Black-and-White; and Best Costume Design, Black-and-White. Well-directed by Vincente Minnelli, the picture gets less attention than something like All About Eve, but it's actually more entertaining. *** from **** "},{"Title":"that bad, bad producer","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"33 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A story of betrayals and misunderstandings in the festering underbelly of Hollywood; this is Vincente Minnelli's cool expose of the workings of a producer (Kirk Douglas, as one of the movies' great detestable characters) and the effect he has on those who come into contact with him a director who feels abandoned yet goes on to produce his greatest work (Barry Sullivan); an actress who is rescued from semi-alcoholism and turned into a star (Lana Turner, in one of her trademark parts); and a prize-winning novelist who is uprooted to shape his book for the screen (Dick Powell, in one of his last film roles before moving into television and film directing).We see their stories in a series of flashbacks, linked by the three enemies of Douglas coming together in the office of studio biggie Walter Pidgeon &#150; who coolly reminds them of the good things the producer brought to their lives along with the bad.  There are other good performers in smaller roles &#150; Gloria Grahame as Powell's twittery wife, Gilbert Roland as the Latin temptation, and so on.   &#145;The Bad and the Beautiful', filmed in good old black and white, has plenty of meat to keep you watching.  Only the slightly twee ending lets it down, but you can't have everything.  "},{"Title":"2 Out Of 3 Ain't Bad","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"39 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A bit of a soap opera, this film was divided into three segments as people recalled their experiences with Jonathan Shields, played well by Kirk Douglas.Shields was a guy interested in making movies and he used people to get to the top. Three of these people tell of their dealings with him, and none of them have too many good things to say.I liked the first and third segments but didn't care for the middle one with Lana Turner simply because Turner became so melodramatic, too hysterical for me. Barry Sullivan was excellent in the first part and helped get me into the story. He was the director who got screwed by Douglas.Turner was the unknown actress whom Douglas turned into a star while the last part dealt with the key screenwriter for Douglas, played by Dick Powell. I thought Powell was the best of the four main characters of the film but his segment was the shortest, unfortunately. As good as he was, his wife was equally as annoying. She was played by the normally entertaining and alluring Gloria Grahame, who was anything but that in this role. She sounded ludicrous with her fake southern accent. How she won an Academy Award for this role is mind- boggling.Some classify this movie as film noir, but I dispute that. It's simply a straight drama with soapish overtones. It's well-written, however, and keeps one's interest all the way, so I am not knocking this movie. It has a good things going for it. "},{"Title":"a movie that embraces the Hollywood studio machine while putting a harsh criticism of it","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That one line summary makes me sound like I'm calling the Bad and the   Beautiful a case in 'tough love', where director Vincente Minnelli wags   his finger at what happens to some people (cough, David O. Selznick,   cough), while also showing too the joys of working in the business. But   it's a business at its most booming time, coming out of the 40s where   the producer was king, and the director had to vie for room at times to   really get his vision in. Here the producer Jonathan Shields is played   by Kirk Douglas as someone with big ideas at first- he even has an idea   to help make a scary movie about cats even more frightening by not   showing the cats (echoes of Val Lewton). Soon he rises the ranks and   becomes big enough to really call the shots all he wants, but it also   gets in the way of personal relationships, severs ties, and sometimes   even makes him out to be monstrous (there's one shot I remember all the   time where Douglas, in a big fit of anger against Lana Turner's   character, seems like he's a whole foot taller with the ego almost   manifested). The narrative of the film is a retelling by people who   knew him, a sexy but soon disillusioned actress, a director who once   worked with Shields but then got cut off from him, and a writer played   by Dick Powell.    Rashomon or Citizen Kane it is not in trying to reveal more grandiose   and amazing things about human nature, but rather a supreme rumination   on the good times and the bad times, possibly more of the latter.   What's great about Douglas's portrayal is that through the stories from   the three ex-friends and co-workers and lovers, he becomes a very   well-rounded character. At the core, of course, is the producer who at   the time had as more creative say than anyone else on the set. This   brings some of the great scenes ever shown about movie-making, such as   the moment when Amiel, the director, tries to put Jonathan in his   place about how a scene should be shot, in order to direct a picture   you need humility. Another comes with the moment when Jonathan and his   soon to be 'asistant to the producer' has to object out of just being   stunned. But more than Douglas, it's also tremendous, memorable screen   time for Lana Turner, perhaps in her most successful performance in   just sheer acting terms (not necessarily just in presence or style like   in other pictures), and for Dick Powell, who with this and Murder My   Sweet has two defining roles outside of his usual niche.    With many sweet camera moves, a script that crackles with the kind of   scenes and dialog that makes one wish for the glory times of   Hollywood's Golden Age, and at least four or five really excellent   performances, The Bad and the Beautiful might not be as astounding and   near-perfect as 8 1/2 or as funny as Bowfinger, but it ranks up there   with the best movies about movie-making, and can make for some fine   entertainment even for those who aren't really interested in how movies   are made. "},{"Title":"Citizen Shields","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the way ensemble casts and biopics should work. Similar to Citizen Kane in style (though not quite at that level in quality), The Bad And The Beautiful presents us with the character of Jonathan Shields (Douglas) as seen through the eyes of four people who worked with him.I'm not sure who the Shields character was based upon. I believe his character was actually an amalgamation of several producers and directors. You certainly get to see a lot of the traits producers have become infamous for.However, these traits are all presented through the eyes of others and, as such, we are never sure what truly made Shields tick. We can only guess by putting together the different viewpoints and that is pretty much true to life.The cast did a great job with director Amiel (Sullivan) starting things off. The performances were not terribly deep or wrenching, but the story didn't really call for it. Lana Turner was very good as the starlet living in her father's shadow, but I'm not sure why she received top billing. Gloria Grahame did win an Oscar for her supporting role, which was surprising. The role was barely significant enough to be supporting. She was, as always, very charming in it though.Overall, an excellent slice-of-Hollywood-life disguised as a biopic. It will make for a fun viewing with characterizations you can think about for weeks to come. "},{"Title":"Give the Devil his Due","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" During this time in the early 50s there were quite a number of Hollywood pictures which scrutinised and often satirised Hollywood itself. The old studio system had been seriously weakened in the war years, the young crop of independent producers and writer-directors were gaining ever more prominence, and the dream factory as a whole had become a little more introspective, not to mention cynical. But while Sunset Boulevard, All About Eve (about the theatre, but the point carries through) and Singin' in the Rain aimed their sights at the injustice and hypocrisy of the star system, The Bad and the Beautiful takes on the thorny issue of creative control.The Bad and the Beautiful is referenced extensively in auteurist Martin Scorsese's 1995 documentary on American movies, as an explanation of the antagonism between a producer's commercial drive and a director's artistic one. However it is far from a validation of auteur theory, for while it emphasises the importance of the director's role, it also points out (quite correctly) the equally crucial contributions of the writer and the producer himself. Incidentally the actual producer of The Bad and the Beautiful is John Houseman, primarily an actor who really only dabbled (albeit quite successfully) in production, and thus someone who could perhaps afford to snipe from the sidelines. Oddly enough screenwriter Charles Schnee would also turn to producing soon after this. He certainly shows extensive insider knowledge of the industry.The director of The Bad and The Beautiful is Vincente Minnelli, a man whose flowing and extravagant style was put to best use in the musical genre, and although he was certainly competent in drama he does tend to overdo things a little for the form. One typically impressive Minnelli manoeuvre is the lengthy tracking shot at the party about fifteen minutes in, in which the camera is carried from one character to the next, while the careful arrangement of extras draws our eyes from one point of focus to another, a woman singing beautifully yet unnoticed in one corner, while a gossipy starlet is surrounded by a gaggle of admirers in another. Minnelli's tendency to keep all the characters in shot together during dialogue scenes means there is no need for back-and-forth editing. When there is a cut it is a meaningful jump, such as the close-up when Sullivan is told he won't be directing Shield's first big picture. Ultimately though the elaborate nature of Minnelli's direction is disproportionate to the needs of the picture, and a more stripped-down approach could have intensified the drama.Another lesson The Bad and the Beautiful teaches us, both through its plot and its own example, is the importance of the right actors in a production. The majority of players in this large ensemble cast tend towards a uniform competence. People like Walter Pidgeon, Barry Sullivan and Vanessa Brown give steady, solid performances, not outstanding but apt to their characters. Dick Powell has a neat writer-ish cynicism to him, and it is only him and the vivacious Gloria Grahame that threaten to steal the show. A gratingly melodramatic Lana Turner is the only conspicuously bad player. However at the heart of The Bad and the Beautiful lies the powerful turn by Kirk Douglas. Douglas plays Shields with the mix of realism and exaggeration of a larger-than-life character, capturing the producer's boyish enthusiasm and exposing his inner fragility in a way that draws attention and lingers in the mind.And it is here that we can see the picture's real worth. It is all very well making an accurate and incisive behind-the-scenes study of Hollywood's methods and morals, but to have any point the picture should also be an engaging and entertaining piece of storytelling. The Bad and the Beautiful is not especially romantic or funny or suspenseful, and yet it was a big hit, being the second-highest grossing picture of 1952. It seems the best thing this picture has going for it is the very character of Shields himself, who as written by Schnee and played by Douglas is both a fascinating and, yes, sympathetic individual. And the overriding message seems to be that, while producers tend to be a rather dysfunctional lot, it is their drive and efficiency that is behind many of the best things in movies. The picture's original title Tribute to a Bad Man is eminently better than the one it got saddled with. Jonathon Shields is clearly not a nice person, but through its compelling portrayal The Bad and the Beautiful salutes him. "},{"Title":"The composer the star","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My tribute to the great Hollywood film composer, David Raksin, is long overdue. I only discovered the other day that he died a couple of summers ago at the considerable age of 92. I suppose I had thought that like most of those figures who reached their peak in the middle of the last century he had passed away many years ago. A re-seeing of The Bad and the Beautiful fairly recently reminded me of just how outstanding was his contribution to movies of all shades of quality. I first became aware of the uniqueness of the Raksin 'sound' on my original viewing of Wyler's Carrie in 1952. It is impossible to define, other than to say that it owes nothing to central European romanticism, the sound of almost all the in-house studio composers such as Newman, Stothart and Steiner, or to the tradition of 20th century symphonists such as Copland and Diamond which fed the imagination of film composers as diverse as Elmer Bernstein and David Amram. Raksin had a sound all his own as did Bernard Herrmann and Miklos Rozsa, as instantly recognisable as theirs but I feel his range is wider. He seldom repeated himself as did Rozsa who composed in the same style regardless of genre. (Double Idemnity, Ben-Hur and Madame Bovary have nothing common apart from their same sort of watered down Kodaly-like music.) His style is intensely lyrical, conceived with a verve and passion that always transcended the most trivial movies and made them, if not worth watching, always worth listening to. Unlike many of his colleagues he seldom hit the jackpot by working on films of great quality. I think it only happened twice, with Abraham Polonsky's B movie Force of Evil which has become recognised as a marvellous example of film noir and of course William Wyler's Carrie where he was just one of many outstanding contributors to what I have long argued is possibly the greatest work of art to have ever emerged from the Hollywood studio system. Although it has its passionate advocates, I cannot share their enthusiasm for Vincente Minnelli's The Bad and the Beautiful. It is certainly very professional in the way it slickly dissects an unsympathetic character through the flashback reminiscences of those he mistreated, but it had all been done before and considerably better in Citizen Kane and All About Eve. However the film is worth watching if only to wallow in Raksin's gorgeous score. And there is plenty of it, particularly in accompanying all those voice-off narrations. And then just as one is beginning to wonder if the marvellous opening credit theme is about to be heard once too often, the composer introduces something entirely new for the Dick Powell narrative, a jaunty section based on a four-note motif (a falling perfect fifth, rising up a major sixth, then down a major seventh). The way this is subsequently developed is truly symphonic. Incidentally if you want to discover a film score that has the length and complexity of a symphony just close your eyes (you won't be missing much) and listen to Forever Amber. Raksin in excelsis! "},{"Title":"show biz can't satisfy anyone","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One thing that I've always wondered is why no one looks at Hollywood more negatively than Hollywood itself. But whatever the reason, The Bad and the Beautiful pulls no punches in looking at its topic. The movie portrays some people explaining how they used to be friends of producer Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) but have since turned against him. There's the director whom Shields promised a directing job but betrayed him, the writer who lost his wife to Shields's actions, and the actress whom Shields drove to madness.I thought that one of the most effective scenes in the movie was Kirk Douglas holding Lana Turner in his arms. Here he is, this overbearing, hostile character forced to almost coddle his gorgeous female star; it might be showing how he may seemingly have exalted her, but he remains in a higher position and is merely using her and sending her into insanity. And the scene of her driving the car while completely upset elaborates on this idea.And then, there's the writer. He and his wife move from Virginia hoping to get really big in Hollywood...until tragedy strikes. It all goes to show the disaster inherent in any industry (of course, Douglas's character exacerbates any problem). But anyway, this is a formidable part of cinema history; a precursor to movies like The Player. Also starring Dick Powell, Walter Pidgeon and Gloria Grahame (who won Best Supporting Actress). "}{"Title":"Masterful drama and romance in three parallel stories.","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Powerful drama from director Vincente Minnelli, is one of his best work. The screenplay by Charles Schnee (Red River, Hawks, 1948), adapting the short story Tribute to Bad Man by George Bradshaw.It was filmed between April and June 1952, MGM Studios (Culver City, CA) and natural scenes CA (Beverly Hills Hotel, Lake Arrowhead ...), with a budget of 1.6 million USD. Nominated for 6 Oscars won 5 (script, cast actress, dir. art, photography and clothing).The film tells three parallel stories and different, about how the director, screenwriter and actress met Shields and later helped them to betray them. The parallels in the entire film with David O. Selznick, producer of Gone With the Wind, Rebecca and other hits, are obvious, and I guess a lot clearer at the time Signed Minnelli's wonderful film about the world of cinematic spectacle, in a tale which speaks of the ascent to the heights and fall into oblivion after a producer of great personality, whose questionable actions cost him his life, indifference in difficult times.The film includes drama and romance. Acid provides an overview and critique of the film industry and the world of film taken from inside. It has been said to be the best Hollywood movie about Hollywood. What Citizen Kane was to journalism, The Bad and the Beautiful is for cinema. In any case it is a good movie that deals with a subject of great interest oenophile. The original title refers to the producer Shields (bad) and the brilliant female lead (the beautiful). It evokes the myth of beauty and the beast. The provisional title working title , which matches the short story.Tribute to Bad Man emphasizes malice, malignity, wickedness and perversity of character, which is the focus of the story. Minnelli builds a deep and vigorous drama of sound atmospheres, which is one of the tops of his films.The Bad and the Beautifulis one of the most celebrated melodramas master Minelli, and it is to be able to combine in countless history topics, narrate naturally. It is a film filled with a unique sense of glamour, with an excellent cast, where even the ever hieratic and expressionless Lana Turner, is splendid.The film has excellent black and white photography, which gives the mythical air of homage to a world that at the time of its realization was beginning to be almost a relic of the past. "},{"Title":"Boffo Show Biz Meller has Legs.","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Still enjoyable after all these years. This is what Hollywood liked to think would pass for gritty expose' but was little more than a glossy, retelling of hoary industry myth. (For an update on the story see Altman's The Player) Kirk Douglas (at the absolute top of his game here) plays the S.O.B. producer, Lana Turner (in that brief moment between the baby fat and middle age that seemed to overtake her so swiftly) as the cynical, hard-drinking, vulnerable, showbiz outcast, near ex-actress, Barry Sullivan as the neophyte director looking for a break, Walter Pidgeon as the bottomline fixated studio head, and Dick Powell as the Pulitzer prize winning author and font of high quality original material. The supporting cast is chock full of quality types, Gloria Grahame has some nice moments as Powell's wife, Gilbert Roland as a Latin Horndog and the magnificent Elaine Stewart as the current object of his rutting interest. Douglas' Jonathan Shields is brilliant and ruthless, in fact, so brilliant that it's difficult to see how he came to be in such poor circumstances at the opening of the film. But he quickly surrounds himself with the components necessary to move smartly up the ladder and therein, of course, lies the rub. He sees those around him as little more than 'components' and they recognise the opportunity for great wealth and fame he offers them while they luxuriate in the comfortable fiction that their relationships to him are more than 'just business'. Hurt feelings and gnashing of teeth to follow but not before the Turner character has a career again, the Sullivan character has a resume, the Pidgeon character is awash in black ink and the Powell character has banked thousands of relative easy dollars and accumulated enough first-hand material for a blockbuster on Hollywood Babylon. Director Vincente Minnelli delivered a solid entertainment and it should be measured as just that. It is a well-made melodrama that exposes little about the 'real' Hollywood. It does not match the sophistication of All About Eve nor the mesmerising drama of Sunset Boulevard but it will hold your attention for the full running time and amuse you in the bargain. "},{"Title":"The Shields' Touch","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hollywood insider films have been made since the movie colony came out to the west coast. The Hollywood community was aware that the public knew their patented make-believe was just that, and so they were willing to share the truth about Hollywood with the public fairly often.But these films got darker in the late 1940s and early 1950s. In 1950 Billy Wilder's SUNSET BOULEVARD showed how the world had forgotten it's celebrities and stars of the late silent period a generation earlier. In 1951, although ostensibly a comedy, SINGING IN THE RAIN did show the disaster to so many silent careers (even the detestable Lila Lamont's) that sound brought in it's wake. Yet with all the viewing of the effect of the film industry's changes on the lives of actors, few tackled that of production people.Vincent Minelli's 1952 THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL did just that, studying the career of a super film producer. It's use of organized series of flashbacks reminds of that this film's producer was John Houseman, once the partner of Orson Welles in his Mercury Theater. The constant comment that the anti-hero of the film, Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) is dismissed as a genius is like the disparagement shown to boy-genius Welles when he showed up in Hollywood. But the basic model for the producer seems to be David O. Selznick, whose father was prominent in the 1920s, until forced out by rivals in the industry. Jonathan's father was also a big shot until he too was thrown out by his rivals.Briefly the plot of the story is how Shields made a career out of the work of other people, several of whom he hurt by discarding as soon as he could. First is his co-producer/director Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan), whose treatment plan for a major film is taken from him by Shields to sell the studio on backing it. Amiel hoped to direct it, but it is directed instead by Von Ellstein (Ivan Triesaut - a kind of clone of Josef Von Sternberg). Amiel breaks with Shields as a result, and never will work for him again. However, Amiel is able within a few years to be one of the most successful Hollywood directors anyway.That incident was in 1936 (a film preview is shown at a theater showing ANNA KARENINA with Garbo and Fredric March - an MGM film, just like this one). In 1941 Shields is casting the leading role for a film to be shot by Harry Whitfield (Leo G. Carroll - possibly a clone of Alfred Hitchcock). He decides to hire Georgia Lorison (Lana Turner) for the female lead opposite Gaucho (Gilbert Roland). Lorison is the daughter of a classic leading actor of the past (his voice is heard - it is Louis Calhern's), who died impoverished and an alcoholic wreck (the father and daughter are supposed to be John and Diane Barrymore). Georgia is trying to keep off the sauce herself, and falls on the day shooting is to begin. Since Jonathan learns that Georgia loves him, he romances her. It is only when the film is in the can that he breaks it off, rather roughly. Georgia's performance makes her a success in Hollywood, but she never will work for Jonathan again.Finally we have the story of novelist James Lee Barlow (Dick Powell) and his wife Rosemary (Gloria Grahame). Barlow is in Hollywood to write the screenplay version of his best selling novel of the deep south (he's a clone for William Faulkner and Thomas Wolfe, with some F.Scott Fitzgerald in). As Rosemary keeps James Lee from working, Jonathan tries to get the author into isolation to work, and preoccupies Rosemary with Gaucho (who had come onto her at a party). But Gaucho and Rosemary are killed in a plane crash. James Lee finishes the script, but an argument between Jonathan and Von Ellstein causes the latter to quit the film. Jonathan ruins the film because he has no talent as a director. Still he and James Lee might work on a new project together, but a stupid remark by Jonathan causes James Lee to realize that Gaucho and Rosemary were together on that ill-fated trip due to Jonathan. So he too leaves the producer. But subsequently he writes a novel about his wife, and wins a Pulitzer Prize.Called together by Jonathan's financial head, Harry Pebble (Walter Pidgeon), the three victims of Shields refuse a new offer for just one final picture with him. But at the conclusion they all show curiosity on just what the new idea of his is.THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL had a wonderful script - it has many intricate bits in it that one has to catch on repeated viewings. Pebble (originally Shields' boss) dismisses him until he sees the treatment of the novel that Amiel wrote - he thinks it is Shields' ideas). He says in front of a seething Fred Amiel he always thought Shields a genius. Later, of course, he realizes it was not Jonathan's work. Similarly Von Ellstein congratulates Jonathan on being the first producer whose treatment of a book resembles the work of a director. Later he too realizes it was Fred's work, and ironically the collapse of Jonathan's position is begun when Von Ellstein lectures Jonathan on how you can't just stuff a film with a series of climaxes but have to build to one. Also the first time Georgia and James Lee discuss a film script they accidentally (by lack of knowledge on his part, and by temporary failure of memory on hers) hurt each other without realizing it. It becomes a rich tapestry of the industry and the various lives that get involved in it. As such it is one of the best films about movie making ever made. "},{"Title":"Melodrama and slow pacing undermine this otherwise excellent inside look at Hollywood","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Bad and the Beautiful' has three protagonists whose recollections constitute the film's narrative. The three are the successful Hollywood heavyweights Director Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan), Actor Georgia Larisson (Lana Turner) and Writer James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell). They've been called in by Studio Executive Harry Pebbel (Walter Pidgeon) to see whether they're willing to work with the legendary Producer Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) who they all are alienated from after having bad experiences working with him in the past. As the three head into the studio grounds, Georgia pauses and draws a mustache on a Coat of Arms which graces the entrance to the studio. This moment foreshadows Shield's tough love approach toward everyone who's ever worked with him&#x97;in the case of Georgia, Shields drew the mustache on a photographic portrait of Georgia's father who she couldn't break free from despite his death ten years earlier, leading her to an ugly bout with alcohol.The first sequence (and best part of the film) focuses on Amiel's recollections who broke into the film business with Shield's help. Right away we learn that Shields is the son of a well-known Hollywood silent picture director who was broke at the time of his death. In a rather over the top scene, Ameil badmouths Shield's father at his funeral as Jonathan pays mourners to attend. Shields won't pay Amiel after hearing him disparaging his father but later Amiel shows up at the Shields mansion (about to be sold) to apologize. This marks the beginning of their friendship.The Amiel recollections grow more fascinating. Shields borrows money from his friends and loses about $6,000 in a poker game with some big-time Hollywood executives. But instead of setting him back, Shields convinces Harry Pebel to give him a job as his assistant with the proviso that he garner his pay check in order to pay back the poker debt. More 'insider' peeks at the film business Shields and Amiel work on their first big success, The Doom of the Cat Man as well as the inner mechanics of 'audience testing' (just like today, ratings cards are handed out to pre-screeners).Shields and Amiel pay a visit to the now shuttered mansion of an actor who used to work for Shield's father. Curiously, Shields never knew he had a daughter and they find her there drowning her sorrows in alcohol (we never see her face, only her legs dangling over a trapdoor in the attic). Soon, the studio honchos green light Shield's work on 'The Faraway Mountain', an A picture based on a well-known novel. Shields wines and dines the big-time Latin actor, 'Gaucho' to star in the picture but he ends up drinking too much and passing out. That's an example of one of the many different sides of Shield's character we see throughout the film. The 'Amiel' sequence concludes with him being forced out by Sheilds who is pressured by the studio executives to hire an established director, Van Ellstein (perhaps modeled on Von Stroheim or Otto Preminnger), wonderfully played by Ivan Triesault.The film begins to lose steam in the second sequence narrated by Georgia Larrison. She's the girl Shields discovered at the mansion. The idea of the big Hollywood producer shaping the career of an unknown actress may have been taken from the relationship between David O. Selznick and Jennifer Jones. Selznick and Jones did marry and remained together until his death. In this story, Shields has no intention of marrying Georgia. At one point she asks him, Would you marry me? and Shields classically replies Not even a little bit!. Georgia's obsession with her legendary actor father is the tired reason for her alcoholism and the 'bout with the bottle' takes up too much time in a sequence which can be best described as 'cliched'. The sequence is not however without its classic moments Shields dumping Georgia in the pool and the completely over the top 'almost' car accident where Georgia speeds away from the Shields mansion after finding him with his latest bimbo.Equally uninviting is the third sequence, narrated by Dick Powell's James Lee Bartlow. It's hard to believe that Gloria Grahame won the Best Supporting Oscar for her role as Bartlow's Southern Belle wife. It's not a difficult part but since it was perhaps so different from characters Grahame was usually cast as, that's why they gave it to her. The focus is usually on the rise of actors in Hollywood films so it's refreshing to see the story of how a writer becomes successful. But most of the 'Bartlow' sequence is slow-moving, especially the tedious scene at Bartlow's home. Without its one 'shocking' scene, the entire sequence probably would not have worked at all&#x97;and that's the revelation of Gaucho and Rosemary Bartlow's death in the plane crash, very reminiscent of the death of Clark Gable's wife, Carole Lombard. Before Bartlow becomes alienated from Shields (after Shields inadvertently blurts out that it was his idea for Rosemary to go with Gaucho on the plane trip), there's an excellent scene where Van Ellstein resigns as director on one of Shield's big pictures. It's the type of personality clash that still happens often in Hollywood.The cast of 'The Bad and the Beautful' are equally wonderful. I particularly liked Gus, Georgia's over emotional agent, played by Sammy White. Kirk Douglas is excellent as Jonathan Shields although it should be noted that the part of Shields is just as much protagonist as antagonist. This is no 'poison pen' letter to Hollywood at all. As alluded to before, Shields administers 'tough love' to his minions and as Walter Pidgeon points out to the three 'supplicants', they all owed their careers to Jonathan Shields.'The Bad and the Beautiful' is a well-made film with top notch performances. It could have been a classic except that it descends into melodrama and falls victim to slow pacing once it reaches its midpoint. "},{"Title":"I'd Like To Be Jonathon Shields","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of favorite pictures and I view it often.Minelli wanted to create a trio of movies about Hollywood. The Bad and the Beautiful was the first and Two Weeks In Another Town was the second. I believe a third was never made.Bad is a terrific movie, right up there with Sunset Boulevard when it comes to movies about Hollywood. Kirk's performance is really so good, that I always wished that I could have been Jonathon Shields. The vision of him in his white dinner jacket, black tie untied, collar open, holding sleeping Lana Turner and then the camera moves back to show that it's the edge of the pool and then...he drops her in...it's a priceless scene. As is the scene in which he plays poker to get a job.His argument with the director Von Elstein about interpretation and humility is very strong.This is by far Lana's finest work...better than any performance she ever gave, including The Postman Always Rings Twice and Madame X. It's the most natural behavior and she looks sensational. I also always enjoy Barry Sullivan's performance.The score by David Raksin beats his Laura score by miles...it's very modern...sinister at some points, melancholy at others...even upbeat and humorous at others.Much of Minelli's tricks in this picture end up in the second...Two Weeks, including scenes from Bad and scoring from Bad.I never miss a chance to see either film and those who are still around who were a part of it should be very proud of its enduring power.The video is available and Rhino released the complete score including alternate theme takes. "},{"Title":"exceptional and full of lust, passion and betrayal","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is actually a very high quality soap opera. The story is better, as is the acting and direction, but still down deep this is a soap. Now this isn't meant as a criticism, but this is more a description of all the plot twists and betrayals--sort of like a season of a typical soap squeezed into one movie.Kirk Douglas does a really good job of portraying a sociopathic user--a Hollywood big-shot who stomps on all his friends and enemies alike in order to get ahead. He is the major star and focus of the film, despite it having a very strong supporting cast.After you see this film, try to find the sequel, TWO WEEKS IN ANOTHER TOWN. While it isn't quite as good, it's still an excellent film and shows what happens to people like Kirk once their star has faded. "},{"Title":"I Don't Get It","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those so-called classic movies I just don't get. Its credits are impeccable, and director Vincente Minnelli had done brilliant work elsewhere. The screenplay won an Academy Award. Actress Gloria Grahame won an Academy Award. With apologies to Miss Grahame, who did some fine work over the years, this does not seem deserved. As the story of the rise, fall and rise again of a ruthless producer widely believed to be modeled on David Selznick, it is no more than a series of cliches and in-jokes. As I am not a fan of either I was not particularly amused. Kirk Douglas is unbelievable in the leading role. He can portray torment and ambition, but not brilliance. In private life he may well be brilliant, but this doesn't come across on the screen. There's nothing of the entrepeneur or impressario about him; and no sense of the businessman. He seems at all times like an actor playing a part. Lana Turner is marginally better. Barry Sullivan is bland as a director, and the normally capable Dick Powell cannot overcome a bad case of miscasting in his performance as a pipe-puffing Southern writer (not based on Faulkner, I hope). In any case, Barton Fink this ain't. My sense is that the movie is popular for its in references, the thinly veiled depictions of real life Hollywood folk, the sheer fun that movie insiders and outsiders have connecting all the dots. I did this, too, while watching the movie, but in the end it just didn't add up. I didn't get it. "},{"Title":"Trash By Any Other Name......","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This glossy, trashy soap opera of a movie has won all sorts of accolades and an idolatrous fan base, but its appeal is lost on me. It's filmed in chilly black and white, giving it the patina of an art film, but if this were filmed in blazing Technicolor, it wouldn't be any more distinguished than a heap of other 50s sudsers, like Peyton Place or The Best of Everything. Vincente Minellis proved that he could do shadowy melodramas as well as colorful musicals, but his direction is still fairly anonymous. The pacing of the film itself, with its rigid flashback structure, is monotonous, and it's much too long. I get a kick out of Gloria Grahame in whatever she's in, so she was a welcome addition to the cast, but she's in the film for maybe ten minutes late into its running time, and I was too numbed by indifference by the time she appeared to regain interest. Dick Powell is the only other actor I really remember, mostly because his dry, cynical writer character was so far removed from the bouncy, googly-eyed boy-next-door roles he played in all of the Warners musicals.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched it on the telly just this afternoon and it had been a while since I had seen TBATB. I loved it. Douglas is brilliant and so is the rest of the cast. Turner (a mediocre actress, at best)delivers her best performance. The story is wonderfully entertaining, if not ultra-realistic. The mood is not mean-spiritted, with enough room for humour. Catch this on a saturday or sunday afternoon and you'll be spending 2 hours in joy.I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Interesting bit actresses as well","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just saw The Bad and the Beautiful on TCM. Realize it's been around a long time, but never watched it all the way through. It just seemed hard to get into before, but was in the mood to check it out this time. Like most viewers, I have favorite segments. I agree that it is dated and not in the classic line at all. But in 1952 it was probably a big splash because it was different for the era (maybe even considered a bit racy), and probably compared more favorably with other films of the year.I don't begrudge Gloria Grahame her Oscar for her supporting role. Again, she may have compared more favorably with other supporting actresses that year. But I think she is a skillful actress (did stage work as well), and am glad she received recognition. She has played a range of characters from a gangster moll to that nut-job in Oklahoma. Sometimes actors are awarded for a role that may not be their best, but were passed over the previous year(s) due to a crowded field. That has been said about some lead players with their awards.I liked Dick Powell in this better than anything I have seen of him. It caused me to perk up and watch closely, which I have never done with him before. Maybe it's his character in this, but his portrayal was pleasing to me. He was a strong type, but did seem to be very easily swerved by his wife, but that was the script. And maybe it's not a weakness for a man to give way to his wife to please her. It really didn't seem to weaken him overall. Regardless, his character had a lot of appeal to me.It has been said that this was some of Lana Turner's best work. A line about her character in the film echoes my take on her as an actress in general. It's when Shields (Douglas) comments on her character's poor audition, saying that he wanted her for his lead part anyway because she had star power. He said that as bad as she was in the audition, every eye was on her in her scene. It seems that people become fascinated with some personalities and will flock to see anything with them in it. They just have a draw. Many of these are not really very good performers, even though they are around long enough to pick up some awards. They get lots of chances to hit, being kept at work in film after film because of their box office draw.One reviewer commented that he thought he spotted Kim Novak as the girl provided by the studio as a date for Gaucho (Roland). IMDb carries a full cast and crew list, which lists the uncredited actors. She did not appear in the list. I have noticed on some actors' list of movies that they were in a lot of early movies in bit parts that were uncredited. They still list those films in their lineup, or others do about them. It's a good way to find out who played a part by checking the full cast and crew list. In this case the Blonde Dancing with Gaucho (uncredited) is listed as Lucy Knoch. I can see a resemblance. I was curious about the Lila actress, the nasty dame who slinked down the stairway, casting the shadow across Georgia's face as she hugged Shields. It was Elaine Stewart &#x96; again, someone attractive who never did much else. And spotting Barbara Billingsley as the wardrobe coordinator was sharp on one reviewer's part. I would have missed her. Interesting to check out these bit players sometimes. "}{"Title":"Maybe I like to be cheap once in a while! Maybe everybody does!","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Hell of a performance by Kirk Douglas as Hollywood bigwig producer, styled after David O. Selznick, Johanthan Shields who really chews up the carpet and screen in almost every scene he's in. Even when he's just standing still and not as much as saying a word.Shields in a self-imposed exile in Paris France is eager to come back to Tinseltown where for a while he was the most respected and biggest producer in Hollywood. Trying to get three people who's careers he single handedly guided to super star stardom actress Georgia Lorrison, Lana Turner, director Fred Amiel, Barry Sullivan, and screen writer James Lee Bartlow, Dick Powell, to work on his big comeback motion picture all Shields gets from them is snide and insulting responses.It's then the movie goes into flashback mode where we see what kind of relationship Shields had with the three that got them to dislike the man so much. As for director Fred Amiel Shields screwed him out of his pet project Faraway Mountain that won a half dozen Academy Awards, including best picture, by giving the director credits to a much more established film maker who had nothing at all to do with directing the film. There's Georgia Lorrison who was a part-time actress and full time drunk whom Sheilds guided to the very top as the most sought after actress in Hollywood but dropped Georgia for the floozy Lila, Elaine Stewart, when she started getting on his nerves by her wanting him to marry her. Then finally there's Pulitzer Prize winning writer James Lee Bartlow, Dick Powell, who did his best work under Shields' guidance but at the cost of Bartlow's southern belle wife Rosemary's, Gloria Grahame, life. Feeling that Rosemary was hindering Bartlow's writing style , by always being around him, Shields had her strike up a hot and heavy affair with Latlin Lover type Victor Gaucho Ribera, Glibert Roland, that ended in disaster. The two lovers died on a secret plane trip to Acapulco, very probably to get married, when the airplane crash into the Sierra Madre Mountain range. When Bartlow found out that Sheilds secretly arranged the fatal plane trip he ended up laying Shields out with a straight right to his dimpled chin! ****SPOILERS*** Despite everything sleazy about him there's somewhat of a happy ending in the movie for Johantan Shield! That's when the three after turning down his offer to work with him eavesdrop on a telephone conversation he's having with film producer and good friend, probably the only friend he has left in the world, Harry Pebbel, Walter Pidgeon, about his new project and seem to be grudgingly interested in being part of it!Kirk Douglas really lets it all out in the movie by griding his teeth jutting out his chin, as if changeling you to hit it, as well as making himself crazy especially in the last scene he's in with Lana Turner that will take your breath away in just how off the wall he really is! The clean shaven Douglas also grows a mustache more then half-way through the film to show that time passed which wasn't really that effective since he could have grown it any time he wanted to during the duration of the movies storyline which took 18 years. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas shines in this great movie.","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Will you help him get started again? Will you work with him just this once?Three people a Pulitzer Prize winning writer (Dick Powell), a beloved actress (Lana Turner), and an Oscar winning director (Bernard Sullivan) ; all connected by one man (Kirk Douglas). A charismatic, volatile, unknowable movie producer (with some serious daddy issues) who in the past brought all three of them great success in their careers, before selfishly taking actions that caused them all to vow to never work with him again. But now, it's years later and he needs all their help to make a movie (and a comeback). Will they help him, or are the scars of the past to painful to forgive?The Bad and the Beautiful grew on me as it went along, and I found myself really enjoying it. The three self-obtained stories that make up the movie were very interesting, and Kirk Douglas and the rest displayed some fantastic acting (especially in the second story, which was my favorite). This was my first exposure to Douglas and Turner, and they were both absolutely great. As were the rest of the cast.The Bad and the Beautiful is a must-see for those who like films about the movie industry. It's dramatic, captivating, and just very satisfying in that ageless, old school kind of way. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Tremendous Insights into the Creative Process","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful, a film about the behind-the-scenes artifice, technique and environment of the celluloid universe was based upon a short story titled Tribute to a Bad Man. The main character, a freshly dead, underhanded, exploitative Broadway producer, was adapted into a living, vainglorious Hollywood producer desperate for a return in a versatile, restless performance by eternal youth Kirk Douglas.In Hollywood, screenwriter Dick Powell, played with an exacting self-honesty despite his old-fashioned style, movie star Lana Turner and director Barry Sullivan each decline to speak by phone to Douglas' Jonathan Shields. A movie producer played with Walter Pidgeon's unfettered naturalness urges them to help Shields out. The subsequent segmented chronicles are narrated in recollection. In each retrospective, Shields' extravagant life is seen through their eyes. Their careers have profited from working with him, but each of them also undergo an intimate expense. Jonathan estranges, cons, deceives, abandons, and almost consumes each of them in his own egocentric, legendary ascent to his peak.This was one of the first in an extensive sequence of films, some acerbic and disparaging, that lampooned, speared or studied the making of films on the gaudy Hollywood back lot, including the same year's and studio's Singin' in the Rain, Billy Wilder's Sunset Boulevard, Truffaut's Day for Night, Kazan's The Last Tycoon, Robert Altman's The Player, and sundry more. This one is a melodrama, but director Vincente Minnelli separates his love of romantic fantasy from his ability to identify with the whole spectrum of human gray area, yet there is much veiled satire Indeed, Dick Powell's novel about early Virginia provides a wealthy opportunity for it. We deliberately determine that this serious work is a commercial work. It promises its celebrity with a liberal peppering with sex, and the film version is decidedly trite with a man in a gray Confederate uniform is pecking with a heroine. The Bad and the Beautiful submits that romances of the Old South merely sell the tackiest sentimental delusions. This Minnelli endeavor also sees making B-Movie Westerns as among the least notable enterprises in Hollywood. And budding star Lana Turner's first movie role associates trade novels with tasteless teasing and garish mise-en-scene.Alternately, there are tremendous insights into the creative process, such as when Shields proposes the concept of scaring people by uncertainty and shadows when called on to make a thriller influenced by the actual film Cat People. This inspired episode is realized with various lighting transitions, including turning a switch on and off and moving a lamp. The scene's intricacy is assured by its long-take camera movement, and its visceral effect is imprinted fleetingly in other moments Lights going on and off in the screening room cause the window from the projection booth to start or stop working as a mirror. We see the heroine's image show and vanish in the window.There is a party at a mansion where an enthralling tracking shot furnishes an elaborate evolution through the crowd, each of the extras having their own clique of goings-on and intellectual dialogue. Candelabra are everywhere. On the set of a movie wedding scene, there is a checkerboard floor, 19th Century dress uniforms, Christian symbolism. On another film set, a huge chandelier is over a dining room table, statues present. Another film set shows a revolution, opening with special effects men adding smoke. All the studio shooting set pieces are roped off from the real world. Their style is found in movie sets, not day to day. A few extras get to wear white tie and tails, but none of the outer movie's focal male characters ever do.Gloria Grahame won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for this Hollywood melodrama, in which she plays a status-seeking wife, pressing her screenwriter husband to move to Hollywood and live a more lavish rank. But Kirk Douglas finds that she is distracting to her husband's screen writing. Despite her unmistakable sexy grandiosity and childlike enthusiasm, his award was clearly for her earlier work, as she hardly gets to do anything here but babble on in a Southern accent in the periphery of a few shots in the latter half of the film. But whatever she does, it's certainly a refreshment to see her in the interval dividing Lana Turner's screen time, because unlike Grahame, Turner does not, in her impersonal approach, appear to have any internal dynamics (as well as any reason for Jonathan to be coaching her on how to alluringly smoke a cigarette for her movie when her role is in a historical picture asva peasant princess). But overall, this is a fascinating film. "},{"Title":"Almost one of the best...","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful (1952)Almost one of the best.Such an expert, glittering, fast-paced, and neatly structured film this is! And that's appropriate enough, because this is a film about film-making, a fictional insider's view of four main characters a director, an actress, a writer, and a producer. Oh, and the fifth and main character, Jonathan Shields, played by Kirk Douglas, who is all of these, and most of all, a driving inspiration to the others.It might be fun to have seen how William Wyler (the consummate Hollywood director of this time) or Douglas Sirk (the consummate melodrama director) would have handled the same material. Or even how Joseph L. Mankiewicz, with all his witty intelligence, might have (he liked working with Douglas, it seems). I say all this because Vincente Minnelli, with a decade of growing successes behind him, directs this new one with finesse, creating an elegant masterpiece of film-making that falls short of being legendary most of all from its finesse. It's too polished, too well balanced, too considered throughout. And yet it's a really terrific movie, not to be missed.It's odd to make a distinction between an incredible movie, like say Strangers on a Train or Sunset Blvd and a merely nearly great one, like The Bad and the Beautiful (or, to keep the parallels going, The Detective Story and the very comparable All About Eve). All these movies were made within a year of each other, and the best show a director's genius for rising above, and the others show a more communal genius, or an ability to work together within the system and create uncompromisingly excellent films, but films that somehow lack, at least a little, the edge, or the originality, or the surprise, of a timeless great.All of which is debatable, of course, but watch this one and give it a thought. Minnelli makes no mistakes, setting us up, then leading us one by one through the three main stories. Each story works on its own, and makes a kind of three reel tale within a tale. But even within each of these the other two stories start to pop into place, and the intertwining is subtle and flawless. You might even sit up suddenly and realize, hey, that's the person from the previous section. And it all flows together, and of course needs to conjoin this way because in fact the three stories are all the same large tale built around the legendary, difficult director/producer played by Douglas. And Douglas is a continuing marvel of ease and agitation, of charm and selfishness. As an actor he's nearly always wonderful, and here he is at his best.Will you cry? Will you fret at the hanging ending--if you think it's hanging at all? Will you be infected by the movie somehow in your head the next day, the next week? You might not, not all three. But you'll smile and laugh and really marvel at how terrific it all is as it goes. As a celebration of Hollywood's excess and greed and grinding machinations the movie takes no prisoners. But it really is a celebration of the three survivors (or four, if you include the producer who guides us through it all). And an acknowledgement that there are victims throughout, and sometimes those who lose are the ones with the most to give, and the most to lose.In the end, like the three characters, we are disgusted and yet can't help listening in, because of the inglorious magic. "},{"Title":"Some great film-making scenes in this movie...","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie on TCM already in progress and only caught the last two-thirds. However, I thought it was great.You can read about the story lines and the actors elsewhere, but I'd like to point out what I thought were two especially well set-up, lit, and with great camera direction. (There may have been more in the first third of the movie but I missed that part.) The first classic shot is when Lana Turner is doing her character's powerfully emotional final scene in the movie she's shooting. Our camera perspective pulls back from that shooting-scene-in-progress to show all the surrounding production staff and crew hands all in rapt attention.Just check out all the perfectly positioned people in that scene, and how dramatically lit the scene is as the camera plays up and around the assembled workers! What perfectly-cast extras (or maybe they were real crew hands) who all looked their parts! And all the stereotypical body language poses! Just a great visual sense of knowing what it should look like. And the crowning touch is the smile that slowly and appreciatively appears on the worker sitting way up by the spotlights at the end of the scene. Great realized piece of directing. I would rank it up there with some of the revolutionary stuff boy-wonder Orson Welles did.My other favorite director's scene is the very last scene at the end of the movie - note the acting, the lighting, the expressions, and the body movement and body language. Just a great piece of ensemble work, both in front of and behind the scenes. Classic! (p.s.- I also liked the way they did the end credits with clips from the movie for each of the primary characters along with their real name, so you could SEE who's who. It's a shame more modern movies don't do that...) "},{"Title":"Outstanding example of cinematic art.","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was released in 1952 so one might reasonably expect that it would have a somewhat dated, stagy story. Not the case here however. This movie has it all - an all-star cast, great acting, compelling story, wonderful cinematography and plausibility. Yes, there are people who do use other people. It is reprehensible but oh so true and this movie fully explores that seedier side of the human psyche. Lana Turner was given top billing for this movie, and her performance is wonderful, but the main star is Kirk Douglas whose performance is nothing short of spectacular. Without Mr. Douglas, this would still be a good movie, but his performance raises this movie to the level of a classic. Honorable mention must be given to Gloria Grahame, Walter Pidgeon, Gilbert Roland, Barry Sullivan, Dick Powell and the rest of the cast whose performances help make this movie a powerful and outstanding work of art. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas, Manipulator.","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A tautly written tale of a movie producer (Douglas) down on his luck who tries to talk three outstanding filmic talents -- director Barry Sullivan, actress Lana Turner, and screenweriter Dick Powell -- into working on his new comeback picture. The problem, as illustrated in three lengthy flashbacks, is that all the talent feel they've been hosed by Douglas in the past.Douglas inherited his father's crummy B picture studio and made it Big in Hollywood terms -- that is, big in quality, big in gross. He lifted Sullivan out of obscurity, then dumped him unceremoniously in favor of better-known directors. Sullivan went on to a successful career of his own but still resents his rough handling.Turner was a drunken wannabe talent, wasted on booze, mooning over the portrait of her father who was a great star of the silver screen. Douglas shakes her out of her lifelong funk by dumping her in the swimming pool and coaxing a magnificent performance out of her before dumping her for some bit-playing whore. She goes on to become a box office star.The last story belongs to Powell as a Southern college professor whose novel has just won a Pulitzer. Douglas tricks him and his cooing Southern belle wife, Gloria Grahame, into moving to Hollywood and writing a screenplay. The giddy Grahame present difficulties. She's always interrupting Powell and he gets no work done. Douglas hauls Powell away in seclusion to finish the script and secretly arranges for the notorious womanizer, Gilbert Roland, to keep Grahame happy in Powell's absence. Grahame and Roland are accidentally killed and when Powell finds out about the sub rosa arrangement he belts Douglas and goes on to a successful career as novelist and screenwriter.The plot is taut. There's hardly a wasted moment or an adventitious word. This relentless plot adds polish to the story but makes the film look and sound like the carefully executed Hollywood production that it is. I don't think a Pulitzer Prize winner like Powell would (or could) have written it. Faulkner couldn't do it. Compare it, if you feel like it, to On the Waterfront, for an example of what I mean, released two years later.A certain gloss to a production isn't necessarily bad. This is a smooth machine and if we can see things coming from a considerable distance, so what? Kirk Douglas's character is fascinating. He lives almost entirely for the movies he produces. His attitude towards everyone around him is dispassionate, almost surgical. And when he himself directs a movie that doesn't work, he shelves it, although the move means near bankruptcy. I shouldn't have shot the movie, says Douglas, I should have shot myself. He's no more gentle with his self esteem than he is with anyone else's.Douglas is good in the role of the unscrupulous operator, of course. That phoniness behind the grin and the dimpled chin seems almost built into his persona. He's made a career out of being con men. Along with The Big Heat, this is Gloria Grahame's best performance too. It's a little hard to imagine Lana Turner going on to a big career after her encounter with Douglas, just as it is hard in real life. Maybe I'm picky but aside from The Postman Always Rings Twice, she always embarrassed me when she was on screen.The rest of the supporting cast is made up of old reliables who cannot be critiqued. What are you going to do -- complain about the performance of Walter Pidgeon as the dignified, well-meaning, nervously fidgeting, money-managing courier between Douglas and the others? Or Paul Stewart as the publicity man with his New York drawl about to burst with Weltschmerz? Impossible.Smooooth, man. "},{"Title":"Give me pictures that end with a kiss and black ink on the books","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If there's one thing that filmmakers know, it's Hollywood. It's the charm, magic and otherwordly emotion of a studio movie set, or &#x96; the flip-side &#x96; the seedy underbelly of greed, ambition and betrayal. 'The Bad and the Beautiful (1952)' is an excellent drama about Hollywood, but it's not quite on par with the similar show-business satires of previous years, particularly Mankiewicz's 'All About Eve (1950)' which concerned the stage, but tread similar territory and Wilder's 'Sunset Blvd. (1950).' Perhaps the difference lies in director Vincente Minnelli, whose work is as graceful and professional as ever, but who is quite obviously an optimist he loves Hollywood, and can't bring himself to despise all that it represents. Whereas Billy Wilder apparently hated everyone and everything, lending 'Sunset Blvd.' its legendary bitter edge, Minnelli looks down upon his disgraced producer Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) not with hatred, nor even pity, but almost admiration &#x96; as a misunderstood genius making a final hopeful bid for redemption. Unlike that Gothic grotesque Norma Desmond, it seems that Shields' return will be a success.'The Bad and the Beautiful' employs a similar storytelling device to 'All About Eve (1950),' telling its story almost entirely via noirish flashbacks. Three successful artists &#x96; a director, actress and writer &#x96; arrive at the home of Jonathan Shields, the disgraced Hollywood producer to whom each of the three owes their monumental success. So why do they loathe him? Shields gave director Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan) his big break in cinema, worked with him to great acclaim, and then shut him out of his dream project, a 'Gone with the Wind'-like epic called The Faraway Mountain. Georgia Larisson (Lana Turner) was likewise plucked from obscurity, rescued from a lifetime of self-loathing sex and alcoholism, before being abandoned in her moment of triumph. Novelist James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell, in another great dramatic role) already had some acclaim, but also the hindrance of distracting Southern belle wife Rosemary (Gloria Grahame). Though he couldn't possibly have foreseen the consequences of his actions, Shields took care of that, as well.Each of the three owes their livelihood to Jonathan Shields, and I think that this is the true root of their hatred they're eternally in debt to him, and like Faust, feel as though they have traded their souls for a room at the top. Kirk Douglas portrays Shields wonderfully, and in the film's most searing moment, he explodes into a fit of rage, his short, stocky stature seeming to inflate as his antagonism grows. But Shields isn't really as inherently bad as the film's title would have you believe. He is presented as a flawed genius, whose personal shortcomings stem from the same artistic vein as that which fuels his cinematic intuition (a Graham Greene quote clarifies my meaning he once described himself as having a character profoundly antagonistic to ordinary domestic life, and that unfortunately, the disease is also one's material). Indeed, Shields was modelled on several filmmakers, most noticeably Val Lewton (whose 'Cat People (1942)' gets an indirect reference), Orson Welles, and David O. Selznick, whose box-office flop 'Duel in the Sun (1946)' also exhausted considerable funding and several directors. "},{"Title":"Not at all Bad, but Very Beautiful","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful is one of the greatest films I have ever seen. To begin, each character is so perfectly written and performed that only Vincente Minnelli could have been the director. Kirk Douglas as Johnathan Shields was unbelievably excellent. Johnathan felt like a real person and the way Douglas played him the character came to life. Lana Turner was fantastic as Georgia Lorrison. Even in silence, Turner brought something so special to Georgia that no actress would ever be able to bring the character justice again. Turner and Douglas were certainly deserving of an Academy Award for their brilliant acting performances and it is a crime that Turner was completely snubbed. To boot, Minnelli was denied an Oscar nod along with the film as a whole for Best Picture. Gloria Grahme however was honored with an Academy Award for her delightful and refreshingly sanguine portrayal of Rosemary. However, I don't think Grahme was not on the screen more than 10 minutes. Is that really deserving of a prestigious award like an Oscar? Even so, The Bad and the Beautiful is pure excellence and a film that all movie lovers should experience. The drama is intense and every moment that the stars are on screen is magnificence. "},{"Title":"Backstage pass","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Should really have been called, Big Bad and Beautiful, as this is Hollywood movie-making on a grand scale with a big budget, A-list director and a starry cast producing a high quality melodrama centred on the world of movie-making itself. Unusually constructed around three separate lengthy flashbacks of past associates (a director, actress and writer, played by Barry Sullivan, Lana Turner and Dick Powell) of boy-genius Jonathan Shields (a composite, perhaps of David O Selznick and Orson Welles) played with total conviction and no little vigour by an emergent Kirk Douglas, these serve to lay bare, warts and all, his larger than life character by the conclusion, leaving the viewer to decide for themselves whether this golden boy with feet of clay is deserving of our admiration or derision. Of course we're steered in the former direction not only by Douglas's terrific performance but also by the clever concluding scene when Sullivan, Turner and Powell, all with ample reason to have nothing do with him, still find themselves effortlessly drawn into his comeback plans. The film is a celebration of errant genius with an appreciation that such talents are frequently flawed in character and cause casualties along the way. The acting is uniformly excellent even though Douglas' name should really be above Turner's in the titles, given the relative scale of their parts, never mind their performances. Besides the leads mentioned above, Gloria Grahame shines again as the fey Southern belle wife of the unexciting pragmatic writer played by Powell, swept off her feet by a Latin smoothie set up by Shields. Minnelli's direction is effortless, purveying numerous backstage insights on and off-camera. The story itself is highly melodramatic and improbable but nevertheless extremely entertaining and to paraphrase Bette Davis in the near contemporary classic All About Eve, certainly a movie to strap in tight for, a bumpy ride is had by all. "}{"Title":"A guide to the inner workings of Hollywood.","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minnelli takes the audience on a tour of the how to make movies idea in The Bad and the Beautiful, a heartfelt and poignant story about a ruthless producer trying to get back into the position of successful producer with the help of three people he launched careers for. Unfortunately, they all were tragically affected by him in one way or another, so they all refuse. If anything, this movie shows how quickly your fortune can turn in the movie business. Jonathan Shields, played remarkably by Kirk Douglas, goes from poor, unknown movie producer, to becoming one of the richest and most powerful men in Hollywood. This film reminded me of a sort of mix between Sunset Blvd. and Ace in the Hole, ironically the latter being a film in which Douglas also starred in and playing the same type of character. Taking a rather unflinching look at the inner workings of film making and the consequences that come about from such a lavish lifestyle, Minnelli paints a bleak portrait of the people we think have it all. It may not be as powerful or well made as Sunset Blvd, but it still has a great quality to it that makes it one of the better works of Vincente Minnelli. "},{"Title":"An expose of the real Hollywood","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We all love movies. That is why we come here and write our reviews and read other peoples opinions of them. But to make a site like this possible we need to have the finished article on our screens, and these movies are presented in such a way that they seem effortless. Never once are we to imagine that the whole scene is just a set, and the characters on screen are merely paid actors.The Bad and the Beautiful breaks that mould. For once we are shown the true gritty realism of what goes on behind the cameras. The studio systems, the dodgy and sometimes sleazy wheeler dealing's and the heartbreak and high running passions that go into making a motion picture. In short it is a movie about movie making.When a Director, an Actress and a Writer are called into the office of movie Mogul Harry Pebbel (Walter Pigeon) they are told that movie producer Jonathan Sheilds has fallen on hard times. He plans to make a come back but requires their combined talents to pull it off.However all four of them have had extensive dealings with Sheilds in the past and have all vowed never to even talk to him again let alone work with him. Each have their own reasons as each have suffered at Sheilds' hands.The rest of the picture is told in three individual flashbacks as it is explained just how and why Sheilds deserves such animosity, with Pebbels also explaining just what they all went on to achieve because of him and in spite of him.The Director is Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan) who started out as Sheilds' partner when they were a young Producer/Director team finding it hard to land a job. They have a very close friendship and make very low budget 'B' pictures. When the two men finally land a job with Harry Pebbel's studio, their pictures start to acquire success and with that comes the ambition to produce bigger and better projects.The two decide to take on Amiel's dream project and translate a best selling novel to the screen. Amiel has written a solid screenplay and longs more than anything to direct it. Requiring a big budget and 'A' list stars, the two of them pull out all the stops to get the necessary backing from the studio.It pays off but in the negotiations Amiel is all but dropped from the project, instead opting for a better known and more experienced Director. Sheilds however rides his ambition and signs on for the project despite the railroading of his best friend, and with Sheilds' star on the rise, the two end their partnership and their friendship on a bitter and acrimonious note.The Actress is Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner), the daughter of one of the early movie stars, who's tortured passed she hides behind a bottle. Despite her drunken exterior, Sheilds who now owns his own production company and studio, sees the potential for a star quality leading lady and signs her on for his next picture.During the preparation for the picture she falls in love with Sheilds. This coupled with the pressure of her first major role is too much for her, so once again she finds solace in drink which threatens to destroy the project.As a way of keeping Lorrison on track, Sheilds convinces her that he too is in love, and helps her develop as the actress she undoubtedly is. However when the film is released and Lorrison becomes the new Hollywood sensation, Sheilds drops her like a hot potato, an act made even more callous by the fact he is already with another woman and had probably been so all the time.The Writer is James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell) a southern intellectual who's first book has just been published and Sheilds intends to adapt it for the screen. After flying Bartlow and his wife out to Hollywood, Sheilds convinces him to write the screenplay as well.Bartlow is a happily married man who's home-life has always come first, however Sheilds believes that his wife is interfering with his work, so he engages his dashing leading man 'Goucho' (played by Gilbert Roland) to turn on his Latin charm and seduce the lady away from her husband while the screenplay is finished.This has tragic results as Goucho and Mrs Bartlow are killed in a plane crash, while running away to Mexico together so she can get a quick divorce and marry her new found Latin lover.Unaware that it was Sheilds' scheming that resulted in the infidelity and ultimate death of his wife, he finds solace in Sheilds and the two finally become close friends until the truth is finally unearthed.Kirk Douglas gives what is in my opinion his greatest performance as the selfish and scheming Jonathan Sheilds, especially in the scenes with Lana Turner. His power and emotion was so much deserving of the 1952 Oscar which finally went to Gary Cooper in High Noon.Although selfish and egotistical, hes not necessarily a bad man. He had his moments of kindness, he genuinely was remorseful over the death of Bartlow's wife and in an earlier scene, he speaks of how he wanted to make a star out of someone Hollywood had thrown onto the Ash pile. A boy who made good, wanting to give something back.He would lie, cheat, sacrifice and tread on anybody's heels to get his pictures on the screen, but he is not evil through and through, like most cinematic baddies and indeed like some of the real Hollywood producers who were out there at that time.Yet with all, thanks to Douglas' perfect performance, Jonathan Sheilds is destined to remain one of cinemas most loathsome and despicable characters "},{"Title":"How it really works in Hollywood, when it works.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know now where Martin Scorsese originally got his passion for the film business. Had I seen the Bad and the Beautiful when I was in my teens, maybe&#133;. I&#133;., well, anyway.It's a wonderfully told (mostly in flashback) story of a driven young producer Jonathan Shields (Oscar nominated-Kirk Douglas) and his relationships on his way to the top with an actress (Lana Turner), a director (Barry Sullivan), and a writer (Dick Powell).Scorsese mentions this film more than once in his `A Personal Journey with Martin Scorsese through American Movies', which I wholeheartedly recommend.Charles Schnee's screenplay won the Academy Award. Beautiful black and white photography by Bob Surtees, who also won the Oscar.A treasure to find in your local video store. An evening well spent at the movies.  "},{"Title":"Searing Betrayals from a Satan Incarnate in Sharp Insider's Look at Hollywood Machiavellianism","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Known more for his stylish MGM musicals, director Vincente Minnelli pulled out all the stops for this classic 1952 melodrama about a ruthless film producer, Jonathan Shields, who alienates all of those around him to build his fortunes and legacy in Hollywood. But this is no derivative Jackie Collins-style potboiler with cardboard cut-outs as characters. Ignited by Kirk Douglas's terrifically brutal performance as Shields, the film is incessantly watchable - similar in structure and perspective to Orson Welles's Citizen Kane - as the story tracks his rise to the top and fall from grace through three primary relationships - the first with Fred Amiel, a director with whom Shields partners early in their careers, the second with Georgia Lorrison, an alcoholic bit player and daughter of a Hollywood legend whom Shields grooms to become a big star, and the third with James Lee Bartlow, a writer whom Shields tries to make a screenwriter in spite of the constant interruptions by Bartlow's southern belle wife Rosemary.Filmed in a rich black-and-white by veteran cinematographer Robert Surtees, the film is slick and penetrating at the same time, a deep-dive character study of not only Shields but the people who come to admire his tenacity and creativity only to be betrayed by his lack of character. Composer David Raksin's music perfectly underlines the emotional pull of the movie. Minnelli has assembled a great cast to embody the story. Ever resourceful with his trademark dimpled granite chin, Douglas does not make Shields a complete villain but rather an intriguingly textured opportunist. You want to hate him but thanks to Douglas's natural charisma, you can't deny how he opened the right doors for the people around him. Ideally cast as Georgia in what is likely her career-best performance, Lana Turner is surprisingly effective in what must have been quite a stretch for her meager acting talents - from pathetic drunk to clinging starlet to haughty diva.Longtime leading man Dick Powell and familiar character actor Barry Sullivan respectively portray Bartlow and Amiel with precision and an alternating sense of brotherly obligation and resentment toward Shields. In a manner similar to the way he portrayed Ziegfeld in William Wyler's later Funny Girl, Walter Pigeon plays production executive Harry Pebbel with stentorian fervor. Aging matine idol Gilbert Roland has an archetypal role as an actor who believes his own image as a Latin lover, and in a few brief scenes, Gloria Grahame fluidly captures Rosemary's purposeful flightiness and veiled frustration. You can even spot Beaver's mom Barbara Billingsley playing a frustrated costume designer scolding Georgia on the way she walks in her creation.Minnelli has concocted some really great scenes, especially the open-ended conclusion. The best, however, has to be when Georgia finds a tawdry starlet (played acerbically by Elaine Stewart, who much later became a game show hostess) descending the stairs at Shields' mansion at which point she flees and drives with Hollywood-style abandon in her car. While it's fun to speculate on who is playing who within Hollywood lore, e.g., Shields as the doppelganger David O. Selznick, Georgia as Diana Barrymore (daughter of John), the characterizations are so rich that the guessing game is secondary. The DVD includes an interesting 90-minute TCM documentary on Turner, who apparently led a life more scandalous and lascivious than anyone in the movie. "},{"Title":"Grahame won an Oscar for this??!!!!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Winning an Oscar has nothing to do with the amount of on screen time, so the shortness of Grahame's role does not bother me. However, her cartoonish interpretation of a Southern Belle is simply not worthy of an Academy Award, especially when the role is intended to be seriously dramatic. Jean Hagen most certainly deserved the Supporting Actress honor for her APPROPRIATE comedic turn as an over-the-top, unfortunately voiced silent film actress in Singing in the Rain. And, folks, that scene with an hysterical Lana Turner driving in the rain is, well, HYSTERICAL.VM was an excellent director, but some of his films, especially the overwrought melodramas, simply do not hold up. Yes, they always look great, but often the performances in the dramas are of the scenery-chewing variety.In regards to another user's post, I agree that the scenario of Powell's character identifying his wife is ridiculous. The same thought immediately crossed my mind when seeing it for the first time.My feelings towards Douglas's performance are mixed. At times he hits the mark, but at others, it is pure ham.The film is definitely worth seeing, but it does not deserve the status of classic. Its presentation of the industry is clichd. As others have stated, Sunset Boulevard blows this film out of the water. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie, Kirk Douglas in top form","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1952 classic is a rare look into the film industry. The main story follows the times of one ruthless and ambitious producer Johnathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) who steps on many toes on his way up to the top of Hollywood. Vincent Minelli's Direction is energetic and keeps the viewer's attention through the last minute. Kirk Douglas shows here what a unique and powerful actor he really is and Lana Turner also shines as the gorgeous looking actress and Shields love interest. Bottom line, when it comes to movies about movies, this one remains the best more than 50 years after it's initial release. Highly recommended 10/10. "},{"Title":"The Good and the Under-Appreciated","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are those who find this one dated, shallow, unconvincing, poorly acted, blah!, blah!, blah!  To each his own.  If you're in the mood for Hollywood at its most self-indulgent, though, both in story and treatment, this one's for you!It surprises me that Vincente Minnelli wasn't even nominated for his direction of this film, which was generously rewarded on Oscar night in various categories, and that David Raksin was also overlooked for his very fine and expressive score.  Lana, so often underrated as an actress, gives quite a performance and Minnelli was especially appreciative of what she could do.  He's quoted as saying, She had great depth and color and rose to the part... in an interview in which he reveals that her hysterical flight in her automobile was accomplished in just one take! Take that Kim Basinger!The CD now available includes a quite interesting Turner Classic Movies documentary, Lana Turner...A Daughter's Memoir, with Cheryl Crane gracefully sharing some memories, a scoring session with music cues, and two theatrical trailers for The Bad and The Beautiful and its CinemaScope/Metrocolor sequel, also starring Kirk Douglas, scored by David Raksin and directed by Minnelli, Two Weeks in Another Town, which was far and away more over-the-top than its predecessor. "},{"Title":"A glance at the backlots of Hollywood","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie about what goes on after the cameras stop rolling. Among the brilliant cast are Lana Turner, Walter Pidgeon, Dick Powell, Leo G. Carroll, and Gloria Grahame, in her Oscar winning role.  All of these actors are fabulous.  Yet, I believe it's Kirk Douglas who really steals the show.  His performance as Jonathan Shields is definitely Oscar worthy.Although some parts of this movie can be kind of corny, it's a must see classic for all movie fans.  It's very interesting to see what it's like to be in the movie business.  So I give The Bad and the Beautiful a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fascinating glimpse at old Hollywood","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This came on TV late at night this week, and I didn't know a thing about it.  That's the way I enjoy movies the most, and this one didn't disappoint. Although it's now more than 50 years old, it wouldn't take a lot of rewriting to remake it today.  I only saw a couple of minor glitches, but they really don't take away much of the impact of the story.*** SPOILER WARNING ****** SPOILER WARNING ****** SPOILER WARNING ***This was pointed out by the host on Turner Classic movies the scene where Georgia (Lana Turner) drives away from Jonathan Shields' house at night.  There hasn't been a hint of any kind of outdoor weather in the whole movie, and then in this scene all of a sudden she's in a driving rainstorm.Next, as James Lee (Dick Powell) and Shields (Kirk Douglas) stop at a gas station at night on their way back to Hollywood, James Lee spots a newspaper with his wife's death reported on the front page.  In the next scene, still at night, the two of them reach the accident scene, where he identifies her body.  Now, how is it possible to publish a newspaper, for the paper to get delivered to a gas station, for somebody to see it, then to drive to the accident site, and the crash site looks like it happened minutes or hours ago???However, for every clinker scene like this, there were many others that made you think you were watching geniuses at work.Steven "},{"Title":"The Best Minnelli","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Hollywood, director Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan), movie star Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner), and screenwriter James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell) each refuse to speak by phone to Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) in Paris. Movie producer Harry Pebbel (Walter Pidgeon) gathers them in his office and explains that Shields was calling them because he has a new film idea and he wants the three of them for the project.I suppose Vincente Minnelli may be known for musicals, such as Meet Me in St. Louis. Today (2016) he is probably better known for his marriage to Judy Garland and being the father of Liza Minnelli more than for his own work. A shame, especially given this one.Look at this cast Douglas, Turner, Pidgeon... and the way they interact. The movie was big in its day, at least in part because it was a guessing game who the characters were based on. Now, we know for certain that Cat Men is obviously Cat People... but that does not make Douglas a version of Val Lewton... "}{"Title":"A Tale of 3 People Hollywood Style","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently bought this movie after having seen it many, many years ago and it still holds up. Old movies will always be dated but a classic never gets tiring. I thought this movie was very well done with Vincent Minnelli's direction, excellent casting and beautiful movie score by David Raskin. Shot in black and white each story is told in just the right amount of time. I read that Clark Gable turned down the role. While he would have been good I think Kirk Douglas was outstanding. Walter Pidgeon always the voice of reason gives stability to the film. Barry Sullivan is terrific as well. Lana Turner was exceptionally good. Her breakdown scene was very well done as was Minnelli's clever way of maneuvering the car. Dick Powell a sympathetic character played to perfection. And Gloria Grahame - the shining star in this movie. Her character may have come across as over the top but she is the one character who leaves an impression after it's over. As short as her appearance was I think she deserved the Oscar. She was a wonderful actress who I'm glad got her recognition. Ending scene is very touching with all 3 characters coming to the phone with nary a word while the music score plays perfectly. The expression on their faces speaks volumes and leaves you with the question Will they or Won't they? Sad to see it end. It left me wanting the story to go on but it had the perfect ending. This movie deserved to be in the Best Picture category. "},{"Title":"Cold enthusiasm","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Recently I have watched classic movies after a long period, adoring movies like The apartment or Witness for the prosecution by great directors like Billy Wilder. Despite this The bad and the beautiful by Vincente Minnelli didn't revive my enthusiasm for this kind of movie. I got the impression of understanding the main character after a few minutes from the beginning of the film the three point of view, expressed by flashback , were only a repeating with no new elements or surprises. In my opinion this make the movie predictable and the three other character not very interesting. After all I cannot say that The bad and the beautiful is a bored film. The climate of that year is fascinating and the actors are very good. It remain a noteworthy work for being a truthful silver screen pictures of that years. "},{"Title":"Interesting and engaging drama","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An interesting and engaging drama. The story of an ambitious and charming Hollywood producer who alienates some of the stars he made. A good study of Hollywood behind-the- scenes.Plot is interesting and reasonably solid. Solid direction too from Vincente Minnelli.Great performance from Kirk Douglas in the lead role.Just lacked something to make it really special. Maybe it was the repetitiveness of the three characters stories. After the second you knew pretty much how the third was going to go. Maybe it just seemed that their dislike for him was not justified and didn't make any sense. Maybe it is the fact that I find Walter Pidgeon irritating (though I thought Mrs Miniver was brilliant, in spite of him). "},{"Title":"Hollywood inside ball","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Harry Pebbel (Walter Pidgeon) tells James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell), Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner), and Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan) that their mutual former friend, the hated producer Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas), wants to produce a new movie with the their help. On his own, Jonathan couldn't raise a nickel anymore. The movie flashbacks as each one of them recount their lives with the scheming Jonathan. Director Fred Amiel meets Shields when he put on a funeral for his loner father. They rise together as Shields schemes to get producer Pebbel to hire them. However, Shields would eventually double cross him taking away a movie to a bigger director. Beautiful star Georgia Lorrison started off as a hungry bit actress haunted by her late great father. Her life is a drunken mess and Shields confronts her. Under his nurturing care, she becomes a big star and she falls for him. However he rejects her possessiveness and tells her that he was just handling her after catching him with another woman. Bartlow was a small college professor who wrote a best seller book. Shields bought the rights and hires him as the screenwriter but his annoying wife keeps getting into the way. Shields hires a gigolo actor to distract her and they run off together getting killed in a plane crash. Shields eventually tells him which he uses to write a Pulitzer Prize winning book. All three have grudges but Pebbel points out that Shields made each one of them into the stars that they are today.The big guessing game is what each one of these characters are based on. That's half the fun of this movie. Without that, this is a solid melodrama. The splitting of the movie into three does take away the flow. Sometime around the third section, I lost a little bit of interest. I think it started with the overzealous acting at the end of Lana Turner's section. I would have switched the order of the three sections since that confrontation seems to be so climatic with the writer being second and Lana Turner being the last. After the Douglas and Turner blowup, there's nowhere for the movie to go except to wrap up. "},{"Title":"A Movie about Movies... and More - A Minnelli Essential","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lana Turner headlines this all-star Vincente Minnelli film which shows the glitz and glamour of Hollywood movie-making for what it is, a cut-throat business of wanna-bes and has-beens. Actors, directors, film crew, writers - they toil for years in b-pictures for a chance on a big-scale epic, but some get there and some don't. And some people's word don't mean much to those who look out for themselves. Kirk Douglas is one such movie-maker whose director/producer father died and left him penniless, but he vows to ram the name of Shields down the throat of Hollywood. He befriends director Barry Sullivan, who is tongue-tied when he tries to sell himself, but associating with the egomaniac Kirk helps him with his career. Enter Lana Turner who is the daughter of a much loved and respected actor, who's also dead, but she now drinks and does bit parts and toils and drudges on, until Kirk meets her. Walter Pidegon is a producer who invests in minor horror movies, but gets into mega money when investing into a major artistic film, courtesy of Kirk and Barry. Dick Powell wrote a best-selling novel which Hollywood is making into a major motion picture, but Kirk needs him to write the screenplay. Will he get him? Dick's wife, Gloria Grahame, tries to let him work, but always seems to be taking up a lot of his time. This film shows all the struggles and dreams of those in Hollywood without passing judgment on them. Director Vincente Minnelli had a way of taking a subject matter, putting it on celluloid, and making it not only entertaining but making it feel like it came from the Smithsonian museum, like it was art on a wall. But he does have the aid of all the technicians from the departments at the peak of the craft. But under his watch, they all must past muster, and they all come in grade-A fashion. The story of how Kirk Douglas affects the lives and careers of those around him is told in three major sections the first by the point of view of Barry, then it's Lana's perspective, and thirdly, Dick Powell. This film won 5 out of 6 Oscars, only losing Kirk's acting award. But Gloria Grahame, who was in the film for not even 10 minutes, did win. Some say she won for giving good performances in all the movies she made in 1952 and not only this one, but this is the really big, prestigious, and respected one she made that year. She is very memorable as a flirty wife, with an insatiable appetite. I can't believe I've never reviewed this film, as I am a big Lana Turner fan; I guess I thought I had nothing to add. But from day one that I saw this film years ago, I was hooked. The day I saw it, I watched it three times in a row that same day. That is very rare for me. One of the other very few films I've seen in that way is Sudden Fear, another 1952 film with Gloria Grahame, in which she excels. All the stars of The Bad and the Beautiful are great and the aesthetics are superlative. And, that car scene of Lana's is a personal highlight. And, yes, that's actor John Houseman who helped to produce this film. And, Charles Schnee wrote the screenplay and won an Oscar for his eloquent (just listening to the words as they speak is an experience, especially Gloria Grahame in her southern belle accent) and three-dimensional treatment of Hollywood at its best and worst. If you haven't seen this slice of Hollywood - then you flat out don't care about good movies. Period. "},{"Title":"Dark but upbeat commentary on Hollywood","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty searing portrayal of life in Hollywood. But the film is ultimately upbeat despite featuring a lot of dark moments. An earnest director (WALTER PIDGEON), a self destructive actress (LANA TURNER) and an indifferent writer (DICK POWELL) all come into contact with an ambitious producer (KIRK DOUGLAS). The film seems to say that ultimately films get made due to the ambition, ruthlessness and drive of the producer. In a way, the film lauds the Hollywood studio system while also showing its dark and ruthless side.VINCENT MINELLI uses a lot of tracking shots, it really is a great film to look at. LANA TURNER and ELAINE STEWART look sensational. GLORIA GRAHAME is a bit of a disappointment as the bimbo wife of DICK POWELL. KIRK DOUGLAS and DICK POWELL made the film for me. "},{"Title":"The Bad and the Beautiful is more than a movie it's an experience. If they could ever bottle it, it will outsell ginger ale.","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Who is Jonathan Shields? That is the story Vincente Minnelli drama is trying to tell. There is a Orson Welles 'Citizen Kane' feel to the film, as there are three stories told about Jonathan Shields through eschews the traditional linear, chronological narrative and tells Shield's story entirely in flashback using different points of view, many of them from people that Shield done wrong to. The movie starts in Hollywood, screenwriter James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell), movie star Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner), and director Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan) has been gather up by movie producer Harry Pebbel (Walter Pidgeon) to help Jonathan Shields (Kurt Douglas) with his newest movie, but each refuse, and tells Harry the reason why. The movie has a unreliable narrator to it, with each narrator recounts a different part of Shield's life, with each story partly overlapping follows a natural progression of events as Shields rises to fame. The movie is so like 'Kane', some critics are calling it 'Citizen Shields'. Each person's story is an act; so three people equal, three acts. The first narrator is the director that tells the story how Kurt Douglas launched his career with his help. The second act is told by the actress whom is the daughter of an also-failed father that become a strong and talented actress through Shields work. And the third act is taking a novelist and turning him into a credible and successful screenwriter. It's an amalgamation of so many stories that had been whirling around the industry for years. For some people, they believe Lana Turner's character is based on Diana Barrymore or Judy Garland. Kirk Douglas's Jonathan Shields is mixed with David O' Selznick, Darryl F. Zanuck & Val Lewton. Barry Sullivan's Fred Amiel on George Cukor of Gone to the Wind fame. For Dick Powell's character James Lee Bartlow, it's believe to be inspired by novelist Paul Eliot Green, William Faulkner or F. Scott Fitzgerald. Even the supporting cast might be based on real life characters such as supporting character Gilbert Roland whom play Gaucho might be a self-parody, but in my opinion I have a feeling it's based on Porfirio Rubirosa or better yet silent star Rudolph Valentino. Henry Whitfield (Leo G. Carroll) is mirroring Alfred Hitchcock. The three main actors (Turner, Powell, and Sullivan) are great in their roles. Everybody was outstanding in this film but Kirk Douglas stole the show. Kirk Douglas is great as the main role, playing the corrupt and amoral head of a major film studio in this Hollywood drama. For 1950's film, this movie has a lot of depth and comedy into it, that works. I was surprised to see the movie have women characters being alcoholic and sex addicts, rather than the charm roles they normally get in the films in those days. Supporting character Rosemary (Gloria Grahame) is one of those women characters. She was pretty funny in the role, but I don't agree that Gloria Grahame should have won the Oscar that year with her limited screen time,her ludicrous fake southern accent, as well, as the other actress who done better that year. Plenty of on-screen chemistry, tension and great casting make this film an outstanding drama. The only faults of the film are terms of its picture quality. We get a very nice, smooth looking transfer with much of the film grain and age related artifacts cleaned up. But there are moments where edge enhancement, shimmering and aliasing are so bad, you just can't help but get distracted away from the fine performances taking place underneath all that digital mess. When the image is free from these anomalies, contrast and black levels are superb. I also love the music. David Raksin, a marvelous composer as the film sports a jazzy and haunting tone similar to his later works in 'Laura'. Still this arrangement is over arranged and composer know his Jazz voicing but forgot a forceful melody line to add to it. Something like Cake decorations without the cake. Still, it's a cake worth eating. Check this movie out, for a great insight look at Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Cautious Expose","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A slumping Hollywood tycoon tries to win back three ex-employees whose individual stories are told through flashback.When Hollywood pretends a low-down on the business, you can bet they won't lean over too far. Nonetheless, it's a highly entertaining film, as Douglas again shows his talent for forceful-type rogues. Sure, his dynamic movie producer lies to people, viz. Turner, Powell, and Sullivan, but it turns out that it's for their own career good. Thus his manipulations ultimately produce beneficial results&#x97;hardly an expose of the motion picture business. Notice how other common albeit sleazy elements of the industry are ignored, such as using sex to boost a career or hushing up potential scandal. Both were common features of the studio system, but no hint of that here.Still, it's entertaining to watch Douglas operate to get movie-making done. I also like the movie's architecture, using the three flashbacks to show why Douglas might still win them back despite his abuse of the three ex-employees. It's an appropriately ambiguous upshot to the story as a whole. I'm not sure, however, that I buy the Turner flashback. His rejection of her appears both too calculated and too vicious given their prior relationship. Anyhow, it's a slickly made, entertaining film that may not reach Sunset Blvd. (1950) in candor, but still has its compensations. "},{"Title":"Very good, though it perhaps goes on a bit too long and is a bit repetitive","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very good Hollywood story. Kirk Douglas plays a producer whose career has gone flat. To resurrect it, he tries to get three former collaborators (Barry Sullivan, Lana Turner and Dick Powell), all of whom he screwed over royally, to work with him again. This starts off great, and is easily one of the best Hollywood stories ever told by Hollywood. I kind of got bored with it a little as it went on, though. In particular, all three of the stories told in flashback are pretty identical, and by the time we get to the third one I was thinking it felt unnecessary. I also don't think much of Lana Turner (who is actually the subject of the second story). Douglas is at his very best, though, and Minnelli's direction is ace. Gloria Graham appears late in the picture as Powell's wife. She won an Oscar for it somehow. She's totally forgettable. The Academy could have waited a year and handed her one for The Big Heat. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas at this bst","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A story of betrayals and misunderstandings in the festering underbelly of Hollywood; this is Vincente Minnelli's cool expose of the workings of a producer (Kirk Douglas, as one of the movies' great detestable characters) and the effect he has on those who come into contact with him a director who feels abandoned yet goes on to produce his greatest work (Barry Sullivan); an actress who is rescued from semi-alcoholism and turned into a star (Lana Turner, in one of her trademark parts); and a prize-winning novelist who is uprooted to shape his book for the screen (Dick Powell, in one of his last film roles before moving into television and film directing).We see their stories in a series of flashbacks, linked by the three enemies of Douglas coming together in the office of studio biggie Walter Pidgeon &#x96; who coolly reminds them of the good things the producer brought to their lives along with the bad. There are other good performers in smaller roles &#x96; Gloria Grahame as Powell's twittery wife, Gilbert Roland as the Latin temptation, and so on. 'The Bad and the Beautiful', filmed in good old black and white, has plenty of meat to keep you watching. Only the slightly twee ending lets it down, but you can't have everything. "}{"Title":"Citizen Kane, less powerful, more","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Similar main characters and narrative style to Citizen Kane, but less great and more entertaining. The producer Shields is analogue to Kane both became powerful in media (Shields in cinema), both begin from zero (even when Kane was multimillionaire he prefers a very small newspaper of his property), and both eventually forgot their roots, their friends, in order to achieve projects. Narrative is also similar. We don't see main characters but in flashbacks of their friends, loves and co-workers. Also, they both are now hated for those who once love them. The main difference between this two stories is that Citizen Kane is best in quality, innovative and one of the very best movies ever filmed, but kind of non-very-enjoyable. In the other hand The Bad and the Beautiful is very entertaining. The result is that Welles' only got one Oxcar and Minelli, ten years later, five, showing the way Hollywood likes to honor the industry. "},{"Title":"Its title, fittingly making light of two separate extremes, is at once an interesting-at-best account of the same thing three times held together by a fantastic performance.","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful explores that notion of producers, specifically that of a film orientated ilk, not really being rather a lot more than empty; crass; amoral; fatuous and borderline evil people whom wallow in their work as pieces of success in precisely the same manner they might the consequent failings of others, failing usually born out of their own instigating. If we are to go by the film's proposition, film producers in charge of large companies feed off of others before shamelessly claiming the credit and enjoying the revelling in all the cash that brings in the process. To say the film is a one trick pony would be too harsh-a criticism but it isn't too far from the truth; its above notion regarding producers being as beastly as they are is a relatively interesting one but that is its sole idea, the core of its make up the exploration of this thesis arriving in the form of three separate stories from contrasting perspectives that ultimately might have been shorter; sharper and maybe told parallel to one another to make them more interesting, with the film most probably being as such as a result.We begin with an array of three people in separate places doing separate things receiving incoming calls from a certain movie producer, an actress and a director inform their aides with stern faces to categorically reject the voice on the other end whom wishes to communicate. The third, a writer, is, curiously enough, actually able to bring himself to speak to him down the line, unlike the other two, but again informs him precisely where he stands in really not wanting any further contact with him. That man, the movie producer, is a certain Jon Shields, a character played by Kirk Douglas; a man with a big, broad smile; a homely tone and a glowing face for the non-diegetic camera &#x96; internally, somewhat of a monster, an ugly and raw animal looking out for himself and the money he will earn in the process. The systematic rejection of the individual as a business partner henceforth tells us precisely where each tale is headed when it is we finally flashback for each account, the beginning with director Fred Amiel (Sullivan) before moving onto actress Georgia Lorrison (Turner) and then finishing with that writer named Jim Bartlow (Powell) eventually coming to formulate the heart of a film making the same point three times, but from the perspectives of three wildly differing people with roles within the film industry spanning both genders.In being able to hear each story, the three gather in Jon's office at the Shields production studio; the bevy of industry professionals gathered around one another, in front of an on-listening Shields official, talking drearily of their lifetime experiences echos that of a kind of addicts seminar. The office displays a vast amount of Oscar statuettes, but the official working there is yet to have heard of a Pulitzer Prize; something which alludes to vast degrees of success within a particular field via the awards on show, but hints at a place driven by people living the bubbled nature of their own existence - by those whom are preprogrammed to produce success after success in the film-making world but are oblivious to such accolades at the peak of sister-professions within their creative fields.Amiel's story reveals Jon as a young and enthusiastic go-getter; a man able to churn out B-movies with regularity, such is his enthusiasm, in his partnership with Amiel so as to pay off a debt. Jon appears charming and professional; throughout Amiel's strand, there is a workable sense of ambiguity in regards as to whether Shields is doing what he does out of love for films and their creation or the vast sums of money he so easily earns. Amiel is left stranded when an ambitious project gets off the ground and he is excused from directing it for a more experienced man. Lorrison's plot is more broadly linked to the myth of stardom and the celebrification of one's self through looks and what-not in the tinsel town paradise that is Hollywood; a story more inclined towards being straight up generic romance with tinges of melodrama in what is the weakest of the three but does what it sets out to do in exploring said myth and having everything end tragically. Lastly, Bartlow's tale is one that revolves around little to do with the fatuity of the film business; seeing he and a wife, whom we do not necessarily believe he would be have been married to in the first place, fall foul of Hollywood's grip which disappointingly plays out more under the watchful eye of fate than it does anything else.The film is a broad and ambitious piece, made far more watchable by Kirk Douglas' central performance as the menace Shields; Douglas playing him in a manner that sees him essentially match what it is he does in each of the three stories, an alluding to that greater extent of ruthless professionalism he embodies and that lack of remorse he so clearly has; by the time we've reached Bartlow's tale, he has near enough destroyed two separate lives - but his attitude and demeanour has stayed the same throughout and is all the more chilling because of it. The film was released at around about the time of two other famous Hollywood films about Hollywood itself, namely Sunset Blvd. and Singing in the Rain; it isn't as exciting nor does it arrive with narratives as engaging as either of those examples. Indeed, it isn't involving as something, granted, a lot more contemporary in the form of 1992's The Player; a film about a film producer whom oversteps certain marks and is drawn into danger with a disgruntled industry worker he's dealt with &#x96; three separate films we enjoy somewhat more than The Bad and the Beautiful which has merits, but falls short of anything more. "},{"Title":"Failure as a human being","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I recently reviewed Singin' in the Rain I mentioned that film and Sunset Boulevard as two great films from the early fifties about the film industry itself. I could also have mentioned The Bad and the Beautiful, another film from 1952, as a third. Whereas Singin' in the Rain is a comedy, and Sunset Boulevard a tragedy, The Bad and the Beautiful is a melodrama.It tells the story of the rise and fall of Jonathan Shields, an autocratic film producer. The story is told in a series of flashbacks by three of Shields's former colleagues, director Fred Amiel, actress Georgia Lorrison and screenwriter James Lee Bartlow. All three were at one time not only colleagues of Shields but also his friends, and in the case of Georgia his lover. All three have now quarrelled with him, and in each case it was clearly Shields who was in the wrong. Yet although Amiel, Lorrison and Bartlow all consider that Shields has used and exploited them, their careers have not suffered as a result. All three are at the top of their professions, while it is Shields whose career is in the doldrums after his arrogant ways offended one person too many and his most recent film was a disaster.There has been a lot of speculation on this board about whether the various characters are based upon real individuals, and doubtless there was even more in 1952. Shields appears to be based upon David O. Selznick; his most successful film, The Proud Land is a Civil War epic reminiscent of Gone with the Wind. (His first success, however, was clearly based upon Val Lewton's Cat People). Georgia, whose father was also a Hollywood star, may be based upon Diana Barrymore, who was the daughter of John Barrymore and who, like Georgia in the film, suffered from drug and alcohol addiction. (Judy Garland, the ex-wife of the film's director Vincente Minnelli, has also been suggested as a model). The Latin-American actor Victor Ribera, played by Gilbert Roland, is reminiscent of a number of Latin lover stars, such as Fernando Lamas or even Roland himself. The British director Henry Whitfield may be modelled on Alfred Hitchcock, who clashed with Selznick just as Whitfield clashes with Shields. The German Von Ellstein is probably a composite of a number of German directors, such as Fritz Lang and Erich von Stroheim.The role of Shields brought Kirk Douglas the second of his three unsuccessful Best Actor nominations. (The others were for Champion and Lust for Life). Douglas is certainly on top form here as the ambitious, vain and ruthless Shields, a man who may be a success as a film-maker but is an utter failure as a human being. Nevertheless, I think that the Academy were right to give the award to Gary Cooper for High Noon, a performance that few actors could have bettered. Gloria Grahame, however, won for Best Actress in a Supporting Role, something that rather surprises me. Grahame plays Bartlow's dizzy blonde Southern Belle wife Rosemary, and, although it was interesting to see her in a role quite different from her normal femme fatale parts, this is not really her best film. (She was, for example, to be much better in The Big Heat the following year). I felt that the award should have gone to Jean Hagen for her brilliant comedic performance in Singin' in the Rain. Lana Turner as Georgia was also not at her best, being too histrionic for my taste.I would not rate The Bad and the Beautiful quite as highly as either Sunset Boulevard or Singin' in the Rain, but it is one of those films which, although nearly sixty years old, still remains highly watchable even today, both as a vivid picture of Hollywood in its Golden Age and as a psychological portrait of a megalomaniac tycoon reminiscent of Orson Welles's Charles Foster Kane. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minnelli's The Bad and the Beautiful is an 'inside Hollywood' film in the vein of Sunset Blvd.. The film recounts the story of how three Hollywood A-listers came by their success under the guidance of producer Jonathon Shields (Kirk Douglas). However, unfortunately for Shields, he now finds himself a pariah following his numerous betrayals. Can former business partner Harry Pebbel (Walter Pidgeon) convince the three to reunite for the project that Shields hopes will vault him back into the spotlight?The cast is admirable. Kirk Douglas fit well in the role of a manipulative Hollywood producer and he found himself rewarded with an Oscar nomination for his performance. Lana Turner was the other headliner and she delivered the goods as well (while looking wonderful, I might add). Gloria Grahame somehow managed to snag an Oscar for her relatively minor role, though I must admit that she is memorably fetching. The rest of the cast is uniformly solid with no weak links.Minnelli's direction is lively while the film's Oscar wins for cinematography, costume design & art direction show that the film is easy on the eyes. The David Raksin score admirably supports the visuals, running the gamut from bouncy to foreboding.All in all, the film is a memorable 'inside Hollywood' yarn mixing soapy melodrama with a somewhat noirish approach. While not as satirically cutting as Sunset Blvd. it is bolstered by an Oscar-winning script. Throw in the fine cast and technical polish and you've got a film that's definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hollywood excels at revealing stories about its self and this is a great one!","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a short story, Memorial To A Bad Man, by George Bradshaw it was originally published in February of 1951 in The Ladies Home Journal and it was reportedly about legendary Broadway producer Jed Harris.Film producer John Houseman and director Vincent Minnelli convinced MGM production chief Dore Schary to switch the story to Hollywood partly because the film ALL ABOUT EVE had covered Broadway territory so well just two years earlier. And with the movie industry in decline (because of TV) Houseman thought it was ripe for a story about a producer from the Golden Days facing a new era. He also found a parallel between the multiple flashbacks and the most famous film he worked on, CITIZEN KANE.Hollywood excels at revealing stories about its self, think of SUNSET BLVD. (made just two years earlier), SINGIN' IN THE RAIN (made the same year as The Bad And The Beautiful), WHAT PRICE Hollywood (1932), SHOW PEOPLE (1928), A STAR IS BORN (1937, 1954 & 1976) and mostly recently Robert Altman's THE PLAYER (1992).Rumors speculate that (now 92 years old) Kirk Douglas' character Jonathan Shields is loosely based on producer David O. Selznick who's own father Lewis J. Selznick was an early giant in the film industry. After the collapse of his father's empire and bankruptcy, young David starred his career over, from the bottom as a proof reader slowly working his way up to producing and winning Oscars for both GWTW & REBECCA.Lovely Lana Turner's character Georgia Larisson is supposedly based on the now nearly forgotten Diana Barrymore trying to make a name for herself away from her father, the legendary John Barrymore. Today her niece Drew Barrymore is doing a fine job of carrying on the family tradition. Lana Turner plays an actor whose career started as a movie extra. Turner started her own career as an extra in A Star Is Born (1937). TRIVIA Lana Turner thought it would be nice if her own personal hairdresser Helen Young and make-up man Del Armstrong appear in the films as themselves and they do! Dick Powell's character James Lee Bartlow was said to be inspired by legendary southern writer &#x96; F. Scott Fitzgerald and University of Virginia graduate & later UV instructor -- William Faulkner. And Gloria Grahame won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress playing Powell's wife Rosemary Bartlow who was based on fiery Southern belle Zelda Fitzgerald.Barry Sullivan's character of the director is inspired by Val Lewton and the low budget horror film he and Douglas make is obviously a rip off of The Cat People.Houseman and Minnelli were considering a character actor from the studio's supporting ranks for the role of producer Harry Pebbel when Walter Pidgeon put in a bid for the role. When told he seemed too suave and debonair to play the seedy producer, he showed up in Minnelli's office wearing a crew-cut wig and a poorly fitted suit and they said that's it! And he won the role.Leo G. Carroll's brief appearance as a demanding director is a thinly veiled reference to Alfred Hitchcock. When he first came to Hollywood, Hitchcock was under contract to producer David O. Selznick for years. Carroll had roles in many Hitchcock films of this era. The character played by Kathleen Freeman was based on Alfred Hitchcock's wife, Alma Reville.THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL was the first of four films director Vincent Minnelli would make with Kirk Douglas, the others were THE STORY OF THREE LOVES, TWO WEEKS IN ANOTHER TOWN & LUST FOR LIFE. "},{"Title":"Minnelli w/o songs","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minnelli, Liza's father, who had been a Broadway set and costume designer before becoming a director, was probably the greatest creator of high-style musicals in the golden era at MGM, Meet Me in St. Louis being his masterpiece. He occasionally directed glossy B&W melodramas such as this one for the same studio. The film is meant as a cinematic roman  clef and there are amusing parodies along the way of Hollywood personalities such as Hitchcock, Von Stroheim and even kittenish Gloria Grahame miscast as Zelda Fitzgerald. But much of the film is played at such a high-pitch of passion and violence that it feels like an opera for which Puccini forgot to write the songs. (David Raskin's over the top scoring tries to fill the void.) Some movies, The Fountainhead being another example, are so brash in their vulgarity as to be forever endearing -- so bad (and beautiful) that they are so good. Add this one to your list. "},{"Title":"You Can't Be Known and Not Known at the Same Time","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's plenty of good IMDb reviews on the film already, so I just want to focus on one aspect. The beginning of the film with Shields and Bartlow doing the buddy/buddy thing -- picking up odd Hollywood jobs, crashing big-shot parties -- seemed unrealistic to me. If he's the son of such a notorious filmmaker who just had to pay half of Hollywood to show up for his Dad's funeral, why doesn't everybody say whenever he shows up Hey, you're Old Man Shields's son! Get out of here. You can't be anonymous and notorious at the same time. I realize it's just a movie and a small point, and perhaps even one that's easily rebutted. But it was just too much of stretch for me, and it was really not necessary to advance the plot. "},{"Title":"Terrific Film on a Jerk Producer","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful (1952) **** (out of 4) A movie star (Lana Turner), a top-notch director (Barry Sullivan) and the highest paid screenwriter (Dick Powell) are brought together in hopes that they'll agree to work again with the producer (Kirk Douglas) who made all of them what they are but in doing so also did stuff to harm them. THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL is one of the greatest films ever made about Hollywood because it's not afraid to show things as how they really are. Some people have called this film a soap opera, which would be fair but it takes the drama and the soap of Hollywood and really turns it on its head and delivers a very memorable film with three terrific stories. Basically all three short stories add up to show why this producer was not only a genius but also someone no one could really respect as a person. What makes the film work so well is the fact that all three stories are strong enough to where an entire film could have been done on them. The story dealing with Turner feels like someone that could have been about the real actress and it provides her with one of her greatest characters and performances. The way she plays the tortured soul was highly memorable and something that not too many others could have pulled off. Both Sullivan and Powell are extremely good in their parts and once again you could argue that they deliver the best work of their careers. Oscar-winner Gloria Grahame is also very memorable in her few scenes. Then, there's the always wonderful Douglas who turns in another winner here. This is really a complete character and Douglas nails every aspect of it. Whether it's the fast-talking, charming side or the ruthless, succeed at all costs jerk. Director Vincente Minnelli does a wonderful job at keeping all three stories moving and we also get some fantastic cinematography, which almost makes this look like a film noir. THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL contains some of the best acting you're going to see and the stories to match it. "},{"Title":"Overwrought","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoiler Alert!! --- Vincente Minnelli's overwrought expose of Hollywood and all its shortcomings. Kirk Douglas is a washed up studio chief who attempts to gather together a group of one-time com-padres to help him with his comeback. He gets them all on the phone at the same time, thus allowing them to tell their horror stories one by one before sticking it to him. Lana Turner is the star Douglas cultivated and then dropped, Dick Powell is the distinguished novelist who becomes a gun-for-hire screen writing hack, Gloria Grahame is Powell's opportunistic wife...and so on. Each story unfolds in gruesome detail, exposing Douglas a heel, a cad, and, possibly, a murderer. It's silly, glossy and extremely entertaining. Douglas is great, his overacting is perfect for his excitable role and Turner hands in as good a performance as she's ever given (which really isn't saying THAT much). Grahame won an Oscar, but she's not that impressive...and her role is quite small. The dependable supporting cast also includes Barry Sullivan and Walter Pidgeon. "},{"Title":"Turner shines","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sort of an ensemble cast. No single star got most of the screen time, except Douglas, who was billed second behind Lana Turner. She was fabulous here. I don't think I've seen many of her films, but I think I will try to in the future. I definitely recommend this film. "}{"Title":"A Real Classic","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What possessed Vincente Minnelli to direct this scathing look at the Hollywood system when he himself seemed so comfortable in it? Whatever the answer to that may be, this turned out to be the first of many critical views of the previously-magical movie-town. The story follows Kirk Douglas as a producer that methodically steps on people to get to the top. These were the days where the producer was on top, and the director was a mere underling. The plot takes a Kane-style turn, as the producer brings about his own downfall via his notorious image.The script is classic and often-quotable. There are several great scenes, esp. those that show collaboration between producer and director. The lighting is great too, with softer lights depicting the false glamour of it all as it bitterly contrasts with the action. A very good rent. "},{"Title":"A soap opera, but a good one!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kirk Douglas plays a meglomaniacal movie mogul in the mold of Harry Cohn and David O' Selznick with a dash of Orson Welles thrown in. A great melodrama which is also a pretty sharp satire on Hollywood movie and star making. Not a gritty insight into the darker side of Hollywood ala Sunset Boulevard or The Player, but a good melodramatic character study with good writing, direction and performances throughout. One of Kirk's top five best. Lana Turner fans won't be disappointed either. The only annoying and contrived flaw is Gloria Grahame's overdone portrayal the Southern Belle wife of William Powell's character and how she is killed off. Grahame received an Oscar for this performance and it was the second major blunder the Academy made that year after they named The Greatest Shown on Earth Best Picture. The Bad and the Beautiful is top entertainment. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Lana Is So Bad It's Beautiful","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Bad and the Beautiful is not just the title of this picture, it's a description of the major studios' business plan in the 1950s. To compete with that horrid little box that was infesting the living rooms and emptying the movie theaters of America, the big screen had to offer what television couldn't sex (ooh, bad!) and high production values (ooh, beautiful!). B&B offers as much adultery and sumptuous sets as the censors and budgets will allow while it traces the rise and fall of an amoral film producer (Kirk Douglas) as he destroys a director (Barry Sullivan), actress (Lana Turner) and writer (Dick Powell) in pursuit of cinematic immortality. Not sure if Charles Schnee (writer) and Vincent Minelli (director) meant for this movie to be quite that metafictional, but they come awfully close. Particularly postmodern is the characters' penchant for criticizing Lana Turner's performance wooden, terrible, even when you're awful, you're all the audience sees. (Indeed, that rack of hers literally and figuratively obscured many a movie set.) As Hollywood self-laceration goes, The Bad and the Beautiful presages The Player by forty years, and manages to be a far better film by upping the melodrama and burying the self-referential cleverness.Douglas' character,Jonathan Shields, is the son of some dead, disgraced studio exec who sets out to avenge his father's humiliation. The film sets a tone of gleeful cynicism by having young Shields pay complete strangers $11.00 to mourn at his father's funeral. One of the grievers-for-hire, Barry Sullivan, makes snotty comments about the dear departed but apologizes to Shields, also letting him know he's an aspiring director. Shields lures him into a filmmaking partnership, then destroys him. In the course of setting up Sullivan, he encounters Lana Turner as second-generation starlet Gloria Lorrison. She insults him, so later on he builds a big picture around her, seduces her, and destroys her. Just for fun, Shields also ruins the life of a Southern writer (Dick Powell) who rebuffs his first offer to collaborate on a movie. To its eternal credit, the movie never asks us to hate Shields -- he's a pure sociopath who barely masks his manipulations and, when discovered, doesn't even pretend he's sorry, he just tells his victims they had it coming. (And, to a certain extent, yes, they did.) B&B is also helped by Vincent Minelli's ridiculously competent filmmaking -- lovely tracking shots, beautifully evocative lighting, heart-rending orchestral swells, all the elements of great, glossy soap opera. He couldn't do much with Lana, but then again, she's not much more than a special effect and he uses her that way. Her breakdown scene while driving away from Kirk's house is so hysterically horrible that Minelli doesn't cut away to scenes of her out-of-control car careening around corners, since anything even remotely realistic would detract from the giddy unreality of her performance. Faring much better is Gloria Grahame as the writer's nympho wife, perhaps because all she's asked to do is act sexy and maintain a Southern accent. She manages both, and was rewarded with an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Self-obsessed, unoriginal movie producer takes advantage of friend, star and script writer.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find this movie rather flat overall. I don't feel the fire, the anger, the intensity it requires. Lana Turner doesn't quite rise up to her star position, much like her character early on in the film. Kirk Douglas has never seemed so uninvolved in a role. Thank goodness for Dick Powell, always a natural, and Gloria Grahame, who shows more emotional depth in her first few minutes on the screen than Ms.Turner manages in the first 3rd of the film. The ever compelling Ms.Grahame well deserving her Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Cinematography, supporting cast, soundtrack and sets are all quite wonderful but the 2 main stars seem to move like ghosts through this lush noir world. "},{"Title":"Tribute to a bad man.","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For a movie with such a lame and sappy title, this is surely a great one. The movie is actually quite different from what you might expect. It's a strong drama that gives an insight view of the Hollywood business behind the camera's.Movie buffs will be surely able to recognize some situations, characters and movies feature within this movie. A lot of this movie seems to be based on actual persons and events, although it of course gets all so mixed in with each other a lot, so it all still works out as original as it can get.It besides gives us a great inside view of how movie-making in the '40's/'50's was done. The movie can be seen as one that goes behind the scenes, that shows how actors, producers, writer, directors and studio bosses all interact and quarrel with each other and how eventually a movie gets established.But what foremost makes The Bad and the Beautiful such a fine and original movie is its story-telling. Basically the movie has 4 different story-lines, which each featuring a different character. What they all have in common is that they once got cheated on by movie producer Jonathan Shields, played by Kirk Douglas. The stories are being told in flashback mode and in between it cuts to the 'present' time, in which the three cheated on persons are being asked to revive the career of the tough Jonathan Shields. So you could say that this movie is four for the price of one! Each storyline is one on its own, featuring new events and characters. Nevertheless the movie never starts to feel messy or overfilled. This is of course due to the presence of the Kirk Douglas character but also really thanks to its well balanced writing.The movie also won an Oscar for its screenplay. It won four more Oscar's and it also was nominated for another one. Strangely enough the movie did not receive a nomination in the best picture of best director category. It's the movie that still holds the record for most Academy Awards won by a film not nominated for best picture.The movie is really being carried by Kirk Douglas, who gives away a fine performance. In all fairness, he is a guy that mostly has done some great stuff in the '50's and early '60's, which however just weren't exactly the 'golden age' of cinema. After that he hasn't starred in any real memorable movies and he now days is better known as the father of the successful actor Michael Douglas (although his career is also already declining in these recent years). So he himself never have really been a that great star, which I think has more to do with the fact that he began rather late with acting in movies. Had he begun his career in the '30's and early '40's, he would had played surely much more great roles during his career and he himself would be better known and appreciated as an actor now days. In this movie he might very well play the best role out of his career. He plays a tough and rotten character but at the same time with a real charming touch to it.Also the other actors within this movie know to impress. The movie has a great cast, with Lana Turner, Walter Pidgeon and Dick Powell, among others. But in my opinion also a lot of credit need to go to director Vincente Minnelli for the acting performances within this movie.The movie feels old fashioned and modern at the same time. It's a movie that is mostly done in '40's style and this is also probably the reason why it got shot in black & white. It on the other hand is also really modern with its story, which must also had been quite daring for its time. What happens behind the scenes stays behind the scenes, would had most likely been the general thought of Hollywood at the time. This movie simply ignores this and gives an original and nice look from the other side of the cameras.A great movie, worth watching!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Absorbing look at Hollywood by Minnelli, excellent performance from Douglas","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Minnelli's The Bad And The Beautiful is still great drama, even if the first 2/3 of the film far outweigh the last. Kirk Douglas is excellent as ambitious producer Jonathon Shields, who is pretty obviously based on David O. Selznick (the Shields touch is even referred to). The film opens with three people, a film director, actress and writer, who have all previously worked with and been burned by Shields, gathered around a phone to take call from Europe. The film is told largely in flashback, as we are shown Shield's rise and fall. He goes from cheap B features to big, melodramatic productions- and shunts the director who came up the idea. He rescues Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner, in perhaps her best screen performance) from a life of trampy, drunken uselessness, builds her up to be a star, then jilts her on premiere night. He woos writer Dick Powell to Hollywood, then gets his Southern belle wife Gloria Grahame killed in a plane crash. And throughout it all we are absolutely fascinated by Shields- ruthless, complicated, a perfectionist and a man born to stand out, even if his actions eventually cost him nearly everything.The Lana Turner flashback is the strongest part of the film, and the Dick Powell/Gloria Grahame part is the weakest. Grahame won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role, and while it's not a bad performance exactly, it's not a terribly interesting or challenging one either. Dick Powell has all the charisma of a wet towel. Douglas and Turner, however, make quite a great combination, and she gets a performance that is keyed exactly to her limited talents. I had a lot of fun with all the references to other films and film stars, and The Faraway Mountain seems to be quite an obvious reference to Selznick's Duel In The Sun (which I actually really like and I am not ashamed to say that I do). There has been a lot of Selznick bashing in recent years, what with his massive productions, blizzards of memo's and marriage to Jennifer Jones (who I also really like). But the guy was a savvy producer, and even if his films were critically savaged then and now, he always put on a great show. "},{"Title":"Over-hyped, over-ripe tripe","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lana Turner abandoned developing her talent into becoming a good actress early in her career when still a teen-age starlet. Here a mature Lana puts out her usual wooden performance, an actress always acting, always conveying to the audience that she is Lana Turner, Sex Goddess and Movie Star. Kirk Douglas is fierce and dictatorial, a character type he excels at and could probably play in his sleep. Dick Powell is a bland presence in every movie he's in. Walter Pigeon is in it too. Aren't he and Melvyn Douglas the same person? Barry Sullivan, a competent B movie actor, has a role. Gilbert Roland is thrown in for effect to represent the generic Latin Lover female moviegoers traditionally swoon over. Gloria Grahame shows up too, always the dame, in this case a Southern belle one fluttering and flitting all over the place; and the Academy honored her with a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for 1952!That takes care of the cast. As for the story, well it's supposed to be an inside look at Hollywood wheelers and dealers, star making, and breaking, glory takers and those on the down escalator to failure. It's the real story, exposed! Wrong. It is so full of clichs and tired old tropes, stereotypes--- everything that the public anticipates and comfortably accepts in a fictionalized story purported to be drawn on real life events and people. All the soap opera melodrama bursts out of it everywhere making scenes meant to be taken seriously more like comedic spoofs from Saturday Night Live. And the Academy honored this with a Best Screenplay Oscar for 1952!The weepy, poignant musical score by David Raksin serves as the baleful icing dripping off this collapsed cake. To say that this is not director Vincent Minelli's best effort is an understatement. He made a lot of good movies. This should be relegated to the bottom of the heap. "},{"Title":"The Bad and the Beautiful","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was in the book 1001 Movies You Should See Before You Die that I saw this film listed, and it is a satire of the film world, so I was blatantly going to see it, from director Vincente Minnelli (An American in Paris, The Band Wagon). Basically three successful film industry members, actress Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner), director Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan) and writer James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell) are brought together by friend Harry Pebbel (Walter Pidgeon). Pebbel wants them to reminisce about their time spent with ambitious Hollywood producer and director Jonathan Shields (Oscar nominated Kirk Douglas). This story is told in flashback form as one by one they talk about being with the ruthless filmmaker who they all grew to hate as they made films with him. Georgia was an up and coming unknown star and was given her first major movie star role with the help of Shields, and it turns into a good social and professional relationship, until he pursues other women. Amiel was working with Shields as director on many pictures, but then the producer starts taking more control and wants other people to take Amiel's dream project. Finally, writer Bartlow came out of college with Shields turning his novels into hit films, but then the producer/director gets a Latin movie star to go out with Mrs. Bartlow, and eventually tragedy ensues. Also starring Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated Gloria Grahame as Rosemary Bartlow, Golden Globe nominated Gilbert Roland as Victor 'Gaucho' Ribera, Leo G. Carroll as Henry Whitfield, Vanessa Brown as Kay Amiel, Paul Stewart as Syd Murphy, Sammy White as Gus and Elaine Stewart as Lila. It is quite interesting to see the darker side of the movie making business world, the performances are all good, and what I understood and paid attention to was a well scripted and melodramatic drama. It won the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design and Best Writing, Screenplay, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Black Shields Of Sunset","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1950 Billy Wilder demonstrated via Sunset Boulevard that you COULD bit the hand that fed you and live to tell the tale so two years later Charles Schnee and Vincente Minnelli decided to grab a piece of the action. The essential difference is that for Wilder Hollywood itself was the heavy, turning its back on those, like Norma Desmond, who had made millions for the industry and helped put it on the map whilst Schnee and Minnelli focus on a Human manifestation, Jonathan Shields, of a parasitic industry. In one respect this is a screen adaptation ofBudd Schulberg's What Makes Sammy Run (arguably the best novel about Hollywood) that never got made although Schulberg (whose father, PJ ran Paramount for several years) created a character totally bereft of redeeming qualities who would have been a louse anywhere but became an even bigger louse when he moved from New York to Hollywood, whilst Schnee gives us a second-generation louse in the shape of Jonathan Shields, Kirk Douglas, whose easy charm conceals the stiletto that has his friend's names on it. Schnee contrived a very tight and workable premise; we begin with a Shields who can't get arrested reaching out to three key people, director, writer, star, he betrayed on the way up; this gives each a chance to recall a different Shields a la Rashomon, and each a reason to reject him. If we overlook the glaring error in the final flashback - Shields has taken writer James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell) to an isolated lake to finish a Treatment, prevailing upon Gaucho (Gilbert Roland) to keep Bartlow's distracting wife (Gloria Grahame) occupied whilst they are away. Roland and Grahame are killed in a plane crash and some six months later Douglas (who has, of course, to be seen as guilty) says, in a Freudian slip, 'I begged Gaucho not to take that plane'. In reality he and Powell had been isolated and Douglas could have had no knowledge of WHAT Gaucho did or didn't do - then this is a fine effort which holds up 50 years on. All the performances are out of the right bottle and three of the principals, Schnee, Minnelli and Douglas, would come together again several years later in another film about film making, based on Irwin Shaw's fine novel Two Weeks In Another Town. A solid 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best lit film I've seen","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drama, bordering on melodrama, and all the better for it.Lana Turner is beautiful, Vincente Minnelli realises this and shoots accordingly.The lighting is wonderful.Kirk Douglas has never been better - I don't always rate him as an actor, but in this he is superb.All this - and TV has a decent print.Watch, video and watch again!  "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well-done tale of totally amoral Hollywood producer Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas). It's all told in flashback of how he made...and destroyed...three people--actress Georgia Lorrison (Lana Turner), business associate Fred Amiel (Barry Sullivan) and writer James Lee Bartlow (Dick Powell).Purportedly this was an accurate portrayal of what Hollywood was like at the time--I have my doubts. It's well-directed with beautiful black and white cinematography but I don't think this was all factual (however I did get a kick out of the obvious caricature of von Stronheim). Acting varies--Powell is terrible--I realize he didn't have much to work with but he doesn't even try. Sullivan was OK. Turner was just superb--one of her best performances. Douglas is good but lacks the charisma to put the part over. Somehow Gloria Grahame got a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for this--she's barely in it. Also this goes on a bit too long.So it's worth catching but just misses the mark of being a really great film. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"wonderful film about a Hollywood producer and his victims","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lana Turner, Dick Powell, and Barry Sullivan play three victims of an ambitious producer (Kirk Douglas) in The Bad and the Beautiful. This 1952 film sports great direction by Vincente Minnelli and a top-notch cast, including the above and Walter Pidgeon, Gloria Grahame, Gilbert Roland, and Elaine Stewart.Kirk Douglas was never better or more handsome than as producer Jonathan Shields, who manages to alienate a lot of people he meets on his climb up. The story begins after he's lost everything, and his old boss, Pidgeon, brings Shields' old partner, Barry Sullivan, an old lover, Lana Turner, and a writer, Dick Powell together to ask them to work with Shields one more time to restore his reputation. With them on board, Pidgeon can raise the funding for the proposed film in seconds. But none of them will ever work with Shields again, and each one, in flashbacks, tells Pidgeon why.The acting, the plot, the dialogue, and the music are all great. What's interesting is that the film takes us behind the scenes of making a movie and working at a studio, which is fascinating as well as entertaining.The only problematic scene is an hysterical Lana driving in the rain - again - as she did in Portrait in Black. I've seen this scene shown at parties for laughs. It's over the top and campy.Other than that, there's not a wrong step. Lana is gorgeous and convincing as a down and out bit player turned star, a sort of Diana Barrymore, with a famous drunken father.This is an entertaining and absorbing film with Kirk Douglas at the top of his game in a role that seems tailor-made for him. "},{"Title":"GReat acting","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We all know about Kirk Douglas being a superb actor. He is Spartacus. He commands the screen and any other actor. But Lana Turner always got a bad rap for not being much of an actress. well watch her in this film. It's not Madame x, but the scene where Kirk kicks her out and she's driving away and has a breakdown. That is one of the most realistic, believable moments on film. You can see it build, see her begin to accept what just happen, and she breaks apart. We have all been there. she displays everything in a few brief moments. Makes me want to see all of her films. Just because you're beautiful it doesn't mean you weren't an amazing actor. Bravo Kirk, & Lana. still two of my favorites. They are gone but never forgotten. "},{"Title":"Oh, that dimple","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the actors did a wonderful job.  When Kirk Douglas freaks out it is quite frightening. Watch for Barbara Billingsley. I didn't know it was her until she spoke. She has a distinctive voice. She's the costume designer and she's kind of mean. Sort of different from Mrs. Cleaver, I'd say. Gloria Graham had a starring role but I didn't see her until the last 20 minutes or so of the film. There are a few surprises and some confusion along the way. And Lana Turner is as beautiful as ever. Her crying scene when she is making a movie in the movie is verysimilar to her crying scene in Imitation of Life (1959) made just a few short years later. "},{"Title":"highly overlooked","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has been highly overlooked and neglected.  It is, in my opinion, at least as good as something like The Best Years of Our Lives.  Minnelli's direction is superb, the cinematography is intriguing, the all-star cast turns in top notch performances, and the separate stories of how a director, an actress, and a writer each was both screwed over and started on the path to greatness by the producer Jonathon Shields, played by Kirk Douglas, each work like their own individual films, much like three intertwining stories of the veterans of The Best Years of Our Lives and the different experiences of those who knew Charles Foster Kane in, of course, Citizen Kane.  Gigi and Meet Me in St. Louis are both great films, but The Bad and the Beautiful is now definitely my favorite Minnelli picture. "},{"Title":"Very dated and highly overrated.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie must have been dated even when it was originally released in 1952.  A great cast and a story concept that has so much potential is turned into a melodramatic soap opera.  The characters are turned into caricatures of supposed hollywood denizens that are so stereotypical and one dimensional as to become laughable.  How Gloria Graham won an Oscar for such a minor role also totally escapes me.  Skip this one and view Sunset Boulevard or even Ed Wood if you want a quality movie based on movie lore. "},{"Title":"The Bad and The Beautiful on Reel 13","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Believe it or not, I had not seen this film before and therefore, it was probably my most anticipated Reel 13 film yet. After all, it's a film I supposed was right up my alley &#150; behind the scenes of old Hollywood, it had some actors I was excited about (Dick Powell and Gloria Grahame) and for some reason I was under the impression that it was directed by Douglas Sirk, whom I love. As the opening credits rolled, I was embarrassed to learn that it was actually a Vincente Minnelli film (I don't know where I got the crazy idea that it came from Sirk &#150; maybe the melodramatic title&#133;), which didn't dampen my spirits at all. Minnelli, probably best known for his musicals, is a very capable filmmaker and has handled some good drama in his time, namely Lust for Life. However, as the film started to unspool on my television set &#150; that's when my spirits got dampened.I can't label The Bad and the Beautiful as anything but a disappointment. Sure, my expectations were high, but I still say the film underachieves. While there are a few really good scenes (I like the scene in which Kirk Douglas is waiting for Lana Turner in her bedroom and the scene when her character films the final scene of her first movie and all the crew stops in their tracks and watches proudly), I think the film's downfall is its narrative structure, which features three separate film professionals (Barry Sullivan, Turner and Powell) sitting in the office of a movie magnate and recollecting how producer Jonathan Shields (Douglas) came into and affected each of their lives. Does that sound familiar? It should if you have ever seen Citizen Kane, made 11 years earlier. Kane makes the device work by sending the faceless reporter from person to person to interview them. Here, all the narrators are gathered in one place under the auspices of being offered another chance to work with Shields and they each just vomit up their individual sagas as if it were a daily ritual. It's all so unfortunately contrived. You might argue that some of the devices of older films like this that seem awkward today need to be accepted and looked at within the historical context of the film &#150; an argument that I find myself making often. However, I don't think that's the case here. I think this was lazy storytelling then, just as it would be now.The performances offered some surprises as well. I have always been a big Gloria Grahame fan. Those eyes of hers and her presence just SCREAM sex to me. She is fun, sassy and great in films like Oklahoma, The Greatest Show on Earth and even It's a Wonderful Life. She won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her work on this film, so I had high expectations for her as well. She doesn't appear until  through the film and then she disappears quickly after that. Worst of all is that even during her brief screen time, she seems really off her game &#150; she's more a nuisance than anything else as Powell's Southern belle wife. The accent is fine, but she doesn't seem to offer any depth to the character whatsoever &#150; almost as if she were phoning it in. (This brings up another revisionist Oscar vote &#150; Best Supporting Actress of 1952 &#150; how in the world did Grahame beat Jean Hagen as Lina Lamont in Singin' in the Rain? What do you guys think?) On the flip side, Kirk Douglas and Lana Turner, more well-known for being movie stars than actors (in the most esoteric sense of the word), deliver outstanding, layered and nuanced performances. With the exception of an unfortunate car scene (which I blame more on Minnelli), Turner avoids the histrionics that are normally associated with films like this (a trap she will fall into later in her career). She also manages to look stunningly gorgeous while at the same time, making her character's vulnerability very real and believable. Douglas is best when either playing smarmy confidence (20,000 Leagues Under the Sea) or righteous indignation (Spartacus). Here, in a way, he gets to do both and as a result, he ignites the film whenever he is on-screen. It is easy to see why the three lost souls in the magnate's office were so drawn to him in the first place.In spite of these fine performances and also some additional good supporting work from Walter Pidgeon and Dick Powell, The Bad and the Beautiful is never able to overcome that initial hurdle of poor structure. Why couldn't the story be told chronologically? Would that have been so awful? And now that we're discussing it, what's the point of the story anyway? Shields gives each of them a chance to shine and then moves on (albeit sometimes in a not-so-ethical way). So what? Who cares? Where's the beef, as they say? Perhaps the episodic nature of the film diluted its potential impact, but even if the film were told sans flashbacks, I wonder if the film still wouldn't feel as empty as it does. "},{"Title":"Bad is Beautiful          ***","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kirk Douglas cemented his rise to fame in this terrific 1952 film about a ruthless Hollywood magnate and the people around him. Douglas, in a worthy Oscar nominated performance, is vicious, cunning and hated by all those who circle his orbit.This is an excellent film dealing with Hollywood turning the cameras on itself. It is certainly in the league of All About Eve.Three people relate their reasons for detesting Jonathan Shields, the producer, who made them stars but at the same time ruined their lives.Lana Turner, as an alcoholic suicide-prone actress, is in top form. The daughter of a deceased well-beloved thespian, Shields learns how to deal with her temperament.Barry Sullivan is the director who never got the chance to direct a pet project. The most tragic of the three is well realized by Dick Powell. Brought to Hollywood to write, Shields arranges to get his wife, Rosemary, away from him and into the arms of Latin gigolo Gilbert Roland with tragedy resultingHe has the ability to make life miserable for friend and foe alike. If he were murdered, there would be a number of suspects too numerous to contend with.Douglas, as the magnate, provides a ruthlessness in the tradition of a Cagney.Douglas and leading lady Lana Turner did all the fine acting but at Oscar time, Gloria Grahame in a 20 minute role as a southern belle, was crowned best supporting actress. It is said that Miss Grahame, who at that time was married to a well known producer, arrived at the ceremony quite drunk. She never remembered winning or what she said at the podium. No wonder her remarks were brief and to the point. In a year where Thelma Ritter (With A Song in My Heart) should have certainly won or possibly Collette Marchand in Moulin Rouge, this was a major Oscar gaffe. Jean Hagen, fellow nominee, for Singin' in the Rain, was not chopped liver either.The dialogue is first-rate. The musical score is engrossing. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas and Lana Turner give riveting performances...(POSSIBLE SPOILER)","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't believe the Jonathan Shields character played by Kirk Douglas in this film is modeled after Orson Welles, as some have suggested. More likely, he is a combination of producers like David O. Selznick and Darryl F. Zanuck. Whatever, here is a story about Hollywood that is really fascinating--well acted, well written and directed with style by Vincente Minnelli. Kirk Douglas really sinks his teeth into the role of the shrewd producer who uses people, then discards them once they've served his purpose. The ironic ending has the people he betrayed listening to his latest spiel on the telephone, intrigued by his latest offer despite what he has done to them in the past. It's a clever ending for a very intriguing kind of movie.Lana Turner plays an actress, daughter of an alcoholic actor with her own dependency on the bottle when things go wrong. (Shades of Diana Barrymore, John Barrymore's alcoholic daughter/actress). She turns in a fine performance, especially moving in the scene where she discovers Jonathan with another girl and becomes hysterical when she jumps into her car.Barry Sullivan, Dick Powell, Gloria Grahame and Walter Pidgeon are fine in other star roles. (Question Was Gloria Grahame's brief role as Dick Powell's flirty Southern wife really worthy of an Oscar?)For more about LANA TURNER, watch for my upcoming article on her career in FILMS OF THE GOLDEN AGE. "},{"Title":"TOO NEAT AN ENDING","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sunset Boulevard still remains the best film about the Hollywood heyday. However this is very good. Perhaps a little too long, and the characters are a little too dimensional. Also the ending is rite and too neat. Otherwise Turner and Douglas are on fine form, and 1950s Hollywood is perfectly illustrated.  "}{"Title":"The Bad attempting to look Beautiful","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, awful...and I love older classic movies, but this one is an overwrought drama queen who has no talent, but spends a lot of money to get us to look at her. It's the Paris Hilton/Britney spears of 1952, which admittedly was a bad year for movies, but this one is so what movies should not be. Winner of 5 academy awards, while some of the greatest movies ever made are ignored...it represents the worst of what Hollywood can throw money at and turn into an over budgeted, overacted, overnotsoonenough bore. Perhaps it could be watched for a hoot, but this is far from Lana Turner's best performance and far from being anything other than a B movie starlet dressed up a for screen-test where everybody but the director recognizes she can't act, but the movie got the part (oscar) anyway, and the only people who got screwed were the audience. If you liked this movie, I know a President you probably voted for in 2000 and 2004, and he won a contest he didn't deserve to win as well. One of the worst wastes of money I've ever watched. Everyone in it did something better some other time for which they deserve more praise and attention. "},{"Title":"star performances","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With its out_of_control egos, destructive relationships, alcoholism and self disgust the film is an intense portrayal of a producer's struggle to accommodate the feelings of his friends with the creative process itself. The film is never judgemental but shows how these excesses will always be around creative people. Kirk Douglas and Lana Turner are magnificent as the lovers at odds with themselves and each other as they try to exorcise the ghosts of their famous fathers. The rigid structure of the flashback narrative form can be easily criticised for being too episodic (indeed, the last third of the film could just as well have been dispensed with) but each time the film cuts back to the present the audience is given a great insight into the fallibility of the ego. The flashbacks show how the characters have been in some way unfair in forming their unfavourable opinions of Douglas who is redeemed in our eyes for his tenacity and exuberance. Douglas's sheer magnetism and charisma also helps and if there was ever a film that needed the luminescence of its stars to truly elevate it to the level of greatness then this is it. "},{"Title":"Soap-opera classic ****1/2","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The soap opera-style plot of this classic is easily overcome by the electric performances and artistic direction by Vincente Minnelli; not only is the film beautifully shot, but it's beautifully shot in black and white, where we all thought Minnelli was only a genius with colour. Kirk Douglas plays a maniacal producer whose many difficult dealings with his leading lady (Lana Turner) as well as others close to him (Dick Powell, Barry Sullivan) force them to back out when their chance comes to help him make a comeback after a long career drought. They recount their reasons for not wanting to get involved in a flashback, and though the film is so obviously a product of its time, it's still compelling entertainment. In this film Turner was the age she was portrayed in Curtis Hanson's L.A. Confidential, a tidbit for those who think that the young actress playing her in that film wasn't quite a dead ringer. Gloria Grahame has an adorable little role as Powell's charming Southern belle wife.  "},{"Title":"Deluxe, affectionate &#150; and two-faced &#150; treatment takes sting out of Hollywood self-flagellation","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By the 1950s, the sound era had a good quarter-century behind it &#150; time enough to pile up a stock of folklore, racy stories and private scores to be settled.  And so Hollywood took to a spell of navel-gazing Sunset Blvd., A Star Is Born (though from a property first filmed in 1932), The Barefoot Contessa, The Big Knife.  All in all, a corrosive clutch of self-portraits, each teeming with industry secrets and scandals, with arcane inside jokes.  Add to them Vincente Minnelli's The Bad and The Beautiful which, while some of its vignettes keep a sharp, unseemly edge, remains the most affectionate tribute of the bunch &#150; in its way, the most two-faced.Its working title was Tribute To A Bad Man and so, in Hollywood terms, the heavy inevitably was a producer (Kirk Douglas).  As the movie opens, a studio functionary (Walter Pigeon) summons three people whose dealings with Douglas were so traumatic that they flatly refuse ever to work with him again; it's Pigeon's job to persuade them otherwise.  The three are director Barry Sullivan; star Lana Turner; and writer Dick Powell.  Pigeon's tactic is to remind them that, without Douglas, they'd be nothing, and we revisit in turn their own associations with the producer.Douglas (who appears only in flashbacks) plays the son of an industry founder who has just died (he's first seen paying off professional mourners at the funeral).  Penniless, he teams up with Sullivan and talks Pigeon into giving him a job.  Soon, the team is churning out Poverty-Row programmers that `end with a kiss and black ink on the books' (and, though anachronistic, there are strong parallels to Val Lewton's work in the B-movie unit at RKO).  Their way of turning a profit while cutting corners makes them an unbeatable team &#150; until Douglas assigns Sullivan's pet screenplay to another director and steals his credit.Like Douglas, Turner's another second-generation misfit, daughter of a dead ham from the early talkies.  She's surviving on bit parts when she isn't off on a `bat,' which is regularly, but Douglas gives her a break, seeing star quality under her nervous amateurism (and Turner contributes some nice work here &#150; close to acting).  He weans her away from the bottle by offering himself as its replacement &#150; at least until her picture (some Mexican epic) is safely wrapped.... Powell, by contrast, is an outsider, a pipe-puffing academic whose historical novel hits the best-seller lists.  Against his better judgment, he's coaxed out to the coast.  When Douglas suspects Powell's writing is blocked because of his Southern belle wife (Gloria Grahame), he spirits him off to Lake Arrowhead for some uninterrupted work while pimping her off to Latin Lover Roland Gilbert, with dreadful consequences.  What's more, Douglas thinks he can take over direction of the movie himself, botching it and bankrupting his company.  Penniless once again, he needs the unhappy threesome to start over again....Though black and white, The Bad and the Beautiful displays the full MGM/Minnelli opulence &#150; a prestige release from the Tiffany studio.  And that can't help but to have declawed and defanged the material, some of which is still pretty rank under all the perfume sprayed around it.  Minnelli was a gifted showman who knew he worked best cosseted in the confines of the studio system, and he wasn't about to bite the hand that fed him so well &#150; or at least the bites were playful.  So the movie ends coyly, leaving it an open question whether the bad guy wasn't so bad after all. "},{"Title":"A producer's way","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few of the user comments on this page have attempted to draw parallels between The Bad And The Beautiful and the career of Orson Welles. I'm not so sure I buy it.  For me, this film is a much broader study of the ways in which producers of Hollywood's classic era (like the one played by Douglas) were, to put it in the most polite terms, very _involved_ in the creative process (the not so nice word might be _meddlesome_).  The three characters who provide the stories that are the film's flashbacks obviously represent the Director, the Star, and the Writer(who, as we all know is the lowest on the totem pole).As written, the character of Shields is a bit complex. No one can deny that he loves films and the film business, but what is his real motivation? After his father's death (another famous Hollywood man), he vows to ram the Shields name down the throats of his father's enemies and detractors.  One senses that, if you will pardon the cliche, the apple does not fall far from the tree.  He is not _evil_ in the way we see Burt Lancaster in The Sweet Smell of Success.  He does provide his friends with the opportunity for success, but oh what a price they pay. "},{"Title":"More potential than performance","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brilliant producer uses and abuses his friends as he fights his way to the top and then falls all the way to the bottom under the weight of his own ego. But moral judgements are not entirely clear, because the producer's actions are motivated by his love of film and he always manages to give something even as he is taking what he needs. Unfortunately, an interesting story and outstanding performance by Kirk Douglas in the lead role are largely wasted by a mishandled attempt to structure the movie in a film-noir style.The telling of the story is based around a highly contrived setting which gives 3 characters a chance to narrate flashbacks. The first one is very well done, but unfortunately the quick cut back to the original setting reinforces just how highly contrived it was in the first place. Having to leave that first story is quite a disappointment. Neither of the next two flashbacks are strong enough to overcome that disappointment or to generate any continuity with the first. The second is mostly soap opera melodrama and the last one is made up of caricatures, not characters.To make matters worse, the interesting ambiguity as noted above is not played out within the stories but instead thrown in your face with no subtlety whatsoever in the final return to the contrived setting. That and a cutesy ending which has no place in the film completely uses up whatever potential the movie might have once had.   "},{"Title":"Fine Cast and Director Can't Save This Overrated and Truly Appalling Film","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over the last couple of years,there has been a lot of praise about The Bad and the Beautiful,a 1952 melodrama about a hated Hollywood producer. Many critics say the film is a captivating and realistic look at what goes on behind-the-scenes in Hollywood.When I read comments like these and heard it had a cast that includedKirk Douglas,Lana Turner,Walter Pidgeon,Dick Powell,and Gloria Grahame,I decided to watch it when it came on TCM(Turner Classic Movies)three months ago.The film tells the story of a studio executive(Pidgeon)of Sheilds Pictures,trying to convince three celebritiesan actress(Turner),a director(Barry Sullivan),and a playwright(Powell),to do a film with a greedy producer(Douglas),whom they all greatly despise.To show the audience why they hate this producer,there are three flashbacks.The film starts out very promising,but then just goes into pure boredom.The plot,itself,is fascinating,and if the film would have been done differently,it could've have been great.The flashbacks are extremely slow-moving,and you don't see the terrible things Kirk Douglas does until the very end of each of them.There isn't much detail about them,either. Because the script doesn't have much depth to it,the performers can't breathe life into story. I'll never understand how Gloria Grahame won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for playing Dick Powell's cheap,Southern wife. She's only in the film for ten minutes,if that long,and doesn't bring a real impact to the story.You also don't see her flirting with men,there is only talk of it.I can't believe Vincent Minelli,the brilliant director of Meet Me in St. Louis,Undercurrent,and Lust for Life,could direct this misfire. "},{"Title":"The Beautiful Movie","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a Fantastic Movie from one of my favorite Directors Vincentte Minelli. I never saw a movie of Lana Turner before, but now if seen her, I think she is great she really shines in this movie. The Bad and the beautifull has a great cast, director, crew and the most beautiful is Turner's Costume they are fabulous "},{"Title":"Just Bad","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just another of those Hollywood movies about Hollywood movies with the predictable overworked story-callous ,egoist mogul uses everyone to make box-office hits. Obviously this kind of behavior is excusable and even admired so long as success is achieved. Why is that attitude so easy to believe about Hollywood?)And why does a suit look so inappropriate on the ham Douglas? Lana is awful as usual and Gloria Grahams considerable talent is buried beneath a dreadful Southern accent.Even the excellent Dick Powell is unable to salvage this homage to Hollywood silliness. But be of good faith; the victims of the mogul's scandalous antics finally realize,in fact,that he has done each of them an incalculable favor and that the success they later achieve on their own merits was possible only because of him. The ungrateful victims join our hero in a very typical and schmaltzy happy ending. The viewer now understands how terrible,selfish behavior is really an act of kindness. Only in LalaLand. "},{"Title":"It's also an Orson Welles allegory","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, this movie would also seem to be a rather thinly-veiled slap at the career and person of Orson Welles, wouldn't you say? With Kirk Douglas representing Welles, and Walter Pidgeon representing Herman Mankiewicz. After all, the script contains references to something like the boy genius (or perhaps the young genius - it goes by very fast, but it's in the section where the Douglas and Pidgeon characters are working on getting the Gaucho to star in their movie), and the Shields touch (cf. the Welles touch) in regard to the main character's skill at directing. And, Douglas' character steals a script credit from Pidgeon's character, although this was not uncommon in Hollywood in those years. "}{"Title":"I believe Kim Novak is in this movie.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never gotten through this movie which makes me eminently unqualified to comment but what little I saw on Turner Classic movies earlier today produced the response that Kim Novak is the apex of disaffected beauty.  She appears to be the flared nostril blonde recruited by Mr. Douglas and Mr. Pidgeon for their night on the town with the Latin Lover whom they hope to cast in their film version of The Fountainhead or whatever it's supposed to be.  Imagine my surprise to find she is not listed in even the uncredited credits.  Surely I am quite mistaken.As for Vincent Minelli, the great Radio City Music Hall costume designer, I love the warm friendly feeling I get from his films.  Some Came Running is probably the most outrageous example of people getting together to have a good time.  The bar scene with Shirley MacLaine is bizarre. He also provided a safe haven for Judy Garland and Margaret O'Brien to be as cute, beautiful, charming and bizarre as they could ever be in Meet Me in St. Louis.  Scenes from The Band Wagon and Ziegfield's Follies (that Limehouse Blues segment!) are among my favorites.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but extremely dated","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a good example of a movie that does not quite hold up after 50 years.  It's interesting to watch as a kind of classical Hollywood cliche; however, the outlandish performances turned in by Kirk Douglas and Lana Turner don't really work for a modern audience.  Much of the movie comes off as ridiculous, and it quite frequently becomes difficult to stifle laughter during some scenes that were not meant to be funny.The movie, when viewed in the context of the period during which it was made, is an entertaining foray into the film industry, but it does little to dismiss the popular opinion that people that make movies about Hollywood are simply not creative enough to come up with ideas that aren't completely based on their own lives. As a result, the story becomes tedious at times, and the characters are flat, though overall the movie is still pretty watchable. "},{"Title":"Essential viewing","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the great films of our times.  Yes - our times.  Watching a black and white film now is like watching a fantasy separated by a style - just a bit more lofty a dream.  This is a wonderfully artful film about deviant essential behavior to friends and entertainment.  When there are things bigger than yourself - the self grows into a monster.  Twisted at times into a puppy - then focuses into the Lobster Bees from the Dogs from Hell'S Mouth (Ya know).Three friends remember the guy that forever changed their lives for the better - and the horrible worse.Shields - (Not Brooke) is the puppy lobster bee thing as described above - the three friends are a Director, Actress, & Screen Writer (two words). Three stories of inter-twined destiny and damnation.Watch it on a Sunday when you're not in church. (With porn for later) "},{"Title":"Dated Film - not a classic","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not sure why this film was nominated and won so many Oscars. Film is very dated, slow moving and misses the comedy mark. Great film to fall asleep to.Basically, this film is about three people - director, writer and actress - who never want to work with Jonathan Shields (Kirk Douglas) again but are all brought together by a film executive to do a film with him.Acting wasn't that great. Lots of film flubs (incontinuity, backgrounds don't match scene, etc.) Like I said, very dated. Big stars in this film, but you'd never be able to know. Don't see this film. It's not worth it - even for all the awards it was nominated for. "},{"Title":"Just Bad","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are an astonishing number of movies about the movie business. many of these interest me because they use the situation as a way of engaging the audience we are tricked into being the audience IN the film. This is a common trick, which I believe to be the most effective in all film, especially when disguised. But it all depends on the movie being well made. In this case, we have a collection of A-list personalities, none of whom do anything near competent work by today's standards, except for Minnelli's staging. The irony is in the story it is about a man who makes excellent films, terrific films, special films that bowl viewers over. This film does none of that. Our man Kirk is famously on record as thinking movies are only about storytelling and actors are only about inhabiting a character.Kirk's character new this wasn't all, at least the guy who wrote it knew. Art is destructive, creation is painful. People get hurt. In powerful movies, even viewers get hurt.This movie is like the ones Pigeon's character talks about.Lana made a career of being a damaged person who communicated that damage. Not the same as being a dimensional person who can communicate depth.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]