[{"Title":"The Babysitter and the Flyer","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"49 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This is an odd film, if only for its credits. It was written by Daniel Taradash, a first-rate screenwriter who the next year would write the screenplay for From Here To Eternity. The director, Englishman Roy Ward Baker, had a varied and eclectic career, mostly in his native country, where he directed, among other films, A Night To Remember and Quatermass and the Pit. Screen sexpot Marilyn Monroe plays a psychotic babysitter who encounters a tough-minded and cynical airline pilot and causes him to change his outlook. Miss Monroe was not known for doing drama, which she plays here, in black and white no less, and is excellent. But that this was one of her first starring roles she seems a peculiar choice to play the troubled young woman. Richard Widmark, often a bad guy, is here only partly bad, and is proficient but rather dull and, for him, colorless. Dramatic actress Anne Bancroft plays a singer, and Widmark's girl, a role one might have expected Marilyn to play. And so it goes. The movie is compelling, if never really entertaining, and seems at times as confused as Monroe's babysitter as to what sort of film it wants to be. It is a bit of a psychological drama, a bit of a thriller. filmed like a noir, studio-bound, which makes it also unrealistic, it is in many respects a mess, but a watchable one. The central set of the hotel in which nearly all the action takes place, is impressive, as are the various characters who either live, visit or work there, who at times seem like inhabitants of an enormous cave or reef, and as such denizens of the place rather than employees or guests. There is a nice sense of how dull night life can be in the heart of a supposedly exciting city (New York). There are no especially good or bad people in the film; just those who understand Monroe's plight, and empathize with her, and those that don't. Young Marilyn more than rises to the dramatic occasion, however, and gives a fine performance, far more worthy than the script, and more animated than her co-stars, and in the end steals the film and our hearts. "},{"Title":"Monroe fans will want to see this","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  What's interesting about this movie is that it's so disturbing. Considered a minor film in Monroe's canon, it's uncomfortable to watch now that we're so saturated with information about her unhappy life. She plays a woman who's had a nervous breakdown because she tried to escape a miserable family life by falling for a young fighter pilot. They had sex in a hotel before marriage, then he went away and got killed in the war and she tried to slash her wrists. So her folks put her away in a funny farm, and now she's come out to live in the city with her uncle, who reminds her of her unsympathetic, impatient parents. That's dark territory for Monroe, and you can't help wondering what she thought of the role. In any case, it's rather uncanny to watch her breaking down. She abuses the girl she is babysitting by tying her up, and at one point she says tellingly about the crying girl They stop if you ignore them. We are left to conclude that this is how she herself has been treated. In a later speech to the girl, she identifies herself and her goals with the girl and her goals. We can all get what we want and live happily ever after, understand? But she does not play a psychopath, as her role is so often described. In the opinion of Widmark, whose character matures and deepens through his encounter with her, she's just a mixed-up girl who would never have hurt that kid. Although Widmark has a soberly happy ending, Monroe does not.  "},{"Title":"Sad . . . disturbing . . .","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"52 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" On so many levels. Not just because of the character Marilyn Monroe played . . . but also because of the course she afterwards chose to take, as a performer. In life, MM was never the dumb-blonde clown she so often portrayed on film. Yet she chose to follow that path of marketability from her earliest days -- perhaps because of advice -- The only thing I had on was the radio, she famously said regarding her early calendar shoot (though that quote was delivered to her by her public relations handler).Yet, in Don't Bother to Knock, we have evidence of a talent far deeper and more affecting than anything she ever did, before or since.Though then, and still, a B-movie, DBTK remains a highly disturbing piece of work from a remarkable natural actress who subsequently decided to pursue -- who knows, whether from instinct, advice or the line of least resistance -- a career based on superficial appearance rather than emotive depth.Finally, of course, she morphed into the silly, slithering, sewn-into-her-Jean-Louis-gown songstress at President Kennedy's birthday party in Madison Square Garden in 1962, all drug-addled spray-netted helmet-haired breathiness and off-key baby-voiced vocalizing. In DBTK, however, is ample evidence of the powerfully effective actress she could have been, had she taken a different road.This is not to criticize the choices she made as a performer.Doubtless, she would not be the legend she remains today, had she lived into her 60s or 70s.But DBTK remains an archive of a complex and affecting screen acting talent, caught at the fork in her career's road, who chose surface over substance.No matter how beguiling MM will always remain as a screen icon, there is this one and only proof of a talent even more devastating -- had she the guts or the advice to honor and follow it.Sad, and disturbing, indeed. "},{"Title":"scary!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  to be absolutely honest, marilyn monroe acted extremely well in this film. I think it was the first i had everseen of her (2001) and after all i had heard about her acting as a blonde bombshell this picture sent me in another direction. SHE CAN ACT!! to see marilyn play a psychotic woman may not have been completely hard for her (no offense intended) but i feel it was superb acting!  Ashame she wasnt offered more roles like this one "},{"Title":"An unstable young woman takes a babysitting job at a New York City hotel and wreaks havoc on the various residents.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  This psychological suspense flick was one of Marilyn's first leading roles and gave the sexy star an opportunity to play a serious dramatic role. Viewers who have never seen the great Monroe in a serious part will be amazed. She really was a very gifted and versatile actress. Sincerely, if you have ever dismissed Monroe as just another pretty face, you should really see this film. If after that you're still not convinced, then rent BUS STOP. "},{"Title":"marilyn displays some true range","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This film doesn't receive a lot of attention. I grew up a fan of classic film, and I only saw this one once until tonight. Seeing it for the second time (I can't imagine there are any other major-release MM films I haven't seen over & over) I was extremely impressed by the quality of the performance Marilyn turned in. Hardcore fans seem to generally feel that her performance in the Misfits is her finest; the role had more depth than many she played, and seemed highly personal. I argue that she does just as fine a job in just as deep a role in Don't Bother To Knock. It's my belief that MM was _ALWAYS_ versatile and talented, but that the American public fell so deeply in love with the breathless (& brainless) beauty role, that the studios typecast her until they weren't sure her looks alone would be enough to guarantee the volume of gross profits which they expected from Marilyn's films. "},{"Title":"Marilyn shows she could have been a fairly convincing dramatic actress.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I had not a seen a movie with the greatest myth of the big screen for a long time. I had read very little about Roy Baker's Don't bother to knock, so I was free of prejudices when watching the movie. I felt like watching Marilyn just acting. Happily, it was a pleasant experience. I think Marilyn reacted more than acted to a plot that brought her back to her sad childhood. That is why the viewer can almost feel her emotions as real ones which is something that makes the weird and a bit slow story be much more credible. From the rest of the cast, Richard Widmark shines in spite of having to portray a rather lame, superficial character with few redeeming features. Above all, I will remember this film for portraying a different M.Monroe from the typical dumb-blonde-girl-with-strong-sex-appeal that too often the big studios wanted her to be. "},{"Title":"Marilyn's best performance.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  A hotel guest flirts with a beautiful woman after a breakup from his girlfriend. He is seduced by the woman while she is babysitting. The child wakes up and terrorizes the child and the guest. The moral to this movie is never judge a book by its cover. Marilyn Monroe give her best acting performance in the whole movie and makes you understand her character emotions through the story. Very rare to find a movie with this type of acting even today. "},{"Title":"An Itch To Scratch","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't Bother To Knock finds airline pilot Richard Widmark flying with more than the safety of his passengers on his mind to New York. He's on a mission to confront Anne Bancroft who's given him a 'let's call it a day' letter. Anne works as a singer in a posh New York nightclub attached to one of the fancier hotels. After a nasty scene with Bancroft, Widmark's left with an itch to scratch.The answer might be Marilyn Monroe across the courtyard looking real provocative and arousing Widmark's interest. He gives her a call and things might be going good. Then the little girl, Donna Corcoran, wakes up from the next room and Marilyn starts to act very weird indeed.This one was one of Marilyn's first roles which exploited a little more than her beauty. She plays a troubled young lady who's just spent some time in a mental institution. Her uncle Elisha Cook, Jr., got her that job as a babysitter for Corcoran whose parents Jim Backus and Jeanne Cagney are at a banquet in the hotel. Truth be told the role was no stretch for Marilyn given her own sad history.Widmark's not a particularly noble character here, but he's a decent enough man. He's just like millions of other men who when they lose their love, cure it with trying to love what's available. Anne Bancroft makes a nice screen debut here although I can't believe she sung those songs herself. If so, why didn't she do any more singing on screen?Though the film gets melodramatic and the characters don't give you any real rooting interest, Don't Bother To Knock remains a landmark film for the careers of both Marilyn Monroe and Anne Bancroft. "},{"Title":"Don't tell mom the babysitter is NUTS","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Marilyn Monroe and Richard Widmark star in this early Monroe star vehicle. This is one film you'd never see being made today, due to the new child-care sensibilities. Jim Backus and Lorene Tuttle leave their child with a complete stranger while they go out for an evening. The stranger is Monroe, complete with wrist scars, who is the niece of the elevator man in the hotel where the couple is staying. Mid-evening, she picks up with Widmark, who is more upset about his lounge singer girlfriend (Anne Bancroft) breaking up with him than he thought he would be - he and Monroe flirt from their respective rooms. Widmark goes to the room, expecting a night of fun. Instead he and the hapless child get a night of terror, with Monroe believing Widmark is her dead pilot boyfriend and nearly killing not only the little girl but her uncle as well. Turns out, Marilyn's been institutionalized and her uncle (Elisha Cooke, Jr.) thought she was nearly well. Monroe is very good in this - very beautiful, of course, as well as vulnerable and believable. The wild look in her eyes when she scolds the little girl is downright scary. One thing that has always bothered me about Monroe doing drama is her very excellent diction which always sounds studied and unnatural. It's a distraction in this film as well. However, she's so watchable in everything - the camera just adored her - I have to believe that as she lived and aged, she would have had more chances at drama.Widmark is excellent as the apparent cynic who proves to have more to him than his girlfriend thought - in fact, his character was much better with the child than Monroe's; Bancroft's role is small and belies her future dramatic appearances; and there is a cameo by Honeybee Gillis, Joan Blondell's sister Gloria, as a photographer. "}{"Title":"Tepid psychological thriller, interesting purely because it gives Monroe the first serious role of her career.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Marilyn Monroe gets to prove that she can be more than a sexy blonde bimbo in this 1952 thriller. For the first time in her career Monroe demonstrates her serious side, giving a solid account of herself in an intriguing role as a very psychologically messed-up woman. Alas, Don't Bother To Knock fails to catch the eye as the intended riveting psychological thriller, for it is paced too leisurely and lacks the authentic tension needed to make it a genuinely exciting film. Having said that, it is still worth catching especially if you are a Monroe fan and wish to see her in one of her more uncharacteristic roles.Hotel elevator attendant Eddie (Elisha Cook Jr) overhears a couple asking around for a babysitter for their young daughter. The couple, Ruth and Peter Jones (Lurene Tuttle and Jim Backus), live on the eighth floor of the hotel and are in need of a babysitter so that they can attend a journalism awards ceremony in the hotel's ground floor ballroom without worrying about the welfare of their daughter Bunny (Donna Corcoran). Eddie decides that the job is perfect for his niece Nell (Marilyn Monroe), a beautiful young woman who has been living with him since her release from a mental institution. Seems young Nell went a little nuts after her boyfriend was killed in a plane crash during WWII, but the doctors and Eddie are satisfied that her mental stability is now on the mend. Meanwhile, moody airline pilot Jed Towers (Richard Widmark) is also staying in the hotel having been dumped by his girlfriend Lyn (Anne Bancroft). Lyn is a singer who performs every night in the hotel. When Lyn declares that she is absolutely and definitely ending her relationship with Jed, he storms up to his room&#133; but soon catches sight of the attractive Nell, whom he decides to pursue in order to ease his frustration after breaking up with Lyn. Gradually, Jed notices that Nell is still psychologically damaged. In fact, she even mistakes him as her dead lover and refuses to let him leave her room. Eventually Jed manages to make his getaway, but later realises that young Bunny may be in terrible danger at the hands of her deranged babysitter&#133;&#133; Don't Bother To Knock is based on a forgotten novel by Charlotte Armstrong. Daniel Taradash's adaptation of the source novel is not very impressive. Scenes drag on pointlessly and the character motivations are often somewhat unconvincing. Monroe is surprisingly effective as the unbalanced Nell, but Widmark seems less enthused about his rather two-dimensional role. Bancroft plays it nicely in her debut performance as Widmark's ex-flame, but Donna Corcoran isn't given enough to do as the child victim whose safety is at stake. The film is tepidly directed by Roy Ward Baker (later a key director of several Hammer horror films), who struggles to generate much interest from the talky, static material. A few memorable scenes emerge, including a moment where Monroe contemplates shoving the kid out of the eighth storey window and a decent scene in which Monroe savagely assaults her uncle with a sweeping brush, but the high points are separated by a good deal of tedium. On the whole, Don't Bother To Knock is an unremarkable thriller. As noted earlier, it is perhaps worth catching if you're interested in Monroe's career or the '50s-style noir thriller, but it is not a film that you should immediately cancel all your social arrangements in order to make time for. "},{"Title":"Marilyn's best acting( or emoting from her own depth)","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I am no movie critic, but this film showed real depth from two of the most underrated actors in the business, and this was the golden age of hollywood, the early 50's. Richard Widmark,who somehow later became almost a caricature of himself, as an edgy, slightly crazed character actor, is in this one an ultimately almost caring character. In this movie he just barely experiences an arc, but it is better than most of the roles they threw him later on. Who can forget the number of roles where his trademark evil cackle instantly typed his character? As for Marilyn Monroe, this movie really turned me around about her ability as an actress. Anyone who can look in her eyes in the later moments of this film and not see the depth of despair and disconnection there has just not lived enough to understand human nature and the vicissitudes of living in this world. If you can just suspend cynical disbelief for a couple of hours to watch this thing, she gives a heartbreaking performance that is completely believable, and those scars on her wrists are stigmata that may well belie her future. I think she was ultimately a truly tragic figure, an innocent(in her way)thoroughly corrupted by the system that made her a star. She was not the first and she will not be the last, but somehow, her fragility makes her the poster child for avoiding the star machine at all costs if you do not have the hide, and the mind, of a predator. In her last movie(I think) The Misfits, she projected the same kind of wounded innocence. "},{"Title":"Sssh, don't tell Mom the babysitter is a touch off.","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Roy Ward Baker and written by Daniel Taradish from a novel by Charlotte Armstrong, Don't Bother To Knock sees Marilyn Monroe take on a dramatic role to prove that she was more than a ditsy jello on springs. Hoping to aid her in the dramatic quest are Richard Widmark, Anne Bancroft and Elisha Cook Jr. While Lucien Ballard is on photography and Lionel Newman provides the music. The plot see Monroe as Nell Forbes, a woman traumatised by the death of her love over the pacific. Hoping to get her back into the real world is her uncle Eddie Cook Jr, who gets her a babysitting job at the hotel where he is the elevator operator. Whilst left in charge of the Jones' young daughter Bunny, Nell has an encounter with Jed Towers Widmark, a pilot who is at the hotel trying to save his relationship with the hotel torch singer Lyn Lesley Bancroft. But as Jed gets to know Nell a little better it's obvious that all is not well with Miss Forbes.Psychodrama! Well not quite. The film is watchable, even daring to a degree, but as a story it just lacks interest. Monroe is fine, but certainly not pulling up any dramatic trees, but Widmark and Cook Jr fail to inspire. It feels as if they are in the movie as a favour to someone; but that does no favours to fans of the two usually very admirable performers! The thesp front is saved by Bancroft, in what is her first film role, she has a sizzle quality that's easy to get on side with, and it's somewhat annoying that she is not afforded more screen time. That said, the film does score watch-ability points with its claustrophobic atmosphere. Set exclusively in one small hotel, the stifled feel is at one with poor Nell's state of mind. And with a neat bit of irony, the humid close feel counteracts with the relationship between Jed & Lyn. Under the same roof, yet the distance between them is enormous; with the use of having Lyn's singing downstairs piped into the hotel rooms proving to be a devilish bit of writing. There's not much budget here, but Baker knits it together nicely. With Monroe slotting in for the originally planned Dorothy McGuire, and Baker taking the place of Jules Dassin, he delivered the Monroe movie that 20th Century Fox were happy to go with. A quick and watchable movie that could have done with a bit more pizazz in the writing, and a bit more gusto from its leading men. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A disturbing knockout of a performance by Monroe &#150; if it's a performance","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  If any doubts linger about the star power that Marilyn Monroe could generate, Don't Bother To Knock should allay them.  Her performance as Nell, the hotel babysitter with the badly scrambled psyche, is utterly riveting, so strong and eerily accurate it overwhelms everything else about the movie.  While she for the most part persists in her breathy, Betty-Boop delivery, her posture and visage express unimaginable hurt.  Admittedly, this begs the question of whether it was a performance, or whether the part drew out of Monroe foreshocks of malaise which, we know with benefit of hindsight, would culminate, 10 years later, in her death by her own hand.  (Another portrayal of an unstable woman the year before drew its power from an actress whose own personality would come to be fragmented as well Vivian Leigh in A Streetcar Named Desire).The movie keeps its action within the confines of the McKinley, a Not-So-Grand Hotel in Manhattan whose lounge curiously sports a Wild-West theme.  Amid the painted cowboys and cacti, chanteuse Ann Bancroft waits for airline pilot beau Richard Widmark, to whom she's just sent a Dear John letter. But upstairs the real action commences.  A couple in town for an awards banquet engages Monroe as baby-sitter through her uncle, self-important elevator operator Elisha Cook, Jr.  Following their departure, it becomes clear that she may not have been the most prudent choice for watching over their young daughter.  She starts nibbling the chocolates she lied about never eating and playing dress-up in the mother's gowns, perfume (`Liaison') and jewelry.  Through the open window, Widmark, on rebound, spots her vamping around and initiates a courtship of telephone calls and Venetian-blind signals.  Finally, he shows up with a bottle of rye.  Monroe enters into a psychic time-warm and mistakes him for the fiancé with whom she spent one night in a hotel (presumably reminiscent of the McKinley), the night before his plane went down in the Pacific.  Soon the little girl is bound and gagged, and all hell breaks loose....Don't Bother To Knock gets marginalized as a minor film &#150; even a minor noir &#150; but Daniel Taradash's script, facile in some of its microcosmic doings (like the side-story of Bancroft and Widmark), creates a strong and touching central character in Monroe.  Though she was enjoyable in many of the funny/sexy roles that made her a legend, she may never have been more affecting than in her early roles in noir, also-starring in Clash by Night and starring in Niagara.  But in Don't Bother To Knock she's unforgettable &#150; a sad waif who kindles chaos wherever she walks. "},{"Title":"Very good and understated","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK is not one of Marilyn Monroe's more famous roles, though it is one of her earliest starring roles--and is far better than I'd expected. Marilyn plays a young lady whose uncle works at a hotel. He asks her to come babysit for some guests and everything seems fine...at first. At about the same time, Richard Widmark and his girlfriend, Anne Bancroft, are at odds--she wants to break up and he wants her back--but she'll have none of it.Later, Widmark is feeling sorry for himself and notices Monroe through the window. On a lark, he phones her and tries to make a date. When she hangs up, he soon pops over to the room. While he seems like the one with the problem, she turns out to be seriously mentally ill. She thinks he is a long-lost lover (who is actually dead) and he becomes afraid of her, as she's very possessive and even frantic to keep him there. However, while her mental state is fragile, it quickly falls apart--and the child's life might just be at stake.The film gets high marks for dealing with a very disturbed woman without being too salacious or exploitational. Yes, she's insane and there is some serious tension in the film, but the film makers don't let Marilyn's performance go over the top--making the film well made and memorable. I liked her vulnerability and think it's one of her better acting jobs--not as flashy or over-the-top as many of her later films, where she is almost a caricature of her sexy self. A well made yet very simple film. "},{"Title":"The candle in the wind","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" If you really want to see true vulnerability, watch Marilyn Monroe in the 1952 Don't Bother to Knock opposite Richard Widmark and Anne Bancroft. She plays a disturbed girl and at one point she comes down in the elevator, and when the door opens, her face alone will break your heart.Anne Bancroft was interviewed about Marilyn and said that she had not been expecting the reaction she would have to that scene. She said when those elevator doors opened and Marilyn came out of the elevator, it stunned her and the rest of the cast and crew to watch her, she seemed so authentically confused and lost and vulnerable. Bancroft said it was the hardest scene she has ever had to watch, because you felt it was really happening to Marilyn herself.She truly was a candle in the wind. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother to Watch","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This is a watchable picture if only for the players. It's curious to see Marilyn Monroe as a drama queen. Richard Widmark not in uniform or in a cops and robbers setting. But most of all, Ann Bancroft as a lounge singer and a respectable voice. The problem with the picture is not the cast. All of them perform well, but the movie suffers from the screenplay. The dialogue sounds like it might have been written by a film student, and the structure is pedestrian. How much better would the narrative have been if he writer had flashed back to Ms. Monroe's earlier dilemmas, shown some violence against the little girl in the hotel room, supported Richard Widmark's personality that turned Ann Bancroft against him. "},{"Title":"Caring About Others","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Marilyn Monroe may be the star attraction here, but the script belongs to Richard Widmark, who plays Jed, a man with a gruff, alienated exterior. Jed seems not to care at all for other people, least of all for his former girlfriend, Lyn Lesley (Anne Bancroft). A young woman, played by Monroe, enters the story as a babysitter. And through the plot, Jed's exposure to this young woman causes a change in Jed's behavior.Set entirely inside a Manhattan hotel, Don't Bother To Knock is a rather simple story with a straightforward plot that's easy to follow. Nothing much happens in the first half, apart from character introductions. Lyn Lesley, the hotel's Round-Up Room singer, sings a couple of songs. At the midpoint plot turn, action picks up, regarding Monroe's character, en route to a dramatic ending.Monroe gives a surprisingly good performance in a dramatic role, breathy voice and pouty facial expressions included. Widmark exudes classic Widmark. Seeing Anne Bancroft singing a country/western song, as a cowgirl, seems a little strange. But she does a nice job. Other actors competently support.The B&W visuals and production design are fine. That the plot is contained entirely in one building gives the film a slightly cheap, B-grade look and feel. Yet, I could find nothing seriously wrong either with the script or with the production values, given the era in which the film was made.Don't Bother To Knock is something of a sleeper film. It doesn't get the press that other Monroe films get. The story is neither forceful nor pretentious; its theme is solid, yet obvious and simple. Overall, the film doesn't make a huge impression one way or the other. But it's worth a look, especially for fans of Monroe or Widmark. "},{"Title":"Low-key but interesting drama with a fine Monroe performance","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" A modestly made and produced drama with thriller elements,DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK's virtues are mostly due to it's decent cast (Richard Widmark,Anne Bancroft,Marilyn Monroe,Elisha Cook Jnr) which takes one's mind off the sometimes dull script and average direction (by Briton Roy Ward Baker,here billed as Roy Baker).The story itself is pretty slight,if nonetheless a trifle daring for the early 1950's;a fighter and airline pilot (Widmark) tries to rekindle his romance with a nightclub singer (Bancroft) while she works at a hotel.Meanwhile,a hotel elevator operator (Cook Jnr) manages to get some babysitting work for his niece (Monroe) there after she was released from an institution,though it is obvious that she is still very disturbed (still pining over the death of her fiancé,in aerial combat),putting the child involved in considerable danger.The film as a whole is somewhat static and stagey,with (barring the start and end titles) the total absence of a musical score which could've enhanced several of the more dramatic scenes.Some of the plot contrivances are sometimes far-fetched as well (particularly when after barely making contact with her initially,Widmark makes his way over to Marilyn's apartment in the hope of a new romance),with an ending that seems to rather improbably tie up all the plot's various loose ends.The film's most notable aspect is the performance of Marilyn Monroe.Made about a year or so before she really hit the big time,she is surprisingly deglamorised and plaintive here,(aside from a few brief moments) a far cry from later roles such as GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDES,THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH and SOME LIKE IT HOT.But this is not a real problem as she gives a convincing portrayal of a vulnerable,emotionally damaged young woman (which sadly was more or less the case for her in real life) in which she only sparingly uses her familiar breathy voice that became commonplace in her best known roles.This certainly isn't one of her best known parts,but deserves more attention as she showed beneath the looks was a very capable and talented natural performer,both dramatically and comically.Widmark,Bancroft and the ever-reliable Cook Jnr are also fine in their roles,but the relatively short running time (around 75 minutes),allied with the slightly prosaic feel to DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK gives the impression that 20th Century Fox looked on this as a fairly mundane try-out for their rapidly emerging new star.Despite these factors,MM does not disappoint and the film retains a reasonable degree of interest to the present day.RATING6 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"MM Starts To Warm Up","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I'm probably in the minority here, but I've always felt that Marilyn Monroe has been as overpraised for her physical attributes as she has been underpraised for her acting abilities. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that the woman was hard to look at; only that her acting kudos have been eclipsed by her sex goddess image. (I also feel that there WERE better-looking actresses back in the 1950s, such as Susan Hayward and Eleanor Parker, but don't get me started here...) Anyone looking for verification of Marilyn's acting talents should check out her performance in 1952's Don't Bother to Knock, in which she plays a mentally unbalanced baby-sitter in a large NYC hotel. Though we DO get to see MM in negligee and garters in one scene, for the most part she is unglamorized here; a suicidal brunette who fixates on Richard Widmark (a guest in the hotel who's just been dumped by his girlfriend) and believes that he is her dead fiancé. Marilyn acts impeccably throughout, and really makes us care for the poor, mixed-up girl. In smaller parts are Elisha Cook, Jr., everyone's favorite character actor, as Marilyn's uncle; Anne Bancroft, here in her first film at 21 years old, as Widmark's ex; and Jim Backus as the father of the little girl that MM sits for. But the film belongs to Marilyn, and she runs with it. She wouldn't start to really turn up the heat and begin her reign as THE 1950s sex goddess until the following year's Niagara, but this film demonstrates quite nicely why she became such a legendary icon. "}{"Title":"Interesting nostalgia","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This film is interesting - but for me, not because of Marilyn Monroe's supposed superior performance or the poignant story. For me, it is a film which displays the black-and-white, film noir genre of the 1940's into the 50's, and a glimpse of several performers from that period - in the three primary and the main supporting roles.Every actor here (except Ms. Monroe) plays a character who is about a mile wide and an inch deep. Conversely, Marilyn's is an inch wide and a mile deep. She is completely bonkers, and appears that she will become catatonic at any moment. Richard Widmark is an airline pilot, whose romance with chanteuse Anne Bancroft is on the skids (solely because he wants a drink, a kiss and a laugh), while, heaven forbid, she wants more.He of course then schleps into Marilyn's life (she's babysitting for Jim Backus and wife, who are at an awards' dinner in the hotel, and the way the dangers to their daughter in this flick ensue, you'd think they must be a thousand miles away).Bancroft's job as the hotel lounge singer seems solely to involve her singing a periodic song, and drinking in-between numbers.Elisa Cook, who is a strange presence in all his films (see Shane and The Maltese Falcon), is Monroe's uncle, who got her the babysitting gig. He operates one of the hotel's elevators (these folks must have later gone to some retirement area to join workers in buggy whip factories).There is also the attentive bartender, ready with an ear and an incisive or sympathetic quip.Somehow, I could not avoid picturing these characters as being portrayed by Steve Martin, Dan Aykroyd, Bill Murray, Gilda Radner, etc., from the old SNL days. This is a short film, with some scenes provided solely to give the performers some added face time, so it could have easily been presented as one of their longer skits.Rates 2* each for overall nostalgia, cast, and a fair storyline. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and Efficient","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" An airline pilot rebounding from a relationship pursues an attractive young woman at his hotel before realizing that she is unstable. This is an atmospheric and efficient little thriller that clocks in at an hour and quarter, the real time duration of the events in the film. Monroe established herself as more than a pretty face in 1952 with Clash by Night and this film, which gave her her biggest role to date. She strikes the right balance between aggression and vulnerability as a babysitter with psychological issues. Widmark is solid as the pilot. Bancroft makes an impressive film debut as a nightclub performer and even gets to sing. "},{"Title":"MM Showing Her Potential","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This is a very interesting, if imperfect, movie. Monroe plays a disturbed young woman who suffers a nervous breakdown while babysitting at a hotel (it appears the character was already in the throes of a breakdown before she arrived at the hotel). Her unstable state is exploited by Widmark's character, who is angry at being dumped by his girl (Anne Bancroft in her first screen role), and punishes her by making a play for Monroe. Well, of course the great debate still rages on could Monroe really act? I'd say definitely, based upon this early work, and of course Bus Stop, along with her performances in Asphalt Jungle and the unjustly overlooked Clash By Night. She isn't great, but she is good, and moving and, in the end, pathetic, as the character should be. Maybe with stronger direction she would have been truly great in this part - it has that potential.Widmark was always good in everything he did, and could play noble, evil or, as here, a bit amoral, and still be sympathetic. It's painfully obvious that this studio didn't know how to cast Bancroft, who is wasted in her part.Then there is the wonderful Elisha Cook as Monroe's uncle, harried, nervous and ultimately overwhelmed by her mental illness. It still remains shocking when she physically attacks him. The suspense is handled quite well, and you suffer over the fate of the poor little girl Monroe is caring for, while you worry about Monroe as well. The woman's not right in the head, and it's not her fault.The last scenes in the movie, when the police are waiting to take Monroe away, and Widmark and Bancroft are trying to help her, are actually quite moving, and Monroe's final line will break your heart.Forget it's Monroe, and think of the character as just a pretty girl, who has had a rough time and is being badly used because of her beauty. It happens all the time - it's not so hard to believe. Monroe makes it real. "},{"Title":"An early convincing performance too often overlooked","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Don't bother to Knock was surprising for a few reasons Marilyn Monroe was chosen to act a rather emotionally complex lead role before her career had really taken off.The critics in the following years criticised Marilyn's acting largely until her critically acclaimed role in Bus Stop(1956),however I would think that her convincing performance in DBTK would have been enough to convince the critics that she was the next big dramatic actress.Unfortunately they did not see it this way. Marilyn's psychotic babysitter is complemented by Richard Widmark's performance as the handsome visitor to her room.I feel that there are two parallel story lines which are interlinked in the film and eventually resolved;Widmark's lack of sensitivity in his relationship with a young Ann Bancroft; and the fate of Marilyn's character. As the story develops there is a clever intertwining of these parallel plotlines and eventually the audience realises that the plots essentially rely upon one another-Widmark's character would not have developed 'an understanding heart' without his confronting experience with Marilyn's character,whilst her character would not have received mental help without Widmark's.This is why the film is strangely involving,despite it's slow pace. Marilyn's sex appeal is not played up in this film too much which is rather refreshing as one is not constantly distracted from the psychological goings-on in the movie.Sure,she looks beautiful,but that is not the focus of the film.  "},{"Title":"Uh... Knock! Knock!... Like, Who's There?","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Favorite movie quote - She's violent, so go easy! Well-well-well - Who would've ever thought that Marilyn Monroe (the proverbial blond eye-candy from a 1950's Hollywood) could ever pull off a fairly convincing portrayal of a tragically psychotic babysitter with tendencies of a seriously destructive nature? Now, don't get me wrong here. I'm not saying that Monroe delivered an Oscar-worthy performance, or anything of the sort - But, I will say that there was certainly something genuinely eerie and, yes, even compelling about her portrayal. And, that, alone, was sufficient enough to hold my attention and keep me intrigued throughout Don't Bother to Knock's (DBTK, for short) 76-minute running time.Clearly meant as a vehicle to showcase the undeniable allure and magnetism of the 26-year-old Monroe, DBTK was, in itself, quite a quirky, little picture for the year 1952. Not only did this picture hold some very intense and dramatic moments, but it also had a few really priceless moments of unintentional humor, as well.From where I was sitting, I found that the only scenes which held my rapt attention were, of course, the ones that focused in on Monroe's character, Nell Forbes, whose mental state was deteriorating rapidly.All-in-all - I was not at all disappointed with this vintage, b&w picture where Monroe took a walk on the loony-tune side.(Ironically speaking) - Sad to say, in 10 years time (1962), Monroe would, indeed, be dead by her own hand. "},{"Title":"Monroe Excels As Tragic Nell","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't Bother To Knock has an unremarkable story with little in the way of suspense, excitement, pace or interesting plot twists. What it does have, however, is a very talented cast who through their efforts elevate the whole undertaking to a higher level than could normally be expected with this type of material.Jed Towers (Richard Widmark) is an airline pilot whose six month relationship with singer Lyn Lesley (Anne Bancroft) has reached a critical stage and so he returns to the hotel where she's employed to discuss their problems. She can see no future for them together as she feels that he doesn't have an understanding heart (a quality he shows by his rudeness to a lady photographer who asks to take a picture of Jed and Lyn together). Jed is completely bemused by what's happened and retires to his room with a bottle of something strong for consolation.When Jed looks out of his window, he sees an attractive young lady in a room on the opposite side of the building and after speaking to her by telephone goes over to meet her. The prospect of some straightforward fun with this good looking stranger seems to offer the ideal tonic to help him get over the complications of his meeting with Lyn. Predictably, however, things don't turn out to be quite that simple.Nell Forbes (Marilyn Monroe) is the niece of the hotel's elevator operator and through his recommendation had started working as a babysitter for a couple who were attending a function in another part of the hotel. As Jed and Nell gradually get to know each other, he finds some of her remarks and behaviour disconcerting and when the child she is looking after appears unexpectedly, Nell shakes her and harshly instructs her to return to her room. Jed starts to become concerned about both the child and Nell whose conduct steadily becomes more and more irrational and eventually leads to her violently tying up her uncle and gagging the little girl.It later emerges that Nell had spent three years in a mental institution immediately prior to taking the babysitting job and that her breakdown had been triggered by the death of her boyfriend who, like Jed, was a pilot.Marilyn Monroe's portrayal of Nell is excellent from the moment she first enters the hotel looking diffident and uneasy and then later, as the story continues she conveys her character's sadness, confusion, anger and gradual mental deterioration very convincingly. Richard Widmark is controlled and effective in his part and with great subtlety and skill navigates the transition of his character from being someone who is cold and cynical into a guy who is, in fact, caring and sympathetic. Anne Bancroft is remarkably assured in her screen debut and she, in common with most of the cast finds herself changed by the events which occur surrounding Nell's time at the hotel. "},{"Title":"Acting ability aplenty, You Will Believe.","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" When I was a young kid of about 7 yrs old I saw this film on TV. This performance by Marilyn Monroe sparked an interest that would stay with me for another 39 years. The vulnerability and desperation in her eyes to me as a child, went way beyond acting. Her image in this film just never left me. Marilyn Monroe truly was a talented actress period. So effective is she in this somewhat cheap and overblown drama that when all is said and done, you are convinced that shades of her character Nell were a part of Marilyn the person. Especially now that we know almost every sordid/sad detail about her private life.Sure the film is a bit shaky in its production values but you cant take your eyes from the screen when Monroe is on it. Of the attempted suicidal ending with Monroe, Ann Bancroft once said. Those last moments with Marilyn were the truest forms of acting and realism I ever felt in my whole entire career with any actor, ever. That last scene is hard to watch and after seeing it you will agree that she gave a hauntingly effective character analysis. She was acting from pure, honest instinct and/or possible experience. Doubly sad because we know that mental illness did run in her family. I pay her my highest compliment by urging you to view her performance in this film. I believe you will see what I saw all those years ago. Im not saying its her best film as a lot of fans adore her platinum blonde alter ego. But when given a chance to be something more than just a sexpot, MM in D.B.T.K. delivered a fascinating performance of many telling dimensions. You will believe! "},{"Title":"Not A Good Vehicle For Monroe","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't bother to watch this film would be better advice, if you like Marilyn Monroe in her other roles. This was a huge disappointment considering the great cast, not just Marilyn.The story was just nothing, certainly nothing like described on the VHS box, of course. There simply was no suspense, precious little excitement and too many dull spots, most of them trying to show why Nellie (Monroe) was so messed up. This was not a good role for Monroe, even though I didn't need to see this character to know she could act. Some Like It Hot alone was good enough evidence for me. But this role just didn't fit her and it's no surprise it wasn't one of her more popular films.It's also too bad a film had the waste of the talents of actors like Richard Widmark, Anne Bancroft, Elisha Cook Jr., Jeanne Cagney, Donna Cocoran and others. Summary it's not entertaining and entertainment is the name of the game. "},{"Title":"Monroe As a Babysitter?","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" After being dumped by his girlfriend, an airline pilot (Richard Widmark) pursues a babysitter (Marilyn Monroe) in his hotel and gradually realizes she's dangerous.This was Anne Bancroft's first film. It was Monroe's 18th and an attempt to prove to critics that she could act. Now, I do happen to think Monroe can act, as I have seen her do so on rare occasions. But I am not terribly convinced this is a film where she demonstrates that.Film critic Dennis Schwartz wrote, Wacko psychological thriller, set entirely in a NYC hotel, and helmed without urgency by Roy Ward Baker... It lacks emotional depth, but is diverting as it gives off nervous energy and remains watchable throughout... Playing someone mentally deranged, Marilyn wonderfully channels how her mentally troubled mom acted and gives a believable performance. That is a fair summary. As noted, I am less kind to Monroe, finding the whole babysitter routine a bit far-fetched. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller and Marilyn has a very good performance in this movie","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't Bother to Knock is for me the film where Marilyn Monroe has one of her best performance. A pilot (Richard Widmark) tries to safe his relationship with his girlfriend (Anne Bancroft), the situation goes bad and he meets a girl Nell(Marilyn Monroe)in the Hotel. Soon he notes that she's a troubled girl and worst she's babysitting a kid. After that is an emotional thriller with great acting from Richard and specially from Marilyn in this drama thriller. I've seen all movies with Marilyn Monroe , I don't agree when they say she couldn't act, but this movie shows that she deserved more roles like this, she has her best performance here and she was ready for do great acting and not only for the beautiful blonde bimbo. "}{"Title":"Very well acted by Monroe.","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Glamorous Hollywood legend Marilyn Monroe gets to sink her teeth into a meaty role in this, one of her earliest starring roles. She does prove herself to be an actress of some depth, playing a mentally unstable young woman hired for a babysitting gig in a posh hotel. However, this is just as much Richard Widmarks' movie as hers, and he does well as an airline pilot who's an overly cynical, analytical jerk. His girlfriend (Anne Bancroft, in her first film), a lounge singer, has gotten fed up and dumped him. Feeling frustrated, he tries to hook up with Monroe only to realize how much baggage the young woman carries - yet he is able to find within himself some actual humanity, as he begins to feel sympathy for her. After all, it's not Monroes' intention to deliberately hurt anyone. The movie can boast substantial talent in front of and behind the camera; screenwriter Daniel Taradash, who based this on a novel by Charlotte Armstrong, went on to adapt From Here to Eternity for the big screen, and the director is Roy Ward Baker, an English director at the helm of such classics as A Night to Remember. Supporting the stars are people such as Elisha Cook, Jr., as Monroes' worried uncle, Jim Backus and Lurene Tuttle as the parents of the little girl, Verna Felton as a grumpy busybody, Willis Bouchey as a bartender, Jeanne Cagney (sister to James C.) as a switchboard operator, and Donna Corcoran as the child in Monroes' supposed care. Given that this is very dependent on dialogue and performance, this kind of story could work just as well on the stage, and it's reasonably compelling if lacking in any real punch. (The one segment that has us on the edges of our seats is when the child is leaning out a window and we think that either she'll fall, or Monroe will push her.) It truthfully doesn't add up to a whole lot when it's over, or really become memorable in any way, but the acting puts it over and makes it worth sticking with. By the end of the tale, it's hard not to feel at least some semblance of sympathy for the anguished Monroe, whose character is fixated on a lover who had died during the war. And by that time, Bancroft can see some hope for Widmark, and be willing to give him another chance. While the characters may be quite flawed, it's their very imperfections that make them interesting, and their dilemma entertaining enough to watch. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK (Roy Ward Baker, 1952) **1/2","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Fox was one of the leading purveyors of film noir during the 1940s and 1950s &#150; this melodrama is done somewhat in this style, though British director Baker inserts a couple of Hitchcockian touches (a little girl is about to be thrown out of a window, a pan down to this same child reveals her being tied-up in bed). It's compact at a mere 76 minutes, with a FATAL ATTRACTION (1987)-type plot (Richard Widmark quarrels with chanteuse Anne Bancroft and flirts with young nanny Marilyn Monroe, who turns out to be mentally unbalanced &#150; though the eventual violence isn't directed towards him) occurring in a single setting &#150; a hotel &#150; during the course of one night.Both female leads bring a welcome freshness to the proceedings (Monroe, who is surprisingly good here, would soon reach stardom in the Technicolor but noir-tinged NIAGARA 1953); Elisha Cook Jr. &#150; like Widmark, a genre fixture &#150; is the hotel's elevator boy and Monroe's well-meaning uncle; Jim Backus appears as the distressed girl's father (who has to attend a dinner at ground level). The rushed finale sees confused Monroe being talked out of committing suicide by both Widmark and Bancroft &#150; who, predictably, end up back together. "},{"Title":"Ring Instead.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Roy Ward Baker directed this psychological thriller that stars Richard Widmark as Airline pilot Jed Towers, who is staying at the hotel of his girlfriend Lyn(played by Anne Bancroft) who works as a singer in its lounge. Bored, he notices the beautiful Nell Forbes(played by Marilyn Monroe) who is a live-in babysitter for hotel guests. Unfortunately, she is mentally unstable, and neglects her current assignment with a young girl named Bunny to pursue Jed, whom she is convinced is her deceased fiancée alive again... Good cast and direction, but film isn't particularly suspenseful or compelling, and doesn't amount to much; mostly for fans of Monroe. "},{"Title":"A sometimes engaging drama/thriller","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't Bother To Knock, 1952. First viewed June 19, 2010 My first ever viewing of this film left me impressed, with Marilyn Monroe's (MM) acting performance in a dark role as a disturbed babysitter. The screenplay is interesting and intelligent, but what's most impressive here is MM's acting performance, which shows a very natural ability to play a dark role convincingly. Her performance is really underrated and undervalued in this film. This was her first ever leading role in a film.The story of Don't Bother To Knock, concerns a young man, recently dumped by his lounge singer girlfriend, who becomes attracted to a young female babysitter (Monroe) at a New York City hotel. Unlike most other films of the genre, this drama/thriller is not set in an exotic location and done without any wild chase scenes. The entire story takes place in a hotelMM had a troubled childhood, a mentally disturbed mother and an absent father, in real life, so she has a genuine and natural source to play from. There's nothing wrong with drawing from real life experience to convincingly play a character on stage or on film. Some of history's best acting performances have been inspired this way. MM was six years into her modeling/acting career when this film was made. This performance shows an obvious natural ability to play a dark role with conviction and was sadly ignored by Hollywood at the time. Unfortunately, the powers that be in Hollywood's studio system of the time, decided Marilyn was better suited for comedy, romance and musicals. MM proved to also have a natural ability as a comedic film actress, which she honed to perfection by 1959, in the classic film comedy Some Like It Hot, which won her a Golden Globe Award for Best Comedic Performance.What a waste of her natural talent, not to play further dark/psychological roles. MM would later go on to Bus Stop, 1956, under her own newly formed MM Productions Company. This filmed earned her critical acclaim as a dramatic film actress, but no award nominations. In this film, MM has a minimum of makeup, looking rather ordinary. Though, MM naturally has a soft, feminine voice, her facial expressions and body language were convincing enough to overcome this small handicap, in this rare dramatic role for her. What stupid, blind, ignorance by Hollywood at the time, not to recognize, acknowledge and promote this natural ability of MM to play a dark role realistically. MM first became famous being discovered by accident, by a war photographer working at the munitions factory she worked at, while married at 16, to escape the orphanage life. MM's natural physical beauty, feminine ways, soft voice and charm, would unfortunately betray her during her film career. Had she lived on beyond 1962, MM could have developed into a serious and respected dramatic film actress. She could have later dropped the platinum blond, sensuous, glamorous look that got her noticed and helped make her famous in Hollywood, in the beginning of her acting career. In real life, MM was actually quite intelligent and had an interest in respected classic novels of centuries before. She attended the prestigious Lee Strasburg School of Acting in New York City, with the hope of becoming a serious and respected dramatic film actress. Here it was recognized, that although MM lacked the ability to become a successful stage actress, she did show promise for becoming a successful film actress, thanks in part to her natural beauty and being very photogenic. MM did not have the qualities needed to succeed in stage acting, I believe, largely because of her fears and insecurities from childhood. I think MM would have eventually toughened up her naturally soft voice, to better play dramatic roles.That MM had a natural talent to portray a dark and disturbed character convincingly, is not a surprise, considering she had a mentally disturbed mother who gave her up in her first year and a troubled childhood, being shuttled from relatives to orphanages. Definitely from a broken home and a mother who did not really want her or know how to properly care for her and love her as a child. MM's father was an unknown man, from a 2nd marriage of her mother. This background is bad news for any child, then and now. No wonder, MM grew up to be a lost, lonely, confused, insecure, troubled woman. A bad childhood tends to haunt adulthood, as any psychologist can attest to. What's a surprise, and a pleasant one at that, is MM's ability to do comedy on screen, so well. I'm guessing this must have been a coping mechanism she developed as a child, to handle her difficult childhood. There's two ways a child can go in a troubled childhood using anger and aggressive, or, instead, use humor to diffuse troubling and stressful situations in real life. It seems to me, MM chose the humor method, as a child.Film review Interesting story and characters, the film has some effective moments, most often when MM is on screen. MM's natural and convincing performance is definitely the highlight of the film. "},{"Title":"Razor sharp","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Mild thriller plays like a stage play. Widmark is a pilot staying over in a hotel, and smitten with the lounge singer (Bancroft), who is upset with him for one reason or another. He later comes across Monroe, who is babysitting a couple's daughter, and slowly comes to realize this babysitter is a deeply disturbed individual. Elisha Cook plays Monroe's uncle and one of the hotel's elevator operators and Jim Backus is the father of the little girl Monroe is babysitting. Monroe'e hair is relatively dark in this one, which gives her some gravitas in a role that could have easily turned into a joke. Tension builds as the babysitter's true nature shows itself. A dated curio that is worth a watch by Monroe and Widmark fans. "},{"Title":"Monroe Looked Her Very Best","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Marilyn Monroe, (Nell Forbes) Misfits was exceptionally good looking and a very nice figure to go along with all her other assets. There is an interesting scene in the film where Nell stands in front of window in a hotel room and flirts and teases Richard Widmark, (Jed Towers), Kiss of Death who is standing in another room in the same hotel and decides to join her for a drink and a jump in the sack. Nell shows great affection towards Jed and then all of a sudden things start to just plain CRAZY. Elisha Cook, Jr. (Eddie Forbes), I Wake Up Screaming joins the loony hotel room and winds up getting knock on the head and locked in a closet. Marilyn Monroe did an outstanding performance, one of her very best, even though this was a low budget film, but it did show the great talents of Marilyn and how great she could have become if she had not been exploited so very much by Hollywood. A must see film from 1952, Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Marilyn CAN be scary!","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I saw this for the first time a few years ago on TCM and now have it in my DVD collection. Marilyn does a wonderful job portraying the psychotic babysitter who starts out all sweet, innocent, and a bit naive. What threw me is that I had no idea what to expect from this movie, having only seen Mairlyn's ditzy blonde featherweight roles she is mainly known for. Most folks don't even KNOW she made a scary movie! Her soft, slightly breathy voice still reminds of her dumb blonde roles but underneath her increasing mental deterioration comes thru very plainly. SPOILER HEREI won't go into the plot, as others have already pretty much covered it, but one scene that really sticks out & shows just how menacing Marilyn could be is at the end, as she realizes she has lost the guy of her obsession, and feels that the young girl she is babysitting for is to blame, we see her approaching the tied up girl in the bedroom, saying softly you...little...devil... as she walks out of frame & toward the child, obviously with murder on her mind. The cruelty of her toward the young girl... (even in the gag she puts on the child...a large rag stuffed into her mouth and held in place with another cloth...rather harsh for a young child I would think) is just SO out of character for Marilyn, it's quite a shock. SPOILER ENDLike I said, I don't want to repeat the plot here, but just wanted to chime in with my recommendation for this film for anyone who wants to see Marilynn in a very different kind of role than she is usually associated with. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and enjoyable","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Widmark and Marilyn Monroe make a great pair in this film, I most enjoyed the whole subject of the film. A disturbed baby-sitter and the acting was well done on Marilyn's behalf. As for Richard Widmark well I love him in everything he does, together they were great. And it was interesting to see Anne Bancroft in an early film like this too. But what I loved most about this movie was how it dealt with human kindness and understanding for your fellow man. Great Film! =) "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe really should have tried more dramatic roles, because she's great here","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Excellent drama starring Marilyn Monroe in possibly her best role. She did this movie specifically to prove her worth as an actress, and she definitely succeeds at that point. Richard Widmark co-stars. After breaking up with his girlfriend (Anne Bancroft, in her debut), Widmark spots Monroe through her window across from his hotel room. He invites himself over there. She's babysitting, but she immediately lies about who she is and what she's doing. It turns out she's kind of a nutcase and has just recently returned from the mental hospital. She begins to mistake Widmark for a dead former boyfriend, and it seems as if the girl she's babysitting may be in danger. This is a tight little film, running at just under 80 minutes. Elisha Cook Jr. co-stars as Monroe's uncle. Widmark is every bit as impressive as Monroe. It's too bad Monroe didn't get to try her hand at more dramatic roles. "},{"Title":"Major stars, minor film.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  You may wonder why you've never heard much about this film of Marilyn Monroe's--unless you've seen it. She and Richard Widmark star as two people whose lives intersect at a hotel one night, but it is not a memorable evening at all. These are A-list stars in what is obviously a B movie, but the story doesn't grade out nearly that high.This was Anne Bancroft's film debut, playing a singer and doing her own vocals. I failed to recognize her. Elisha Cook Jr. also stars. "}{"Title":"An important Monroe-Tragedy","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Everytime after 1955 Monroe said I want to make a tragedy... I like comedy but I want to make tragedy. Her is one of them, she has made in her earlier years. Monroe played a psychotic girl, who never have understand, that her husband is dead. Now she see him in another person (Richard Widmark) and forget her job, who is a babysitter for a young girl. One time she try to kill this girl and later she is bounded her on the bed. Thats dangerous moments, but she is not really agressiv and neverdestructiv. It is a mix of to be afraid and lonlyness with tears in her eyes.Monroe played her rule so really that everybody can understand what her problem is. With her shy voice and her excellent playing you can imagine, that she is to lonely. And that's the reason whyshe must find her husband again in a stranger. IT's a dangerous kind of daydreaming, because she can't understand, that he is not there. A complicated world. Not a very good film - but very important one! "},{"Title":"A De-Glamorized Marilyn","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" A disturbed young woman takes a baby-sitting job in a hotel and attracts a male guest who's girl has just rejected him.The movie's a Marilyn oddity. Looks like TCF was floating a trial balloon to see what the promising Monroe's acting limits might be. But they didn't want to spend much money in the process. So, except for leading man Widmark (probably under contract), the low-end production makes do with basically one apartment, dour photography, and a journeyman director (Baker). At the same time, the script appears constrained by a compromised role for Marilyn. Her Nell is clearly disturbed, and perhaps a menace. Yet the producers want to make her pitiable, but not dislikable. So we get hints of disturbance and nothing more. Trouble is that drains away what suspense would be generated by anything more truly pathological. Consequently, scenes of a confused Nell accumulate without building.Marilyn's de-glamorized as she should be, no curvy treats here. Instead she's made wide-eyed pretty in blue-collar garb that's not exactly an eye-catcher. She does okay in the role, but the production's working against her. As the studio would soon determine, her real talent lay in musical comedy where her personality could sparkle. In that career sense, the film amounts to something of a sorting out process. Not so for Anne Bancroft who really shines in her first movie role. No wonder she quickly moved up. Anyhow, the movie stands as something of a curiosity piece, now mainly for movie research and hard-core Marilyn fans. "},{"Title":"great movie but didn't expect Marilyn to play this role","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" this movie is pretty good you don't expect Marilyn to be like this in a movie ever. I know people might be disappointed but at the same time its a shocker movie it's not bad it's pretty darn good for a Marilyn movie she plays a psychotic babysitter its hard to explain but you just have to see it for yourself to know. at the same time I feel bad for Marilyn throughout the film if like if you just woke up on the wrong side of the bed you got crazy and that's how it feels its a dark movie? I don't know maybe but if you want to see Marilyn play a suspenseful role this is a movie to check out. if you want something to get set up for this film watch Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho and rear window and yes those are both Alfred Hitchcock's films "},{"Title":"This One Rings The Bell","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I've never understood what all the fuss was about when it came to Marilyn Monroe OR Brigitte Bardot but when I spotted the DVD on sale at a giveaway price I bought it for the rest of the cast - Richard Widmark, Elisha Cooke, Jim Backus, Ann Bancroft and I have to say that whether or not Director Baker passed on a Front Office word to the others to make MM look good, she more or less out-acts the lot of them. Ann Bancroft in an early role seems particularly insipid though she does get to sing some great songs and Widmark appears on the cusp of leaving the maniacal early violent roles that established his name and graduating to the 'regular' guy parts he would take throughout his career. Overall a very watchable film "},{"Title":"Strange Is Just the Start of It","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't Bother to Knock (1952) ** 1/2 (out of 4) A rather strange thriller about a pilot (Richard Widmark) staying in a hotel but getting into an argument with his ex-fiancé (Anne Bancroft). He eventually meets the hotel babysitter (Marilyn Monroe) but he soon finds out that she's extremely disturbed and might be willing to harm more than just herself. This might have been Fox's attempt to show that Monroe could act but in my opinion they picked the wrong character for the actress. This film tries to be a very dark psychological drama but there's very little tension and a lot of the blame can be pointed at director Baker but then again, a lot also has to go towards Monroe. I'm not sure if we should blame Monroe or the studio bosses for putting her in the film but I thought she was pretty bland here. She's playing a woman, just released from a mental hospital and obviously still suffering from the death of her lover. This is a very deep role but unfortunately Monroe just can't pull it off. Often times she seems to be reacting more than acting and there were quite a few scenes where I didn't believe anything she was doing. Whenever the trouble would start, Monroe would simply stair into space and act zoned out. This didn't work as not once did I buy her as being troubled as she appeared more like a airhead than anything else. Considering this is the most important role in the film, with it not working it pretty much kills the entire film. Widmark comes off pretty good as he once again gets to show off the tough side of the character but I thought he was good in the tender moments towards the end of the film. Bancroft, in her film debut, pretty much steals the film in each scene she's in. Character actor Elisha Cook, Jr. turns in a nice performance as does Donna Corcoran as the little kid being babysit. Baker's direction is pretty lackluster as he never builds any tension and for the most part the film has no energy and very little life. The subject matter is a rather interesting one but there's just not enough done with it to make the film a success. It's an interesting little film, that's for certain, but not a good one. "},{"Title":"An Actress Emerges..Despite Her Diction","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to quarrel with those who find Monroe's early performances difficult to take. She was coached by a crazy Russian lady who insisted on MM over-enunciating, coming down hard on her D's and T's. Sometimes, as in Clash By Night she shook this off, and delivers a relaxed performance. And, in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes it suits the comic character. But otherwise, this affectation becomes a problem in anything approaching a dramatic performance.I happen to think Monroe is splendid in Don't Bother To Knock. Once and a while, the diction loosens, but her work here relies mostly on her reactions and body language. Her complete unraveling--the scene in the hotel lobby--is beautifully played and gives a hint that MM might one day have made a brilliant Blanche Du Bois. I also find her quite beautiful in DNTK. The darker hair suited her, and for once the camera focuses on her face, not her body.After The Seven Year Itch (a charming effort and more relaxed diction-wise) Monroe would dump her Russian coach for the Strasbergs. I don't necessarily approve of them, but at least under their teaching she finally shook loose her problem. "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe was a star first, but she could also act and this shows it","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Sure, Don't Bother to Knock eschews most of its chances at being a film-noir for melodrama (though the scenes of Anne Bancroft singing in the bar and talking with Richard Widmark come close to that feeling of it), but if it's done right and a little different like here then it's worth it. Conventional wisdom would dictate that Marilyn Monroe would be playing the villain here, that she's a crazy babysitter who comes in and wreaks havoc on a night in a hotel room with a little girl shocked and a man she sees as the embodiment of her dead ex-husband from the war. But there's a little more to it than that, and I think credit really goes to Monroe here for pulling off a slightly risky part.One could look at what she brings from her own personal history- her mother was also crazy and spent a lot of time in a mental asylum- but it's also just a fine channeling of what is a mood-swining dame who is lost in her own sort of (un)reality. Monroe's Nell, just a month out of the asylum after a botched suicide attempt with a razor, is tasked to take care of a little girl staying with her parents at a hotel her uncle works at. But little by little we see Nell's decent facade slip away. She tries on and wears the mother's clothes and earrings and perfume, and when she entices a curious man, Jed (Widmark), to come to her room, further trouble comes as she goes from being sweet and sexy to just kooky. Monroe never misses a beat in getting us to see how she is off her rocker, but that she isn't really a bad person. She's mixed-up and needs help, and it's too easy to paint her as the villain (there's a great moment towards the climax when she leaves the room and the camera follows her slinking away).So, to be sure, it's impossible to take your eyes off of Monroe, as she's rarely been more beautiful in a 'realistic' setting (as opposed to the fairy tale painted by Howard Hawks a year later), and she really does give the goods in a performance that isn't entirely subtle but not too over the top either. She's perfectly modulated with her co-stars, as Widmark does his usual good acting and a young Anne Bancroft (very striking to see singing in that bar) who really plays well off of Widmark as the scorned ex who wants Jed to actually care about something instead of being a cynical ass. The characters are well-drawn, and even if some of the circumstances or lines kind of fall flat (I kind of tired of the cutaways to the snoopy old woman, however necessary she was to the story) the film holds up pretty well as just a solid melodrama. A must for Monroe fans. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Even in the early days Marilyn was something special","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Despite what some of the pseudo, would-be Eberts have to say, I think this film was a good all-around venture and an early demonstration of the acting talents of MM.But what I really want to comment on is how some of these commenters who appear on this site can allow their comments to see the light of day without even bothering to check the spelling of words and proper names. Now here I am not referring to those whose language is other than English. There is an excuse for that. But what I mean, specific-ally, is the inexorable urge to see their names and comments IN PRINT, despite what is lacking in their ability to spell. I won't comment on grammar, for that is another matter. I think what is called for here is an effort at proofreading one's work before hitting that transmit button. That is all.Kudos to MM and the other members of a sterling cast. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother to Knock- Have Patience **1/2","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" As far as Marilyn Monroe being a gifted actress, forget it. In this dramatic film she sounds just like her in musical comedy films with that baby intonation voice. Please.Anne Bancroft, as Lyn, the lounge singer should have had the title role here. Did Bancroft actually do her own singing here?The best performance in this film by far was by Verna Felton as a busy-body resident of the hotel, always complaining, and luckily she was on hand at the right time.Richard Widmark's character is interesting here. Starting out as a guy who wants a fast good time, he rises to the occasion when he sees how off the wall Nell (Monroe) is.Marilyn Monroe always dreamed of being a dramatic actress. The drama part was way out of her league. She excelled in musical comedies such as Some Like it Hot, and There's No Business Like Show Business. Those were her pictures. Her only reasonable dramatic performances came in River of No Return and Niagara.This film Don't Bother to Knock really showed us what the nut houses have always been about. Take them in and release them no matter what's currently going on. "},{"Title":"Tired script, miscast Monroe","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" All set within the space of a couple pf hours in a big city hotel, Jed Towers(Richard Widmark) books into said hotel, where his ex girlfriend Lyn(Anne Bancroft) is a singer, his aim is to woo her back, she isn't interested because he doesn't give people enough respect. Nell Forbes (Marilyn Monroe) with a history of mental illness, is recommend to a couple staying there as baby sitter by her uncle Eddie (Elisha Cook jr), the elevator operator. Spurned by his ex, Jed spots Nell in her room across the hotel courtyard and knocks in, they initially hit it off, but soon Jed realises all is not well with his new playmate. All rather silly really, it plays out like a French farce stage play, as one door opens another closes, people get locked in the closets and the bathroom, its all the more implausible as Monroe hardly has the acting ability to pull off a deranged mentally unstable girl. The ending is also a little too neat and there's just a little too much of Bancroft's? singing "}{"Title":"Pleasant surprise !","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from this movie as Don't bother to knock suggests light comedy as the 1961 film of the same name. However it turns out to be Marilyn as a bit of a psycho-case. Reviews seems to undermine her performance and I really must remind all reviewers that you should not take Marilyn for granted ! While watching I realized what a unique and larger than life actress she was. I find her performance most convincing because of her strangely sedated quality. She gives this movie a sort of Jacques Tourneur'ish atmosphere in my opinion. Enjoy !! "},{"Title":"You'll have nice things, Nell, you're a handsome girl!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Unintentionally funny co-feature from Fox was Marilyn Monroe's first starring role (a year before Niagara); she plays a delusional, pathetic young woman just out of a mental institution who ends up babysitting for a wealthy couple's child one night in a New York hotel. Richard Widmark takes a shine to her, until he realizes she's satin on one side and sandpaper on the other! Widmark's ex-girlfriend Anne Bancroft--making a decent film debut--has some intentionally funny lines (to Widmark I'm not angry...I'm only furious!). Pulpy concoction is weak on action, but features some strong scenes Monroe flirting with Widmark using the hotel window blinds, Monroe's final ride in the elevator, and any scene with Jim Backus as the kid's father. Director Roy Baker allows Marilyn to get away with too much, and when her eyes fire up with deranged hatred, she's really something to behold--but in an amusing way that does this not-too-suspenseful melodrama no favors. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Warning, don't hire this baby-sitter","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I've recently watched Don't Bother to Knock for the first time and found it very gripping.A couple hire a baby-sitter for the night while they go out but don't realise she is a psychopath recently released from a home after three years in care. She falls for a man, a pilot whose lover is at the hotel working as a singer. He comes round to her room and as he falls for her too, he realises she isn't normal. After a while, she gags the girl she's looking after and locks her uncle in a room and the pilot then calls the police. The girl is rescued at the end and the psychopath is taken back into care by two coppers while the pilot makes up with his girlfriend.This movie features an excellent performance from Marilyn Monroe as the psychopathic baby-sitter and Richard Widmark plays the pilot. This also stars Anne Bancroft and Elisha Cook Jnr.Watch this if you get the chance. Fantastic.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Don't bother to see it...","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Unless you're a die-hard fan of MARILYN MONROE, this is not for you, or for anyone seeking serious adult drama. Fox evidently wanted to showcase her in a dramatic role since they were busy grooming her for major stardom--but she would have needed a stronger script and a better director than Roy Ward Baker to pull this one off.She adopts that little girl voice and a blank stare to convey fear and vulnerability, but it doesn't work since the role is written in such a vague and uncertain way that there's not much more she can do with it. She did indeed develop her dramatic skills, but not in this role.Others around her try hard to make the drama believable. Richard Widmark and Anne Bancroft do their usual competent jobs and the supporting cast all do their roles acceptably, particularly Elisha Cook, Jr. Marilyn seems to be sleepwalking through a thinly written part.Whatever noir touches would have made the suspense more gripping and whatever more could have been done to make Monroe's role more believable, we'll never know. Her role needed more than a wide-eyed stare.As it stands, it's an amateurish attempt at playing a psychotic baby-sitter before Monroe achieved more range as a performer. "},{"Title":"Eh","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Based on the short running time of this film I think the real purpose of it was the studio's desire to see if Marilyn could actually act. All the film proved, however, is that she was extremely photogenic which they had probably already figured out from her walk on role  in The Asphalt Jungle. She's not horrible or anything but most of the performance is in her eyes. You don't really get the impression that she's really inside this character's skin. Widmark is really the one to watch here. He gave much better performances over the years but was always a lot of fun to watch and this film is no exception. Anne Bancroft also turns in a good performance. I don't know if she actually sang or not but if she was dubbed it's hard to tell because everything about her in this small supporting role was right on the money. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Historically interesting but dated style","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what to make of this movie. It seems to be made in a style reminiscent of TV melodrama of the 1950s, with some film noir elements. I didn't find it particularly compelling, but interesting to see Anne Bancroft in her first movie - so young and pretty - as well as an early role by Marilyn Monroe, before she became a screen icon as a sex symbol. I disagree with one commenter that it's the best performance of her career. On the contrary, her acting is slightly below par, but you can see she had potential. This appears to be a 'B' picture and I would be interested to know more about the background of its genesis and production. I like the way the movie is lit - atmospheric and moody (characteristic of film noir). "},{"Title":"Marilyn Monroe and film noir....","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" a unique combination. For younger viewers, Marilyn may be an over-exposed, over-colorized icon, but not in this film. Which is why I highly recommend it to anyone interested in psychological drama.No, there is not a great deal of action in this film. To me, that is a usually a plus, proving that the actors can carry a film without overt violence and cheap sensationalism.While the story is a bit thin, we do see the effects of Nell's (Monroe's) grief- she has lost her husband in the Korean War- she is traumatized and disjointed.Richard Widmark, and the sub-plot with Ann Bancroft reflect the conflicting cultural mores of the time. He loves Bancroft, but finds Monroe tempting. He is tired of his career, and Monroe is a welcome diversion.The cinematography and theme of this film make it well worth your time. Monroe was clearly a talented actress, before she was routinely dressed up as a candy-box Barbie doll. Rent or buy this film, you will enjoy it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Jed (Richard Widmark) has been dumped by his singer girlfriend Lyn (Ann Bancroft). He flies to the hotel where she is singing to try and save the relationship. However, she wants nothing to do with him and he retires to his hotel room with a bottle of whiskey. Meanwhile, across the courtyard on the same floor of the same hotel, Nell (Marilyn Monroe) is babysitting Bunny (Donna Corcoran) while the parents attend a gala dinner. Nell's uncle Eddie (Elisha Cook Jr) who is the lift attendant at the hotel has set Nell up with the job for a few hours. Jed and Nell communicate by phone and Jed goes to her apartment with his bottle so that they can spend the evening together. Is everything as it seems....?......Jed begins to suspect something is wrong.......The problem with Marilyn Monroe is that her deliberate diction is a bit of a joke - trying to be all cutesy, vulnerable and baby-sounding all the time. I was hoping that she would speak a little faster like a normal person and so deliver a quality performance.....but no. Its Marilyn Monroe so what you get is Marilyn Monroe. She does, however, provide some great comedy moments even though I am sure that these moments were meant to shock and scare the audience. Her treatment of Bunny, in my opinion, is to be applauded rather than leaving the audience shocked and both my girlfriend and I laughed out loud when she dished out some of her treatment to Eddie. I have never really cared much for Elisha Cook Jnr so she has my support! On the plus side, Richard Widmark is a class above the rest of the cast and Anne Bancroft puts in a good debut. She also sings some great songs. Overall, I found that I laughed more than I shuddered with shock. "},{"Title":"Got to see it.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  If you have never seen Marilyn Monroe in a dramatic role, you have got to  see her in this.  It is wonderful.  She does a great job in playing a  helpless, confused woman. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother to Knock","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  An airline pilot, dumped by his girlfriend, pursues a baby-sitter in his hotel, and gradually realizes she is a maniac psychopath.Weird, unmotivated and rather silly psycho-suspenser; given some distinction by a suitably eerie, if seldom convincing early performance from Monroe. "}{"Title":"Don't bother to subject yourself to this.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  It was on in the wee hours of the morning, there was nothing else on, and I didn't feel like going to bed just yet, so I stayed up and watched this garbage.  The plot of 'Don't Bother to Knock' seems interesting enough, but like all other films that seem good, turns out to be extremely bad.  The movie isn't all that bad; it's just that the actors are amazingly terrible and the writing sets the film's speed at a very slow pace.  Richard Widmark (along with Marilyn Monroe) is mind-numbingly boring.  I'm not even going to waste my time reviewing his performance only to say that I wouldn't catch him in anything else, ever.  Marilyn Monroe is once again, awful.  I've seen her in maybe two other films and she's managed to destroy both of those, so of course, she steers 'Knock' down the wrong direction.  Other actors with very small roles aren't bad and surely aren't as annoying as the two main actors.  By the way, Anne Bancroft, whom I haven't seen in anything else, ruins her part with that terrible singing, but isn't that bad in the long run.'Don't Bother to Knock' could have been better, a lot better, but unfortunately, it has really bad actors and a slow-moving plot.  I would not tell anyone to watch this trash.  What's the point?PS - Marilyn Monroe could never act!      "}]