[{"Title":"A Realistic View of the Army","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"85 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" One of the big blockbuster best sellers of the post World War II years is James Jones's From Here to Eternity, a tale of the peacetime army in Hawaii before Pearl Harbor. The book was definitely going to be made into a film and it was only a question of casting to make it a success.Director Fred Zinneman had a good intuitive sense about casting here, even against type. The two principal female parts were done against type. Deborah Kerr who made a career of playing respectable women played a captain's wife who's drinking and playing around. Not that husband Philip Ober is letting grass grow under his feet either, but Kerr's latest sexual exploit involves her with the First Sergeant of her husband's company, Burt Lancaster. Donna Reed, who up to that point was best known for being Mary Bailey in It's A Wonderful Life, plays a prostitute here. A girl from the wrong side of the tracks, jilted by a rich boyfriend stateside, she's in Hawaii to make money and then go home and buy some respectability. She's not looking for romance with any soldiers, but you can't plan these things.Especially Montgomery Clift if he comes in your life. It's been argued that this is Clift's greatest role and a case can sure be made for it. His character of Robert E. Lee Pruitt is like so many who still join the army today, from small town America who have no future there and find a home in the Armed Services. What makes Clift unique is that strong sense of individualism he can't control in an organization that does not encourage individuality.Clift and Lancaster are a great study in contrasts and that's what drives From Here to Eternity. Lancaster as Sergeant Milt Warden is the ultimate professional soldier, held in the highest regard by his men. Lancaster is someone who knows how to work the system, you see it in the way he manipulates his captain. Of course he's got to be a manipulator there since he's having an affair with Deborah Kerr. He tries to protect Clift from himself and ultimately fails.Clift has transferred into an infantry company and he was at one time a boxer. But he blinded someone in a fight and quit boxing. Philip Ober who prides himself on having several champions in various weight classes worked to get Clift in his company. Clift upsets his plans by refusing to box so he has the various sergeants give him the treatment. Clift's best friend in the company is a tough street wise soldier from the big city named Angelo Maggio, played by Frank Sinatra. Sinatra read the book and knew this part was for him. He did everything he had to do to get that part, including working for scale. At the time Sinatra was considered a has been as singer and actor. Sinatra was right on the money in terms of picking a role. His faith in himself and Columbia Pictures and Fred Zinneman's faith in him netted him an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor, one of eight awards won by From Here to Eternity.By the way Sinatra credited both Lancaster and Clift in helping him through this film as a dramatic actor. Lancaster and Sinatra didn't inhabit the same Hollywood orbit, but they remained friends for life. The same could not be said for Clift. Allegedly, some five or six years after From Here to Eternity and after Monty Clift's automobile accident while shooting Raintree County, Clift at some party at Sinatra's made a drunken pass at one of Sinatra's retainers. That got him kicked out of Sinatra's circle permanently.In fact From Here to Eternity was also the Best Picture of 1953, with Zinneman getting his second Best Director Oscar in a row after the one he took home in 1952 for High Noon. Donna Reed won for Best Supporting Acress. Burt Lancaster and Montgomery Clift were both nominated for Best Actor, but split the vote allowing William Holden to win for Stalag 17. Another great acting job itself. And Kerr was up for Best Actress, but lost to Audrey Hepburn for Roman Holiday.From Here to Eternity is a film loaded with good actors in small roles who got their first notice in this film. Ernest Borgnine, Robert J. Wilkie, Claude Akins, Jack Warden, Mickey Shaughnessy, all play various soldiers and each one is memorable. Especially Borgnine as the vicious sadistic sergeant of the stockade.TV's Superman was in From Here to Eternity also. George Reeves who was looking to escape the typecasting from Superman has a part as another sergeant who warns Lancaster about Deborah Kerr. He gave a fine performance, but most of it wound up on the cutting room floor. That would have unforeseen tragic consequences.This is not any kind of glamorous army. These people are all too real and not very noble. The original novel was toned down quite a bit for the screen. But when the attack on Pearl Harbor comes, the men rise to the occasion, do their jobs in a more than competent manner and led by Burt Lancaster in that company. It's these men who won that war in the Pacific and the one in Europe as well and From Here to Eternity despite the less than noble portrayals of them as individuals is a great tribute to them as a team. "},{"Title":"The definitive Pearl Harbor film","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"75 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor is so inferior in every aspect of filmmaking to From Here to Eternity that the two films shouldn't even be mentioned in the same sentence together.  From Here to Eternity boasts an absolutely legendary cast that delivers one of the finest composite performances of all time.  Just try comparing Burt Lancaster and Montgomery Clift to Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett - not even close to a fair fight.  Throw in Frank Sinatra in an Oscar winning supporting role and you've got a classic that truly stands the test of time.  The tight script portrays real, fleshed-out relationships that are equal parts passionate and tragic.  And both Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed are luminous.  For some reason this film gets ignored or forgotten when the greatest films of all time are mentioned; all you need to do is watch it again after Pearl Harbor and you'll realize what a mistake that is.  From Here to Eternity easily stands with the greatest films in history. "},{"Title":"Montgomery Clift shines From Here to Eternity","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"72 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here to Eternity contains the best performance delivered by an actor of any gender on celluloid. Montgomery Clift is assertive, funny, tough, sensitive and charismatic in the pivotal role of Robert E. Lee Prewitt, the rebellious loner with the streak of nobility. It is easy to see why James Dean idolized him after seeing his portrayal in the film. It is also a shame modern actors don't mention his name more often when listing their influences. As often noted, he preceded Brando by two years (he first appeared in Red River, released in 1948; Brando bowed in The Men in 1950)and created the arch-type of the 1950's rebel. But due to his intelligence, Clift also informed his characters with a sense of purpose. He didn't simply rebel. For instance, in Eternity, he apologises after an angry outbreak at his girlfriend. Instead of appearing weak, he impressed me all the more for doing so. It makes him appear more mature than the typical rebel. In another instance, when he feels his friend Maggio is being unfairly attacked, he stares down the attacker proving he looks out for his friend, another attractive quality. When the non-coms dole out extra punishment to him to force him to box, he refuses to file a complaint but likewise refuses to comply to their demands. Such moments distinguish Clift from other, more typically macho Hollywood leading men of the era and contributed greatly to Eternity's long initial run at the box office and its status as a classic piece of Hollywood cinema. It is time someone set the record straight and restored Montgomery Clift's name to its rightful place in the pantheon of Hollywood's great leading men. For proof, look no further than From Here to Eternity. "},{"Title":"War, in this film, is bigger than people...","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Fred Zinnemann's From Here to Eternity and David Lean's The Bridge on the River Kwai have one thing in common a good war story about people with whom we are extremely identified and concerned...It may seem strange to consider From Here to Eternity as a war film, since a great part of it deals with the military life in a peacetime army... But war is very important to this motion picture... The December 7, 1941 Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor is its definite point, its explosive end, the ruthless attack on U.S. military mind...The attack is one of the great sequences in War Films... The sound of the Japanese planes is heard, then there are explosions, and confused soldiers rising from their early breakfast... The Japanese Bombers dive and sweep firing with machine-guns the courtyard and its large buildings, while men run in every direction...When a non-fighting companion refuses to pass out arms to his pals, the soldiers break down the door of the ammunition room, take the machine guns to the roof and fire to the flying planes...When they succeed in hitting one plane they are delighted by the flavor of war...With this powerful scene all the connecting parts that hold together the characters of the story are permanently altered... The great event reduces the characters' pains and passions... World War II is a force that modified everything... War, in this film, is bigger than people... The highlights of the film are many, but let me mention the best Clift playing a flamboyant blues in a local beer joint... The blues came rushing out, expelled from his body by the strength of his feelings; the romantic-erotic scene between Lancaster and Kerr on a deserted beach; Clift playing Taps and his tears running down his face...Burt Lancaster portrays the tough 'efficient' sergeant who knows how to bend the rules without breaking them... He guides and supports his 'philander' pretentious Captain... He proves himself as an inspiring leader of men when the barracks were under attack...Montgomery Clift gives, perhaps, the best performance of his career as the bugler-boxer soldier, whose convictions are stronger than 'The Treatment.'Deborah Kerr plays the cool and reserved young lady stimulating her feelings of love in different ways...Frank Sinatra is terrific in his rebellious role of Angelo Maggio... He gives a deep and intense characterization, winning an Academy Award...Donna Reed is excellent as the charming social woman of the evening... Winner of eight Academy Awards, From Here to Eternity is a clear indicative of how war comes into collision with the destinies of people, throwing them violently into a turbulent and dangerous situation... "},{"Title":"Maybe Donna Reed's Best Movie","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here To Eternity takes place right before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Thus, it's really not a war movie. Actually its more of a soap opera with Burt Lancaster putting the make on Deborah Kerr and Frank Sinatra having a fight with Ernest Borgnine and Montgomery Clift having a tryst with Donna Reed, which brings me to the element of the movie that I really liked Donna Reed's character. In the movie Donna Reed plays a prostitute who wants to earn enough money to go home, but by the end of the movie circumstances have transformed her from cynical prostitute to fiancé and bereaved victim who has lost her man, and for whom things would never be the same. To me, this is what a good movie is all about - powerful and compelling character development within the context of a story that is credible and makes sense. "},{"Title":"See the Re-Release","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I was a kid when I first saw the movie.  All I remembered is the beach scene, and I thought it was a lot longer in duration than it actually is.  I went to see the re-release this week.  Wow!  Has this movie held up!  The few chauvinistic remarks directed at women would not be acceptable today but reflect how things were at that time.   This is a top-notch film in every way!  The acting by the stellar cast is close to perfection (Sinatra, Lancaster, Kerr, Borgnine, Clift--I rate them in that order, but they're all excellent).  The plot has huge forward momentum, particularly when we see the page on the calendar.  This is a classic!  See it again! "},{"Title":"The Bugle of Schofield Barracks","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" James Jones' epic novel was bought for the movies for a mere $82,000, which is nothing, even for those years. This lengthy novel, of almost 900 pages presented a problem for Columbia Pictures because how could a book this size be condensed into a two hour movie? The task of the adaptation fell into Daniel Taradash, an excellent screen writer with a good track record.The end result, as seen through Fred Zinnemann's brilliant direction, showed aspects of the book, but because of the censorship reigning in Hollywood in those years, could have never been shown to the vast audience this film attracted. One of the novel aspects deals with the homosexuality in the Honolulu of the times. It's clear that some of the enlisted men had liaisons with the gay men that treated them to things their meager income didn't allowed them to have. Maggio, is one of the ones instrumental for involving Prewitt into visiting his closeted friends.The film deals with two other thorny aspects adultery and prostitution. Milt Warden, the right hand man of Capt. Holmes, has an eye for his wife Karen, who rumor had it, loved to played around, just as her husband does during his business in town. In the novel, Karen has an eight year child, who is conveniently disposed of. Their love affair consumed both Milt and Karen. At the same time, a manly Milt, is seen in an intimate moment when he is trying to console Prewitt, who has been ostracized by his refusal to become one of the boxers in the base. Milt caresses Prewitt's hair in what might have been an overture to have something more than a friendship with the gay Prewitt.The prostitution issue comes when Maggio takes Prewitt drinking and introduces him to the Congress Club, a brothel. Prewitt's relationship with Alma, the girl from Oregon, is toned down because of the fear of trouble with the Hays Code people. It was a hypocritical way to do things, but who knows what would have come out had the film been done today.From Here to Eternity still keeps its crisp black and white cinematography that Burnett Guffey gave the film. It's inconceivable to think of it in Technicolor! The score by George Duning serves the action well with its haunting melody. Fred Zinnemann vision paid big time because his vision for the project had the right approach even when it masks the original text.Montgomery Clift, one of the most handsome actors working in films at the time, is about the best thing in the film. It appears Mr. Clift was a catalyst for the film, in that he made everyone else excel in the performances they gave. As Robert E. Lee Prewitt, this actor is a pure joy to watch because his transformation into the character. Frank Sinatra has been celebrated for his role as Maggio, yet, he only has a couple of scenes where he shows an intensity and a range he hadn't projected before.Burt Lancaster as the all American, and supposedly macho Sgt. Warden, does a fine job. Deborah Kerr work as Karen Holmes showed an actress who understood what made her character tick. It's hard to imagine that Joan Crawford was supposed to have played her and she would have thrown the film out of balance. Donna Reed, as the kind Alma, gave a fine performance. Philip Ober, Mickey Shaugnessy, Ernest Borgnine, Jack Warden, Tim Ryan, and an uncredited George Reeves are seen among the supporting players.From Here to Eternity is a must see film for all serious fans. "},{"Title":"Monty Clift's greatest role?","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Fred Zinnemann's epic about the lead-up to Pearl Harbor, featuring excellent performances from young Montgomery Clift and Donna Reed, a knockout role for Sinatra, and that roll in the surf for Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr.From Here to Eternity is a potboiler which wears its heart on its sleeve.  Would it have been the same with Joan Crawford instead of Kerr?  Hard to say.  I think the heart of the film is Clift, who gives perhaps his career best as ex-boxer Prewitt, the sensitive bugle player fighting his demons.  Lancaster is a close second, a hard-boiled officer with no time for love.One of the best of the 50s, and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Romance & History","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"36 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The folks who made PEARL HARBOR should have done their homework on how to bring a personal romance into a historical event. This film should have been at the top of their list.The Pearl Harbor attack is the climax of the film as well as of the various intricate human relationships in the film. This is a classic piece of romantic history, and the beach scene is probably one of the most erotic ever done -- all the more impressive because it has no nudity.This is a real saga of human passion and how it is affected by history. Whether you see PEARL HARBOR or not is up to you. But definitely see this film. "},{"Title":"Monty steals this film","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. Frank Sinatra walked away with the Oscar, but I thought Montgomery Clift's performance was the standout. I know they weren't competing against one another, but if any actor were to win an Oscar I would have preferred Clift. Lancaster and Kerr gave the other great performances. I liked the interaction between Clift's and Lancaster's characters, particularly in the scene when Lancaster is telling Clift he could avoid fatigue duties 'if he were smart'. Clift replies 'Yeah, but I ain't smart', and Lancaster says 'I know, I know but if you were...'I thought the best parts of this film came from the great acting of Kerr, Lancaster and Clift. It may suffer from being called a classic, making people's expectations high, but I thought it was very enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Truly Excellent; Not Exactly the War Movie You Might Expect","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" How others have rated this movie any less than 10-stars eludes me. Combine uniformly terrific acting from all involved, an excellent script, keen editing and directing with beautiful visuals, and you do have the 10-star movie that won so many awards. Every acting job is measured and believable, whether Lancaster's just-let-me-do-my-job introverted bullheadedness to Kerr's not-quite-the-Captain's-slut-wife to Sinatra's multi-dimensional kid-from-home-with-an-irrational-chip-on-his-shoulder to Clift's I'm-smarter'n'subtler-than-James-Dean-defiance to Reed's putting-on-airs-(up)country-girl-at-heart...it's all there. The war scenes are besides the point in this movie. You know there's a war just a'brewing. The real battlefield action happens between the characters in a way so much more important and real than a bunch of bombs dropping to blow up the latest Bruckheimer set. I'll admit the ending strains the movie's own internal logic, but that doesn't take away from its power. There's a war on and not every battlefield is equally as obvious. "},{"Title":"A Good Story Well Told","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here to Eternity is sometimes classified as a war film but the attack on Pearl Harbor only occupies the last few minutes; for most of its length it is (like, say, Reflections in a Golden Eye or An Officer and a Gentleman) a film about life in the Armed Forces during peacetime. It charts the complex relationships between six main characters, Captain Dana Holmes and his beautiful wife Karen, Sergeant Milton Warden, Private Robert Prewitt, his girlfriend Alma, and Prewitt's closest friend, Private Angelo Maggio. There are a number of interconnected sub-plots. Perhaps the most important concerns Prewitt's relations with his commanding officer, Captain Holmes. Holmes is a boxing fanatic, who believes that his promotion prospects will be improved if he can put together a successful team to compete in the Army boxing championships. He has therefore had Prewitt, whom he knows to be a talented middleweight boxer, drafted into his unit. Prewitt, however, refuses to join the boxing team, having given up the sport after an accident in which a sparring partner was blinded, so Holmes attempts to force him to do so by beginning a campaign of persecution against him. In another sub-plot Karen, whose marriage to a hard-drinking, unfaithful husband has become no more than a sham, becomes embroiled in an adulterous affair with Sergeant Warden. (The scene on the beach between Deborah Kerr and Burt Lancaster was considered scandalously daring by the standards of the early fifties). The other plot lines concern Maggio's battles against authority, especially a brutal sergeant named Fatso Judson, and the growing romance between Prewitt and Alma. (Contrary to what some reviewers have stated, Alma is not a prostitute; she may have been one in James Jones's novel, but in the film she became a nightclub hostess to appease the Hays Office). In many ways the film gives a negative picture of military life, although less so than the original book. A strict system of discipline may be necessary to make the Army an effective fighting force, but it also has the unwanted side-effect of allowing bullies like Holmes and Judson to abuse their authority. Holmes attempts to force Prewitt to join the boxing squad by imposing a series of unjust punishments and onerous duties on him; most of the NCOs are happy to go along with him, and even those like Warden who disagree with Holmes's actions see no alternative but to comply. This was the Big Picture of 1953; it won eight Oscars, including Best Picture, against a very strong field which also included Roman Holiday, Julius Caesar and Shane, and Best Director for Fred Zinnemann. Five of the cast were nominated and two of them, Donna Reed (Alma) and Frank Sinatra (Maggio) won. This was the film that made Sinatra a big star as an actor as well as a singer. He plays Maggio as likable and easygoing, in contrast to his more intense friend Prewitt, but also a man with reserves of both moral and physical courage; he is not afraid to stand up to Judson, who is much larger than he is. (Ernest Borgnine is very good as the thuggish Judson). I must say that I agree with the Academy's decision to award Best Actress to Audrey Hepburn ahead of Kerr; Kerr is good here, but Audrey is absolutely brilliant in Roman Holiday, as she normally was. American audiences might have been surprised to see Kerr, normally one of the cinema's good girls, playing an adulterous wife, although British ones might have remembered her as the mercenary Sally in Love on the Dole. She does, however, make Karen a fairly sympathetic character; she is not, contrary to what the film critic of Variety thought, a nymphomaniac, even though it is made clear that Warden is not her first extra-marital lover. She is driven not by sexual lust but by a need for love that cannot be satisfied by her husband, who cruelly neglects and mistreats her. I have never seen Stalag 17, so cannot say if William Holden deserved Best Actor ahead of Montgomery Clift and Burt Lancaster (or, for that matter, Brando in Julius Caesar). Both, however, are excellent, especially that intelligent, sensitive actor Clift as Prewitt, a young man with firmly-held principles, who will not allow himself to be dissuaded from doing what he believes to be right. Despite his mistreatment by Holmes, he never considers leaving the Army, an institution which has previously treated him well and has become like a family to him. (The depiction of military life is not entirely negative; the Army may allow unpleasant sadists a chance to vent their spleen, but it also provides young men with a sense of belonging and self-respect). Lancaster's Warden is another man for whom the Army has become his whole life. Although he outwardly seems a strong character, he is inwardly weak. He is compromised by his affair with Karen (a crime under military law), and lacks the strength to stand up to Holmes. He loves the Army life but despises its officer class; when he gets the chance to become an officer himself he fails to take it, even though he knows that such a promotion offers him the best chance of a life together with Karen. Some Big Pictures from the past have not aged well, but From Here to Eternity is not among them. What makes it such an outstanding film is the strength of its acting and characterisation and the power of a good story well told. It is the sort of film they don't make any more, and the cinema is the poorer for it. One of the best films of the fifties. 9/10. "},{"Title":"My Number one all time","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There has always been a debate regarding what film could regarded as the best of all time and it will always go on. But to me, this film does it all. It brings to the screen all of the essence of what life is about happiness, sadness, betrayal ,pain, and most of all what real love is all about. There are so many things that make this film my favorite all time and my choice for number one but it's 3 scenes that clinch it First, the one with Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr in the car when he says I have never been as miserable as I am since I met you and her reply neither have I and then he follows with I wouldn't trade a minute of it and again she says  Neither would I. That is what real, deep love between 2 people makes them feel. How many films brought love to screen like that? no other movie I have ever seen. The second is when Montgomery Clift tells Donna Reed No one ever lies about being lonely. That is so, so real. And third, the scene when Frank Sinatra says his last words and then dies. I know very little about how Oscar's are voted on, but I feel Sinatra won his right in that scene. How many other films can you say that? This film never gets dull. It's 2 + hours of pure human emotion that has never before or never since been put on the screen. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece, a lesson in characterisation and story telling.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" James Jone's novel was deemed impossible to put onto the screen how many times have we heard that one before?, but nobody told director Fred Zinnerman and the cast of dreams. Troubles with the making of the film were many, the film was thwarted by a censorship requirement that the army not be portrayed as careless and over brutal, and some of the sexual themes from the novel had to be toned down. Zinneman also had to fight a continuous battle with Columbia's head ego tripper Harry Cohn. He interfered with every script that was shown to him, and casting was also a tough thing to achieve with Cohn trying to call the shots. As it turned out we got one of the best composition of actors in one film to have ever graced the screen.From Here To Eternity is a film about the lives and loves of a number of characters at Schofield Barracks-Pearl Harbor, just prior to the infamous attack by the Japanese that changed WW2. Illicit affairs, friendship, nobility, bravery and cruelty come crashing together in one gigantic lavish production that defines the word classic. Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift, Frank Sinatra, Ernest Borgnine, Jack Warden, Deborah Kerr, and Donna Reed all give performances that any other actor would be proud to have given. On another day they all could have won awards such was the strength of performance they all gave. Reed & Sinatra won best supporting Oscars, while Fred Zinneman rightly won for best director to cement the film winning outright for best picture. Yet the film's crowning glory didn't win an award, for to me, Montogomery Clift gives one of the best performances in motion picture history, it's layered to perfection and it's one of those character portrayals that has me involved to the point of exhaustion. One scene in which he plays a bugle lament as tears roll down his face is just stunning, and I know how he feels because I cry along with him to, such is my involvement with his turn as Robert E. Lee Prewitt.Laced with memorable scenes the kiss, the bugle lament, Lancaster blasting away at the Japanese planes with machine gun in hand, and performances to match, From Here To Eternity is essential cinema to be viewed every year and homaged and praised whenever possible. 10/10 in every single respect. "},{"Title":"Overrated, glorified, sleazy romance novel","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I can not believe the good reviews and ratings for this movie.  I suppose there are more people in the world that love sleazy romance stories than I thought.  The acting by Burt, Monty and Frank was fine, but the story was absolute drivel.  I prefer old style movies to new, but this is one case where I rated this WAY below the average.  The  dialog includes lines such as You kissed me as no one ever has before.  Really?  Out of all the men you've had?  How many others have there been, by the way?  Oh, I'd need an adding machine for that one.  YIKES! "},{"Title":"Gritty adaptation of sprawling best-seller...but it loses something as a film...","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I would have to say, after reading James Jones' sprawling novel about the peacetime Army in the days before Pearl Harbor, that this is about as good an abridgment of his work as could have been made at the time.All of the most brutal prison stockade scenes have been removed (along with the coarse language), personalities have been softened to suit the censorship of the time (Donna Reed is a hostess instead of a whore), Warden's latent homosexuality is never mentioned, and yet--with all the deletions--Daniel Taradish has fashioned a very strong film script.As characters rebelling against authority, MONTGOMERY CLIFT and FRANK SINATRA do admirable jobs. Clift is especially touching in his combination of toughness and the ability to show his tender side; Sinatra is well cast as Maggio and makes the most of a strong supporting role.As Karen, DEBORAH KERR has been reduced to a supporting character, but she effectively portrays a lonely woman who cannot stay immune to the charms of equally lonely soldiers. Her famous love scene with Lancaster on the beach is the stuff movie magic is made of. It's the sort of role one might expect Joan Crawford to turn up in, so it's surprising to find Kerr in the role, a woman whose ladylike image made it a risky casting choice at the time.The most effective part of the film is Clift's fatal encounter with Fatso (ERNEST BORGNINE). Their bitter exchanges lead to a nifty fight scene. Borgnine is such a believable bully that it's a wonder he was able to stretch beyond bully roles after this film. The antagonism between him and Prew (CLIFT), as well as the big action set piece of the attack on Pearl Harbor, are just a couple of reasons why the film captures so much of the flavor of the best-selling novel. The love stories (both of them) are interwoven into the structure of the story with telling effect.But all in all, I've always felt that this film was overpraised from the very beginning by the critics. Perhaps because I read the hard-hitting James Jones novel first and was awestruck at what an accomplishment it was.The film only manages to be a pale carbon copy of the original work--but, as I said, it's still absorbing entertainment even with some of the characters diluted to meet censorship requirements. "},{"Title":"Involving Military Soap Opera Elevated by Sturdy Performances from an Offbeat Cast","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In hindsight, this 1953 classic doesn't seem as much a military drama as it does a highly charged soap opera, which shouldn't come as a surprise given that master filmmaker Fred Zinnemann (the Nun's Story) was at the helm. The veteran director upended the western genre just a year earlier with the Gary Cooper classic High Noon, and he places the same incendiary focus of character over action here, that is, until the inevitable climax which uses the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor as a catharsis for the characters' dilemmas now dwarfed by the coming world war.Based on James Jones' epic novel, screenwriter Daniel Taradash manages to reduce the complexity of the book's themes without trivializing them, and then-offbeat casting enhances the movie immeasurably. Set on a U.S. Army base in Hawaii in the months leading up to the attack, the focus is on two men, both dedicated to the military with no aspirations to become the officers they have grown to detest. One is Private Robert E. Prewitt, a talented boxer (and bugler) who refuses to fight on his regiment's team since blinding a sparring partner. The other is First Sergeant Milton Warden, a take-charge, professional soldier who earns the trust of his men even as he kowtows to his weak-willed commanding officer.Life in the barracks is fraught with adversarial personalities, chief among them Private Angelo Maggio, Prewitt's loudmouthed best friend, and Staff Sergeant Fatso Judson, the sadistic stockade warden. Both Prewitt and Warden meet women who seek to change their lives. Prewitt finds cynical nightclub hostess Lorene at a brothel masquerading as a social club, while Warden embarks on a passionate affair with his commanding officer's wayward wife Karen. Burt Lancaster is well cast as Warden, and he brings surprising nuance to his character's clandestine encounters with Karen. However, it's Montgomery Clift - despite looking too slight to be genuinely believable as a boxer - who transcends his loner role by playing off his innately sensitive nature to portray a man who will never sacrifice his honor despite how dire the consequences. Well within his comfort zone, Frank Sinatra's turn as Maggio is small but impactful.Still two years away from Marty, Ernest Borgnine makes Judson's malevolence palpable in just a few scenes. Deborah Kerr submerges her Scottish accent and previous lady-like demeanor to reveal the embittered, sexually assertive side of Karen without sacrificing any of the character's vulnerability. The legendary, much-parodied beach scene with Lancaster still sizzles after all these years. Similarly, Donna Reed foregoes her good-girl image (epitomized by her memorable turn as Mary Bailey in It's a Wonderful Life) to play the sultry, delusional Lorene. The 2003 DVD comes with a small set of extras - a three-minute making-of retrospective short, a nine-minute collection of on-set footage and interviews from a documentary entitled Fred Zinnemann As I See It, and the original theatrical trailer. The best extra is the commentary track from Tim Zinnemann (the director's son) and screenwriter Alvin Sargent (Spider-Man 2), who had a small role in the movie. "},{"Title":"Re-enlistment blues","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's often said that the simplest stories are the best. This isn't true. The simple stories are easy to get right, but a complex ensemble piece with multiple protagonists and numerous subplots can be just as effective, although it's a lot harder to pull off successfully. From Here to Eternity stands in the tradition of The Best Years of Our Lives, Seven Samurai and The Godfather, of pictures with interwoven plots that have become classics thanks to strong screen writing, intelligent direction and powerful acting performances.Part of the reason From Here to Eternity works is because it is very quick in establishing its characters and plot lines. It opens with a series of interlinking scenes, introducing us to Montgomery Clift, Frank Sinatra, Philip Ober, Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr, giving us clues about Clift's past and hinting at the future relationship between Lancaster and Kerr, all in the space of five minutes. Director Fred Zinnemann, with a confidence that is lacking in his earliest features, shoots these scenes with subtle technique to give them maximum storytelling effect. For example, he gives Clift's character a superb introduction, walking at a right angle to the marching column until he is brought right into close-up. Once the dialogue begins he uses sudden changes of angle to highlight certain lines, for example the close-up of Lancaster telling Kerr I'd be happy to help, at which point the audience know exactly what is going to happen between those two characters. Donna Reed is of course introduced a little later, but to compensate she is given a very distinctive first shot, framed on her own immediately after some busy crowd shots.But Zinnemann's direction isn't all pure functionalism. He makes sparing use of attention-grabbing stylisation when the moment demands it, such as the dolly-out through the rain-soaked window during Lancaster and Kerr's first kiss. And this stylisation even helps keep the narrative together, for example cutting from the roaring sea at the end of the famous beach scene to the smoke rising from Clift's cigarette. Throughout the various parallel plots there is a tone of melancholy and regret, and Zinnemann keeps this commonality with his consistency of style.Of course, you get the same problem or at least the same feature in From Here to Eternity as you do in They Died with Their Boots on or Titanic, in that the audience, knowing their history, know what is going to happen at the end. The strength of the non-combat story lines is such that we forget when and where we are, and as such it is important that we are eased into the finale of the Pearl Harbour attack so it does not seem such a surreal break in tone. This is done with characteristic subtlety, with two objects placed noticeably yet not obtrusively into the frame to jog our memories. The first is a calendar showing December 6th on the wall beside Burt Lancaster, and the other a signpost reading Pearl Harbour after his final meeting with Kerr.One of the biggest challenges for the makers of an ensemble piece is that you need a larger than normal pool of leading players, and yet you must ensure none of them will overshadow the others. This is another thing they got right in From Here to Eternity. Clift, Kerr and Lancaster are all competent performers without big egos, and they all give steady performances, even if they are far from career-bests. As to Sinatra, what's amazing is not the quality of his performance (it was always evident he could act) but that he was even allowed to play a dramatic, non-musical role. It just goes to show the increased flexibility of cinema in the 1950s, as well as the rising status of the musical genre. To give it some perspective, can you imagine Fred Astaire or Bing Crosby having done the same thing in the 30s? From Here to Eternity won 1953's Best Picture Oscar, and like all successful pictures was followed by a host of imitators. 1955's Battle Cry for example is another many-stranded story about soldiers at the start of World War Two, and even features a rather tepid knock-off of the famous beach scene. However, while Battle Cry has some nice moments, structurally it is an absolute mess, an example of how easy it is to do a botch job on a complex storyline. That's why From Here to Eternity is such a rarity, being an ensemble piece that really works. "},{"Title":"Good melodrama but overrated","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  1941.  Private `Prew' Prewitt has been transferred to Hawaii.  His new captain is keen to get promoted and sees Prew's former boxing prowess as his way to get noticed.  However Prew has given up boxing and refuses to join the team &#150; leading the Captain to punish him in many different ways.  Meanwhile Sergeant Warden is beginning an affair with the Captains maltreated wife.  Prew himself finds a girl but his friend Maggio has conflict with Sergeant Judson.  Meanwhile the threat of attack looms.This is most famous for Warden and Holmes' adulterous passion as the waves lash over them.  Probably people who haven't seen the film will still know that scene.  However this film is much more than that.  The plot has several main strands &#150; mostly involving romance &#150; running through it.  It works well but it is really a soapy melodrama at the end of it all.  This doesn't mean it's not enjoyable and intense but it is really that basic.  The Pearl Harbour attack is tacked onto the end and didn't really grab me.The central relationships are OK but the film is strongest in some very good male performances.  Clift is great as the put upon private, while Lancaster deserves recognition for more than just snogging Kerr on a beach.  Kerr and Reed are OK &#150; Kerr is better but none of the female roles are as good as the male leads.  Warden, Sinatra and Borgnine are all great support and steal the show when they are on screen (Sinatra especially).Overall I was surprised to see this film being hailed so high in many polls.  I found it to be involving, interesting and well acted but at it's core it is a melodrama that has a few bangs at the end.  Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Great","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of the finest examples of Hollywood craftsmanship during the studio system in the 'Golden Age' of film. 'From Here To Eternity' is perhaps the most famous of all war films, yet very little action is seen. Rather, this is a human drama that shows the 'other side' of war.The key ingredient that makes 'From Here To Eternity' work is it's fantastic cast. Sure, this was always going to be a big hit because of it's subject matter, but the reason it remains so critically acclaimed toward is because of the vivid performances. Montgomery Clift turns in one of his finest portrayals as army private Prewitt. A champion boxer before he came to the Hawaii base, Prewitt resists joining the boxing company, and his new captain and army mates make his life living for it. Clift is at his tortured best here, brilliant in his loneliness and confusion. Lancaster's performance is the better known today (because of his famous frolic with Kerr on the beach), but Clift exceeds him here in talent and depth of feeling.That said, Lancaster is very good as the second-in-command Milton Warden who falls in love with his senior's wife, Karen Holmes. Lancaster and Kerr make movie magic in their love scenes, sharing wonderful chemistry. Kerr's performance is amazing also. She was cast against type here as the nymphomaniac wife- Kerr, the English rose, generally played English roses. Kerr shows she has range in the role and incredible acting talent. Nice Donna Reed is also cast against type here as a sort of 'good-time girl' Lorene, who Clift falls in love with. Reed and Sinatra won Best Supporting Oscars for their performances. Indeed, Sinatra's turn is more presence and charisma than great acting skill, but he proved he was more than just a crooner in this one.A range of classic scenes here- the justifiably memorable 'beach scene' between Kerr and Lancaster, Clift's emotional bugle playing etc. The final scene though, between Kerr and Reed, is what gets me.This film brings out emotion from it's audience like very few others. Through focusing on character interaction rather than stunning battle scenes like many other war dramas have done, by the time Pearl Harbour is inevitably attacked by the Japanese we really feel a connection with this group of people. Zinnemann's direction never fails either. Many have compared 'Eternity' to the modern-day film 'Pearl Harbour' (2001) because of it's similar subject matter. That's where the similarity ends. FHTE is emotional and deeply felt, 'Pearl Harbour' is gimmicky and more concerned with special effects than plot development. If you are faced with a choice between seeing the two, run towards 'From Here To Eternity' and don't look back. FHTE is a true monument to cinema and acting.10/10. "}{"Title":"Hotel Street Boogie.","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Interwoven tales of two mismatched couples on Oahu (1) dedicated soldier Montgomery Clift and ambitious hooker Donna Reed who wants to return to the states rich enough to snag a proper husband, and (2) authoritarian but sensitive top sergeant Burt Lancaster and self-pitying officer's wife, Deborah Kerr, who finds salvation in their love.Daniel Taradash adapted the screenplay from James Jones' immensely popular novel of the early 1950s, and the movie was directed by Fred Zinnemann. They both must have had a heck of a time with it.Taradash had to meet all the requirements of the movie code of the period. That meant that the villainous Captain Holmes, instead of being promoted for his sadism and inefficiency, must resign under threat of a court martial. It turns an ironic and brutally realistic story into a fairy tale. Donna Reed, instead of being a whore, does get promoted by this movie -- to a kind of paid but chaste female escort. I can't imagine how the writer slipped her line past the censors If you keep drinking you'll be as much use as a melted candle. Kerr's unfaithful wife is in, but the syphilis is out. Also out is Clift's spell in the stockade, in which the prisoners beat each other bloody in games, in order to gin up their resistance to the beatings by the MPs. In the novel, Clift's character maintains his sanity in solitary by practicing meditation. (I swear I'm not making that up.) Director Zinnemann had his problems too. The casting, unquestionably, is nearly perfect. With the exception of a weak performance from Donna Reed, you can't beat the choice of the leads or the chief supporting players. Sinatra does one of his two outstanding dramatic roles, the other being Manchurian Candidate. And Clift is impeccable as the beautiful young man who was an expert at soldiering, bugling, and boxing. The problem is that the actor was almost always drunk or strung out. He carried around a thermos full of fruit juice and vodka and was pounding innumerable psychotropic drugs. Zinnemann tried no end of takes during a scene in which Angelo Maggio's body is loaded into an ambulance and Clift's line is See you don't bump his head. Fred finally gave up. Fred also had a problem with Clift's fighting, in that Clift didn't know how to make a fist, let alone throw a punch. The use of a stand in during the brawl on the grass is obvious, and the editor had to make sure that none of the medium shots revealed too much of Clift's hands.Philip Ober as the scurrilous Company Commander acts like he's in a cheap B movie, and Donna Reed sounds like an amateur, but everybody in the cast LOOKS right. I shouldn't sound too harsh. I'm sure Philip Ober (a familiar face) was smart enough to realize he was in a potential blockbuster and gave it everything he had. It's just that he didn't HAVE anything.It's also mandatory to mention here the photography, wardrobe, and location shooting. The barracks LOOKS like Schofield Barracks should have looked in 1941. The crummy urban street full of cat houses, tattoo parlors, and drunken enlisted men LOOKS like Hotel Street, though it was shot at the studio's back lot. Even the HASP, or the MPs, as Sinatra's character calls them, look right -- huge, bemuscled pituitary cases -- the kind of agents of social control that sober you up with celerity if you note their walking your way. And I've never gotten over the tan summer uniforms of khaki drill cotton. You can almost feel the fabric.Two scenes are memorable. One -- parodied a thousand times -- has Lancaster and Kerr rolling around and smooching in the Hawaiian surf while a wave rushes over their bodies. The other is the attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese, brief, and with multiple inserts of newsreel footage and shots from an earlier documentary by Gregg Toland, but exciting and well done.A gripping film that ends unhappily, but unforgettable. It may lead some people to read the novel. The novel opens unexpected doors into human nature. Jones knew whereof he spoke. "},{"Title":"A Serious Sudser, But a Sudser Nonetheless","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" No amount of black and white art-house tastefulness can hide the fact that From Here to Eternity is one big splashy soap opera of a movie. I've not read the James Jones book on which it is based, but it wouldn't surprise me to find that the romantic subplots that dominate the film are only a part of a much larger and intricate narrative in the book. A Place in the Sun did much the same thing to An American Tragedy. I've grown to like Burt Lancaster as I've seen him in more and more movies, and I think he got better as he got older, but he's at his hammy worst in roles like this. Though he's a big, rugged looking man, I can't take him seriously in these macho, stud roles. He overacts and never once convinces. Montgomery Clift does much better with his role as the sensitive and moony Pruitt; these were exactly the kinds of roles Clift was born to play. Frank Sinatra, again, could be a fine actor, but his role here is boiled down to a couple of aw-shucks moments before he kicks off in a sentimental death scene. Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed are largely wasted; they're definitely women adrift in a male-dominated film.I don't know about Fred Zinneman. I used to think he was a good director who made socially relevant films at a time when Hollywood would have been content churning out widescreen Technicolor junk, and he did do that. But his films during the 1950s all feel very pompous, like he was aware that he was making ART while everyone else was making MOVIES. I have the same feeling to an extent about George Stevens, though I think overall his films are more fascinating than Zinneman's.From Here to Eternity is certainly no where near the worst that the 1950s had to offer, but it has been overpraised. The fact that Pearl Harbor was still a very distinct memory for so many people probably had much to do with its popular and critical reception at the time, and for its lasting appeal. Watching it now, one kind of wonders what the big deal is.Grade B "},{"Title":"Pearl of a film","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Classic 50's Hollywood feature documenting the lives and times of the US Army personnel in Hawaii leading up to the Japanese air attack on the Pearl Harbour naval base which precipitated the US entry into the second world war. Shot in black and white by Fred Zinnemann to emphasise the war-time setting, the drama is peopled with convincingly realistic characters with a credible, episodic narrative edging ever closer to the pivotal date of December 7th. Multiple plot lines are skilfully interwoven until their climactic convergence at the end aided by top acting from a superb cast. The dramatic thread to the film is Montgomery Clift's Prewett character and his relationships with the characters played by Burt Lancaster, the firm but fair sergeant himself drawn into a sexually charged relationship with his superior officer captain's disaffected wife, played against type by Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed as the hostess he falls in love with and especially Frank Sinatra's rascally but likable and always supportive Maggio.Sinatra famously begged for the chance to show his acting skill in a straight role to reignite his career and duly given the chance, he grabs it with both hands. Lancaster and Kerr fire up the screen in their doomed relationship, especially in the famous scene by the crashing waves, Reed plays her part with admirable restraint but Clift's acting exceeds them all, whether in his reluctant fight scenes, blowing a bugle like Satchmo or playing a drunk after he's exacted revenge on Maggio's tormentor, played memorably by the recently deceased Ernst Borgnine.The action climax as the Japanese attack is thrillingly portrayed especially the high camera shots, although I would question the too obvious and thus jarring insertion of real footage of the actual attack.Controversial in its day for its unblinkingly honest depiction of the US army, it can be seen now as one of the best films of the 50's, a master class in dramatic narrative and character acting. "},{"Title":"This beat out Shane?","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The most interesting thing about this movie is to try and understand why it struck such a chord in 1954. It's not a terrible movie, but suffers from some highly implausible scenes and dialogue. For example, at the end why doesn't Prewitt stop when the soldier yells stop or I'll shoot? Throughout the movie he displays remarkable self-control, so this very crucial scene makes no sense. And the really bad lines, like this one by Deborah Kerr, Of course .. the baby was dead. You didn't know how to use the telephone to call a doctor yourself? On the good side, there are some fine acting performances, and the movie maintains dramatic intensity for most of its duration. But near the end there are a couple of turns which just dissipate the tension without really resolving the conflicts the movie worked so hard to set up. Quite a disappointment, I thought. Again though, it was just after the war, and I wonder how this movie struck viewers in 1954. To win 8 Oscars it must have had a much greater impact than it does today. Despite the great acting performances, to be truly great a movie needs a good story and a great script. In that area, this one falls short. "},{"Title":"Eternity In One Quick Installment","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" That James Jones' novel had the word Eternity in its title seems no accident. It runs over 800 pages, features multiple story arcs, and more or less continued through two subsequent books, one of which became a celebrated film in its own right The Thin Red Line.That film lasts nearly three hours. This one clocks in at under two. I give scripter Daniel Taradash and director Fred Zinnemann credit for that. The story is tightly focused, but with room to breathe. The characters stick out, but as people, not caricatures. There's a lot of good performances and some nice lines.So why don't I like it more? Maybe because I expected a movie that is set around the U.S. military in Oahu in late 1941 to be more about the stuff that interests me, particularly the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor that December. By focusing on the romances of two military men, including a dangerous affair with a commanding officer's wife, Eternity serves up a lot more Kings Row than Battleship Row.The best thing in the movie for me, by far, is Montgomery Clift's performance as the central character, Pvt. Robert E. Lee Prewitt. Clift creates in Prewitt a solitary, edgy character who just happens to really love being in the Army even as he is pushed by his commander to perform various hard duties in order to make him box. A man loves a thing don't mean it's got to love him back, he tells his unbelieving girlfriend.There's distinctive support work, particularly from Burt Lancaster as Prewitt's virile, understanding topkick master sergeant, Warden; and Frank Sinatra as Prewitt's wisecracking pal Maggio. All three were nominated for Oscars, and Sinatra won his in part because he didn't have to compete with the other two. (Lancaster and Clift were both nominated for Best Actor; Sinatra for Supporting Actor). Ernest Borgnine lends such menace to his first big role as prison sergeant Fatso Judson it's hard to believe he didn't go on to fame strictly as a cinematic heavy.Are the romances of Prewitt and Warden really so involving, or are they more like dead-end relationships that tie down the film for long stretches into exercises in alcoholic navel-gazing? Prewitt's core conflict with the military is compellingly introduced but never adequately resolved. Both Prewitt and Maggio are set up as victims of circumstance, but seem more in the end like prisoners of their own stupidity.There are a number of good scenes in Eternity, and a couple of great ones. In one, Prewitt takes on Judson in a back alley in a scene that is played not for excitement but sordidness; I felt like I needed a bath just watching it. The other is the last scene, where lead actresses Donna Reed and Deborah Kerr meet for the only time. Reed's final speech was a head-scratcher to me for a while, but it sticks with you precisely because it's so off-kilter - like war's aftermath itself.But Eternity also has one scene that is overrated Kerr and Lancaster getting wet together on a beach. It set pulses racing in 1953 but doesn't do so much now except remind me of Airplane! Overall, Eternity offers a master class in the art of boiling down something big into something that's cinematically digestible. The result is decent enough but doesn't leave you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Montgomery Clift","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" What can I say as a gay man, about why Montgomery Clift is the most underrated actors? Well, yeah, every one has copied him, and has been influenced by him, but he is given no credit. Hello! He was gay! Everyone knows that, it is this thing that even today Hollywood wont acknowledge. Still, actors today will not accept this. They cant admit that one of the greatest actors, who influenced them was gay! Thats why as an openly gay male, it is so important to be true to yourself and force people whether they want to or not accept it. When have you heard an actor on Oscar night, mention Monty? When did you ever hear the Academy Awards ever acknowledge the debt all actors have to him. Marlon Brando, James Dean..etc..etc..ad infinitum. Ask any professor of acting, who was the most naturally talented , and Monty is always mentioned. It doesn't matter. He was gay, so he has to be denied as a person. I've never heard Marlon, Paul Newman, Steve McQeen ever publicly address this, including todays actors. The only actors I have ever heard praise him, and acknowledge his worth were women. Elizabeth Taylor, Joanne Woodward, Natalie Wood, Faye Dunaway, the list goes on, but um their women and again its Hollywood, and their opinion doesn't matter either cause they are women! I get it, Hoolywood is misogynistic, and Homophobic, nothing has changed. You have to be a straight white man, in order for you to have any credibility. Nothing really has changed, since the 1950's. This is called progress? "},{"Title":"I didn't like this as much as Oscar told me I should!","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie tied Gone with the Wind (1939) for the most Oscars won by a single film up to that point in time -- eight. So, prior to seeing this, I had every idea it was going to be the masterpiece that an 8-time Oscar winning movie should be.But then after the conclusion, I was left saying Huh? First, the ending made no sense to me at all - the conversation between the 2 women on the boat leaving the island. I have since learned from the message boards that there was a lot cut out from the book and they explained the book ending. Someone shouldn't have to have read the book to understand a movie's ending - it should be a self-contained complete story.Secondly, I went into movie believing it would be a gripping tale of the events of Pearl Harbor, only to see that the attack is relegated to the end of the movie, and then as only a side note. So really, this isn't as much a war movie as a melodramatic soap opera surrounding the people who just happen to be inconvenienced by the attack at the end. The attack itself lasts mere minutes and seems to trivialize the tragedy of it. I think our servicemen and women who actually experienced this deserved greater respect than that.I wasn't that impressed with Sinatra's performance either. His character died halfway into the movie - I just didn't see an Oscar caliber portrayal.But given all my reservations, there are some fine performances by the cast. Kerr, Lancatser and Clift's portrayals stand out the most to me. There is some beautiful cinematography, especially the infamous kissing scene on the beach. And to think it was originally scripted to have been a vertical (standing up) kiss!So, overall, this is still a movie worth seeing. Just go into with realistic expectations - that this really isn't so much a war movie as it is a soapy melodrama about people who just happen to be in the military. "},{"Title":"Sadly Disappointed (this may contain spoilers)","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I had my Tivo tape this as I expected good things from the film. The classic beach scene with Keer and Lancaster is fantastic. But......I felt sadly let down by the character development in the film. Maggio is seldom more than irritating jolly - except for the bar stool - loved that move. Prewitt is more interesting and he is the leading character. He comes across as noble and principled. which is in stark contrast to all of the other male cast except 1st Sgt Warden. But I felt a bit let down by him at the end when hes hiding and awol. Basically I couldn't see him not having the courage to go back to the unit after dealing with Fatso.Burt Lancaster's character was the most interesting and believable - and I felt Lancaster did a good job with him. As you would expect. And he certainly has the frame for the beach scene - what a physique that man had. And by the end of the film we see both sides to the character - his tough macho outer, and a more emotional genuine inner.But all in the all I felt the plot was running in tandem all the time between the 3 main men in the film. It never seemed to tell a greater story. Other films like Casablanca do a much better job of character development within a strong central plot. FHTE seemed to flit a great deal from place to place within the story.Sorry -( I really wanted to like it more but it got a 6. "},{"Title":"The Temper of Steel","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Everybody talks about freedom, but they don't really want it. Every man who declares himself free to his friends has to make a slave out of his wife and employees to keep up the illusion and prove it; and the wife to be free in front of her bridge club has to command her Help, Husband and Heirs. It resolves itself into a battle; whoever wins, the other one loses. For every general in this world there has to be 6,000 privates. - James Jones (From Here to Eternity) You and me might change the world. It wouldn't show up until a hundred years after we're dead. We'd never see it. But it'd be there. - James Jones (From Here to Eternity) Based on a 1951 novel by James Jones, Fred Zinnemann's From Here to Eternity (1953) stars Montgomery Clift as Robert Prewitt, a private stationed at a US Army barracks in Oahu, Hawaii. As he refuses to fight in an upcoming, regimental boxing match, Prewitt is subjected to abuse by his fellow soldiers. Prewitt is wise to their motives, but accepts this abuse with cynical indifference.Jones' novel was preoccupied with characters who refuse to betray their ideals and convictions. Prewitt's a bit of a pacifist &#x96; a hard head as his superiors call him - and so refuses to fight. First Sergeant Milton Warden (Burt Lancaster) likewise refuses to pursue a promotion, much to the chagrin of his lover, Karen (Deborah Kerr). Karen is herself torn between fidelity to her husband, Captain Dana Holmes (Philip Ober), and her own personal happiness. Encapsulating their dilemmas is Private Maggio (Frank Sinatra), who refuses to break when put in solitary confinement. All are seeking freedom from confinement and control. These are themes typical of Jones, whose best novels (From Here to Eternity, Some Came Running, The Thin Red Line) find characters rebelling against systems, tradition and assigned roles. The marriage, the army, the corporation, the workplace, the church, the school...Jones' heroes are often outcasts who rebel against venerated American institutions. They resist conformity and compliance &#x96; both inside and outside the military &#x96; a resistance which always leads to marginalization and then self-destruction.How to reconcile freedom and individualism with authority and patriotism was the obsession of many great post-war novels. Prewitt and Maggio themselves anticipate the heroes of Cool Hand Luke and other anti-establishment films/novels of the era (The Sand Pebbles, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, A Thousand Clowns etc). They're hard-headed, they're rebels, they refuse to budge. But like Karen, whose promiscuity is a reaction against her imposed domestic lifestyle as an Army wife, they can't really articulate why; they unconsciously lash out.From Here to Eternity was made with the support of the United States Army, and Fred Zinnemann's always been a bit of a sell-out anyway, so the film never really tackles Jones' themes. Jones was anti-military, anti-war, anti-establishment, whilst Zinneman's busy sucking on the teats of the Production Code. For Zinnemann, all bad military behaviour is a result of bad eggs (who are weeded out and punished), all brutal men get their comeuppance, bad captains resign, bad boxers are demoted and the death of Maggio is his own fault anyway (he falls off a truck). Jones' cynical portrayal of soldiers (always knee deep in booze, sex, violence and bad language) and officers (ruthless careerists who toy with lives) is also toned down. This country's Army is why I hate this country, Maggio says in Jones' novel. What did this country ever do for me? Give me a right to vote for men I cant elect? You can have it. Give me a right to work at a job I hate? You can have that too! They say I'm a citizen of the greatest, richest country on earth, that if I don't believe it I should look at Park Avenue. Carnival prizes! All carnival prizes! They shouldn't teach their immigrants' kids all about democracy unless they mean to let them have a little bit of it! Me and the United States is dissociating our alliance as of right now, until the United States can find time to read its own textbooks a little! It's rage like this which Zinnemann's film goes to lengths to avoid.Still, Zinnemann gets some things right. Jones, whose war trilogy moved from WW2's prelude to aftermath (Eternity, Line, Whistle), had no time for jingoism, contrived heroism, and his grunts were always consigned to a drudgery at sharp contrast with the high adventure promised by recruiting posters. Zinnemann captures all this well. He also coaxes fine performances from Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift, Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed, the latter two floating about like noirish femme fatales. Zinnemann's cutting, sense of place, time and compositions are also a head above most melodramas from the era.7.9/10 - See Vincente Minnelli's Some Came Running, a marginally better James Jones adaptation from the 1950s. See too Jones' excellent Hawaii-set short story, The Way it Is (1949). "},{"Title":"Not as good as I expected","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Over time, I've generally found that my ratings and reviews are not too far off the mainstream. But, with this film, I do have to disagree with just how good this movie really is. I'm not saying it's a bad movie. It's a good film, but I don't see in it what I would define as a great film. I do have to admit a prejudice here that may influence my view -- with rare exceptions I don't like war/military films.But what I found most disappointing here were the performances. I give high marks to Burt Lancaster -- not one of my favorite actors, but he is excellent here. The other actor whom I feel shined in this movie was one of the co-stars -- Philip Ober, who played the bad guy captain. And, Ernest Borgnine -- also not one of my favorites -- was very good in his bad guy role of Fatso.I've always thought that despite not always being a very likable person, that Frank Sinatra was an excellent actor. And while he did have some good scenes in this film, I felt his performance was very uneven. In fact, his scenes early in the movie were disappointing, but his death scene was excellent. Yet this was a breakthrough film for him. Perhaps he was so lauded for his performance because it was his first notable dramatic role. And he certainly grew as his film career progressed.Donna Reed and Deborah Kerr were, from my perspective, miscast. Their performances were fine, and their characters mellowed as the film went on. But their roles were of really unpleasant people at the beginning of the movie, so their characters were not what we're used to for either of those actresses. I found that very distracting.Montgomery Clift was excellent, as always, although seeing him as a boxer asked a lot of us.Yes, the scene on the beach with Kerr and Lancaster, is no doubt one of the all-time great movie scenes. The script is good, and unfortunately, reinforced some of the unfairness I was always aware of in the military (my father was career military).I do rate this as a very good film. But for me, not quite a great film. "}{"Title":"So many actors and so many small moments build to a huge, dramatic reminder of the truth of it all","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here to Eternity (1953)If you take out the last fifteen minutes, you have a terrific drama about an ill trained U.S. Army and some of the inside rivalries and chicaneries that go on with so many trapped and sometimes ambitious men. The number of stars is breathtaking, and there are so many subplots, they are needed to keep every section of the movie sharp, which it is. That's one marvel here, is that all these disparate parts make sense and have equal power.Montgomery Clift takes on the most tragic of the men, and the most obviously brutalized. And yet, in that way he has of being vulnerable and steadfast, he makes you really feel for him. Burt Lancaster as the good sergeant is steely and strong in that way we admire, and Frank Sinatra is given another of those roles that make him a likable nice guy who gets in trouble for the good of others. Throw in Ernest Borgnine and Jack Warden, and a host of secondary actors in top form.There are two women with roles, and both shine. Deborah Kerr, in particular, gives what might be her most intense and satisfying performance, edgy and filled with inner anguish we never see. And Donna Reed plays a men's club companion girl, and she is rarely so alive and interesting. Everyone represents a type, and a larger scene is painted of lonely army men hoping for something to do, either in their work or in their love lives. One theme is rampant drinking, another is a culture of no escape. It's oppressive but it's the army, and they seem to enjoy life anyway.But then the end comes around. Pearl Harbor. It was all set in Hawaii and I should have known. I've even seen the movie before but I had forgotten completely (partly because there is a 1953 brightness to the filming, and I was thinking this was post-WWII). But it happens, and it's really moving. There are no heroics, no great war stories to be told, just a bunch of regular guys, some with hangovers, having to suddenly fight, and die, for their country. In fact, the closing scene, a brave one, really, is emblematic of the real truth to a lot of what was to come. "},{"Title":"Mr Burt Lancaster dominates a copper - bottomed classic.....","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie gives us a chance to see Mr M.Clift at his angst - ridden best,Mr F.Sinatra either creating a character he was to morph into for the rest of his career or merely playing a character he had already become and Mr B.Lancaster at the height of his grace and beauty stalking across the screen like a hungry tiger.Watch the way he walks during the beach scene,light on his feet,slightly leaning forward,every sense aware........it is a marvellous performance.Miss D.Kerr is put in the shade in their every scene together despite her showy part as the officer's lady with a taste for noncoms. Miss D.Reed is excellent as the social - climbing tart. Often imitated but never excelled,From here to eternity is a story of the Army overseas on the brink of war.There are not many good guys,but plenty of ordinary guys doing their best to get along without upsetting too many people.On the Day of Infamy these disparate elements come together in common cause against the enemy. The ending,played out between the two very different leading ladies,is outstanding,Miss Reed walking away with the honours. The plot is too well - known to bear recounting and it is definitely a guy thing,the sort of tale where the women are either whores or saints,and there aren't too many saints in the movie. A gay subtext?Well,not in 1953 Hollywood there wasn't,and Mr Clift may be sad and vulnerable but he's reassuringly hetero when push comes to shove. But it's Mr Lancaster who grabs this movie by the balls and never lets go.Somewhere in heaven there's an Oscar waiting for him. "},{"Title":"I've found parts of this very odd","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the film that won an Oscar for Frank Sinatra. It would win seven others, including picture, director Zinneman, screenwriter and fellow supporting player Donna Reed, who's really has as much screen time as Deborah Kerr. One of Sinatra's problems was a merciless beating he gave to a reporter few years earlier and he gets beaten to death here. Well, this was made when my parents' generation was young and they loved Sinatra. That's why I started my first sentence the way I did.The real stars are Burt Lancaster, who doesn't want to be an officer though he definitely acts like one even when doing work he disagrees with. Actually, a more conflicted and less likable character than Montgomery Clift's, who gets the treatment for refusing to box because he blinded somebody.To get back at his commanding officer, Lancaster romances Deborah Kerr, who's at the top of her game here as is he. But I found myself more involved with Cliff getting the treatment. His one friend is Sinatra who at times shares in getting the treatment too.Cliff falls for one of the girls, actually a prostitute but this is 1953, sensitively played by Donna Reed which pretty mush throws logic out the window. Frankie boy gets drunk and tangles with Ernest Borginine which will eventfully lead to fatal results.However, I can't help liking this film. Zimmerman made his actors all act earnestly and I believed them even when I knew I shouldn't.Unspoken but it's there in the last Lancaster-Kerr scenes, is that he really does want to an officer in the army but in his terms not hers. Then the Japanese strike and Lancaster takes command.Cliff gets cut down from friendly fire hiding out with Reed after killing Borgnine out of revenge for Sinatra. The movie ends with two female leads on a boat to San Francisco with their tossed leis showing that neither will return to Hawaii.Contary to urban legend, George Reeves is in this. It's a small part but he's there showing what charm he did posses. "},{"Title":"From Montgomery Clift to Eternity","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Fred Zinnemann's From Here to Eternity is really more of a soap opera than a war story. Still, it is very well done, and very entertaining. The main attraction isn't World War II, or the soap opera story lines - the main attractions in From Here to Eternity are the actors' performances.Montgomery Clift's is the main attraction performance. He makes his character the central figure, despite other story lines, and his performance is mesmerizing. Every look Clift gives, every facial tic, every syllable is fascinating to watch. And, it's all very natural&#x85; very character-driven. Not that all the others aren't terrific, too. Burt Lancaster is a close second, and everyone performs exceptionally well.Mr. Clift's performance helps elevate both the other performances, and the film in general. Check out how great he makes all the other actors, look simply by playing a bugle. This is a case where an actor's performance affects both the other players in the scene, and even leaves its impressions in scenes where the actor doesn't appear. If you take Clift out of the film, you have a much more ordinary movie.I'm not sure, however, what/if the film is trying to say about war - is it making a statement of some kind? The main story is Will Mr. Clift's character box (fight)&#x85; or, won't he fight (box)? I guess he is bullied into fighting, but does not initiate fighting (he blinds a man, symbolically, by knocking him out in an unseen fight). I am not sure if I got the film's message, or even if there was one.I would have also made either MORE EXPLICIT or MORE SUBTLE the whole prostitution part - it was a place to have sex during the time, I guess. Donna Reed and the other women were prostitutes, I guess. Since they couldn't make it more explicit, they toned it down to make us really think these men went to town so they could exchange nice smiles with nice women. Elsewhere, Mr. Lancaster and Ms. Kerr's sound like they've had physical relations, when, it looked, to me, like they'd only been hit by a wave. I know this was the '50s, but filmmakers had developed many subtle ways of relaying this information&#x85; for the prior half century... So, what it boils down to This is a great wartime soap opera, with great performances. ********* From Here to Eternity (8/5/53) Fred Zinnemann ~ Montgomery Clift, Burt Lancaster, Frank Sinatra, Deborah Kerr "},{"Title":"Peacetime army in Hawaii","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film is another reason Pearl Harbor seems so silly. From Here to Eternity is indeed filled with romance, but Pearl Harbor can only be categorized as a chick-flick, schlock fest, mercifully interrupted by a Japanese air raid. Both films have to do with the attack on Pearl Harbor, but, From Here to Eternity does it with an unanticipated, left hook. The victims of Pearl Harbor were never prepared. Perhaps the several, very involving plots in the story were contrived to make us unprepared. The attack by Japanese planes on the army barracks is realistic, even on the emotional level. But, the scene that will forever stand out for me is the knife fight between Pruitt(Clift)and Fatso(Borgnine). Shot through a dark, Honolulu alley, with the music of bars and dance halls in the background, and with very little camera action, we can only imagine and wait, mesmerized in anticipation. This scene sold me on film as a valid art form. It illustrates the vastness of technique that is possible within film to portray any given idea. In this duel to the death scenario, the idea was masterfully depicted without the graphics that would predictably be used today as an attempt to enhance the same idea. "},{"Title":"Missing scenes???","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Someone wrote on another site my parents, watching it on television once, thought they remembered a scene where Ernest Borgnine really did beat up on Sinatra. This is absolutely correct. My friends and I saw it in the theater and talked about the beating Borgnine gave Sinatra for many days afterward.Those few minutes are missing from the VHS I purchased and not in any rentals. What happened to that scene? Did Sinatra have it removed? Is it deemed too violent to repeat? Does anyone know where we can get a true copy of the movie?This is one of the best movies Hollywood has ever produced. People who haven't seen it even talk about it. Even if it was colorized, it couldn't be better. I recommend Eternity to anyone who wants a glimpse of 1950's movie making at it's finest. Then during the film, imagine Borgnine pummeling Sinatra merciless and leaving him for dead. The beating takes about five minutes. "},{"Title":"Actually Very Good","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie I wasn't looking forward to it and didn't expect much. This is probably why I was so pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed it. The characters were terrific, and the cast put in great performances. I certainly wouldn't say it was one of my all time favourite movies,  it wouldn't even make my top 100, but it is well worth watching.7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What is more eternal than love and brotherhood?","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Its power may have waned a little bit since it first came out over 50 years ago, but FROM HERE TO ETERNITY still remains one of the classic war films as well as an interesting look into military life circa 1941. The story follows a handful of characters whose lives all intersect in Hawaii during the months prior to the bombing at Pearl Harbor. You have Montgomery Clift as Pvt. Robert E. Lee Prewitt a loner with a troubled past, Burt Lancaster as Sgt. Warden a tough, but understanding NCO, Deborah Kerr as Karen Holmes the company commander's wife, and Frank Sinatra as Angelo Maggio a wiry Italian fellow who befriends Prewitt and loves to drink. As was typical for films of the period, there is a romantic/melodramatic element which forms the basis for the story and informs the way we see the characters. This aspect was kind of dated, but it allows the casual viewer a window into these characters' lives the way a straight military picture couldn't have done. The two main romantic narrative threads are between Montgomery Clift and a girl, Loreen/Alma (Donna Reed) who works at a club he frequents, and Burt Lancaster with Deborah Kerr. Both of these couples lament the situation that life has put them in and desire to get away from it all. Montgomery Clift has become the target of cruel treatment based on his decision not to join the company's boxing team, while Donna Reed's character has grown weary of her employment at a gentleman's club where she has to entertain service members. Parallel to that, Burt Lancaster romances the wife of his CO, a philanderer who has lost interest in her. One common element is the desire to return to the States and get married, which would provide the stability that they all want. However, fate has other plans as the bombing at Pearl Harbor throws their somewhat stable world into chaos and the men of the Army must put aside petty differences to fight the bigger enemy. These are rather heady themes to be tackled in a film that could easily have been a fluff piece for the Armed Forces, yet FROM HERE TO ETERNITY never feels like propaganda. The biggest thing on its mind seems to be portraying what happens when something unexpected throws our best-laid plans into disarray. When that happens, the best we can do is to band together and make the best of a bad situation. In the end, our commitment to each other will outlast any temporary plans that we have. Overall, FROM HERE TO ETERNITY does feel of its time but it's also the only Pearl Harbor film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Watered Down and Diluted Version of Hot Novel.","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" BY THE YEAR of 1953, when this blockbuster hit the movie houses, we were able to step back and take a much more objective collective look at many of the happenings of World War II, and to the years immediately preceding it. Through the use of adult fiction in the form of the novel, we are given a multi-tiered presentation of, what many would consider, a much more innocent America.BEING SET IN the U.S. Territory of Hawaii, and more specifically, right at Pearl Harbor, our story follows the story of several widely divergent people; telling their various stories through some loosely connected events. The story is knit together only by the membership by those in the U.S. Army; which function as a sort of cohesive literary glue.STRICTLY SPEAKING, THIS film is not a War Movie; but rather a study of people coexisting and managing to live out their lives in the presence of and even in spite of some very difficult happenings. Surely, we would have to take into account the fact that this was an Amderica at the tail end of the Great Depression. The characters in the story would be hardened and already weary of life itself.IN RESPECT TO the times in which the movie was made, its style is highly representative of the early '50's; which in a small way, dates it. The manner with which many of the contradictory happenings are dealt with are much more subtly dealt with. There is no area more indicative of this than in the matter of S-E-X.THE PORTRAYAL OF Master Sergeant (Burt Lancaster) 'dating' his Commanding Officer's wife (Deborah Kerr) is done up rather casually and highly watered down from the print page counterpart in the novel. For Example; the two of them both just happen to have bathing suits on under their evening clothes; allowing for an on screen moonlight swim, but no skinny dipping here. This was the '50's and the censor wouldn't allow it! WITH REGARD TO the relationship between the Montgomery Clift character and Donna Reed's, she has been described as a Call Girl. In the portrayal, she works at a hostess at a club. In reality, the establishment is a brothel and Miss Reed a prostitute.THERE IS SOMETHING to recommend this to all; even with old fashioned 'cleaned up' version that it is. Being contrasted with today's, 'anything goes', butt naked, explicit sex laden methods, we prefer some subtlety and use of the power of suggestion. After all, it requires some higher degree of brain power (thinking) and is suitable for younger viewers. We can testify to the veracity of this; as we (that is I) were a very innocent 7 year old when we saw it at the old Ogden Theater, kin Chicago, and it all went strictly TWA (over my head).BEFORE WE SIGN off, we must give proper praise and tribute to the performances by Ernest Borgnine and Frank Sinatra in rendering this as being a sort of Noir goes to War offering. "},{"Title":"Hollywood at its Best, Not Without Minor Flaws","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is clearly one of the highlights of the 1950s, a confident exercise in popular art. Everybody associated with the picture did a great job, but I do have some misgivings.Probably inherent with the problem of reducing 900 pages of text to two or so hours, the film's pace is relentlessly fast. It's one of the few movies I can think of that could have used an extra 10-15 minutes to linger on key scenes and set up suspense. The famous beach scene goes by far too quickly. Even Sid Caesar and Imogene Coca had more time to get wetter in their Your Show of Shows parody. I also think that they should have spent a little more time setting up a peaceful, partly hung-over Saturday night/Sunday Morning before the Japanese attacked.The against-type casting is justly celebrated for this movie, but are are some risks that didn't work out. I do think Deborah Kerr was a bit lost in her part. Nothing to do with her sexual persona, but the difficulties of playing an American and the impossibility of fully understanding the social milieu of American officers and wives. Kerr was very far from awful, but I sensed a tentativeness.I'm really going to step into it by saying that Montgomery Clift was wrong for Prewitt. Just too pretty and sensitive to be both someone whose last resort in the 1930s was to join the Army or be a boxer. Robert Ryan comes to mind as a more convincing choice--just as sensitive and ethically torn, but more convincingly proletarian.Donna Reed is great here, but I think the script let her down. The final scene between her and Kerr on the Lurline comes off as a misfired plot twist. Reed revealing herself as a fantasist going home to reinvent herself yet again inspires more WTF? than Ah Ha! I think there could have been slightly better set up earlier on with regard to the gap between her working life at the Congress Club and her almost college girl domestic setup bridged by her impressive powers of denial.Technically, the Pearl Harbor attack was marred by insertion of some obvious file footage and I also winced when the camera lingered a second on a calendar marked December 6. The best things in the movie are the cinematography, Ernest Borgnine, Burt Lancaster, and Philip Ober as the disgusting Captain Holmes. A real career-killer of a role. One of the things I've complained about is the movie's main strength The script that strips down the novel to a censor-safe two hours. The audience knows what the Congress Club is about and that everyone wears their birthday swimsuit under their clothes at all times. Far more artful to deftly imply these things than make them obvious.Still, a wonderful movie. "}{"Title":"A man loves a thing, that don't mean it's got to love him back.","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Once you get hooked on cinema, you want to experience every great movie that ever earned a reputation. It took me a long time to get From Here To Eternity, but at a certain point you just have to pull the trigger and make the commitment. The first thing that surprised me was that iconic beach scene with Burt Lancaster and Deborak Kerr. If you've seen the brief three second clip of that highlight, you've seen it all. What you don't figure on is that they both wind up in an argument immediately after, and have to patch things up to keep the affair going. Needless to say, the sun never set on that romance.Maybe the clip they should show more often as representative of this film is Montgomery Clift blowing Taps for Frank Sinatra, tears streaming down his face over a wasted loss of life, that of a best friend to boot. When Fatso Judson (Ernest Borgnine) first emerged from the alley fight, I couldn't believe he got the upper hand on Prewitt (Clift); that was a great tease. I have to say, I identify with Clift's character, he didn't give in to 'The Treatment' and stayed the course over his own ideals. There were times I thought he would crack, but Monty didn't let me down. Knowing his personal history though, I did a sit up and take notice when Sinatra goads him to go into town after hours - You got any prejudices against girls? I wonder what he thought about that line.The surprise of the picture for me was Donna Reed. Not the role model Mom from The Donna Reed Show here. Though I don't go so far as to consider her character a prostitute that so many reviewers on this board adhere to. She was working a gentleman's club, true, but it didn't appear to me that she compromised herself to earn a living. Just stringing the guys along for drinks and a good time as part of the job.You know, I saw him in the picture, but was Frank Sinatra ever that skinny? He was a downright stick figure at times. I had to wonder with all the drunk scenes he did whether he was acting or if the filming was done around him to capture the essence of the character. I think his best moment was when he threw snake eyes with the pair of olives, very convincing.And then there's Lancaster. He sure fills out the uniform, especially when he's stripped down to swim trunks. He commands every scene he's in, even when in the proximity of Captain Holmes (Philip Ober). Except for the fact that the story was written that way, I didn't get the attraction for the boss's wife. The chemistry between Lancaster and Kerr didn't quite click for me, and I already mentioned that beach scene. In a way, I'm satisfied that they didn't hook up after all.Considering the film's reputation as a World War II epic, it was somewhat surprising to see so little in the way of battle action. The stock footage was expected, and I'm glad the good guys got to take out a Zero. But overall, the War played second fiddle to the human drama, and probably for the best. I don't much care for war films that get tangled up with romance and side stories, so in that regard, this one's execution stayed focused on the human element, and the fighting just happened to be a sidebar. "},{"Title":"Chiefly famous now for 'that' scene . . .","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a film that many people now will know for its most famous scene. The kiss and embrace on the beach between Deborah Kerr and Burt Lancaster. That scene is truly awesome. Technically, emotionally and for its timeless appeal. Often copied and even parodied, it is one of the best lip-clinches in cinematic history. For viewers looking back on it now, little can be said of the rest of the film in such superlatives. But is worth watching for that kiss.The story is a watered down version of a famous novel. Set in the American army just before the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbour, it shows the harsh reality of the bombing (in a finale that is in sharp contrast to the easygoing flamboyance of the rest of the movie). It was one of the first films to show the harshness of military life, including bullying (though this was one of the many aspects watered down for the censors at the time). It has award-winning or famous performances from many stars that are still household names. A vast amount of talent was poured into it. Some subtleties (such as Deborah Kerr playing against her standard, pure-as-the-driven-snow roles) will be lost on modern audiences if they miss the contrasts. But who has not heard of the title?Two love stories form subplots to the main story, which is one of a harsh and unfair commander (together with a brute also in charge of the stockade) and an unfairly victimised young bugler. There is a passionate and illicit love affair between a First Sergeant and the Commander's wife. Then there is an equally furtive liaison between the young bugler (in between beatings) and a 'hostess'. Using Hawaii as a backdrop, there is great contrast between the idyllic setting on one hand, and the vicious treatment of junior soldiers (not to mention the horrific bombing scenes) on the other. And some nice bugle playing.The merits of the film could be eulogised at greater length, but in the interests of balance and to reflect the concerns of modern audiences, two other aspects might be mentioned. At least they were things that stuck out quite horribly to me, so I am going to mention them.The first is the overwhelming portrait of drunkenness and brawling (according to reports, the first was common among some of the stars, not just the characters). There are many justifications, including the sufferings they were going through and the general tolerance of alcohol in American society. But what I found disconcerting (and still find disconcerting in many modern films featuring American soldiers, both fiction and documentary) is the toleration. If viewed through the lens of a society that doesn't embrace drunkenness (for instance Brasil, which is about the same size as America), it portrays a simplistic picture of American G.I.s as drunken louts. The datedness of the scenarios, although probably effective at the time, makes such obnoxious behaviour stand out all the more.The second thing that made me feel uncomfortable (though not to the same extent as the thoroughly awful modern film, Pearl Harbour) is the pervasive jingoism. America, it seems, can confront its own weakness in films about Vietnam (when the war was so obviously lost), but in 1953, as now, America was 'all perfect' and Japan was 'all evil'. It would be refreshing to see a film that embraced not only the inhumanity of Japanese attacking forces but acknowledged some of the background - the Washington-imposed oil-blockade of Japan that gave that small nation state the bleak choice of capitulation or war.From Here to Eternity is a great film. But it is perhaps little wonder why the excerpted clips are usually of Burt and Deborah on the beach rather than Sinatra falling about drunk. The realistic footage of unexpected bomb attacks however, probably deserves more acknowledgement. "},{"Title":"almost documentary","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" May give away surprises to new viewers. To me this this film is a slice of real Army pre-war life, dramatized just enough to make it entertaining. It is true to its subject and characters, and includes marvelous performances, notably by Frank Sinatra. His career, stagnant due to his having outgrown his Teen Idol status, was re-energized in a big way. I won't dwell on the topics others have covered in praising this excellent film; I DO want to point out two examples of great, great film making. Montgomery Clift as Prew playing Taps upon the death of Sinatra's Maggio is one of the most moving scenes ever put on film. The musician who actually played the instrument was a virtuoso, as the emotion expressed in the performance is tangible. That scene is followed almost immediately by Clift accosting Ernest Borgnine -- the man responsible for the death of his friend -- and asking him to step into an alley. In just a few seconds the two of them are locked in a knife fight to the death, while in the background, just feet away, pedestrians are strolling along Hotel Street, happy honky-tonk music playing in the distance. The contrast between the human activities happening in the same scene is a masterpiece of direction. See this film. "},{"Title":"army life","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" As the Japanese prepare to launch their fateful attack on Pearl Harbor and awaken the slumbering giant, dangerous romances and arbitrary military pettiness occupy the soldiers manning their base in Hawaii. James Jones' multi-character novel gets brought to the screen in a great film that manages to capture something of the essence of the novel, showing army life not as some campfire circle but as a big cynical game of fitting in, going with the flow, and not getting caught. The one purist, a truly fine soldier, fearless and loyal, played by Montgomery Clift, is the polar opposite of all the BS that is around him. He loves the army as if it were his family, but the feeling isn't mutual. The scene where he plays Taps epitomizes his depth and elegance. It's a truly beautiful performance, though not too far behind is Burt Lancaster the master sergeant who's secretly having an affair with the CO's deeply unhappy wife played by Deborah Kerr, a target of rumors that she'll sleep with anyone. We find out why in one of the film's plots, just another lurid episode depicting all the hypocrisy that the story delves into. Their famous roll in the surf is a passionate moment in an exciting and dangerous affair, that this very complex film somehow managed not to short change. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In my opinion this film combines several elements that fully explain its successexcellent performances,nice screenplay, fabulous director and a good story. All of these features led to a good entertainment and to one of the best films of all times.I would like to stress that Montgomery Clift, Burt Lancaster and Debora Kerr gave us a lesson about how to act, how to compose a character. Their performances are among the best ever played in this industry history.Moreover Zinnemann proves all his talent and competence. The scene of the kiss on the beach is a magical moment of the cinema! It translates all the passion, the search of a true love by the characters and perfectly describes the kind of feelings that dominated the characters. "},{"Title":"CLASSIC (BEST OF '53)!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The book by James Jones is even better, but in 1953 they did what they could with the off-color material and made an excellent film, especially Montgomery Clift as Pru. He captures the intense lone-wolf who is tough and sensitive and Clift gives the best performance. Burt Lancaster is well-cast as the Sergeant who understands the Service all too well (unlike Pru). Donna Reed deserved her Oscar, but Sinatra is really the only one who is bad (won an Oscar, though). The character of Maggio is fascinating, but Frankie makes all the easy choices. Deborah Kerr (in a different role for her) is sexy and untrusting and superb.A high point of the 50's and deserving of it's 8 Academy Awards. It's too bad Clift never won one. He should have won for this and A PLACE IN THE SUN two years earlier, and possibly for his first nom. in '48 for THE SEARCH. Fred Zinnemann was the right director for this pre-Pearl Harbor drama and anybody who doesn't like this film doesn't like films. Great stuff! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and powerful.","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I´ve recently seen this movie (once again, I can't remember how many times I saw it) and it feels great every time. There's a detail each time that makes it so good even today. This movie shouldn't only be remembered by the love scene of Lancaster-Kerr on the beach it has much more attractiveness. The whole cast is very efficient (and especially Clift). The scene where Clift plays Silence after the killing of Spaghetti (greatly performed by Sinatra) with tears in his eyes remains as one of the most powerfull ones in the movie. The love affair is also truly effective and it burns even out of the screen, and the passionate fight performed by M. Clift and E. Borgnine (also very good as the bad guy) shines in all its splendor in the screen. That film simply couldn't be better done, even if it was shot in color and a multichannel sound system of the time (4-track Stereo, 70 mm-6 Track, etc.). Brilliant. "},{"Title":"You really need to read the book","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this is a good move. I gave it a 7 out of 10. But the book is so far superior to the movie that words would fail me if I were to try and compare the two. The book is a rare glimpse behind the scenes of the peacetime army before World War II. It is NOT a love story or a war story for that matter. It is both and at the same time neither. An examination of the nature of humanity better suits it.I always have to stifle a giggle when people start talking about the greatest generation, as if the subsequent generations just don't measure up. And before you start whining, what the W.W. II generation did was nothing short but save the world--literally and I am eternally grateful to them for that. But they are no better than the Baby Boomers or Gen X. James Jones in his brilliant book proves it.In vivid detail he describes the daily life of not only the average dog face soilder, but the officers too. You'll learn about the whore houses of Hawaii, the gambling sheds, the heavy drinking--things I'm sure your grandfather never told you about. Read the book, then see the movie. "},{"Title":"Director's movie","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The movie is real art,a true classic.While some classic movies convey,directly or indirectly, a message,this movie,like true art, has none. I find it to be a director's movie,weaving together romance,violence,passion,humor,human endurance,coalescing towards the attack on Pearl Harbor. Among the numerous talents involved in making the film,I cannot single out any particular role,except for  the director,Fred Zinneman,and the casting director-just watch the company segeant,in army khakis,and you say to yourself he must have been groomed by his parents since early childhood for his military role.Burt Lancaster is indeed unforgettable as Warden. Other salient performances are Philip Ober as Captain Holmes,the antithesis of military leadership,and Montegomery Clift,an early method actor,playing the undrdog,a perrenial loser. As to the famous beach scene,I tried to analyze where its power and intensity come from.I believe it is an example of superb directing,using the viewers prior knowledge of plot and characters,with the beach scene being the tip of an emotional iceberg,possibly similar to Alfred Hitchcock's approach toward thrill. Time did to this movie what it does to good wine,enhance its flavor and enjoyment. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE ABOUT WAR,WWII,LOVE,FRIENDSHIP ETC...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I think this is the best movie that i've ever seen about war.It's not telling the USA best or like that it's just about people.Love but every kind of love,friend love,lover love and army love,country love...Burt Lancaster,Frank Sinatra,Montgomery Clift,Deborah Kerr,Donna Reed even Ernst Borgnine did the best work of their lives...Fred Zinneman's masterpiece...If you are living in the world or you say i am a human ,you must watch this film... It's like a hand book of life... "}{"Title":"A classic film that blends the elements of war and romance","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  (May contain spoilers)The film that contains one of the steamiest make-out sessions inmovie history, FROM HERE TO ETERNITY proves to be a quite good blend of a war movie with heartfelt romance. Burt Lancaster stars as Sgt. Warden, one of the leaders of a rugged army unit stationed in Hawaii just before the Pearl Harbor bombing. The late Montgomery Clift also stars as Prewitt, a bugeler in Warden's platoon that seems to get neck- deep in trouble with the other grunts. And Frank Sinatra completes the male leads as Angelo, Prewitt's swinging soldier buddy. All three ofthe main characters try to engage in relationships outside the army, which gets Warden and Prewitt in slight trouble. Warden falls for his superior's wife, Karen (Debora Kerr), which obviously, if the two get caught in each other's arms, it's deep doo-doo for Warden! Mean- while, Prewitt himself winds up falling for a prostitute named Lorene (Donna Reed). And Angelo? His freewheeling hijinks don't land him a permanent score, but he still manages to meet up with a couple ofgals anyway! All this ended with tragedy, mostly due to the conflict of the big war. Lancaster is in top form as Warden, while Clift does a smoldering loner act, sort of like James Dean that was a little ahead by 4 years.  "},{"Title":"Grand romance","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  From Here To Eternity will always be remembered for Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr's kiss  in the waves.  What viewers should also remember is the acting from all the principle  characters and secondary characters.  There is not a flawed performance from anyone.   Montgomery Clift is perfectly stubborn and Frank Sinatra is loud but likeable.  Ernest Borgnine  brings a quiet menace to the role of Fatso Judson.  The scene where Sinatra is brought into the  stockade shows the menace and joy in Bornine's eyes and the fear in Sinatra's.  Deborah Kerr  and Donna Reed are the women who fall in love with soldiers.  Kerr has a loveless relationship  with her husband and falls for Lancaster's no nonsense Sgt. Warden.  Reed loves Clift, but they  can never know true love.  Clift loves the army, and he's too stubborn and proud to ever bow  before anyone.  Set against the backdrop of Hawaii before the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the  film remains a timeless classic of epic, but doomed romance.           "},{"Title":"The best movie of the 50's","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"    Realistic, uncompromising, and at sometimes shocking, Fred Zinnemann's adaptation of James Jones's novel is simply perfect.      This story about military injustice somewhat differs from Stanley Kubrick's Paths of glory for two reasons because it shows how two G.I.'s are bullied whereas Paths of glory shows how careless the army is towards its soldiers and it deals with other themes than military injustice like adultery for example.      From here to eternity is a little ahead of its time because of its heavy references to adult themes like prostitution, alcohol abuse, violence, and murder.  Lancaster and Clift lead a terrific cast which also includes legends such as Deborah Kerr, Frank Sinatra, and Donna Reed (who is as beautiful as ever).  Reed and Sinatra took home well-deserved supporting actors Oscars.    Another reason for which I love this movie is that it is the movie that sent Sinatra to stardom.  After its release, he became a lot more popular in Hollywood and was offered many more important roles than before.  All in all, From here to eternity is a great, compelling, realistic movie.  The Clift-Reed, Clift-army, Clift-Lancaster, Clift-Sinatra, Lancaster-army, and Lancaster-Kerr relations are extremely well interpreted.  This is one of those films that are worth at least five viewings.  It's great. "},{"Title":"GREAT AMERICAN FILM WITH GREAT AMERICAN ETHICS","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  THIS IS WHAT ALL WAR AND PRE-WAR FILMS SHOULD CONTAIN PURSUIT FOR PEACE, VIBRANT CHARACTERS, WOMEN WHO DISPLAY MORE INTERESTING FEATURES THAN JUST SITTING AND WAITING FOR THE BOYS TO COME HOME, AND PERFORMANCES THAT ARE NOT OVERLY MELANCHOLY BUT RATHER SHOW REAL HUMAN EMOTION AND PROJECTIONS OF THE SOUL. THIS MOVIE DESERVES THE RIGHT TO BE CONSIDERED ONE OF THE BEST AMERICAN FILMS OF ALL TIME. "},{"Title":"Summary notes from my recent introduction of this wonderful & powerful classic...","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Few movies were greeted with more anticipation than Fred Zinnemann's From Here to Eternity when it opened in 1953. Adapted from one of the best-selling novels of the previous decade, filmgoers had high expectations. It lived up to all of them -- even adding a new level of violence and frankness to popular dramatic films. It was based on James Jones' hefty, 859-page smoldering, 1951 novel taking its title from Rudyard Kipling's poem Gentlemen Rankers which had the line about soldiers of the British Empire who had lost there way and were&#x85; damned, from here to eternity. However, Jones' sprawling and complex story-line about Army life with its strong language, violence and raw sexual content was considered unsuitable and unfilmable. Nevertheless, major concessions and changes from the novel had to be and were made. About the cast Burt Lancaster plays macho Sergeant Milton Warden, the professional soldier who wet-nurses a weak, pompous commanding officer and the GIs under him. It is a performance to which he gives depth of character as well as muscle; Montgomery Clift, with a reputation for sensitive, three-dimensional performances plays the independent GI who refuses to join the company boxing team, taking instead the treatment. Montgomery Clift threw himself into the character of Prewitt, learning to play the bugle and taking boxing lessons. Ernest Borgnine dominated every scene he was in as Sgt. Judson, a vicious brute far from his Oscar winning character Marty or in TV's McHale's Navy (in 2010 he had five films in production and was 93!); Beautiful Deborah Kerr, previously known for her innocent, lady-like roles, got to play an unabashedly sexual woman, and a married one at that; Donna Reed, cast against type as a prostitute gives an honest and gut wrenching performance; And Frank Sinatra, cast against all prevailing wisdom, became a great actor overnight as the doomed Maggio. While some may be amazed at Sinatra's versatility, it will come as no surprise to those who knew he was much more than a crooner. Burt Lancaster agreed, commenting that Sinatra's hunger and passion had something to do with the character of Maggio, but also what he had gone through in recent years. A sense of defeat and the whole world crashing in on him... it all came out in that amazing performance. In gritty, documentary-style and black-and-white photography, Fred Zinnemann (who had directed High Noon a year earlier) accurately captured the isolation and boredom of the military personnel in a close- knit Army barracks on the island of Oahu, combining social and military history with the drama of the personal lives of its main characters - an enlisted man and a neglected officer's wife, a prostitute and a military outcast. The major male characters wage their own 'battle' against corruption high up in the military ranks, each in their own ways. The film, was both critically and financially successful becoming the second biggest hit of 1953, just behind The Robe (the first CinemaScope film released) and ahead of Shane (the Alan Ladd western.) That said, the ground-breaking film's subjects still include prostitution, adultery, military injustice, corruption, violence, alcohol abuse, and murder. From Here to Eternity raised the bar for realism and the harsh or ugly side of life in war movies, and in movies in general. There is an urban myth regarding the casting of Frank Sinatra that the Mafia made Columbia Pictures an offer they couldn't refuse. This of course was fiction, director Zinneman said that The legend about a horse's head having been cut off is pure invention, a poetic license on the part of Mario Puzo who wrote The Godfather. The real reason for Sinatra's casting was mainly his then-wife Ava Gardner suggesting Sinatra to studio head Harry Cohn according to biographer Kitty Kelly. And Cohn realized Sinatra's stock was so low at the time that he could get this once big name cheap. Sinatra lobbied hard for the role, even suggesting he would do it for nothing, he was eventually hired for the token sum of $8,000. From Here To Eternity reignited his now iconic career. Another rumor has been circulating for years that George Reeves, who played Sgt. Stark, had his role shortened after preview audiences recognized him as TV's Superman and laughed. This is depicted in the drama Hollywoodland (2006). That too is not true. Look for author James Jones who can be seen briefly in the background over Ernest Borgnine's right shoulder as he plays the piano at the New Congress Club. Jones is the one with the bald spot that keeps his face down while flirting with a bunch of so called hostesses. The now classic scene between Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr in the rushing water on the beach was a last minute inspiration from the director. And the classic clinch on the beach was to be filmed standing up, it was Lancaster's idea to do it horizontally in the surf. The chemistry between Lancaster and Kerr was alleged to be real, they supposedly became romantically involved during filming. The MPAA banned photos of the famous horizontal & passionate kiss on the beach for being too erotic. Notice on the posters the image of the tangled legs are blurred out so that only two of the four legs appear. The scene was filmed at Halona Cove on the eastern side of Oahu, near Koko Head Crater and Sandy Beach, it has since become a major tourist attraction. Shot on location (including a three-week shoot in Hawaii's Schofield Barracks), this film was a monumental award winner - Tied with Gone with the Wind for the most Oscars won by a single film up to that point in time. By coincidence, George Reeves appears briefly in both films. William Holden, who won the Best Actor Oscar for Stalag 17, said that Lancaster should have won. A final bit of trivia, From Here To Eternity is the last Academy Award Best Picture winner to receive nominations in all of the four acting categories. "},{"Title":"Seamy soldiery","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This has all the hallmarks of a film scratching away at the surface of a popular novel. The literary title seems ill-suited to the pettiness of much of the storyline and it fails to resonate even in the final fate of it's chief character, Prewitt (Montgomery Clift), which seems tagged on and unnecessary, like an alternative ending.Soldiers patronise their officers and chase their wives, squabble amongst themselves, even murder each other over trivial issues that assume life and death importance under the pressure-cooker lid of army life. It's a nasty world of philandering, drunkenness, ineptitude, vanity, and boorishness. The women put the uniformed clowns into context, rejecting them for their inadequacy and their soldier-ant careers. The film pushes away at the edges of the Hays Code (Deborah Kerr really checks out Burt Lancaster as he's getting undressed &#150; but you can't prevent people going for a swim) - but just when you think the film is doing an admirable job of showing the seamy side of humanity and building up to something powerful, it backs down as the boys predictably turn into heroes during the Pearl Harbor attack.The main theme, the hard-head holding out against authority, is the same as in Zinneman's A Man For All Seasons, another film full of squabbling men with a downbeat ending. Clift and Sinatra (drunk much of the time) are outstanding, but the film belongs to Lancaster, bull-necked, angular as a piece of origami, who somehow manages to square uprightness and corruption, solidity and fallibility, and stands astride the rank and ruck of lesser men like a colossus. Classic stuff from the movies' greatest decade. "},{"Title":"Cultured Pearl","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This has just aired on television some fifty-five years after the initial release so it has a license to appear dated yet it holds up surprisingly well. Burt Lancaster and Monty Clift would appear to be the only choices for the roles of Warden and Prewitt respectively; if we consider who else was working in 1953 Paul Newman hadn't really established himself and even if he had he would not have brought Clift's vulnerability to the role and Lee Marvin and Neville Brand, both very possible possible Wardens had little or no marquee value. It's difficult to see how Donna Reed rated an Oscar although there was absolutely nothing wrong with her performance whereas Sinatra was a revelation and thoroughly deserved his. On the whole screenwriter Dan Taradash made a decent fist out of an 'unfilmable' novel and Fred Zinneman got the best out of his actors. Still around seven or eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"Despite its age still worth to be seen.","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I've always been a great fan of war movies and I won't let any chance pass to see one that I didn't see before. From Here to Eternity was one of those movies that I didn't see yet and even though it's kind of hard to call it a war movie, I'm very glad that I saw it. Why I don't want to call it a war movie? Mainly because most of the time it shows us life in a military camp during peace time. Only at the end of the movie, we get to see some 'war action' when the Japanese attacks on Pearl Harbor start.As I already said, this movie shows us life during peace time, in 1941 at a military camp called Schofield in Hawaii. Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt had requested Army transfer and this is the base where he's stationed. His new captain, Dana Holmes, knows that Prewitt is an excellent boxer and wants him to represent the company at the next championship. But Prewitt has decided that he'll never ever fight another box match and nothing will make him change his mind, not even when Holmes gets his subordinates to make Prewitt's life a living hell. But not everybody hates him. His friend Maggio for instance takes him out for some drinks and introduces him in a social club, where he meets Lorene, one of the girls that work in the club. In the meantime Seargeant Warden starts seeing the captain's wife, whose marriage doesn't go to well, Maggio gets in trouble with the sadistic stockade Sergeant 'Fatso' Judson and the Japanese are preparing themselves for attacking the unsuspecting Americans...What I really appreciated about this movie, was its somewhat naive innocence combined with a good story. For instance by the way how the men and women deal with each other in this film, you can see that this movie wasn't made in the nineties or later, but that it is a product of its time, the fifties. Nevertheless this is a very good movie that deserves to be seen even today. The acting is nice and the fact that they have used some authentic battle footage adds to the realism of this movie. I give it at least a 7/10, maybe even a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I found Burt Lancaster to be very sexy in this movie. He was trim and fit for the role, and had a great supporting cast. It's something how the beach scene was controversial in those days compared to now. Very great acting unlike today where they're putting anyone in front of the camera! "},{"Title":"A Film about heroes","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is the story of 5 people two ladies and three guys all different ,all with problems.Robert Lee Prewitt is the boxer who refuses to fight after hurting a guy. Burt Lancaster is the army sgt who falls for the captains wife played by Deborah Kerr culminating in a classic love scene. Donna Reed is the love interest as a hostess who Prewitt adores,Sinatra is his buddy who ends up in serious trouble  All the acting is marvellous, its a great movie ,watch and enjoy hollywood at its very best How it all works out is really interesting, a quick mention for Ernie  Borgine who is a bad guy.  "}{"Title":"Great traditional melodrama fun","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Solid story, script, photography, and acting in a melodramatic tale set around the time of Pearl Harbor in 1941.  The guys are in the army, with Lancaster at his best as a no-nonsense sergeant in love with his Captain's wife (Kerr, who also shines).  Clift is also lovestruck, but with a nice prostitute with an assumed name who refuses to marry a soldier.  Clift's suffering and Kerr and Lancaster's sad doomed love affair (condemned to die by the production code, if nothing else) make for a compelling film -- Sinatra's bit which won him an Oscar is overrated, as he overacts ferociously. "},{"Title":"A different kind of war movie","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  For the first couple acts of From Here to Eternity, you may wonder, justifiably, what the film is getting at. We all know the planes are on the way, but the film takes its time detailing the alternate drudgery and revelry of Army life in peacetime Hawaii. Company politics, love affairs, drunkenness, grudges--it's not that it's boring, because it's actually pretty effective drama. But it does seem petty given the impending disaster. I kept returning to the same thought--This is very good, but not all-time great.Ultimately, though, the point becomes clear. This is not a story about war at all, but about people. It does not treat Pearl Harbor as a monolithic tragedy, but rather a myriad of little individual tragedies, forgotten by history but no less significant.The time spent on character development pays off. The film's final act is deeply moving, and communicates a profound and lasting statement about war. I was wrong--it IS an all-time great film, and one of the best examples of how a film can be more than the sum of its parts.It's well-documented, also, that this is one of the great casts of all time.Oscar nominees Montgomery Clift and Burt Lancaster are superb in their leading roles as apparent opposites--the rebel and the good soldier--who turn out to be kindred spirits. The young and gangly Frank Sinatra is funny and bursting with energetic charisma in his Oscar-winning character role, and Donna Reed (another Oscar-winner) shows us some stunning moments of desperation and passion. Did I mention Deborah Kerr and Ernest Borgnine?Highly recommended--9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Has Some Compelling Sequences, Though Somewhat Uneven Overall","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Though a little uneven overall, From Here To Eternity has some compelling moments and sequences, and it also has an assortment of interesting, if not entirely sympathetic, characters. It succeeds fairly well in at least two basic ways. First, it gives an interesting and credible portrayal of the nature of the servicemen in Hawaii, showing both their good and bad sides. Then, it also is effective in contrasting everyone's peacetime concerns with the sudden new concerns brought on by the outbreak of the war.Most of the characters and their situations are quite interesting, and much of it is presented in a surprisingly unflattering and uncompromising light. The way that it portrays military life is probably the most interesting aspect of the movie. Nothing is glorified, yet it doesn't take a lot of cheap shots at easy targets, either.The cast does a lot to keep the material on track. Burt Lancaster probably has the most interesting character, and he does a good job in the role. Frank Sinatra does well in making his rather pitiable character into an interesting presence. Montgomery Clift's role gives him plenty of opportunities for brooding and looking melancholy, so he is right at home. Some of the minor characters are also portrayed well. Donna Reed and Deborah Kerr do well enough in roles that don't really give them a lot to work with - they mostly have to react to the male characters.A lot of the material is pretty weighty, and as a result there are a few times when it might would have been better to lighten things just a little. But overall there are enough good, tense scenes, and more than enough depth to the characters, to make it worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Color?","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here to Eternity is one of the finest movies every made. It featured a great cast and wonderful script. I always wondered though, if the movie would have been even better in color, considering the scene was set in Hawaii. I understand they were trying to capture the feeling of the World War II era by filming in black and white, but color preceded WWII, and many blockbuster movies of WWII were filmed in color. In the early 80's they did a remake in the form of a mini-series. The acting wasn't bad, and the story actually included parts of the book that were not included in the 1953 movie. The mini-series also capitalized on the colorful backdrop of Hawaii. Was it as good as the 1953 move...no! But it wasn't bad. Just a thought "},{"Title":"From 'Here' (1941 Pearl Harbor) to 'Eternity' (war and death).","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This was the darling of 1953, winning a whole slew of Oscars and several more nominations. One of the Oscars went to Sinatra for Best Supporting Actor. Most of us remember Sinatra for his singing but he was a fine actor with 64 roles credited to him.This story takes place in Hawaii in 1941 on an Army base, just a few months before the eventual December 7th surprise attack of Pearl Harbor, the event that got the USA into WW2 against the Japanese. There is a boxing theme running through it, with the military championships scheduled for December 15th, and we know that will be upstaged.Burt Lancaster in his early 40s is the lead as Sgt. Milton Warden. He is confident and runs a tight ship, but he also has his eye on the pretty girls, one in particular, the wife of his commanding officer. It seems pretty well known that the officer routinely cheats on his wife so that makes the pursuit somewhat logical. Deborah Kerr in her early 30s plays that woman, Karen Holmes. The second main story involves Montgomery Clift as Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt, a former boxer who quit after a man he knocked over was badly injured and lost his sight. So he was transferred to Hawaii and ceaselessly harassed by men in his platoon trying to get him to change his mind and fight on the team.In his Oscar role Frank Sinatra was Angelo Maggio, a little guy with a big heart but who drank too much. In a bar another man, Ernest Borgnine as Sgt. 'Fatso' Judson, insulted Angelo's mother so Angelo hit Fatso over the head with a chair. The fight was broken up but later when Angelo was thrown in the brig for deserting his guard post, under the 'care' of Fatso, it eventually led to Angelo's death.The last scenes in the movie depict the attack of December 7th and it appears that some real news footage of the attack was used.Several good stories are woven in and while I haven't seen the movies this was competing against I can understand why it was then and still is considered such a timeless movie. "},{"Title":"A humanising recollection of the past and excellent performances underpin an unmissable masterpiece.","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 'From Here to Eternity' is a film set at Pearl Harbor in the weeks or months preceding the Japanese attack of 1941. The title is awarded a great performance by Montgomery Clift as the 'Cool Hand Luke'-esque Robert E. Lee Prewitt, and Clift manages to project a level of complexity that I haven't seen since I watched Laurence Olivier in 'Rebecca'. The character of Prewitt, after transferring to the Schofield base, is urged by his superior, well-played by Philip Ober, to replicate his allegedly remarkable boxing talents and champion his new company. Prewitt is reluctant, and consequently a large portion of 'From Here to Eternity' charts the character's awkward integration into the new company. In the film, Clift is joined by Burt Lancaster; his performance is equally solid, but not quite mesmerising. I feel that this reflects the design of the characters, though, as opposed to Lancaster's acting. Another enjoyable performance to look out for is Ernest Borgnine's, who lends his easily menacing talents to this title, and his role as Sgt '(don't ever call me) Fatso' Judson is very enjoyable. Most of all, I didn't expect to find a Frank Sinatra performance so impressive. The only other films I've seen (so far) starring the swing legend are 'Ocean's Eleven' and 'The Devil at Four O'Clock', and I think he was outperformed in both of those films, by Dean Martin and Spencer Tracy respectively. However, one could consider him in the same league as the likes of Bogart and the aforesaid Tracy in this title as the live-hard-die-young Angelo Maggio. Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed similarly enhance 'From Here to Eternity' with their performances, but they rarely get a chance to shine given the life in the barracks focus of this title. (However, there is one brilliant, even iconic, scene featuring Kerr, alluded to by the cover poster of the film.)The cast is far from the only winning quality of the film; another of the title's incredible traits is its framing of its fictional story in the larger context of the all-too- real war. At one point, the film employs some real footage from the Second World War, and it is absorbed within 'From Here to Eternity' excellently, feeling both symbolic and convincing. One of the messages I take from this film is that history is often, to its detriment, acknowledged only in response to great events, and this is amplified in times of war. 'From Here to Eternity' doesn't chart the Schofield troops' unfathomable plight against the invading forces, and the Pearl Harbor that people know and remember (i.e. the bombings), whilst integral to the story, doesn't dominate the film. It brings the characters to life, and shows that the people in history aren't represented by lists of achievements, statistics and the like; they were often very ordinary, doing very human things. I rarely give ten stars to a film, but I felt compelled to do so in this case. I was absolutely amazed by 'From Here to Eternity', and I currently rank it as one of my top five films. "},{"Title":"Great movie from the great days of movies ...","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I watched this movie again today (maybe 5th time over the years) and it still stands up as an excellent character-driven movie. All of the actors, including those with small parts, perform so well, but the leads are just superb. Sinatra made a number of great movies, but I think Maggio was one of his best characters. It's how you think Sinatra might have been had he actually been in the Army back then for real. The final scene on the boat with Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed is very poignant. Both have major regrets, but for such different reasons. Even in her grief, Lorene talks up Prewitt's military role and the cause of his death, demonstrating her real feelings for the man. Very moving. "},{"Title":"A true classic that's much more than just a love story!","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I never saw this movie until just a few years ago, and, again, over the 2015 Memorial Day Weekend, because I thought it was just another love story...but, it's much deeper and much more complicated than that.It 'is' a love story of new, dangerous, and, impractical love, but, it's also about personal problems; playing favorites and manipulation in the military; people finding themselves in places and situations they hadn't intended on and don't like; and, all at a time when the world was about to change forever.The star-studded cast is superb, although, ironically, 'many of them' were not first choice by the studio head. The characters are solid and each has just the right type of personality to make the story believable when they interact and create intriguing situations.I feel kind of silly for having missed out on this terrific movie for all these years (as I also did with The Bridges of Madison County - another I thought was 'just another love story.'). From now on, I'll watch a movie when advised to.This is a great classic movie that 'everyone' should see at least once. "},{"Title":"Reel Look 'From Here to Eternity'","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A man should be what he can do. 'From Here to Eternity' (1953) embodies a whole new glimpse on U.S. history film all on its own. Shot in glorious black and white with a sharp, savvy screenplay and directed by the great Fred Zinnemann, (who had directed High Noon a year prior,) does this picture accurately capture the life of the soldiers that are stationed on the Schofield Barracks on the Hawaiian island of Oahu in late 1941? Let's take a look. Entering into the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, thus beginning World War II and while waiting around on the island, it is revealed to the viewer the soldier's emotions of boredom and utter loneliness. The film stars many popular actors of the day. Montgomery Clift plays Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt, transferred to the barracks of Oahu. There, Captain Dana Holmes, played by Philip Ober, learns of his talent as a talented boxer and pressures him into joining a regimental boxing club in which Prewitt stubbornly rejects. 1st Sergeant Milton Warden, played by Burt Lancaster, agrees to change Prewitt's mind by making his life as difficult as possible. Prewitt is also supported by his friend Private Angelo Maggio throughout, played by Frank Sinatra.In discussing the history portrayed, it tells the viewer that it was designed to show a world that, even though tropical and lush, would soon unfold near the end into traumatic chaos and destruction. It was shown at a time just before the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor where young soldiers were sent off to be stationed far away, and not one of them really knew what was going to happen or what the next day would bring forth. World War II was indeed on the deadly brink of a surprise attack, and every American soldier knew that they had to be on their guard nonetheless.In prevailing attitudes/prejudices that were noticeable, one example would be the constant squabbling and rough-necking between Maggie and the bigoted Staff Sergeant James R. Fatso Judson, played by Ernest Borgine. One night, Prewitt and Maggio are in a bar and Maggio is so inebriated that, according to him, Fatso is playing the piano too loudly in the background. This ensues into Maggio and Fatso almost having at it in the middle of the bar, only to be broken up by Prewitt. But their bantering does not end there. Later on in the film, their disdain for each other unfolds into a knife fight in a back alley, in which Maggio winds up in the stockade by Fatso for antagonizing him. Fatso beats the new prisoner repeatedly until Maggio escapes to find Prewitt and then tells him of all the pain he has endured and then dies in his arms. Prewitt sets out to find Fatso and kills him in revenge with a knife fight, and Prewitt receives a sharp slash across the stomach in return. He is later shot by a sentry after coming out of hiding.In describing historical accuracy, it probably comes close as to where the soldiers and recruits are just marching or hanging out and enjoying the paradise around them. Many of them back then may as well have done that. However, the locations was a beautiful oasis, and the surprise attack neat the end of the film comes very close to an accurate depiction. The side-angles of the planes zooming in or overhead dropping bombs were amazing effects, as well as guns being fired by the soldiers and the loud explosions of shells going off everywhere on the island. The air once filled with a tropical breeze was now choked in the thick black smog of war. The time period itself was quite accurate too, even though it was twelve years after the actual event had occurred. And the barracks looked just like they would have that the soldiers were stationed in. Nonetheless, great accuracy and detail throughout the picture.My overall reaction towards this film is that it is one of Zinneman's best. His directorial persistence and settings in this film are as only he can do them. The film was indeed worth watching. Some parts were slow and mushy, including the famous love scene on the beach portrayed by Lancaster and Deborah Kerr laying on the sand as a wave crashes over them, to brutish as Maggio and Fatso duel it out with a knife fight at night in a black alley. The most action is near the end of the film with the famous surprise attack on Pearl Harbor itself, when air raid sirens are blaring and gun shots and explosions light up the tropical sky. It is, after all, a classic World War II movie masterpiece, with intriguing action, fight scenes, romance and explosions. How I reacted to the film as a moviegoer was for me, quite a unique experience. I really had no idea what I was in for. I actually felt the hardships and loneliness of the soldiers being stuck on the island, not knowing what would happen or when they would return home. I also felt the horrors of the surprise attack when the bombs where booming and the blood was flowing. All in all, a great movie experience.'From Here to Eternity' was one of the greatest films on U.S. history that I had the privilege of viewing. I thoroughly enjoyed the plot, the actors and actresses and the beautiful settings portrayed, filled with action, flair and horrific atrocities and aftermath of war. The film had thirteen nominations and won eight Academy Awards. Every detail and precision in this film paid off magnificently. A film unique among films, this truly is a must-see for all U.S. history film buffs or for anyone who wants to experience the same pleasure and gratification I had personally gained from watching this wonderful classic motion picture about friendships, romance and war, thanks to Mr. Zinneman and Mr. James Jones novel-turned-feature as well. "},{"Title":"melodramatic epic","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's 1941 Hawaii. Robert E. Lee Prewitt (Montgomery Clift) transfers to Schofield Barracks from a bugler company dropping down to Private. Private Angelo Maggio (Frank Sinatra) is his only friend. Captain Holmes (Philip Ober) wants Prewitt to box for him but he refuses after injuring his best friend. Sergeant Milton Warden (Burt Lancaster) is the real backbone of the company who tells Prewitt to smarten up. The whole company under Holmes is pressuring Prewitt to fight. Warden starts an affair with Captain Holmes' wife Karen (Deborah Kerr). Prewitt meets hostess Lorene (Donna Reed) at the New Congress Club.It's a big romance melodrama epic. My biggest problem is that there are too many leads. Montgomery Clift is the supposed lead but he gets overtaken by Burt Lancaster. There is a little too much going on in this movie and feels overcrowded. Lancaster is terrific. Clift is a bit too pensive. He could do better with a more damaged suffering personality. I just think the various story lines keep stepping on each other. "}{"Title":"So long as there are men ...","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" That's the translation of the French title, and I like it. So long as there are men &#x85; there will be wars, and lives and loves torn apart &#x85; so long as these things are, there will be the stuff that makes such movies as From Here to Eternity. And getting back to the original title, in anything is to be deemed eternal in From Here to Eternity it is without the doubt Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr's intense and passionate kiss on a Hawaiian beach.Sure, there have been kisses in movies before, remember Rhett and Scarlett's shadowy getting closer while war painted the background in bright tones of orange and yellow, a passion burning like the city of Atlanta&#x85; yet From Here to Eternity surpasses that kiss thanks to two last-minute strikes of genius, earning the film its ticket to immortality  they kiss each other horizontally, lying on the wet sand, and like fire in Gone with the Wind, natural elements interfere with the wave hitting the couple, the little touch to be parodied zillion times. It's not romantic love but nature in motion, sheer passion he loves women &#x85; and she loves men &#x85; and that's that.I knew it would be impossible not to mention this scene, but there is more in what makes the film such an endearing classic &#x85; even more to be compared with Gone With the Wind as it was the first film to equal its record of 8 Academy Awards, including Best Picture. But this isn't any Best Picture winner, the film has a strange capability to please your eyes without trying hard, to challenge your thoughts without being intellectual, to touch your heart without being sentimental and to be erotic by only suggesting&#x85; it's a fascinating and insightful gallery of character studies disguised as entertainment or what simplistic minds would call War movie or Romance.But there isn't much war in From Here to Eternity and not much romance&#x85; the idyll on the beach was so iconic everyone forgot that it was followed by an argument less than a minute after. After the wave-kiss, they'd never have an opportunity to be so physically and passionately in love, for there is an obstacle called duty. And there isn't much war either, only when the film culminates with the Pearl Harbor attacks that the second romance between Montgomery Clift and Donna Reed (playing a prostitute) gets overly melodramatic. By the time the film becomes more Hollywood-like, it's over, women left and wept, men died and others got ready to it.And that sad irony is what the film carries deeply in its core, thanks to a magnificent script adapted by Daniel Taradash from James Jones' novel, it is poetically summed up in Lancaster's farewell line to a dead Clift You couldn't play it smart. As Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt, Clift played a stubborn soldier who refused to box for his platoon because of a tragic accident, for much of Captain Holmes' displeasure who pulled the strings to get his middleweight champion. Retrospectively, boxing would have spared him months of humiliations, harassment, and so non-military treatment &#x85; without the championship even happening at the end. Well, no one saw the Japs coming.Basically, Prew was torn between his status as a soldier and his moral independence and ironically (again), that's what earned him the respect of Sgt. Warden (Lancaster) who could recognize a great soldier if he saw one. Prew represents this kind of lone wolves cherished by the director Fred Zinneman, the likes of Will Kane or Sir Thomas More. And Clift gives an intense performance as hard-nosed Prew, his piercing look threatened more than his body and defied anyone to shaken his integrity. Speaking of which I'm glad Zinneman gave the example by not surrendering to Harry Cohn's initial choices including Rita Hayworth, William Holden and Eli Wallach.But Lancaster was the only choice they first agreed on and he couldn't have been more perfectly casted. Indeed, Warden is not your typical Sergeant, if anything, nothing is typical in the film, he's quite easygoing, getting away from every situation with his killer smile and a charisma working with both men and ladies and he's enjoying his office work without minding playing the assistant for a less competent hierarchical superior. But he falls in love with his boss' wife and only becoming an officer can solve his dilemma. But like Prew, he feels his duty is to serve the Army and not even love can change that. Even Warden is incapable to 'play it smart', because it's not about being smart, but simply about being true to your personality.Only women are capable of changing. Kerr as Karen was a honorable woman turning into the Army slut, while Alma was a prostitute trying to become honorable, the film is a successful of fascinating contradictions, even more delightful because many actors played against types, Kerr, more used to sophisticated and distinguished ladies play a repressed nymphomaniac while Donna Reed was the eternal Mary from It's a Wonderful Life (she won the Oscar for that role) And how about Frank Sinatra who accepted to be underpaid to get the part (no horse-head behind a deserved Oscar) and good old Marty (Ernest Borgnine) the villainous Fatso Hudson (Ernest Borgnine).But aren't we all against-type players? Isn't the conflict between duty and personality, the real war in the film? But you can't force people to be what they aren't and love be damned if it ever meant compromising, and this is why by the end, those who played it square didn't necessarily win the game. Neither the others, but only because the film had to sugarcoat some elements from the original novel to please the censors and the Army. Still, with such great performances (nominated in four acting categories), an intelligent script and an unforgettable kiss&#x85; well, the title says it all. "},{"Title":"Boxing clever","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here to Eternity is an adaptation of a long novel, 800 pages plus so the film version has been cut down and it certainly zips along for the most part.This multi Oscar winning film is essentially about two doomed loved affairs in an army base in Hawaii just before the outbreak of Pearl Harbour. One is between Sergeant Warden (Burt Lancaster) and his Captain's wife, (Deborah Kerr); and the other between Private Prewitt (Montgomery Clift) and Lorene (Donna Reed) a prostitute in a private club.The affair between Kerr and Lancaster happens very quick in the film and they are soon rolling on that famous scene in the beach very much on their first proper date and soon after having their first big bust up.The film does have other cross cutting story lines such as Captain Holmes trying to force Prewitt to join the army boxing team, his friend Maggio's (Frank Sinatra) rivalry with Fatso and then the outbreak of the Japanese attack and the soldiers engaging in action.The film has fine black and white photography and strong performances from the leads especially Lancaster, Clift, Kerr and Philip Ober as Captain Holmes. Strangely I was not too enamoured with Sinatra and he won the best supporting actor Oscar for the role.The film actually does look rushed and also for a film set in Hawaii we see very few native Hawaiian characters in the movie, it might as well be any army base in the USA.However its an engaging melodrama even though you will kind of sense that this may not be a happy ever after tale. "},{"Title":"Gelded By The Production Code","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the best book ever written about life as an enlisted man in the Regular Army, but you'd never know it from the sanitized version put on screen. James Jones's novel was both romantically cynical about the Army and deeply misogynistic. In the early 1950s it couldn't be filmed as written, for both moral and political reasons. In the book, of course, Mrs. Kipfer runs a whorehouse, not a social club, and Lorene is a whore with an eye for the main chance, not a hostess. In the book, Holmes gets away with his abuse of Prewitt, winning promotion by sucking up to his superior's superior. In the book, Maggio succeeds in getting a Section 8 psychiatric discharge. In the book, the underpaid privates are willing to flirt with wealthy homosexuals, and there is a mass queer investigation. In the book, Prewitt is impressed by Jack Molloy, the working class radical he meets in the stockade. In the book, Warden rejects both a proffered commission and Karen Holmes because he would rather stay an enlisted man and amuse himself with whores than be trapped in respectable middle class domesticity. In the book, Prewitt's desire for Lorene and Warden's for Karen make them weak, stupid and vulnerable -- Warden saves himself but Prewitt does not. In the book, Lorene goes back to the mainland with the money she's saved, to get a respectable job and pass herself off as the fiancée of Lieutenant Prewitt, of the Virginia Prewitts, killed at Pearl Harbor. None of these things make it into the movie. The book ends with Warden enthusiastically getting to know a new shipment of girls at Mrs. Kipfer's. The movie ends with a tacked on coda in which Holmes is duly punished for Prewitt's suffering. The 1979 miniseries came a bit closer to what Jones was trying to accomplish. Maybe one day HBO will give us a six or eight hour From Here To Eternity as it was meant to be. "},{"Title":"Pearl Harbor 1941.","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Fred Zinnemann directed this Academy Award winning(Best picture and director) film set during the days preceding the Pearl Harbor attack, where Robert E. Lee Prewitt(played by Montgomery Clift) is transferred to his new station in Hawaii, where the Captain wants to use him to join his boxing team, as Robert is a renowned boxer. However, he has vowed to never box again, causing the captain to punish him by encouraging others to harass and bully him, including Sgt. 'Fatso' Judson(played by Ernest Borgnine) who also tangles with Robert's only real friend Angelo Maggio(played by Frank Sinatra, who also won an Academy Award). Burt Lancaster plays Sgt. Warden, who begins an affair with the captain's wife Karen(played by Deborah Kerr). Donna Reed also costars as a troubled love interest to Robert.Interesting, well acted and directed film has an overall story that relies too much on soap opera elements, which will seem pretty trivial by the time the Japanese attack Pearl Harbor(an exciting sequence). Still, a worthwhile film that was immensely popular at the time. "},{"Title":"That's Montgomery Clift, Honey!","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I finally got around to watching this movie after hearing about it for most of my life as a great WWII picture from critics and also from Joe Strummer in the song The Right Profile by The Clash referenced in my summary line. Hell, The Clash (or most-likely, some suit at Sony Music) even named their post-breakup album From Here to Eternity Live.I'm not going to describe the plot line, which has been discussed numerous times here already. I'll just say I enjoyed it, and everyone should give it a look at some point.Rather, I'm going to throw out a few observations from some guy sitting on a couch nearly 60 years after this thing was filmed.--people were a lot thinner back in the early fifties, and not just the main stars. Look at all the extras in the bar scenes, and you'll agree. I'm sure it had a lot to do with enormous amount of cig. smoking back then, but it sure is noticeable. Ernest Borgnine (perhaps the only main actor from this cast still alive) is known as Fatso, and he would have to put on about 100 lbs. to be on The Biggest Loser these days.--Frank Sinatra looks like he weighs less than 150 lbs.! --I had a hard time recognizing Jack Warden, even though he worked steadily in movies for almost 50 years after this film, but Claude Atkins looked exactly like his older self we saw on TV for years.--was Burt Lancaster the first guy to try out the wax-chested/speedo look which became popular in the SoCal muscle beach movies a decade later? --Donna Reed won an Oscar for playing a homogenized Hollywood version of a hooker. Why does the Academy always hand out Oscars to actresses who play prostitutes? Anyway, I didn't buy it. She'll always be Mary Bailey to me, the prototype for June Cleaver and every other beautiful housewife we saw on fifties & sixties TV. Donna even played one herself on her own show after this attempt to play against type.--Finally, Monty Clift was a pretty good actor, but seems to be all but forgotten today. Granted he flamed out early in life, his career wasn't that long and it ended about 50 years ago, but we seem to cherish the other screen icons from his era. I've got some theories as to why this is, but I'd sure like to hear other reasons why he's an afterthought in 2011. "},{"Title":"Amazing excellent film!!!!!!","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is an amazing, excellent screen classic. I was impressed with it the first time I saw it then I watched it several times after. The book it's based on was excellent as well. If you loved the movie, you'll like the book. The performances in here were superb from the entire cast. My favorite actors (Burt Lancaster and Montgomery Clift)and favorite singer (Frank Sinatra) really shine. Frank even won a well deserved Best Supporting Actor Oscar. Buert and Monty were both nominated for Best Actor.Donna Reed herself won a well deserved Best Supporting Actress Oscar.This is the film that has the famous scene of Burt Lancaster and Deborak Kerr kissing on the beach. That scene is one of the all time sexiest scenes ever filmed.Amazing, scorching film. "},{"Title":"The reg'lar Armee O the Reg'lar Armee O","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of the great glimpse into another world films the world being the pre WWII American Army and a particular company. Burt Lancaster plays 1st Sgt.Milt Warden a professional professional soldier who in another time would've been senior centurion in the legions of Rome. His domain is his company which he runs for an empty shirt captain more interested in winning Boxing tournaments than leadership. Some of the NCOs in the company have earned their positions by being on the boxing team rather than individual merit but Lancaster's Warden keeps them in line;he can kick all their asses. Into this self contained world comes PVt Robert E.Lee Prewitt another regular with a very strong individualist streak. Played by Montgomery Clift in subtle macho mode the two lifers and the others that populate this film live in a special sealed off environment the dangerous romances with officer's wife Deborah Kerr and the hooker Donna Reed?, the Treatment Prewitt endures for not joining the boxing team, the drills, the monotony, and the friendships Prewitt and his good buddy Maggio Frank Sinatra in particular,and the forces of evil the bullying NCOs and Ernest Borgnine's brutal bear of a stockade overlord, are portraits of a lost world that would be ripped open by Japan's attack on December 7 1941. While John Wayne's Sgt. Stryker may be the NCO of Moviedom but Lancaster's Warden is three times as intelligent and just as macho with a ladykiller smile. This and Tunes of Glory and The Hill are good looks at a military world not on the firing line. "},{"Title":"Sgt. Warden's NCO problem","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's too bad the movie did not show more about First Sergeant Warden's problems with the sergeants he had under his command. In the book, he was complaining about the mess sergeant not doing his job properly but could not get rid of him because Captain Holmes brought mess sergeant from the last Army base the two guys were at. In addition, First Sergeant Warden had problems with the other sergeants because they achieve their sergeant stripes because they were on Captain Holmes' boxing team - not because they were good soldiers who had leadership and excellent soldiering skills such as shooting, reading the map, etc. It just proves that not all sergeants are good at their profession and teaching their men the skills needed to survive on the battlefield. They are no better than the officers. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here To Eternity may not be one of my all time favorite movies, but it is surly a great one. A masterpiece of sorts. The plot is classic and brilliant, and it is helmed with an even better screenplay. The screenplay is pretty much flawless with a lot of character development, good dialogue and no scenes that are just there for no particular reason. The performances are also very good. Frank Sinatra in particular is brilliant while everyone else is still very good. The direction is also very good. The director knows where he wants to go and how to get there, thats really all you need to be a good director, plus he ads more to it making it better. The effects are fantastic for the time and almost stand up now. A Fantastic movie that you should probably see. "},{"Title":"Good act , best script, genius music","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Deborah Kerr was an icon of the beauty girl in the scene in the beginning of her based role in her history in the film of (the prisoner of Zenda) in 1952.She played a hopelessness role in this film as a women suffered from loyalty and lonely because of the busy of her husband and she hasn,t a baby which made for her suffering from good taste in this life.Bert Lancester was an icon of heroically character in the western film and he increased in his history new kind of role as a captain who want Deborah Kerr for him that she was a wife of his leader which was a selfish from him to took the things of other without any good behavior.Montogomry Clift played the role of a solider who was suffered from cracking a person he played with him boxing and he made for him a blindness which made for him as a symbol of hardness to continue this sport.Donna Reed won Oscar prize as s best supporting actress in 1954 with Frank Sinatra who won a prize of best supporting actor which made him a best actor with singer.Finally this film was a best movie in the cinema history because of best music especially in the love scene between Kerr and Lancester in the ocean with good nature and incredible hills. "}{"Title":"Everlasting Classic","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Set in 1941, Robert E. Lee Prewitt (Montgomery Clift) has requested Army transfer and has ended up at Schofield in Hawaii. His new captain, Dana Holmes, has heard of his boxing past and is eager to get him to represent the company. However, 'Prew' refuses to box anymore after a tragic incident, so Holmes gets his men to make his life a complete living hell. Also, the Japanese invasion of Pearl Harbor looms in the distance.From Here to Eternity (1953) is a harsh look at military life prior to Pearl Harbor, but don't expect a lot of fighting. It is indeed an everlasting classic - with that famous love scene on the beach. It is a highly emotion filled drama which draws you in from beginning to finish. It was directed by Fred Zinnemann, shot in Black and White, in Hawaii. It won 8 Academy Awards including Best Picture(1953) Best B&W cinematography, and both Frank Sinatra and Donna Reed won Best Supporting that year. A fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Timeless Cinematography","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" TCM ran From Here to Eternity as part of its Oscars 30 days; having seen the film many times, but not recently, I was again reminded of the beautiful way this movie was filmed. It deservedly won an Oscar in this category. The cinematography ranks right up there with Best Years of Our Lives another multiple Oscar winner. Montgomery Clift was truly a wonderful actor who did not get the recognition he deserved. I also like Burt Lancaster as Sgt. Warden. He played the 1st Sgt. role perfectly, although not as nuanced at Clift played Prewet. Buts that as it should be as Sgt. Warden was more the hero than anti-hero as was Sinatra playing Maggio. Donna Reed was wonderful in Eternity but I found it hard to believe she was a prostitute and would work in such a joint. When she talks about marrying a country club type, I didn't find that far fetched at all. I'm sure I will enjoy this movie just as much the next time I watch it. "},{"Title":"George Reeves was NOT cut out of this movie due to being Superman.","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Actually, it's an urban legend of sorts that Reeves's role in FROM HERE TO ETERNITY was cut down due to his sudden popularity as Superman. The source of this tale is Jack Larson, who starred with Reeves as Jimmy Olsen on the Superman show. He saw the film (FHTE) the day it opened and remembers audience members calling out There's Superman. The next time he saw the film, he says Reeves's role had been severely cut.The problem with this is manifold. First, Larson's next viewing of the film, as he told me personally, was some twenty-five years later. I'm convinced that his memory of what he'd seen in that initial viewing had expanded over the years, particularly in light of the later impact of Superman typecasting on Reeves's career and life. Secondly, Daniel Taradash's first-draft screenplay, and every draft thereafter, contains exactly the same scenes for Reeves's character that are in the film as released and as now seen, and not one scene more nor less. Taradash told me personally that he did not write a single scene for Reeves's character that was not in the final release print or in subsequent video releases. Thirdly, director Fred Zinneman told me personally that not only was not one of Reeves's scenes cut from the film, but that not one frame of the film was cut after the first audience screenings. He was at the same viewing that Jack Larson attended and, while he allowed as that there might have been some muttered reference to Superman from audience members, he does not remember any and that in any case, there was no impact whatsoever on the film as released, nor even any discussion of the matter. He said the video release of the film is identical to the original theatrical release and that not one frame of Reeves's scenes was cut for any such reason. Fourthly, the editor of the film and its assistant director also confirmed to me and concurred with the statements of Taradash and Zinneman. Fifthly, several of the cast members, including Frank Sinatra and Claude Akins, assured me they knew of no such reduction in Reeves's screen time for any reason.Part of the problem may stem from the fact that Sgt. Maylon Stark, Reeves's character, is a vastly more important character in the novel of FROM HERE TO ETERNITY. Scores of characters from that huge book were either trimmed or eliminated. Sgt. Stark remained, but in a smallish way, in the film. But it was a small part in the first place, long before George Reeves was cast. It was never reduced further, due to his Superman fame or for any other reason. "},{"Title":"Those classics...","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Movies are one of the things I love the most in my life, and I really want to know about the things I love. So I believe that in order to appreciate films, you should watch everything; to become a cultured person in the matter. Not just watch the contemporary films, or in Descartes mode, watch only the films made after I was born.Everything includes classics like From here to eternity. Made in black and white with pure passion. While I watched I tried to think about the way movies were made at those times. The power the big female stars like Deborah Kerr had, the money actors like Burt Lancaster made per movie, the low budget of the projects, the little shooting time.What were the results? In the case of From here to eternity; an Oscar winning film where everything fits perfectly. Because it was not easy to make it work, or at I least that's what I think. I think that at the time there was an honest cinema, with lots of true spoken words. Nowadays we have P.T. Anderson and his encounters between people, but in the 50's it took a man named Daniel Taradash to make moving a two people chat.When Private Prewitt (Montgomery Clift) arrives in Schofield, he has a little catch-up talk with a soldier. In three minutes, with non-exaggerated words, we understand the essence of Clift's character. The army is his life; and he's destined to end his days there. He'll have his problems, he'll have to fight, he'll have to gain his place, but that's how things go with the hero. Then he'll meet his woman Alma (Donna Reed) and fight for love, too.But it's not just about him and his love story. There's another man, Prewitt's superior; Sergeant Milton Warden (Burt Lancaster), who has another superior, Captain Dana Holmes. However, Holmes goes out with friends and the honorable Warden does all the work. From time to time, Holmes' wife Karen (Deborah Kerr) visits the base, and the Sergeant approaches. Later both of them experience two of the most romantic scenes I've ever witnessed.And here comes an issue probably discussed many times. In a movie where the character that highlights the most is Prewitt, Montgomery Clift is second-billed, and Lancaster is first. Yet Lancaster goes into the water and the sand with Deborah Kerr, third-billed. Who is the leading man? Lancaster or Clift? And if they're both leading men, why is Clift's woman supporting actress and not Lancaster's? Well, supposing the latter four are the leading team, each of their performances is incredible and impossible to detail about. On the other hand, supporting performances or a supporting performance is from another world. Frank Sinatra's Angelo Maggio is priceless. We don't get many given friends in today's cinema. In a story like this one, Prewitt needed someone beside him, and that little guy was there from the start until the end. They'll meet again.The work of Fred Zinnemann (cine is cinema in Spanish, and zine..Zine man The man of the cinema) is wondrous too. Now the final product of a film depends of lots of people, and influences come from different parts of a production; but I think back then the director was like a king. It was his word in his world or something like that. Zinnemann's camera always makes close ups in the characters' faces.Maybe he believed it was very important to show feelings and maybe the face is the part of the body that expresses them best. I would do the same. "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Although this film is best remembered for the romance between the Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr (both of whom are very good in their roles) characters, especially their sensual encounter at the beach, my enjoyment of the film was mostly derived from the stories of Prewitt and Maggio, played magnificently by Montgomery Clift and Oscar winning Frank Sinatra respectively. Prewitt's endurance, physical and psychological, to the abuse he receives for refusing to fight is very inspirational as is Maggio's defiance of the sadistic Ernest Borgnine character. I am not ashamed to say when Prewitt played his trumpet in tribute to his fallen friend, my eyes welled up in tears.    "},{"Title":"High Quality Drama Despite a Few Flaws!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  While From Here to Eternity is not a perfect film, it still rings true as an accurate portrayal of pre WW2 military life. Burt Lancaster is Stellar as the tough as nails first sergeant who under it all loves life and his troops but maligns his commanding officer. Montgomery Clift doesn't quite fit the physical image of a boxer who once nearly killed his opponent, yet he brings realism to his character's stubborn willed refusal to fight again and profound genuineness to his romance with the sultry Donna Reed. Take all these elements and add Sinatra as a boisterous alcoholic with Ernest Borgnine as his tormentor and we have the perfect formula for a complex mix of emotional involvement and decent (if not dated) action scenes. There is a bonus here. At times in this film, I didn't know which character's side I should take. In short who was really right or who was wrong? I think if a film can stimulate a person's emotions in this way, then it has achieved success as an art form. "},{"Title":"Incredibly impressed ....","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the very first time, I was incredibly impressed. From Here To Eternity will certainly accompany me throughout my life. Up to now I saw this film more the 100 (!!!) times and I know it will be never enough. What a chance to possess it on DVD where five languages can be chosen.From Here To Eternity is my film with the best casting ever done. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A great film set in Hawaii just before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour.  Burt Lancaster is great in the role of 1st Sargent Warden, Montgomery Clift is good as Prewitt, while both were ably supported by Ernest Borgnine & Donna Reed.The only let down of this film is the Oscar winning performance of Frank Sinatra.  The best supporting actor category must have been pretty weak in 1953 if Sinatra's hammy attempt at dramatic acting got the gong.Otherwise a true classic from the 1950's & worth checking out "},{"Title":"Finally, a classic that lives up to expectations!!!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I can't believe how excellent this was, I almost never enjoy older films, but this was fantastic.  You really can get into the story, and feel what the characters are feeling.  I think it helped to see many of the older actors we know today when they were younger, look for Jack Warden(While You Were Sleeping), Ernest Borgnine(Escape From New York, Gattaca) in small, but important roles.  A terriffic film, 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"colleagues and fellow mortals pray attend","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Were you not thrilled in August of 1953 upon the release of From Here To Etenity. Did not the scene of embrace in the rocky surf cause the auricles and ventricles of your heart to quicken? The magnificience of Montgomery Clift, Ernest Borgnine , Frank Sinatra et.al and so many others  deserve commendation. But did this scene not quicken  our pulse and leave us a tad transcended ? Are we paltry in heart and intellect or can we not like Shakespeare aspire to state our aspirations and recognition of our fiendesh and meagre limits. Colleagues , we can maybe, do as well and better.  "}{"Title":"Pearl Harbor wanted to be this...","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" ...a tale of tempestuous love affairs, set against the backdrop of an Army base in Hawaii. It really is more of a melodrama than a war movie.Far from being a sappy-sweet weeper, this movie derives great power from the perverse bitterness of its characters' lives and loves. ((SPOILER ALERT!!))You'll watch, morbidly fascinated, as the extremely efficient, respectable, physically-and-mentally-fit Sgt. Warden seduces his bumbling CO's slutty wife...and as the multi-talented, handsome loner Pvt. Prewitt apparently doesn't know any better than to fall in love with a whorehouse hostess. Meantime there is plenty of Cool-Hand-Luke style psychotorture, Frank Sinatra as a likeable sidekick, an actually pretty good song, copious sloppy drunkenness and, last but not least, the ominous knowledge (on our part) that these guys have no idea what's about to hit them on Dec. 7.My only complaint was that, at times, the dialogue was a bit stagey  (the CO's wife when the Sgt. visits her at home, for example)...but by the end you'll have forgotten all that.  This movie, and its beautifully wretched characters, will certainly stick in your mind. "},{"Title":"happenings at Pearl Harbor before, and during, attack","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  All the superlatives bestowed upon this film are well-deserved. Of course, the prime performers' work was just magnificent. Unfortunately, mention this film and most people first will think of Sinatra and the Best Supporting Actor Oscar he received. Deserved, certainly. But Frank was just a sixth man. Like someone playing alongside Michael Jordan. Lancaster, Clift and Kerr are the real stars. And Donna Reed, like Sinatra, earned a Best Supporting Oscar. Also deserved. The legend about this great film is the Ernest Borgnine was the prime bad guy. That's only partly true. Fine character actor John Dennis (Galovitch) never got the credit he deserved. He was at least as effective as Borgnine. When Clift whips him in a fist fight near the film's climax, I imagine a lot of viewers were gratified. There are no weak spots in Eternity. And screenwriter Daniel Taradash, who just recently died, did a marvelous job of culling down Jones' 1000-plus page novel to a two-hour screenplay. I'd like Dennis to get the credit he deserved before he passes away. In my opinion, he's been unfairly uncredited all these years. "},{"Title":"Always a hit with me.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I've seen this film maybe 7 or 8 times, and it never gets worn out.  What a classic!  What a real date movie!  It inspired me to get the book, James Jones that is. The basis of the power of this book and film is the author's personal military experience as an Army Enlisted Man during the period 1936-1942. Jones was in Oahu and Guatacanal, so he knew real war. It's all very gritty, especially in the book.  Be prepared for a cleaned up version in the movie.  If you read the book, I hope you're not too sensitive about race or name calling or the way men are in an outpost environment!  By the way, the film is true in most ways to the book.  Mostly it leaves you with the same impression, but just not as deep.DMJ "},{"Title":"Excellent....","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I love this movie for so many different reasons, but I think mainly because it has a sense of depth to it, and feeling, that very few war films had during that time. All the actors were brilliant, but Montgomery Clift was the absolute best. I guess Hollywood must have really been hating on him for some reason, maybe because he declared how much he hated Hollywood so many times, that they totally ripped him off of the Oscar he OBVIOUSLY deserved. No performance, although they were all brilliant, matched his. And I will go as far to say that Monty made this movie. He embodied it. Its one of his best films, and he just takes over it. Prewitt is someone you either love or hate, and it can be both at the same time. The women are also great in the film, especially Donna Reed as the young prostitute who falls in love with Prew. And Lancaster and Sinatra are also wonderful, but like I said before, Monty Clift makes this movie and takes it the whole way through. He definitely inspired Dean in his characters, and that should be recognized. "},{"Title":"A showcase of outstanding acting","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Hello friends,When I first saw this film, I did not know what to expect.  I had not read the book and knew very little about the story (except for the cliched beach love scene).  I was amazed by the acting of this cast, especially Montgomery Clift and Burt Lancaster.  This is a film to study and admire the interaction and painful movements of the actors based on the humanistic reactions to life's trials and tribulations.  It seemed to me that when the attack on Pearl Harbor ultimately comes, the characters demonstrate that they had a more difficult time dealing with real life situations and matters of the heart and the military attacks made their emotions seem mechanical and robotic demonstrating that while being a soldier can be taught, its much harder to deal with a non-regimented life.  This is a must-see film simply for the superlative acting from everyone involved...but then again, what do I know?  )  Enjoy "},{"Title":"None Better.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Very likely the best film ever made.  Even if it is in black and white.  I have seen it at least 20 times, know virtually all the dialogue, and it seems as fresh as ever every time I see it.  Clift's performance is probably the best ever by a male actor and the fact that the oscar that year went to William Holden for Stalag 17 proved conclusively to me that life is not fair. "},{"Title":"War rules over us.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A superb film, superb performances and terrific direction make this mandatory viewing.War is bigger than any single person, when it happens, our lives are put away for a while, the army has a one track mind, to fight the enemy. The male leads in the film are all affected by war. The people they love are put to one side so the man can fight the war, it's almost like there is an inner world in the army, this is the point of no return.There are very different characters in this film, each portraying different personas of the army like the stubborn, and the bully. And then there is the love, is it real or just in the way of the looming war?Yep, the war is bigger than any man or woman.A flawless film. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie still packs a punch, after all these years and the toning down of the book.The book runs over 800 pages, and is a masterpiece.  The film is a brilliant masterpiece.The actors are all brilliant.  Montgomery Clift, in a role which spawned all the James Dean roles, is absolutely riveting.  Someone said he has the face of an agonized angel, and I agree.  He should have won the oscar.  Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr are also amazing, but Frank Sinatra and Donna Reed won deserved Oscars for their performances.The direction from Fred Zinneman is flawless.  The brilliant script is great.The homosexual subtext of the movie is there, but it's also toned down for the censors at the time.  "},{"Title":"One of the classic war movies.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie is fabulous!  The acting is out of this world, especially by Burt Lancaster and Montgomery Clift.  But not to leave out the wonderful actresses like Donna Reed and Deborah Kerr.  And you cannot forget Frank Sinatra in his Oscar-winning role of Maggio.  He really IS Maggio!  He has to be if I approve of him winning the Best Supporting Actor Oscar instead of Eddie Albert for Roman Holiday!!This has become one of the most famous World War II movies, and everyone has seen the famous beach scene!!!  If you've missed From Here to Eternity, you have to see it at least once in your lifetime.  It's a masterpiece!Rating 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Where I saw it made the difference","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a great film showing the pre-war regular army, but I will never forget it because I saw it in a quonset hut just behind the dmz in Korea. "}{"Title":"Zinneman, Lancaster, Kerr, Sinatra, Reed, Clift Classic Film","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In beautiful black and white photography famed Director Fred Zinneman displays a great ability to capture military life. As an Army Veteran myself, I saw a lot of realism in this film. Burt Lancaster was a perfect Hollywood Leading Man and Great Box Office Star with hits such as Birdman of Alcatraz, Judgment at Nuremburg, Elmer Gantry and this great Columbia classic. Deborah Kerr was perfect in the female role once assigned to Joan Crawford. Joan Crawford was a much better actress than given credit for and technically one of the best actresses ever, but wasn't her persona that her characters slept around? Rita Hayworth would have also been a great selection and as Queen of Columbia surely was considered. Ms. Kerr had a ladylike image and this role was casting against type. The beach scene is erotic and yet understated. If the film were made today that scene would be so blunt Splendid work by Donna Reed, Frank Sinatra, Ernest Borgnine and Montgomery Clift. Kudos to All and to Harry Cohn of Columbia who was also referred to as uncouth but what films Columbia made under Cohn's tenure Mr. Smith Goes To Washington, Lost Horizon, Love Affair, Mr. Deeds Goes To Town, The More the Merrier, All The King's Men, Born Yesterday, Picnic, and this film among many many others, and just before Cohn died a Columbia Pictures masterpiece, The Bridge On The River Kwai, maybe we need more uncouth Executives like Harry Cohn!! "},{"Title":"A memorable Best Picture Oscar winner buoyed by several fine performances","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Fred Zinnemann's From Here to Eternity, based on the classic novel of the same name by James Jones, took home the coveted Best Picture Oscar for 1953. It also won seven other Oscars (from thirteen nominations), tying the mark set by Gone With the Wind fourteen years earlier.The story takes place at a U.S. military base in Hawaii in the months preceding the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. There are two main threads to the plot One centres on a private who's being cruelly treated in an attempt to bend him to the captain's will while the other concerns an affair between the captain's wife and a sergeant. Apart from this there are further sub-plots, which is perhaps unsurprising given the considerable length of the novel. Nevertheless, the script is tight and the screenwriter won an Oscar for his efforts.The cast is a good one, as evidenced by the five Oscar nominations in the acting categories. Donna Reed and Frank Sinatra both took home Oscars but I feel that the film's other nominees (Montgomery Clift, Burt Lancaster & Deborah Kerr) were actually more deserving. The supporting cast is pretty decent, too, including Ernest Borgnine in his breakout role.Zinnemann's direction won an Oscar and the film also landed awards for its cinematography & editing. The visuals are consistently attractive and Lancaster & Kerr's scene on the beach is genuinely iconic. The sound also won an Oscar while the score was rewarded with a nomination.All in all, I think that From Here to Eternity was a worthy Best Picture winner. There are some that say that it hasn't aged particularly well but I can't see why they'd say that. As far as I'm concerned, good acting (like that on display here) never goes out of style. "},{"Title":"Superb Military Drama About An Individual Struggle Against Conformity!","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" America in the 1950s developed into a land where conformity ruled. Suburbs with look-alike housing proliferated in the form of Levitttowns. People grew fearful of anybody who criticized the American way of life. These critics became easy targets for anti-Communist crusaders, like The House Committee on Un-American Activities, whose mandate it was to investigate anybody with suspicious activities that might threaten America. Meanwhile, the affluence and domesticity that swept America were reflected in lowered rates of divorce and homicide. Nevertheless, some Americans feared that people had sunk into a morass of complacency and conformity that came with the impetus of a consumer-oriented, materialistic culture. Novelists in the early 1950s challenged this ideology and dealt with individuals trying to maintain their personality in the midst of mass culture that oppressed them. These problems had lain dominant since before World War II. Former soldier turned novelist James Jones unleashed them in his scandalous bestseller From Here to Eternity (1951) about the dehumanizing environment of military life at Schofield Barracks on Oahu, Hawaii on the eve of the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. The novel contained adultery, promiscuity, sadism, and racism. The climate of the 1950s virtually guaranteed that Jones' novel, which was very critical of the U.S. military, would never illuminate the silver screen. Nothing, however, could dissuade Columbia Pictures studio boss Harry Cohn would producing the novel. Cohn called on MGM contract director Fred Zinnemann to helm the project. They agreed that filming From Here to Eternity without the cooperation of the U.S. military would make such a production impossible.Producer Buddy Adler, a former Army officer himself, helped resolve the conflicts between the military and the filmmakers so that a palatable version of From Here to Eternity could be produced. Columbia Pictures not only had to placate the military but they also had to contend with the repressive Production Code Administration, the industry's internal censors who objected to anything that did not portray American and its institutions in an idealized manner. Meanwhile, Cohn and Zinnemann argued about the casting, especially Montgomery Cliff, who eventually won the role over studio contract player Aldo Ray, the man that Cohn favored. Cohn and Zinnemann cast Deborah Kerr, whose reputation for playing proper women, went against type for the role she would have. The most notorious bit of casting involved crooner Frank Sinatra, whose career was tanking horribly, instead of Eli Wallach.The first time we see Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt (Montgomery Cliff of Red River) he is marching across the parade ground in the opposite direction of the soldier drilling. Zinnemann deliberating staged the opening scene so that it would be clear that Prewitt differed from the rest of the men. Prewitt meets Maggio (scrappy Frank Sinatra) and says that he has transferred out of the bugle corp. Maggio advises Prewitt that he has made a terrible mistake. Maggio comments This outfit they can give back to General Custer. First Sergeant Warden (Burt Lancaster of Criss Cross) lays down the law during their first encounter. This here is a rifle company. You ain't supposed to enjoy yourself until sundown. Prewitt meets Captain Holmes and explains that he accepted a demotion from corporal to private to transfer out of the bugle corps because his first sergeant replaced him with the friend. Prewitt was the best bugler, but friend counted more to the sergeant than quality. Holmes has pulled strings to get Prewitt into his outfit so that they can win the boxing finals. Prewitt refuses to fight for Holmes. It seems that Prewitt blinded a friend boxing and has since refused to don the gloves and enter the ring. Looks to me like you're trying to acquire a reputation as a lone wolf, Holmes observes, and adds, In the Army, it's the individual that counts. All of Holmes' sergeants, who do box, except for Warden, give Prewitt 'the treatment' to make him change his mind. Prewitt, however, doesn't capitulate. Meanwhile, Warden takes up with Karen Holmes (Deborah Kerr) and they secretly date behind her husband's back. Warden is playing with fire because if he were caught, he could land in Leavenworth for twenty years.Maggio introduces Prewitt to society in town at a place called 'the New Congress Club.' In Jones' book, establishments like these were really whorehouses, but the Production Code required that Columbia sanitize these settings into harmless social clubs on the level of USO Clubs. Prewitt meets a strikingly beautiful lady, Lorene (Donna Reed of It's A Wonderful Life) and they fall in love. Meanwhile, Maggio clashes with a brute of a first sergeant, Sergeant Judson (Ernst Borgnine of Marty), who prefers to plink away on the piano with all the dexterity of a monkey. Judson's bad piano music interferes with Maggio's dancing with a girl and they confront each other. Prewitt pulls Maggio off before the two can fight. Holmes' sergeants redouble the hazing, but Prewitt holds his own against them, until the irritable captain wants to draw up court marshal papers. Warden intervenes and suggests that Holmes put Prewitt on double punishment duty. Eventually, Maggio goes AWOL, and he winds up in the stockade where Judson beats him mercilessly until Maggio escapes. Maggio dies in Prewitt's arms and Prewitt tangles with Judson in a back alley and they fight until Prewitt stabs Judson to death. Unfortunately, Judson stabs Prewitt who flees to the safety of Lorene's house. Lorene came to Hawaii so that she could earn a stocking full of money and return to her small home town in Oregon to live out her life in style and respect. At the same time, Warden and Karen date and have to hide out from all military officers.From Here to Eternity won Zinnemann the Oscar for Best Director. The film claimed eight Oscars, including Best Picture and Sinatra, in his career reviving role, won a Best Supporting Oscar. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" An emotionally gripping classic drama, it is well acted and is able to paint a vivid picture of life at a naval base, but yet the film feels like a soap opera too often when it could rather be a powerful paralleling of historical events and human emotions. This was perhaps not the intention of the film, but I cannot help but feel that there is some wasted potential, although I still thoroughly liked the film either way. It is quite potent stuff, especially towards the end, and the acting is superb from all the main players, with Montgomery Clift and Oscar winner Frank Sinatra in memorably powerful roles. The film slightly outstays its welcome, and a general knowledge of the portrayed history is assumed, but it sits well in one's memory, and much can be found to like it in, even if one does not like it all. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  FROM HERE TO ETERNITY (1953) **** Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift, Frank Sinatra, Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed, Ernest Borgnine, Philip Ober, Jack Warden, George Reeves, Claude Akins.  One of the all time greatest films ever made Set during the dawning days prior to WWII and the bombing of Pearl Harbor, centers on the lives of the men (and their women) of the Honolulu Army base with an almost soap opera approach-Lancaster is the master sergeant (Best Actor nominee) having an affair with the hot to trot wife (Kerr, nominee for Best Actress) of his officious officer in charge Ober; sensitive Clift (Best Actor nominee too), a boxer who once blinded an opponent, licking his wounds and falling for escort Reed (Best Supporting Actress); scrappy Italian-American incarnate Sinatra (Best Supporting Actor), in a fine performance, facing many a challenge with racist stockade sergeant Borgnine and of course the beautiful scenery of idyllic Hawaii before the carnage ensuing.  Winner of the Best Picture Oscar, Best Director (Fred Zinneman), Black and White Cinematography, Best Adapted Screenplay by Daniel Taradash based on the James Jones best seller, Best Editing, and Best Sound.  Also nominated for Best Costumes and Best Score.   One for the film vaults' time capsule, the passionate beach making out of Lancaster and Kerr in the pounding Pacific surf.  They don't make 'em like this anymore!  "},{"Title":"Well told drama/romance military movie...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  1st watched 12/01/2001 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Fred Zinnemann) Well told drama/romance military movie with a cast that played their roles out very well.  Lancaster as the tough Sergeant,  Montgomery Clift as the young man trying to hold onto his ideals despite strict Army treatment, Sinatra as his friend, with Donna Reed and  Deborah Kerr also playing characters that have stories(but their's aren't explored as much).  Not a real good picture of the Army, but still got the Academy Award for Best Picture and did well at the box office after World War II despite this.  I believe this was because of the story-telling and the high-level of acting involved around that story(based on a book by James Joyce).   Many familiar faces in supporting character roles are also aplenty in this film epic that should have it's place in the film-world eternity(DVD release??). "},{"Title":"may be not for eternity, but for fifty years yes","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Yes. Fifty years have gone since this movie was issued ( I only saw it for the first time about forty years ago, because I had no the age in 1953) and yet you can say that the basic human feelings the movie deals with are still valid and up to date, even if the 50`s way of presenting them is by now out of fashion. But there are still plenty  mean and selfish men like the Captain, idealistic guys like Prewitt, and torrid love has not changed an inch since Lancaster and Kerr were embracing on the Oauh beach. And finally there is a glimpse of Honolulu as we will never see again in the final scene of the ship sailing. I was in Hawaii on 1990; too late!! "},{"Title":"The loves and lives of soldiers stationed in Hawaii just prior to Pearl Harbor attack","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A truly inspiring movie.  It inspired me to join the army, learn to box, tansfer to Hawaii, and volunteer for drill sergeant duty(just to wear the neat campaign hat). Sometimes I really do think I suffered as much as Prewitt! "},{"Title":"From Here to Eternity","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I guess the title is relating to the love story element, doesn't really matter, it's a pretty good war drama from Oscar and Golden Globe winning director Fred Zinnemann (High Noon). Basically its 1941, and the film shows the life at the US Army's Schofield Barracks at Pearl Harbor, in the days leading up to the December Japanese attack. Pvt. Robert E. Lee 'Prew' Prewitt (Oscar nominated Montgomery Clift) has requested transfer, and he doesn't want to box anymore (which he is good at doing), and because of this, Capt. Dana 'Dynamite' Holmes (Philip Ober) is getting others to make his life a living hell. 1st Sgt. Milton Warden (Oscar nominated Burt Lancaster) is seeing Holmes' wife Karen Holmes (The King and I's Oscar nominated Deborah Kerr), who has a history of going with other men during a troubled marriage, there is also the love story seen a little between Prew and social club worker Alma 'Lorene' Burke (It's a Wonderful Life's Oscar winning Donna Reed). Pvt. Angelo Maggio (Oscar and Golden Globe winning singer/actor Frank Sinatra) taking life pretty easy at the barracks, and getting drunk quite often, is having quite a few arguments with Sgt. James R. 'Fatso' Judson (Ernest Borgnine), until Judson beats Maggio to death, and Prew wants revenge when he finds out. Before the film ends, there is the Japanese attacking the near Pearl Harbor, which adds some needed excitement. Also starring While You Were Sleeping's Jack Warden as Cpl. Buckley, Mickey Shaughnessy as Cpl. Leva, Harry Bellaver as Pvt. Mazzioli, George Reeves as Sgt. Maylon Stark, John Dennis as Sgt. Ike Galovitch and Tim Ryan as Sgt. Pete Karelsen. Sinatra proves himself a good actors, with a tiny bit of his singing talent included, Reed also shines as the supporting actress, Lancaster and Kerr also have their moments, most notably the famous kissing on the beach as a wave washes over them moment. It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design and Best Music for Morris Stoloff and George Duning, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Burt Lancaster was number 48 on The World's Greatest Actor, and he was number 19 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, Frank Sinatra was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 52 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, it was number 70 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments, it was number 54 on The 100 Greatest War Films and it was number 20 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good! "},{"Title":"Well, what am I? I'm a private no-class dogface. The way most civilians look at that, that's two steps up from nothing'!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" On a quiet, unspoilt beach, two lovers embrace in the sand. The fierce waves of the ocean are tossed upon the shore, and the couple is momentarily submerged in a surge of water and foam. Gloriosly oblivious to this, the lovers continue to hold each other tight, as if it is all in this world that matters.This iconic image between Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr has since become one of the most famous scenes in the history of film. As such, it comes as a surprise to discover it does not even appear in the script &#150; the idea to film with the waves hitting them was a last minute inspiration from the director, Fred Zinneman. It is always fascinating to discover that the inspirations that spring forth at the last minute will often prove to be the most enduring.On a bright, sunny morning at a Hawaiian military base, Pvt. Robert E. Lee 'Prew' Prewitt (Montgomery Clift, 'I Confess') strolls amidst the marching soldiers. He has transferred across from the somewhat more prestigious Bugle Corps at Port Shaftford because he felt that a less-talented bugle player had been promoted ahead of him. His feelings were hurt&#133;. smirks 1st Sgt. Milton Warden (Burt Lancaster, 'Birdman of Alcatraz') amusedly. Kids they send us now. Yet it is this uniquely steadfast pride and determination that forms the heart of From Here To Eternity. A man don't go his own way, he's nothing, declares Prewitt after refusing his commanding officer's (Philip Ober) request to join his boxing team. Maybe back in the days of the pioneers a man could go his own way, retorts Sgt. Warden. But today you got to play ball.All this petty persuasion proves futile in Prewitt's case. However, his fellow comrades (and his superiors) believe that his participation in the boxing team will be beneficial, as Prewitt had once been a seasoned fighter, only to inexplicably quit a year earlier. As a means of cruel coercion, Prewitt is unfairly persecuted by his superior officers, and targeted by his comrades. Only one fellow soldier, Pvt. Angelo Maggio (an Oscar-winning Frank Sinatra, 'The Manchurian Candidate') looks out for Prewitt's wellbeing, and they become good friends.Amidst all this struggle and adversity, several love stories begin to blossom. Sgt. Warden takes a fancy to the unappreciated wife of his direct superior, Capt. Dana 'Dynamite' Holmes. Karen Holmes (Deborah Kerr) is fully aware that her husband is cheating on her, but is denied a divorce because it could affect his reputation. Whilst she is initially quite terse towards Warden, she soon falls in love with him, and the two must maintain a low-key relationship behind the army's back.Prewitt, meanwhile, is dragged by a very drunk Maggio into a local club known as the New Congress Club. Here, Prewitt immediately spots the women of his dreams (an Oscar-winning Donna Reed), and he saunters over to her, only to discover that she is simply being paid by the management to mingle with the Club's guests. Indeed, the name by which she originally introduces herself &#150; Lorene &#150; was given to her on her first night on the job. Nonetheless, Prewitt sees an opportunity for love, and entices Lorene to meet him outside of work.'From Here To Eternity' is a classic Hollywood film. It encompasses riveting drama, timeless romance and, when the occasion calls for it, a few highly-entertaining action sequences. The acting is brilliant all-round from a large cast, which also includes a small role for Ernest Borgnine as Sgt. 'Fatso' Judson, Maggio's sworn nemesis. Winner of 8 Academy Awards (including Best Director and Best Picture), and nominated for a further five (including two Best Actor noms for Clift and Lancaster), 'From Here To Eternity' deserved them all. This is a film that reminds us why we watch movies in the first place. "}{"Title":"From Here to Eternity","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I will not try to emulate the profuse language of those who precede me on this comment page. I will simply say that From Here to Eternity belongs , at least, in the top ten of all movies ever made. In every category of movie making from screenplay to cinematography this movie excels.When I am surfing movie channels and come across From Here to Eternity I am compelled to watch at least a few scenes. After all, I have probably watched it in its entirety a dozen times.It is the one movie that Hollywood has produced which combined realism with romanticism in a perfect combination. When watching I can smell the barracks, the streets of Honolulu, and the beach. And, I can cry with Prew as well as be shocked at the stoutness of his character that borders on the incredulous. Realism plus romanticism equals perfectionism in film-making.Would be filmmakers could learn a lot from an in depth study of this movie.Dave "},{"Title":"Lost it's luster","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I find it interesting that after watching this movie last night I am giving it 6 stars when I might have given it 8 or 9 years ago. I find that it has lost it's luster over the years. You just can't beat Burt Lancaster. Even if I just watch the movie to see his very strong personality and body movements it would be worth the time. He was such an unusual and interesting actor.Some of why the movie doesn't draw a higher score from me is because the pace of movies has sped up over the years, making this one seem slow. Also older movies tend to have a lot more dialog than new ones; whether that is good or not is subjective. But I find this movie lacked action.The morals of this movie must have stunned audiences back in 1953; perhaps that is what made it such a big hit.All in all it's still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Some of the Greatest Acting You'll Ever See","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here to Eternity (1953) **** (out of 4) Eight Oscars went to this Fred Zinnemann drama about a group of GI's stations on Hawaii shortly before the attack on Pearl Harbor. Some of the stories include a man (Montgomery Clift) being abused because he refuses to box. Another (Frank Sinatra) having to battle an abusing brute (Ernest Borgnine). Then there's a Sergent (Burt Lancaster) who begins having an affair with his boss' wife (Deborah Kerr). The most amazing thing about this picture is how many talented actors they managed to get in it. Not only do you have Clift, Landcaster, Sinatra (Oscar-winner), Borgnine and Kerr (Oscar-winner) but there's also Donna Reed giving one of the best performances of her career and even Jack Warden. Needless to say but the performances are without question the greatest thing in the picture as everyone is at the top of their game. Clift really gives a tremendous performance in the role of the man being abused because he refuses to do something. I really liked how Clift played this part and especially when you consider this type of character had been done countless times in movies. Another standout is Lancaster who packs some real anger in his role here. Both Kerr and Reed were going against the types they usually played and both of them nailed the parts perfectly. I also think this here was Sinatra's greatest moment on screen as the usual tough guy managed to be so soft and fragile here that it shows what a strong actor he could be. The story of all of these people is one that just grabs you and doesn't let you go. I think the film does a very good job at giving everyone enough of the story to where you can care about them and it perfectly holds everything together before the eventual Pearl Harbor attack. The attack sequences are quite good and I thought the way it concludes all the personal stories was quite good. FROM HERE TO ETERNITY is without question one of the greatest films ever made when it comes to an ensemble cast. You're just not going to find many films out there with so many great talents giving so many great performances. The movie has several landmark scenes including the one on the beach but the entire movie just works flawlessly. "},{"Title":"Superb PR for the ARMY...cough cough","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" the 40's films conveyed cool when you were cookin with camels... accepted as novel concept but 1953!!!! as a former smoker I was gaging at the incessant billowing and blowing butts on every surface.... total gack and what kind of Army were they trying to portray, thugs n ganstas??? what a bunch of losers with nothing better to do than whine with the re-enlistment blues song (though I did like the rendition)... play dirty pool and get drunk daily... ever meet a military man of today, they could not endure scene ONE from this sordid script, supposedly cleaned up from the original novel... anyhow, Monty was excellent and extremely believable with his horn tootin' and even boxing, Ernest played too much against type, Kerr was horrific and uncomfortable in this lost lil girl role, Donna Reed was a highlight, and the larger than life colonel commando Lancaster over the top as per usual was enjoyable, he only let loose a few times.... what a man! loved the Hawaiian shirts, did not know they wore them back then, have a few myself! Pearl was such an afterthought it was almost shocking to see it quietly inserted at the very end, 'cept for the constant calendar shots to give you some heads up... the tragedy of those many lives lost is simply given short shrift with this aimless, soulless, and tribute to the eternity that is Hollywood... would be funny if they had already invented those smokeless electric cigarettes... have to rely on blowing bad breath to impress a woman???recommend for Sinatra's olive dice game and two pretty lei's ; "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Date 26 June, 2012 -First Time Watch- I had been waiting to see 'From Here to Eternity' for several weeks. Being a big old Hollywood movie fan, this was near the top of my list. It has a perfect cast; Burt Lancaster, Deborah Kerr, Frank Sinatra. So, I had high hopes. Might I say, I was not at all disappointed! It was everything I expected and then some. I'm so going to buy this movie. It's one of my all time new favorites. How this movie played out, though, surprised me. As expected I loved Sinatra's character. He was awesome! A fun loving character you wouldn't mind being around. Of course, most of the times, your favorite characters are killed off, which of course happened to Sinatra's character. That made me kind of upset, to be honest. I was also shocked that Montgomery Clift's character was killed off at the end. That was really sad since he was mistaken as a Japanese from far away and was therefore shot several times. Then, I also thought Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr would end up together. Wrong again. Yet, it doesn't matter. Movies that have surprise twists and turns make it all the more enjoyable. Absolutely amazing and I highly recommend it.10/10! "},{"Title":"life before war","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Fred Zinnemann's adaptation of James Jones's From Here to Eternity casts Montgomery Clift as a rebellious newcomer on a military base in Hawaii on the verge of the Pearl Harbor attack. The tension among the mixture of characters seems to foreshadow America's impending entry into World War II. While the most famous scene is Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr's jaunt on the beach, equally important scenes take place in the nightclub there's the hostility between Frank Sinatra and Ernest Borgnine, but also what we learn about Donna Reed's character. You might say that FHTE depicts a microcosm of the United States leading up to WWII all these different individuals, often hostile towards each other, see only one thing to do once the Japanese forces bomb Pearl Harbor. And the final scene looks like an allegory for everything that has taken place throughout the movie.All in all, a very fine film. "},{"Title":"A strange album","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A film about truth. In every nuances. With any texture. A film about silence. survive. Expectation. Fear as fruit of every slice of courage. A film without definition. Basic ingredients and few looks. A handful of words. Shadows of wars and some Several meetings. Ernest Borgnine is brilliant. Montgomery Clift - impressive in a role with pieces of other scores. But that are details. The taste of ash, the silence after end, the last images and the sound of piano are more than results of director art.A movie in which public is important part Not for emotions or impressions but for its role of theater play. Without applause. Only proof of ordinary events. "},{"Title":"Well done cinema classic.","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Occasionally before viewing a film for the first time,I peek into the special features section of the DVD.This is what I did with From Here to Eternity,and I found out some surprising things.There are 'first choices when it comes to film roles,and the only first choice that ended up in their respective role was Burt Lancaster.No one felt that Montgomery Clift fit the role of the boxer,but the director persisted and got him anyway.Deborah Kerr and Frank Sinatra,according to the same people,also did not fit their roles but were brought in anyway.The director was taking a gamble and he knew it.It paid off.When it comes down to it,it didn't seem to matter who the first choices were,a great film resulted anyhow and made 8 well deserved Oscars to boot.Great film. "},{"Title":"Perfect Casting","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" One of the great achievements of this film is its recreation of Army barracks life. It hadn't changed much when I was in basic training in 1969. The orderly sterility, the lack of color, and of course the regimentation. This was all largely necessary and the traditions were not without an austere beauty, the bugle calls for instance, but the demands of the organization, the rigid bureaucratic hierarchy had to predominate. The film is actually less cynical than the novel but the casting was pitch perfect, Lancaster, Clift, Sinatra, Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed and then the little gem of Ernest Borgnine's Fatso Judson. Borgnine spent 10 years in the Navy, but the other thing that helped him was that being an Italian American he had a good ear for the bigotry that Italians faced in pre WWII America, and so he could create the truly frightening performance of the sadistic stockade Sergeant.Color would have helped the film. It would have emphasized the lushness of Hawaii in contrast to the drabness of the Schofield Barracks. But Zinneman's direction was excellent as was the screenplay. A wonderful job. "},{"Title":"This outfit they could give back to General Custer!","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Very sanitized Hollywood version of the James Jones hard hitting novel about army life pre Pearl Harbor and the people, man and women, involved with it.Transferring into a tough infantry outfit former US Army bugler Robert E. Lee Prewitt, Montgomery Cliff, or Prew as he's called is really in for it, the business, in his refusing to take part in the regimental boxing championship that's slated for December 15, 1941. Prew has become very mild mannered, instead of violent, after blinding his army buddy Dixie Wells in a sparring match and has given up using his fists in and out of the boxing ring! This has his company commander Capt. Dana Holmes, Philip Ober, have his men use a little persuasion to get Prew back in the ring by making his life miserable while he's there!While this is going on Prew's top sergeant Sgt. Milt Warden, Burt Lancaster, has been keeping an eye on Capt. Holmes' old lady, or wife, the sexy Karen Holmes, Deborah Kerr, who with her being on the outs with him, after she caught Captain Holmes with another woman, is looking for action and tries to find it with the many men stationed at the the Schofield Barracks US Army military base.Prew gets to find love at the local whorehouse in town, appropriately called the New Congress Club, with Lorene Burke, Donna Reed, whom he mistakes for a normal All-American working girl from the state of Oregon instead of a hooker! You would think that Prew was smart enough, in being an army man for five years, to be able to see the difference! Thrown into the mix is the outfit's #1 screw up Pvt. Angelo Maggio,that's Maggio without the D in front, who knew Prew back at Fort Shafter where he was the company bugler. As the US moves towards war in the Pacific things get really spicy as well as dangerous for all the major characters in the film. Sgt.Warden and Karen have a hot and heavy love affair and Maggio in getting drunk and AWOL on guard duty ends up in the brig that's run by the sadistic Sgt. Fatso Judsdon, Ernest Borgnine, who's got it in for him big time! Prew meanwhile lose his ability to turn the other cheek when Captain Holmes has his boys push the poor guy to the brink and ends up wiping the floor with his #1 goon Sgt. Galovitch, John Dennis, who asked for and really got it from the former confirmed US Army pacifist. After getting his clock cleaned by the hard hitting Prew Sgt. Galovitch was busted down to private and put in charge, a fitting Job for the butt-kissing sergeant, of the company latrine. As for Galovitch's boss Captain Holmes he got canned out of the US Army for conduct unbecoming an officer or even enlisted man!***SPOILERS*** What really saves the movie is the Japanese sneak attack on Peral Harbor since up until then, with the exception of the Sgt. Warden & Karen Holmes sizzling surf side love scene, it was really going nowhere and nowhere fast. We had a few knife fights and a person beaten to death, off camera, as well as Prew getting his act together but by then, with the US at war, it didn't help him that much by him refusing an order for him to advance and be recognized! As for the women in the film Karen & Lorene they checked out of Hawaii never to return again in all the hurt and suffering they went through in them both being there.P.S Check out George Superman Reeves as US Army Sgt. Maylon Stark as one of Karens lovers back in the states, Fort Bliss Texas, who fills in a very much in love with her as well as very naive Sgt.Warden in just what he's in for by fooling around with the man hungry and sex starved Karen Holmes! "}{"Title":"A great movie but still not the best that the genre has to offer.","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Little wrong with this movie basically but I just wasn't go as far as calling this movie a masterpiece. This movie is just not the best example of the greatness that the genre has to offer. And from a movie that won 8 Oscar's, including the one for best picture, you are of course expecting this.Thing with this movie was, was that it was feeling a bit incomplete to me. Not all stories reached a satisfying enough conclusion for my taste and the movie could had focused a bit better and more deep on certain issues handled in this movie. It's a melodramatic movie, with also some love stories thrown into it, against the backdrop of Pearl Harbour. It still of course beats the Micheal Bay movie by a long-shot but it's silly to compare both these movies really, since they are so much different in style and its goals.Still I liked the story and movie for not being as formulaic as you would expect. No everybody ends up-, or gets what you expect. Because the movie is not really predictable, the drama also all works out better.The movie is not as epic as it might sound, fore it got made for a fairly low budget and got shot in only 41 days. It's more a movie that still feels and looks epic due to its many different dramatic plot-lines and characters.It's a movie with some well known actors in it, like Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift, Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed and Ernest Borgnine, who is still alive and active in the business. It also has a really out of place Frank Sinatra in it, who tried to give his career another boost with this movie, with a more serious and demanding role. Amazingly enough he even won an Oscar for it. The only one he would get for his acting during his long career. To me he still seemed like the weakest actor in this movie.A great movie to watch but worth 8 Oscar's? There are honestly far better of examples of the genre out there more worthy of those wins and honor.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"From Here to Eternity- Continues to age well throughout time","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Without a doubt, this picture is one of the greatest films ever made.So many pictures are made where characters aren't given any depth or emotion. However, this film leaves you with a feeling inside, it actually makes you imagine what it must have been like during the era it portrayed. You feel as though you know the main characters, and in addition to knowing them, you kind of fall in love with them in a sense and wish you knew them.Throughout the years, Frank Sinatra has been under rated as an actor. However as in Manchurian Candidate, Sinatra shines when given the chance to play a dramatic role. His portrayal of Maggio was both heart felt, yet clever and witty when the time was right. The role of Maggio was made for him, he was born to play it.Additionally, I loved Burt Lancaster in the role of 1st Sergeant Milton Warden. Perhaps the best part about the character Sergeant Warden is that while is has a rather rough exterior, he also had empathy for people without being the slightest bit pathetic.Donna Reed's performance as the beautiful Lorene just gets better and better throughout the film.When reviewing movie classics, a large part of whether or not I enjoyed the film has to do with whether or not the picture has aged well throughout the years. I am 29 years old and a classic movie buff. My husband is the same age as me and watched From Here to Eternity with me for the first time last night. He was not looking forward to it, but a half hour into the movie he was hooked, and he actually enjoyed it. This movie has definitely aged well, and it's an absolute must see for anyone who enjoys a true classic. "},{"Title":"OLDIE BUT GOODIE PARADOX WAR & LIFE","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A  REAL CLASSIC 50's FILM! They don't make 'em like they use to a cliche quote applies to this finely directed by Fred Zinnemann. The host main stars all great performances. My two cents is that though the movie setting is around the prewar (pearl harbor) while watching the lives of actors/actresses roles evolve in trying accomplish goals despite setbacks in each of their lives. It's military life relationships between genres, the struggles of human life FROM HERE  TO ETERNITY. In war you prepare then figure all angles out to succeed in the goal overtaking the enemy. Well this movie in my opinion FOCUSES on the INDIVIDUAL battles with their PERSONAL goals. THATS THE PARADOX. A GREAT MOVIE! Similar to Heaven Knows Mrs. Allison An Officer and a Gentleman, just name a couple. New films rely too much on special effects technology e.g. modern actor Ben Affleck similar Burt Lancaster's role in new Pearl Harbor, not in same league of acting ability in my opinion. Pearl Harbor 5.5 rating co,pared to 7.9 (s/b) 8.5 still much better over all romance/drama/war movie. "},{"Title":"Just about a number 10","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I gave this super film an 8 because of two miscast characters. First why Montgomery Clift as a boxer. They cast this puny little person in two films as a boxer. Why? The other was The Young Lions. I like Clift's work but don't make him a fighter.  They might have considered James Dean or Paul Newman for the role of Prewitt.I don't care if Sinatra did win the BSAA for Maggio. He, not only was too old but, he was hammy. I'd have liked to have seen Tony Curtis or maybe John Derek in the role.Lancaster WAS 1st Sgt. Warden and kudos to Ernest Borgnine as Fatso Judson. Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed and all the rest of the actors were well cast and did superb jobs.The film depicts our prewar army with reality. It's filled with action from start to finish mingled with romance and some sub plots. A real winner. "},{"Title":"Powerful film from Fred Zinnermann","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I personally consider The Nun's Story as Fred Zinnermann's best film, but From Here to Eternity is another one of his best efforts. It is very powerful, with themes of bullying, sadism and adultery giving away to themes of heroism and sacrifice. The cinematography is stunning, the direction is great and the screenplay is really brilliantly written and powerful. The acting is superb too, none of the actors ranging from Burt Lancaster to Deborah Kerr, from Montgomary Clift to Frank Sinatra and Ernest Borgnine give a bad performance. In some ways the characters can be seen as stereotypes, Lancaster's macho Sergeant, Kerr's unhappy wife, Clift's reluctant boxer, Sinatra's persecuted Italian GI and Borgnine's sadistic stockade sergeant, but the performances and the depth the script goes to developing them ensure that the characters are much more than that. From Here to Eternity also contains one of the most iconic clinches in cinema with Lancaster and Kerr embracing in the pounding surf. Overall, powerful and very well acted film from Fred Zinnermann. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"WWII melodrama benefits from solid cast, tight pace, several classic sequences...","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Powerhouse cast in melodramatic adaptation of the more-risqué James Jones novel chronicling lives on a Hawaiian Army Base before and during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in the early 1940s. Hot-headed characters, uneven performances, though the picture looks incredible and is tightly-edited for its length. Frank Sinatra made a personal comeback with role as goof-off Maggio, Donna Reed stretches a bit as a floozy who hopes to go straight (both won Supporting Oscars), but classy Deborah Kerr as an unhappy officer's wife and Montgomery Clift as a loner soldier are the acting standouts; Burt Lancaster does nothing new as a humorless sergeant, but Ernest Borgnine is solid in showy bully role, and Jack Warden and George Reeves are fine in lesser parts. Despite a tendency towards soap opera, this Best Picture winner is often enjoyable, but rarely is it a moving experience. Winner of eight Oscars total, including Fred Zinnemann for Best Director. Remade in 1979 as a television mini-series. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"If you have a Top 10 list of films,this surely must be included","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  There is no doubt that this film will be recorded as one of the finest ever made. The story, the cast, the setting, come together as few films ever do. A must in everyones library and a must see at least once a year.. "},{"Title":"Arguably the Most Over-Rated Film of All Time.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  James Jones' risque trash masterpiece From Here to Eternity quickly got the red carpet treatment by 1953 and was turned into a motion picture that shocked audiences with strong sexual undertones and intense situations during the backdrop of upcoming doom at Pearl Harbor. Officer Burt Lancaster (Oscar-nominated) has the hots for his superior's wife (Oscar-nominee Deborah Kerr). She is upset and bored with her husband and a lightning fast affair based more upon lust than love quickly comes about. New bugle man Montgomery Clift (another Oscar-nominee) has an odd past in the military as he refuses to do prize-fighting for the Army. Thus he pens up his anger and becomes more of a ticking timebomb. He finds short-term happiness with a beautiful prostitute (Donna Reed in her Oscar-winning role), but their relationship is also strained to say the least. The likeable Frank Sinatra (Oscar-winning) locks horns with the crazed Ernest Borgnine and his safety becomes a major concern. While all this goes on, the Japanese attack becomes imminent. Watching From Here to Eternity is a study in caring for rotten characters. It is bad when Sinatra is the most endearing performer by a landslide. This production is not patriotic and in fact it is a down-right sad commentary on U.S. soldiers in Hawaii just prior to the attack. Jones was actually a soldier that experienced Pearl Harbor firsthand and also got a stay in Guadalcanal (using that as his inspiration for the equally crazed novel The Thin Red Line). While Jones' writing skill cannot be questioned, his want to shock was always puzzling to me. From Here to Eternity was definitely trail-blazing with its undertones, but the film is far from excellent and it is a curiosity more than a classic. Director Fred Zinnemann picked up his first of two directing Oscars with this one. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Time is not always kind to classic films","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Some films are classics in their time, some films are classics for all time. From Here to Eternity is more the former than the latter. When you watch the film you can see why it may have been so highly acclaimed upon its release, why it was awarded a bushel of Oscars. But you can also see that it has clearly not aged as well as some other notable films of its era. To the modern eye it's more soap opera than classic film. And often a rather hokey soap opera at that. It's a film with a style which struggles to convince all these decades later.The plot unfolds in an Army barracks in Hawaii in 1941. Army. Hawaii. 1941. No prizes for guessing where this story is ultimately headed. But this is really not a war story, it is more than anything else the personal story of one soldier, Robert E. Lee Prewitt. Montgomery Clift plays Prewitt who has been newly transferred to the barracks. What drives Prewitt's story? He once was a talented boxer but he doesn't fight anymore. His commanding officer wants him to fight on the company boxing team and Prewitt refuses. The officer and members of the boxing team thus set out to make Prewitt's life as miserable and difficult as possible. And that is the story at the center of the film. If you think that sounds rather trivial you'd be correct. In the grand scheme of things, especially considering the time and place, are we really supposed to care all that much about some Army boxing team? The rest of the story deals mostly with some romantic entanglements and that is where the soap opera aspect comes into play. We have Deborah Kerr playing the commanding officer's wife and she's a woman who gets around if you get my meaning. Donna Reed of all people plays a prostitute but this is a film made in 1953 so we're not actually going to call her a prostitute. She's a hostess in a club but what her hosting duties entail is quite clear. But she's one of those movie hookers with a heart of gold and she falls for Prewitt. Meanwhile Kerr's character's current affair sees her involved with Sergeant Milton Warden who happens to work directly under her husband. Actually it's Warden who really seems to be running things at the barracks as the commanding officer is much too busy carrying on his own affairs. It's quite the tangled web. Oh and there's Frank Sinatra too, hamming it up as Private Angelo Maggio, a rather entertaining drunk whose character seems to be there for comic relief until things take an abrupt turn and we all of a sudden are asked to take him seriously.All in all it's quite the soapy melodrama. Prewitt is at the heart of the picture and Clift does a fine job in portraying the put-upon soldier. Probably the best performance in the film comes from Burt Lancaster playing Sergeant Warden but even Lancaster is not immune from the moments of overacting which this film has all too many of. The women are mostly shunted to the side. Kerr doesn't have much to do. Reed makes a bit more of an impression but the story really belongs to the Army men all the way. And at times it is hard to really take that story all that seriously. The story certainly has its dramatic moments but at its heart it's all about a soldier being abused...because he won't join a boxing team? And there are the love affairs which seem better suited for modern daytime television. And Prewitt's story does not really pay itself off satisfactorily which is a problem since the film has spent its whole running time trying to get us to invest our emotions in Prewitt's fate. The end result is a bit of a letdown. This is not a bad film by any means but it certainly has its share of flaws. In its time it may have been a true classic. But some films do not age as well as others. "},{"Title":"So?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A highly rated film, it won eight Oscars.  I however, can't figure out what all the fuss is about.  I think the acting was, for the most part, horrible. Montgomery Clift plays the young hardhead; sort of a James Dean character.  Deb Kerr & Burt Lancaster play opposite each other & turn in wooden performances, the surf seen notwithstanding.  Perhaps one of the better performances was by Sinatra, of all people.  To each their own, I guess. "}{"Title":"From Here to Eternally Good ****","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This anti-war movie was proclaimed the best picture of 1953, deservedly so.Montgomery Clift is the anti-hero Pruitt. This man is ready to take anything or anyone on.Frank Sinatra, as Maggio, is also anti-hero. Both of our friends are in one scrap after another.Deborah Kerr is unhappily married and begins a relationship with Commander Burt Lancaster. Their steamy scene on the beach is absolutely memorable, quite controversial for 1953.Then, of course, there is Donna Reed, who as Clift's girl friend, was named best supporting actress of the year. With the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Clift, who had gone AWOL, wants to return to his unit. Reed utters those immortal words What did the army ever do for you? Of course, he returns and is promptly shot. Everyone on the base is naturally upset after the bombing-it's shoot first and ask questions later.The film basically concerns itself with an army unit boxing tournament. One of our heroes will not box for his unit and as a result suffers for it. Of course, it is Deborah Kerr's miserable husband who gives the guy an awful a lot of problems for refusing to do so. An investigation after the Pearl Harbor bombing will drive him from the service.Sinatra, in his best supporting Oscar performance, fights with a bull-dog played viciously by Ernest Borgnine. When Sinatra winds up later in the stockade, Borgnine is in charge and beats Sinatra to death. Clift responds to this by stabbing Borgnine to death in a back alley. That's when he became AWOL.It is amazing that this anti-war, anti-army film was voted for best picture. Sure, it deserved the award but we're talking about 1953-the McCarthy era. Belated congratulations to the Motion Picture Academy for their fine choice which probably irked McCarthy. This film was certainly one of the best anti-war films ever made. It really delved into the military pointing out a very ugly side of it. The picture received 5 acting nominations, Lancaster, Clift, Kerr, Sinatra and Reed. "},{"Title":"Overrated, Despite the Big Names","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Hollywood at its phony best or worst, take your pick. Who would believe scrawny, introverted Monty Clift as a rough, tough, defiant leather-neck, who beats up on men twice his size. Evidently, the producers, who wagered that a star-struck audience would. Then there's the wholesome, well-scrubbed Donna Reed as a wholesome, well-scrubbed Honolulu hooker, who lives in what appears a Manhattan apartment. If you believe Mother Theresa did outcall, then you might fall for this Hollywood hokum. Let's not forget that notorious surf scene, where Lancaster and Kerr mate like over-heated jellyfish. The question is how do you parody something that's already a joke. And, oh yes, there's Burt Lancaster, clenching full speed toward becoming Tinsel Town's most celebrated great stone face, and a long, long way from his promising noir roots. And poor Deborah Kerr trapped all those years in virginal repression, when there's really a red-hot mama waiting to break out. Finally, there's Frank Sinatra's Maggio, who at least doesn't beat up hulking men twice his size, but does get an award and an afterlife as Las Vegas's shady ambassador to Hollywood, a not uncalculated consequence. Summing up this is exactly what happened when the studios of the 50's got a hot property and decided to exploit it. And exploit it they did. "},{"Title":"I Wish the Academy had a category 'worst adaptation form another medium'!","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I've always thought that were it not for the accident of the timing of its birth this film might today be spoken of in the same conversations which feature 'Citizen Kane'. There are some amazing performances in this classic. If this isn't the best work Clift has ever done it certainly ranks right up there with his best and I'd have to say the same thing about Donna Reed and Frank Sinatra. Although I'd have to rank The King and I and Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison slightly above this performance of Deborah Kerr's, I emphasize the word Slightly.I'd probably have to have given this work a solid 10 were it not for the studio's complete mishandling of the property. This was the era of Joe McCarthy so I suppose it's expected that everyone cut Harry Cohn some slack but I have a rough time doing that. James Jones hated this film and while I can't quite share his total contempt, I also didn't have to live through seeing one of my finest works prostituted on the altar of social expediency and misguided right-wing oppression. This was the film which instructed me about the perfidy which occurred at Pearl Harbor. It taught me the difference between being a soldier and fighting a war. I vividly remember seeing this as a pre-teen and being confused as to what the New Congress Club actually was. It wasn't an ordinary night club and it wasn't a brothel. In my ignorance of censorship and general juvenile naiveté I finally concluded it was some sort of takeoff on the 'dime-a-dance' halls in cities of the time. Stupid me! Between sucking up to the Department of the Army and the 1950's censors Jones' work had been reduced to an insipid shadow of the book. At first I thought the studio would have been better off putting the screenplay on a shelf until an atmosphere prevailed which would allow the completion of the work as Jones intended but then we might have missed securing the services of this cast.With the unwavering clarity of hindsight, perhaps it would have been better had the film been faithful to the novel. It wouldn't have been able to be released at the time so, like 'Kane', it would have sat on a studio shelf until a time when it could be properly appreciated. "},{"Title":"Eternal Movie Classic","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" From Here To Eternity (1953) Starring Montgomery Clift, Burt Lancaster, Debora Kerr, Donna Reed, Frank Sinatra, Phillip Ober, Mickey Shaughnessy, Harry Bellaver, Ernest Borgnine, Jack Warden, Jon Dennis, Merle Travis, Tim Ryan, Barbara Morrison....Director Fred Zinnerman, Screenplay Daniel Taradash, Based on the novel by James Jones.Director Fred Zinnerman's From Here To Eternity became an instant classic when it was released in 1953, at the right time. World War II was over and the prosperous 50's was beginning but people recognized the importance of the War and how it had changed the world. This is a war movie and a romance all in one. It made stars out of all its principal actors - Montgomery Clift, Debora Karr and Burt Lancaster, each of who contribute strong and memorable performances. This type of film was actually very innovative and new for its time. Rather than being a straightforward, predictable war drama/love story, there are layers of complex psychological drama as well. This is mainly because it was drawn from a literary novel by James Jones, although the novel was more popular fiction than anything else. At this time, novels concerning World War II was big. Furthermore, the Korean War was raging. War was a big subject in film. For a man's film (and it is a man's film too), there is lots of talking and emotional aspects. Long before An Officer And A Gentleman (this film may have inspired that one), this movie deals with the problem of a soldier being romantically involved with his commanding officer's wife. Montgomery Clift woos Debora Karr, though with some difficulty before they fall in love, World War II rages on and for all the characters, the possibility that they won't see each other again looms big. This is a long but worthwhile movie, especially because it's such a classic. The love scene between Burt Lancaster and Donna Reed by the beach as the ocean waves surround them was rather provocative and overly passionate for its time, but it is one of Hollywood's most memorable movie scenes. Donna Reed would later become known for her Donna Reed Show in which she plays a sweet, suburban 50's housewife. Frank Sinatra is in the film for fans of the late great singer and this film, to top everything off, won Best Picture that year. This film is still a classic so many years later and a sample of 50's cinema and the direction it was heading toward. Overall, this is a powerful piece of cinema and an eternal classic. "},{"Title":"Confused, thought it was anti-military comment","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I guess the reason I didn't really like the film is because I expected a completely different film. I'd heard this film had won Oscars and I'd heard of the beach scene, but knew nothing else about the film. I thought it was partly a romance and partly a look at the army. I was caught up in the forbidden love of Kerr & Lancaster and interested in Clift & Reed's 'relationship' and was eager to see how they resolved their problems. I was also getting the impression that the Army was an awful place to be - Lancaster, Sinatra & Clift's characters experienced a great deal of hardship and misery because of their enlistment and from their fellow men. So it came as a shock to me when these men supposedly in love refused to try to better their miserable positions in the army by trying to move up or out of it. They spurned the women just to stay in the army? Even though they were miserable where they were they chose the army as their love. What? That made no sense. Their superiors were all incompetent or sadistic losers, in the case of Clift, nearly all his fellow enlistees treated him like dirt. The army was the reason his best friend was killed. Yet because that's all he knew, he stuck to it. IMO, that's not a good reason to choose something.As the film was from 1953, I thought it was set AFTER WW2 and didn't realize this was the days right BEFORE Pearl Harbor- so the bombing was a shock. I had to rethink my experience of the entire film. I could appreciate how even after all the misery everyone banded together for defense. If the men had turned away from their women after the attack that would have made more sense. I could understand not wanting to transfer away once the action starts. My biggest problem with the film was that I could not for the life of me understand why Clift did not identify himself when he was coming back to the base!?!?! That made no sense at all. Of course they're going to shot someone they don't recognize who won't identify themselves in the midst of an attack. So I went from sympathizing with him for most of the film to thinking he was an idiot.In the end I had very little sympathy for any of the male characters. I thought they were stupid for choosing to stay in their miserable lives. If this had been shown as a patriotic choice following the attack I could have understood it better. Also, I thought the scene with the guy refusing to pass out ammunition during an attack as showing the rigidity and stupidity of the military - which I don't think was the point of the scene/movie. I kept thinking if these dumb schmucks had transfered out they wouldn't have been there for the preemptive strike -they'd be promoted and (maybe) happily married. So I had much less sympathy than I think I was supposed to have. "},{"Title":"Not My Kind Of Movie","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I generally enjoy older movies (it's a generation thing) but this one touches upon subject matter that really doesn't interest me at all.It's a bit of a kitchen-sink drama really, given a military setting. There's a company commander who has lost interest in his wife and goes a-philandering at every opportunity. Meantime, his wife - surrounded by any amount of available masculinity - does likewise. She opts for his top sergeant on this occasion. There's a new transfer to his company who is a bugler and capable boxer, but who has forsworn boxing on account of blinding his friend in the past. He won't box for the company, so his CO decides to give him grief. Whilst on leave he gets the hots for a sort of club-hostess down town. Meantime his friend makes an enemy of the stockade sergeant, only to get thrown in the stockade. That's about it.I don't mean to trivialise it. Crikey; this movie won 8 Oscars including Best Picture for 1953. There's a top-drawer cast of the day including Burt Lancaster, Frank Sinatra and Deborah Kerr. They all play their parts to perfection. It's just that the minutiae of US military life has never interested me at all, and neither has (other people's) sexual infidelity. Every character takes themselves far too seriously for my tastes. I wouldn't have fitted in to their lifestyles at all. But Zinnemann gives us a very believable, claustrophobic presentation of the pettiness and triviality of human endeavour, and non of it is particularly flattering.It's Hawaii. And it's set as a prelude to the attack on Pearl harbour. The attack comes. We see about 4 planes fly over. That's about it. And that's what I mean about pettiness & trivia; the most outrageous sneak attack in modern history that led to thousands of American casualties and the loss of all the capital ships of USA's Pacific fleet (less aircraft carriers) is little more than a footnote in a movie that both agonises and luxuriates about desire & adultery for over an hour and a half. The priorities seem confused.Still; you pays yer money and takes yer choice. It's a magnificent movie about the littleness of human purpose. And it ain't my scene. "},{"Title":"A Fine Showcase for Montgomery Clift","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In 1941 Hawaii, a private is cruelly punished for not boxing on his unit's team, while his captain's wife and second in command are falling in love.This film is all Clift, and his homosexuality. Clift's character refuses to fight, is accused of being a lone wolf... his lack of manliness is evident. This is again a curiosity when Sinatra asks Clift, do you have any prejudices against girls? Clift's sexy bugle playing is very homoerotic with the way he thrusts his hips at the other men. Harry Cohn resisted the idea of casting Montgomery Clift as Prewitt as he was no soldier, no boxer and probably a homosexual. Fred Zinnemann refused to make the film without him. And now we have this classic story of a gay man at Pearl Harbor.I love the emotions during the iconic beach scene, which fluctuates between romantic and antagonistic, vacillating between playfully suggesting a woman is a man-eater and outright calling her a floozy. "},{"Title":"Another Best Picture Classic","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have a little confession that I simply need to say, I rented a TV show by accident over at the video store and didn't realize until I got home, I went back and said that it was a broken DVD and exchanged the DVD for this movie, WHEW! That felt so good! Gosh, I felt like I was going to burn in H-E-double hockey sticks for that if I didn't get that out. D Sorry, I just always talk about in the first paragraph how I came across the movie, so that's the story. But anywho, I just finished From Here to Eternity, the timeless classic that was before An Officer and a Gentleman and I have to say that I really did enjoy this movie.A private, played by Cliff, is brutally treated badly by his army crew since he refuses to fight, boxing, for them. He falls in love with this hired lady to entertain the army men and she falls for him, finding herself in jeopardy of her job with an AWOL private who is now on the run for murder! Also, the second in command chief is falling for the captain's distressed wife and they have a very steamy affair that they find themselves getting deeper and deeper into trouble with.From Here to Eternity was such a great film for the simple fact of how honest it was. I was thinking about film classics today when a friend and I were discussing it and I mentioned how they are so different from today's films, they seem so acted, but not over done, and they were never ashamed. They did the best they could and these films were made to be good, not to make money or get famous. That's what makes From Here to Eternity a great film to watch, we need more films like this today! 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Rule of Threes","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  My own estimation is that this is a pretty poor movie cinematically, with the exception of  the then-shocking juicy exuberance of the beach scene.But it is crackling good storytelling and that overcomes the wooden direction and  uninspired acting.I'm a believer in the power of structure in stories. Here we have the rule of three in two  dimensions.We have the three stories that unfold in the first part-The story of base strumpet Karen Holmes and her illicit affair with her husband's  inferior-The story of a retired fighter and bugler who would rather fight the system, and who  also falls for a whore, though the movie waters her down to a `dance hostess'-The story of the Italian impulsive who gets trapped in system in a way mirroring the  fighter and is thereby killed.These three stories intermingle in controlled ways the sergeant plays a key role in two,  the fighter in two.  In both cases their role in one story contradicts or opposes their role in the other the  reluctant fighter in one thread is passive, in the other is a killer. The sergeant in one  thread is the colonel's patsy, in the other he cuckolds the colonel.There are two women, both promiscuous, but for opposite reasons one because she  cannot have a proper family and the other because she desires one.Wheels turn with carefully machined interlacing, and we follow each one. That's the first  part. All during this, we know that  an external force will break the machine. It comes and is treated as a story segment in its  own right. But it is just heavy punctuation. Both affairs have ended. The Italian has been  killed and his killer killed and his killer in turn killed. End of act two.What makes this novel in my mind is the very odd and short act three. The two endearing  sluts are on a boat together, and Alma herself tells a story. I believe in a law of film  stories that I discover in hundreds of films the story IN the film - even a simple, short  story  as we have here - is precisely as abstracted from the story OF the film as the film is  from the reality of the viewers in the audience. That's what we have here, and it really  highlights and cements the memory of what we have seen before.But don't see this for any cinematic values the direction, camerawork (except for that  beach scene), acting and production design is ordinary, even tepid. Its the fabric of the  story here, and it pulls us like a tractor.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Oh so sordid","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I was acutely struck by how many similarities this movie shares with The English Patient. Both are revolve around illicit affairs. Both take place in World War II. Both were critics' darlings and won a ridiculous amount of Academy Awards. And both are incredibly sordid.But enough about The English Patient--let's move on to this movie.From Here to Eternity is said to be the definitive movie on Pearl Harbor. Hmmm, maybe if you're talking about more than the battle, which only took up the last 10-15 minutes of the movie. But this movie is really more about the two sorry affairs taking place the one between Sgt. Warden (Lancaster) and his captain's wife, Karen Holmes (Herr); and the other between Private Prewitt (Clift) and Lorene (Reed), a worker at a gentleman's-club-sort-of-place.Maybe I was misled in my expectations, but I thought a movie from the '50s would be a lot more cheerful than this. I expected a rousing, well-made movie to watch with my parents, who only like upbeat productions of a rather brief length. This movie was the exact opposite. It was highly depressing, and when it comes to sordidness, only The English Patient passes it in my books. This movie was 118 minutes, but by the time my mom and I reached the end I felt like we were closing in on three hours instead of two. My dad left the room long before out of disinterest, and, though we rarely see eye-to-eye with the kinds of movies I watch, for once I couldn't blame him.Take all the stigma attached to an Oscar-winning movie, then get rid of all the positive aspects associated with that stigma. What's left is a movie rather like From Here to Eternity--well-made in a purely technical sense, great acting, a good deal of nascent talent, but an overall depressing work that is quite downtrodden and never really elicits sympathy. And, after considering my comparisons between this movie and The English Patient, you come to realize that this sort of story has been told a million times before. Really, if you've watched one movie about a sordid affair of illicit love, you've watched them all. "}{"Title":"A war film well worth seeing despite a casting problem","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a very good wartime soap opera--with a stronger emphasis on love than on war. The film stars a strong cast and all try very hard to make this an exceptional film. Burt Lancaster was very good as the 1st sergeant and Frank Sinatra was surprisingly good as a hot-headed G.I.--so much so, that this film rescued his flagging film career. The female love interests of Donna Reed and Deborah Kerr were also good--and Ms. Kerr did a good job of creating an American accent. However, for the life of me I cannot understand the decision to cast Montgomery Clift as Private Prewitt. While he was generally a good actor and did well in movies such as THE SEARCH, he was totally wrong for this part. I am assuming his recent popularity was the sole reason he was given this part, because physically he was all wrong. Clift played a guy who was supposedly a great middle-weight boxer--despite him being a very thin and delicate man who looked like he would have had a hard time beating Ms. Reed in a fight, let alone beat up two savage sergeants like he did in the movie. This appears to be yet another case of someone being cast for a role purely because he was a hot commodity at the time.Fortunately, aside from one bad casting decision, the film was excellent--blending romance and wartime well and making for a very entertaining film. While not as great as you might expect from a film that earned so many Oscars, it is nevertheless an exceptional film.FYI--The Japanese planes in the movie are actually American Texan trainers and SBD Dauntless bombers. Apparently there weren't any flight-worthy Japanese planes available, so the airplanes attacking Pearl Harbor are American ones! "},{"Title":"Hey, this movie holds up. But, there's a boom shadow in the beginning....","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I watched this last night. I've been watching movies for 30 years and always thought this would be a stinker. Figured, since all I ever saw was that shot on the beach, it must be a clunky 'we're all going to die' love story. But, whadddaya know. Sometimes 'they' are right. This is a good movie. Got yer rebel with a cause, the authoritative machine that wants to break him. Hey, for 1953 that was racy, anti-authoritarianism! Granted, the Army redeems itself. Good gallows humor, might even say plain dark at times. There's jokes made even while they're under attack. Those jokes don't play today, but would 'United 93' offer up something so human? I doubt it. Oh, and when Burt Lancaster and the new kid are walking across the lawn in the beginning of the movie, that shadow on Burt's leg is the sound man's boom. Dead giveaway is that it's a sharp shadow - meaning far from the source, and it stays with him. Not a big gaff, but one that would get a soundman fired in 1953. "},{"Title":"Does anyone realize how Homo all of this is?","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie last night at a theater-- part of Columbia's re-releasing their movies on the AFI top 100. It's a decent war movie, but I was surprised at the strong homosexual subtext. The men here look like they've just stepped out of a Tom of Finland cartoon (particularly Burt Ultra Babe Lancaster) and the camera loves them, their bodies and their uniforms-- while barely taking the time to show the women at all.Then there's the story, in which both men end up leaving the women they would have liked to marry because they are so concerned about each other. Deborah Kerr even says to Lancaster, after he interrupts his telling her he won't marry her to look for Montgomery Clift-- You're already married. And the scene in which Clift gets drunk, sits down in the road next to Lancaster, and Lancaster begins slowly running his fingers through Clift's hair-- that's where the real love in this story is. The film ends with the two jilted women leaving the island together.You may think I'm sullying or cheapening this movie by implying this homosexual subtext-- but if you do, remember it's YOU who feel that homosexuality is sullied and cheap-- I never said that. I'm just pointing out an aspect of this film I've never heard discussed before, that I think is really right there and is an integral part to why the film works and is so moving.--- Check out website devoted to bad, cheesy and gay movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"From Start to Infinty","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie does such a poor job of setting up its timeframe (It was made in '56.) that I thought it was taking place during the war, and I kept waiting for the We're shipping out storyline to kick in. I kept thinking, some war movie... Where's the war? Maybe there was a title that fixed the date, and I missed it. Maybe the book was so well known they thought a title card wasn't needed. Eventually, I thought the story must only be about the routine goings-on at a peacetime barracks. You can't blame me. Nobody ever mentions the war (!) and there really isn't much going on in the movie. Then at the last minute, the Japanese attack. Would you make a 2-plus hour movie that included Pearl Harbor and toss it away as a 4 minute sequence? The concerns of three soldiers and two whores whose fates are torn asunder by the war are small potatoes; the very smallest way to tell a story about WW2. Foregrounding these trivial stories and pushing Pearl Harbor to the rear is positively bizarre. Lancaster is good, as is Clift, but every one of the plentiful funny drunk scenes in this is cringe-inducing and heinously acted. If you're going to be deep about about emotions, why not film the actual effects of alcoholism, instead of pretending drunks are charming? Ditto for annoying scenes of white people trying on black culture (blues music) in a bid for authenticity - just embarrassing. They Were Expendable also features a cringe-inducing, half-assed blues tune. The story lines are trifling and not blended well. As Clift gets gunned down near the end, I'm asking, that's your big ending? Deborah Kerr's bad girl is about as ridiculous as Tom Hanks bad guy (Road to Perdition)... you know a plot-point that excuses everything will be forthcoming, so a hopelessly wholesome actor can save face. Donna Reed as a hooker is another absurdity. Sinatra got an Oscar for playing this flimsy goof? "},{"Title":"What the...","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  How in burning hell did this movie get such a high rating? It's totally confused about where to go and there's no definite story. Is it the star powr or simply the gaudy 'romance' (if I can call it that) scenes?what right do people have to put it in the war movies section just because the setting is a military camp in hawaii during the pearl harbour attacks? "},{"Title":"It's okay but not the best","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Though I would say I liked Frank Sinatra's character the best I'm not sure I would have given him the Oscar for it had it been up to me. I would have given it to Montgomery Clift the Oscar had it been up to me. Then again I wasn't alive in 1953. I don't really think it was all the movie it was made out to be. And there was way too much drinking and smoking in it. I know it was the time period but they could have done without as much of it. But I think it wasn't all that bad. Montogmery was differently the star of the movie and should have been rewarded for it. I don't think that he got top billing and I think that he should have. He was the star and everyone else was just extra. "},{"Title":"Movie, like a movie","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" George Reeves .... Sgt. Maylon Stark (uncredited)Too bad, George was taken out from this movie. There were few first screenings, when kids and others saw Reeves they shouted Superman, and they cut reasonable portion out, movie is boring but could have been better with Reeves and it was a mistake they cut that part out.I've heard he did it real good... From here to eternity could have been better if there was more plot, I did rent the movie, but as a Reeves fan, nothing interesting to see... And even though he may be credited, there are many scenes they could add now, for new edition...For example, everything they cut out... Movie is too long anyways! "}]