[{"Title":"The best comedy western musical romance this side of Chicagee!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Calamity Jane (Doris Day) is the tom-cowboy to end all tom-cowboys, known for her feisty attitude and tallish tales of fighting Indians. When saloon/theater owner Henry Miller (Paul Harvey) is faced with angry Deadwood residents because he tries to pass off a man in drag as the attractive New York actress he promised (he made the mistake based on the actor's name), Calam promises to go to Chicagee and bring back an actress all of the men are going gaga for because of her picture on cigarette cards.Director David Butler's Calamity Jane delivers on many ends--it's a musical featuring catchy songs, many sung by one of the greatest songstresses of her era, Doris Day, and a few incredibly choreographed; it's a frequently hilarious comedy; it's suspenseful in quite a few scenes (usually through realistic dramatic tension); it's a beautifully shot western with fantastic sets; and in the end, it's a grand romance.Day carries the film with her unusual, enjoyable, amusingly butch character. She plays Calamity Jane with boundless energy and physical aplomb--you wouldn't catch many modern film performers doing some of the stunts that Day does here. Butler usually keeps the camera close enough to Day that you can see it's her--she hasn't been supplanted with a stuntperson, and during one bit of choreography, Butler has Day jumping and flipping over bars and being taken up to a second story balcony and set back down with lots of uninterrupted takes. Most modern directors would break up the choreography into a series of relatively easy steps, creating physics defying agility through clever cutting. Day has to perform the steps as if she were doing the number on a Broadway stage.Calamity and most of the rest of Deadwood, South Dakota are funny because of their backwoods naivety. That can be a difficult thing to sell to viewers, but when Francis Fryer (Dick Wesson) almost gets away with his necessary cross-dressing shtick, it's believable. Calamity's trip to Chicago has some particularly hilarious moments. The humor also works as well as it does because the two men who are the later romantic interests, Wild Bill Hickok (Howard Keel) and Lieutenant Danny Gilmartin (Philip Carey), are the primary ones who seem to have a more objective perspective on the town's gullibility and Calamity's tall tales (although there are hints that their skepticism is not so uncommon).Many viewers are most attracted to the film because of its evolution into a romance in the last act. Day's transformation in this section is handled expertly--if you watch her closely, she never quite loses her Calamity tomboyishness, but she also makes more than just a physical transformation. But it's not just Day who is excellent--all of the performances in the film are good.For me, Calamity Jane is one of the most successful combinations of comedy and a still serious western. It's everything that Cat Ballou (1965) should have been, but mostly fell flat with. Don't miss it if you're a fan of either musicals or good-natured westerns. "},{"Title":"There is still reason to applaud the movie's colorful production and irrepressible high spirits&#133;","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" From her first appearance aboard the stagecoach, singing Deadwood Stage, Doris Day dominates the movie in exuberant&#151;possibly too exuberant&#151;fashion, with strong assistance from Howard Keel and his virile voice&#133; Returning home from a visit to Chicago, Day gives her account of the Windy City in a song that suggests Oklahoma!'s Kansas City in more ways than the title&#133; Her quarrelsome duet with Wild Bill&#151;I Can Do Without You&#151;echoes Annie Oakley's competitive duet with Frank Butler in Annie Get Your Gun.But one song is all Doris Day's&#151;and the film's&#151;very own walking through the countryside on a beautiful morning, Calamity realizes that she loves Bill, and in a voice exuding warmth and tender feeling, she sings the Academy Award-winning song Secret Love. "},{"Title":"A sure cure for the blues!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  `Calamity Jane' is a film I love to take from the shelves when I'm feeling blue. It's so exuberant, so joyous, and so colourful that it cannot help but cheer you up!Doris Day plays the role of her career as the rambunctious `Calam', the wildcat tomboy of Deadwood City. The fun starts when Calamity is sent to the `windy city' of Chicago to find a vaudeville beauty who will perform at the local bar. Instead of the genuine article, Calamity ends up with the star's ambitious maid, Katie, who decides to make her stab at fame in the star's place. Together, the two find fun, love, and a whole lot of catchy tunes.Sure, the fascinating real-life historical figure Calamity Jane didn't look much like Doris Day - let alone Howard Keel, who is the last person you'd describe as `wild' - and Jane's transformation from independent homesteader to blushing housewife isn't what you'd call P.C., but if you're looking for reality, head to the Martin Scorsese section. This is  light-as-a-feather entertainment done very well, and I can't help but love it! "},{"Title":"Whip Crack Away, Whip Crack Away, Whip Crack Away","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I defy anyone not to like this musical and Doris Day's infectious portrayal of Calamity Jane. Even those who did not later like her later characterizations as the All American virgin have to give her musical talent it's due. When she opens up the movie with The Deadwood Stage number the viewer is immediately caught up in the whole lighthearted spirit of the movie.It was interesting that Warner Brothers got Howard Keel from MGM to play opposite Doris. After all they did have Gordon MacRae at Warners and he and Doris had done a few successful films together.Possibly the reason is to see what the public missed when Doris did not play opposite Keel in Annie Get Your Gun. She wanted the part of Annie Oakley very badly, but a deal with MGM couldn't be made. I think this might have been Jack Warner's mea culpa to her.The duet that Howard and Doris sing I Can Do Without You is certainly inspired by Irving Berlin's Anything You Can Do. Imagine Keel singing it with Doris instead of Betty Hutton.In fact Doris's whole character is ripped off from Annie Get Your Gun. But I really don't care because she does such a fabulous job.Sammy Fain's and Paul Francis Webster's score for Calamity Jane isn't as top heavy with hits as Annie Get Your Gun, but it did provide Doris with one of her best songs and biggest movie hits up to that time. Secret Love won the Oscar for Best Song of 1953 and her singing of it is primo. In the early sixties Doris Day did an album of the songs from Annie Get Your Gun with Robert Goulet playing Frank Butler and a whole ensemble for the other parts. Now that was a great album and it should have been a great flick. They really unfortunately don't make them like this any more or even a fraction as good. "},{"Title":"good old Doris ...","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ... who else could put across the Deadwoodstageis number like Doris Day in the opening sequences of this wonderful movie?  Right through to her mushy ballad 'Secret Love' she is perfect for the role of the butch cowgirl who gets a feminine makeover and snares her shooting buddy (the excellent Howard Keel, in fine voice here).  Doris was a true star, a great actress and singer, game for a laugh and a pretty blonde who transcended her rather trite public image through her talent.  Calamity Jane is possibly her best work, and certainly one of the best musical movies of the 1950s (against some pretty stiff competition).  They might be making musicals again, but they won't make them quite like this. "},{"Title":"Doris Day's shining hour","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In the early fifties, Hollywood had to find a way to  draw audiences who were staying home and watching  television, and Calamity Jane was one of the best  musical efforts to get them into the theaters.  This  movie's redeeming quality is its high spirits.  They  never let up.  The Deadwood community that James  O'Hanlon rustles up is a motley bunch of soldiers,  scouts, prospectors and farmers, and they all have a  good time giving one another a hard time--none more  so than the title character played by Doris Day.   Her performance probably owes something to Betty  Hutton's Annie Oakley, and it looks an awful lot  like what Billie Hayes and Irene Ryan had been doing  years afterwards, but Day dons a buckskin suit and  tears right into the role like it was a tailor's  fit.  I don't think I have to go into the rumor about the  real Calamity Jane to point out how daring Day's  work is.  Hollywood might have sanitized history (or  maybe not), but Day is as close to being Martha Jane  Canary as anyone is likely to be in a time when drag  acts were something no one ever talked about.  And  she is lucky to have some of the best movie music of  that year (or maybe any year when you consider what  now passes for good).  Sammy Fain and John Francis  Webster took the Oscar for best song, yet the ones  that weren't in the running are every bit as good.How can you pass up a musical that delivers the  deeply satisfying baritone of Howard Keel?  When he  bursts out with joy in Higher than a Hawk, the  light from the screen surges, and you feel like  you're resting on a sunlit cloud right next to his.   His smile matches Day's for brightness, and as they  ride through the Black Hills singing harmony, even  the birds seemed to have stopped to listen.  It's a  beautiful pairing that I don't think ever happened  again.Calamity Jane may not be everyone's cup of tea.   If you're looking for history, this is not the place  to go.  But stop by, and Day and Keel and Dick  Wesson and Allyn Ann McLerie and Paul Harvey and  company will more than tickle your fancy.  They'll  keep you humming for days.Directed by David Butler who has given us over the  years a string of felicitous moments to remember  from Will Rogers in A Connecticut Yankee, to Jane Withers in Bright Eyes, to the Ritz Brothers in Kentucky Moonshine, to Bob Hope in Road to Morocco, to S.Z. Sakall in Lullaby of Broadway and on and on and on.     "},{"Title":"Mighty Pretty","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  For a film that is fifty years old 'Calamity Jane' still entertains. It is usually compared unfavorably to 'Annie Get Your Gun' but I always enjoy this more. Doris Day dominates the film; dressed in buckskin or in frills, toting a gun or wielding a broom, belting out a song or doing a pratfall. Certainly a high point of her varied career. Her sheer energy is breath taking and it is no wonder that the rest of the cast seem subdued in comparison. Even Howard Keel is a bit wooden. The songs are great, scattered through the uncomplicated plot like jewels, from the bouncy 'Deadwood Stage' to the combative 'I Can Do Without You' to the under rated 'High As A Hawk' and climaxing with the anthemic 'Secret Love'. 'A Woman's Touch' is not proof to our modern cynicism (for good reason) but it is still jolly song.Looking back we can give other readings of the film; the cross dressing, the gay resonances, the treatment of the native Americans, the ownership of land. Which may all be true but it is basically what it is, a colourful and tuneful film that can be enjoyed time after time. It is mighty pretty and on its own terms pretty mighty. "},{"Title":"singing dancing and innocence","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Calamity Jane with Doris Day was my first experience with musicals. i was so entranced I talked my mother into letting me stay to watch it again. I was left with an unknown women who had come to watch the next showing. (Something unheard of in this day!) The sheer joy of the singing, dancing and innocence of a time past is something that is sorely missed today.Doris Day's Calamity Jane is a story of love between men and women and women and women during a time when this love was innocent and people did not worry that someone might look at it in a sexual way. Women could hold hands and hug to support each other in happiness as well as grief.Songs like 'Secret Love' and 'Take Me Back to the Black Hills' are beautiful even to the audiences today. this type of music will never die. "},{"Title":"This movie is a gem.","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This movie is a diamond. Simply shines. Doris Day is wonderful. 1953 women were treated as morons. She was ahead of her time. Thank goodness. Each song actually moves the story along. Each song has a good tune. So it is very easy to watch and enjoy. IT is uplifting. It is entertaining. What more can you ask for?? It has become a tradition on my birthday, to watch this movie. My Dad was the one who pointed out what a gem it was. Because it is a costume piece it is timeless. I have to admit I am a died in the wool Doris Day fan. Always will be. I can not even imagine who could play this part half as well now? Open to suggestions. Trust me this movie is a hoot. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I saw Calamity Jane as a kid in 1963 and it immediately became one of my all time favorite movies. It has stood the test of time, and still remains among my favorites. At the time that I first saw Calamity Jane I could identify with the character because, like 'Calam', I was somewhat of a tomboy myself although I was totally in love with some of the good looking on screen cowboys of that era. Doris and Howard Keel did an excellent job in this movie and their voices were second to none! Secret Love still makes my heart sing and Deadwood Stage will always be a toe tapper for me. Even at the ripe old age of 55, Calamity Jane is still one of my favorite movies. It is a must see for people who love the romantic westerns of the 1950's. Of course it is among my collection of VHS favorites. My husband and children are also fans. "}{"Title":"If you see only one Doris Day movie -","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Make it this one ! With so many wonderful performances to pick from, I think of this as her best performance. She is so dynamic and alive in this role.It's a very cute story. The supporting cast members are all excellent. It's a beautiful movie to look at. The songs are wonderful. They're infectious. I love the Deadwood Stage - Whip crack away ! It's not just one of the best Doris Day musicals - it's one of the very best musicals on film. Doris Day is an amazing powerhouse. She looks incredible in her leather outfit and stunningly beautiful in her dress for the ball. There's a wonderful scene where she transforms a run-down cabin into a darling cottage while singing a merry song. Not very realistic, but that's why musicals are so fun. I now call Chicago Chi-caw-gee because of this movie. Really cute. Don't miss. "},{"Title":"Whip Crackaway! Here comes the Deadwood Stage!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Bursting with rollicking songs, 'Calamity Jane' starts with a brisk opening number, The Deadwood Stage that sets the tone for the jaunty, ear-pleasing musical numbers to follow--with Doris Day and Howard Keel in top form making each song a sheer delight. Day has fun with her role as the tomboy heroine who mistakenly brings the wrong actress to Deadwood--but in true musical fashion, both women end up with a man of their own. The score is splendid with 'Secret Love' given a great interpretation by Day (both vocally and visually). But the other songs are equally worth listening to Higher Than A Hawk, The Black Hills of Dakota, A Woman's Touch (one of the catchiest numbers), and, of course, Just Blew In From The Windy City in which Day's singing and dancing talents are in high gear. Watch how gracefully she performs the lifts to the balcony, never missing a beat. Even though the story is nothing less than preposterous, the cast is so expert they make you forget the unrealities of the script. Just sit back and enjoy!! When Day and Keel lift their voices in song, they can do no wrong.  "},{"Title":"Huge smile guaranteed!","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Calamity Jane is a wonderful way to lose yourself. We have three daughters who love this a lot.Great, great fun all so professionally packaged that you just lose yourself in the moment.Great tunes, a great looking cast, and sets, and above all an enormous sense that everyone was really enjoying themselves while making this, make Calamity Jane one of the best musicals for escapist entertainment.Very easy to watch, and nothing that would shock a six year old it is impossible not to be carried away by Doris Day's and Howard Keel's performances.While it won't change the world, it will make it a brighter place instantly.Recommended to bring a genuine smile to anyone's face. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I absolutely LOOOOVE calamity jane and i always have since i first got hold of it,its oh so cheerful! doris day is so beautiful and legendary and howard keel is handsome and talented.the songs are all great and/or beautiful.i saw this movie as a young kid and i think i know it word for word including the songs.i really do!i wore out the video cassette! my favourite part of the whole movie is when they are on the way to the dance and calamity is wearing that old coat that custors gave her.i love that song take me back to the blackhills....but it is the best scene of all when calamity takes off her jacket and she is so so stunning, and when bill looks at her he doesn't realise at first thats its her.his face is priceless when he does realise.she really steals the show at the dance...i love it.it is the ultimate makeover movie without question.i will watch this movie one day with my kids and they most likely will love it as much as i do "},{"Title":"The rare, elusive, original-to-film musical.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The film is marvelous, but it's been dissected to death; consequently, I can't add any comment you haven't already heard. Lovely Technicolor cinematography of the outdoor frontier and rich period costuming enhances this top-notch cornucopia of story, score, and songs- including 'The Deadwood Stage,' 'I Can Do Without You,' 'Windy City,' 'The Subject of Harry,' and 'Secret Love.' Two special moments for me are Howard Keel singing 'Higher Than A Hawk' to the portrait of Allyn McLerie, and 'A Woman's Touch,' which shows McLerie and Doris Day become sisters in solidarity. They clean the house (in fact, renovate it) while discovering Calamity's femininity at the same time. They joke, they bond, and at the end of the scene our heroine is in a dress and quite the looker. There's no shocking sexist message here; it's a musical showing how a woman gets her man. I don't think in 1953 you could've asked for more. On the other hand, most of Day's scenes with Keel are a locked-horns battle of the sexes- absolutely no question. They compliment each other beautifully- from 'I Can Do Without You', right up to their nearly romantic duet of 'The Black Hills of Dakota.' Enjoy the film again, and look between the lines- some of it is quite timeless. "},{"Title":"Not perhaps a classic but good fun - and Secret Love is sublime","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A rollicking musical western, featuring Doris Day and Howard Keel both singing their hearts out. It's a simple story and none the worse for that. Above all it's a vehicle for Doris Day - showcasing that sparkling voice. The opening sequence is memorably vibrant and her exuberance also comes to the fore in Windy City. Howard Keel has a fine solo but perhaps the most memorable moment is Doris's rendition of Secret Love. This whole sequence has a serenity that is absent from the rest of the film and Doris wears a wonderfully elegant shirt and trouser combination - which shows that a more casual look - a very simple outfit- is what makes a lady look her best. I find it amusing that designer gowns about which so much fuss is made in the media and whose labels and creators are so over praised are here comprehensively put in the shade. These few minutes of film show how bogus the fashion industry is! "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Original Screen Musicals.","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 55 years ago there were only a few musicals on Broadway, there were few Broadway road show tours, and there were very few local theater groups; but what they did have -- and we ain't got no more -- is original screen musicals. CALAMITY JANE was one of the best.......Forget that clean cut nice girl DORIS DAY was nothing like the real booze soaked, filthy, ugly-as-sin Calamity --- just kick back and enjoy the most hootin' tootin' shootin' musical you ever did see. The story is rapid fire, the music is truly memorable (one of the best ever written for the screen) and the performances by top flight musical stars are just perfect.DORIS DAY was one of the stars I call legless. Oh, she was bound to have legs, my guess is two, but despite her high powered dance numbers in this film there are no legs to drool over. Just like Janet Leigh and Debra Paget, Miss Day stayed covered. Aw, shucks! I hadn't seen a movie musical (the most stone cold dead genre) in decades; but I started humming the songs from memory when HBO did the Deadwood series. Calamity Jane is available on DVD and is worth your time and $1.35. Rent it and enjoy the best. "},{"Title":"Calamity Jane  transforms into Doris Day","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This was Doris Day's answer to Anne Get Your Gun, which she had hoped to star in, but was contracted to the wrong studio. Although both the real Calamity Jane and Annie Oakley are icons of womanly expertise with the supposedly manly skill of sharpshooting in the Wild West, their personalities and lives couldn't have been more different. Annie was actually an Ohioan Quaker. She married young and forever. Her only connection with the Wild West was her participation in touring Wild West shows. Calamity was a true independent frontier woman in the Wild West. When she began scouting for the US Army, she began wearing male attire. In addition, she exhibited the common manly traits of hard drinking, fearlessness, swearing and fabricating or embellishing some of her daring exploits. Her love life is shadowy and she sometimes served as a prostitute. It's clear she thought more of Bill Hickok than any other man, but he was newly remarried during the time she knew him.In the first act of the film, Doris gives us a songful dramatization of the essential features of Calamity's personality. As in the film. most men seem to have accepted the real Calamity as an equal or better in her manly skills. Then, things get purely fanciful, as she becomes embroiled in two scandals involving a famous Broadway star Adelaid Adams. First, Adelaid's effeminate male agent(Dick Wesson) is forced by circumstances to dress in drag and assume Adelaid's identity on stage. Then, Adelaid's maid, Katie, who claims to be Adelaid, is brought by Calamity to Deadwood. Everyone is furious when her deceit is discovered on stage. But, miraculously, she quickly learns to put on a good performance, with Calamity's backing. Then, everyone loves her for her spunk. Calamity's relationship with Katie, as with Bill Hickok, continues to be a roller-coaster ride.A few reviewers read lots of lesbian overtones into this performance, especially the relationship between Calamity and Katie. It was even suggested that Calamity's Secret Love refers to Katie. Yes, Calamity got a clear invitational signal from that passerby in Chicago, but Calamity seemed perplexed. I don't buy Calamity and Katie as a lesbian couple. Katie's moving in with Calamity in her rustic cabin served the function of teaching Calamity how to be feminine, so that Bill Hickok or whoever could think of her as marriage material. She even gets Calamity to don a beautiful dress some of the time. In the finale, Calamity is transformed into a traditional-looking bride. Thus, one gets the clear impression that the contemporary message of this film was for Rosie the Riveter, who had taken on traditional male jobs during the last world war, to return to her traditional feminine roles, if she wanted to land the man of their dreams.I don't want to further compare this film with Anne Get Your Gun, except to say that they were both great musicals, with a corny story line that bore only superficial resemblance to the reality of the icons they supposedly represented. I like Betty Hutton as well as Doris, and Howard Keel was a great singing companion for both, if his character bore no resemblance to the man he supposedly portrayed. In both films, it's not hard to tell that he had experience doing Oklahoma on Broadway.Besides these 2 musicals, there were a number of basically non-musical films also released in the early '50s that featured feisty women of bygone eras in roles traditionally reserved for men. This includes Jane Russell as an outlaw leader in Montana Belle, Maureen O'Hara as a pirate captain in Against All Flags, and Maureen again , as the 'town boss' in Comanche Territory. I found all of these entertaining. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Amazing","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" this was so amazing. my new aim is to star in this show as Calamity. it was such a bright and lively movie with some of the most catchy music i've heard from a musical in ages. i loved Doris day in it - her facial expressions were amazing. i tell you, i am so addicted to it - i watched it four times in a row after the first time i saw it. and after that, i already know the whole thing off by heart - i annoy all my friends on the bus by singing every single song each morning. but really, its such a great family movie and it's got something to offer everyone. this movie is one of those have to see before you die movies. its amazing!!! luv lots xxxx "},{"Title":"A fun movie to relax and enjoy","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Having seen Calamity Jane again after many years, I found it every bit as enjoyable as the other times I  have viewed it. Not a film that in any way adheres to history, it is enjoyable just for the fun of the plot and the expertise of the actors.This was the perfect vehicle for Doris Day, exhibiting her many talents, visual, athletic and vocal to the limit.  Her exuberance overshadows the sometimes silly storyline, her voice was at its best and Howard Keel was the (sometimes wooden) perfect foil for her character.  So - it was politically incorrect in part? So - the story was ridiculous and at times improbable (eg the woman's touch that changed the cabin from Hollywood drab to something impossibly feminine and twee) - who cares! This was a movie made for enjoyment, the leads looked pretty and there was a happy ending. Can one ask for more?I fully recommend this movie to anyone who wants to be entertained and not to ask any questions. "}{"Title":"Cracking Stuff","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A good hearted fifties original film musical with Doris Day and Howard Keel in splendid form. The film showcases how good a musical actress Doris Day was before, now derided, her turn as the eternal virgin in a series of sixties comedies. Singing, dancing and upfront acting without a hint of ironic post modernisms, Day convinces you of a rural tomboy called Calamity Jane - hunting, shooting, fighting and singing/dancing - who realises she has to become a proper woman to get a man!! Her energy is infectious and she almost puts Keel into the shade with such a bravura performance. The songs (not too many, they only filled a 10 inch LP!) are memorable, reaching from the boisterous 'Whip, crack away' to the lyrical 'Secret Love' and crashing into the pop charts of the day! The only quibble is that the musical numbers are staged like stage musicals with the performers almost waiting for the applause after finishing singing with a few seconds of looking at the screen doing nothing soaking up the adulation! "},{"Title":"Ann Miller - uncredited ???","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In the extended cast list, Ann Miller is listed as the woman in red (uncredited) that Calamity bumps into in Chicago, on the way to see Adilade Adams. I have slow-motioned and freeze-framed the DVD dozens of times, but it doesn't look like Ann Miller to me. At the time of filming, she would have been fairly busy at MGM, filming Kiss me Kate and Small Town Girl, so what would she have been doing on the Warrner Bros lot? Has anyone focused on this? As a big Ann Miller fan, I'd be glad to hear from anyone who has some info. An excellent, undemanding musical and, although the main songs are all very good, I find I keep returning to Francis Fryer's I've got a hive full of honey and Katy's nervous, then confident versions of Keep it under your hat for a good laugh and enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Doris Shines As Calamity Jane","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Doris Day plays an unrefined tomboy who is handy with a gun and learns about refinement on the way to finding romance and singing some hit songs. If that sounds like a rehash of 1950's successful Annie Get Your Gun, it's probably no coincidence. And both starred Howard Keel as the male lead.Even if Calamity Jane can't match the array of notable, classic tunes that Annie Get Your Gun boasts, it can an stand on its own as a solid musical with songs by Sammy Fain and lyrics by Paul Francis Webster. In fact, the film relies mostly on its music and the wholesomely talented Miss Day to make its mark.Ms. Day, besides displaying her usual enthusiasm while singing the film's musical numbers, including its best song Secret Love, also plays the role of Calamity with a physicality that deserves special praise. Not only does she adapt a carriage that rings true for a woman who tries to be manlier than any man, but she also talks the talk and performs stunts that most actresses would hesitate to consider.The other major female character, Katie Brown, is portrayed by Allyn Ann McLerie (in only her fourth screen credit). Ms. McLerie holds her own with Doris and has a presence that seems to portend more leading roles in her future.Fans of fifties musicals should find what they're looking for in Calamity Jane unless they are seeking biographical truth. "},{"Title":"Even mangy groundhogs will love it","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I watched this film yesterday, after recording it the day before. It turns up on the Encore Westerns channel in a very poor washed out print. But thankfully, TCM is showing a very beautiful restored copy of it.CALAMITY JANE was Doris' favorite of all the movies she made, and it's easy to see why. So many things going for itAn Oscar nominated score, with one of the songs ('Secret Love') receiving the Oscar for song of the year-- it was a hit song on the Billboard charts for Doris.Perfect casting-- Howard Keel as the main love interest, fresh off his success in ANNIE GET YOUR GUN; the handsome Phil Carey as the military man Calamity thinks she loves; Dick Wesson in a great comic relief supporting part; and Allyn Ann McLerie as the dance hall girl wannabe (why didn't she have a greater career in movies?). Not to mention Doris herself who is having fun with the role of a lifetime.And I want to speak for a moment about Doris' acting. She is more focused in this film than in any other one I've seen her do (except maybe LOVE ME OR LEAVE ME). There is not one false note in her performance. Even when she has the most over-the-top dialogue (sputtering words or phrases like varmint, mangy groundhog and nekked heathens), she doesn't step out of character and wink once at the audience-- she knows Calamity's mannerisms and speech is supposed to be animated, but she plays it straight and that helps us develop sympathy for the character. It also helps us get caught up in what will happen to Calamity, as far-fetched as the situations may be. And around the 65-minute mark (more than halfway into the story), her transformation from tomboy to a softer more feminine western gal is handled very nicely. To sum it up, CALAMITY JANE is a solid piece of musical comedy entertainment. The preposterousness and historical inaccuracies the script conjures up can be forgiven. Any shortcomings are more than made up for by the abounding charm of the players and overall ambiance of the picture. "},{"Title":"Fun Musical That Provides a Fascinating Snapshot of Fifties Attitudes Towards Gender","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" First and foremost, CALAMITY JANE is a fun musical. The 29-year-old Doris Day thoroughly enjoys herself in the central role as a gun-totin' tomboy, the fastest draw in the city of Deadwood, South Dakota - apart from Wild Bill Hickok (Howard Keel). She demonstrates an apparently limitless capacity for telling tall stories, as well as a unique ability to ride a horse. She and Keel make a lovable double-act, especially in their song I Can Do Without You - which is of course completely ironic in tone. They clearly cannot do without one another, as proved at the end of the film when they celebrate their nuptials. Sammy Fain and Paul Francis Webster's score contains at least two classics, The Deadwood Stage (Whip Crack-Away, which opens and closes the film, and Secret Love, a typically schmaltzy Day song that topped the charts on its initial release. Yet perhaps the film's most interesting aspect today is the way in which it embodies early Fifties attitudes towards gender. Calamity Jane's decision to don male attire is perceived as something aberrant; she is tolerated by her fellow-citizens of Deadwood, but no one really takes her very seriously. It is only when she is 'educated' in feminine ways by visiting singer Katie Brown (Allyn McLerie) that she understands what her 'proper' role should be. She should accept that females (unlike males) are capricious in nature, apt to make spontaneous decisions without rhyme or reason. In a ball scene towards the end of the film, Calamity appears in a long gown, her blonde hair neatly tied at the back - the male guests stare at her in disbelief, as if they cannot believe they have a true woman within their midst. Calamity feels uncomfortable in the role, and returns briefly to her male attire; but when the citizens refuse to speak to her later on (punishing her for her decision to banish Katie from their town), she understands the error of her ways. At the film's end she wears a bridal gown and tosses her six-shooter away, in symbolic acknowledgment that she should no longer try to adopt masculine attitudes. Rather she should accept her designated role as wife and (probably) mother. "},{"Title":"sunshine","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" music, West atmosphere, Doris Day and Howard Keel.slice of a period , nice, seductive, crazy, funny.and itself. this is basic point because, in a ocean of musicals, it has its individuality not exactly for story or for songs but for charming manner of Doris Day to create her character. it is a modern fairy tale, fascinating for innocence slices and joy who has it axis. for the spirit of a childish play and for the sweet feminism. maybe, it is far to be memorable but the link between Keel and Doris is so amusing than whole chain becomes, formally, credible. it is a sunshine film and best cure for cloudy days from every windy city. "},{"Title":"Doris Day is the best.","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Doris is very energetic. She plays Calam over the top. Chicaggy-word is unique. Her deerskin getup must a-needed a-cleanin' after all-them-years of wearing it (phew!). Changing to the femi-NINE duds was a welcome change. . . . Cigar-EEEETS are another hoot.Post-war World War II 1950s and onward (yes, they made anti-Nazi movies even into 1970s-80s-etc.) . . . Tons of rustic cowboy western movies, TV shows. Annie Get Your Gun (Annie was from Ohio, which was no longer The West in the later 1800s), Calamity Jane, Annie Oakley TV show, Gunsmoke, Zorro, Rin Tin Tin, Wagon Train, The Rifleman, Circus Boy, Death Valley Days, Gene Autry, Hopalong Cassidy, Roy Rogers, Lone Ranger. Good grief -- Davy Crockett! Escapism toned down the harshness of The Cold War and McCarthyism. Musicals helped America feel good about itself. The Korean War was ending, and Americans were tired of hearing about real-life fighting and killing. Howdy Doody, Buffalo Bob and Princess Summer-Fall-Winter-Spring all wore western clothes.2013 Ya can't say Injuns no mo! It is the I-word. Women don't have to clean up the cabin or sling that hash. Times have changed. We ALL wear pants! Still, for a 60-year-old movie, the humor and music hold up well.Howard Keel was a good singer. He was a Douglas Aircraft inspector before his movie career. In two particular movies, he saw himself as a lady's man In Kiss Me Kate, he sings Where Is the Life That Late I Led?, bemoaning that his little black book is irrelevant now that he is hooking up with Kathryn Grayson. In Show Boat, he sings Only Make Believe in which he tries to woo Grayson with his worldly bravado. "},{"Title":"Onto the Deadwood Stage!","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film is one of my favourites. It is funny and touching, has great songs and superb performances. The opening song, is probably the most rousing opening song in a musical. The other songs Windy City, Secret Love Woman's touch and Take Me To The Black Hills are all outstanding and beautifully staged. The costumes and sets were fabulous too. The performances are fantastic.The always lovely Howard Keel is excellent as Wild Bill Hicock; maybe I'm biased because I can never get enough of Keel's wonderful singing voice. The scene where he dressed up as an Indian, cracked me up. But the main strength of the movie is the wonderful Doris Day, and I seriously can't imagine anyone else who can do Calamity better. She put great energy into Windy City, and Secret Love was beautiful. Her change of heart at the end was so believable, and for the songs and Day, watch this musical! 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Very winning","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This musical-western-comedy-romance (yes, it packs a lot of genres in!) is a terrific musical treat that shows star Doris Day to her best advantage. She's the lady of the title, but the Deadswood townsfolk certainly don't think this gun-toting tomboy is a lady. It takes a Woman's Touch to turn Calamity into a stunner, and by then, her best friend Wild Bill Hickok (Howard Keel)has lost his heart. Doris Day is so likable in this film-- full of charisma, talent and enthusiasm for her role. If Oscars voters in 1953 had any sense, she would have gained a nomination for her wonderful work here. This Warners Bros musical was obviously influenced by the big success of MGM's version of the stage hit Annie Get Your Gun, which also starred Howard Keel. Keel gets a similar role, perfect partner for the independent lady if they ever stop disagreeing. Keel and Day worked very well together, and their number I Could Do Without You is energetic, fun and one of the best in the film. Keel is so sexy and charming. As with Annie Get Your Gun, with Betty Hutton as the sharpshooter, Day's Calamity has to have a make-over first for men to notice her finer qualities. Yep, it's probably sexist now but I see it more as an encouragement for women to embrace their femininity, which, like it or not, is always there. I'm a tomboy myself, and I enjoyed seeing Day mix it with the boys--even if she does end up in a dress by film's end. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Musical","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of the best filmed musicals in the history of cinema. Gorgeous Technicolor cinematography and a great script, book and lyrics, along with knee-slapping gender-bending comedy routines and a stellar cast make this film a masterpiece of stylish entertainment. Doris Day gives one of the finest performances of her career as the rough-and-tumble Calamity Jane, a sharp-shootin' lass who can shoot and ride better than any man and has bravery to spare, along with other more feminine talents that she develops along the way. As Calamity learns to be a lady and wins the love of Wild Bill Hickok, this in no way diminishes her masculine side. With Howard Keel masquerading as a squaw with a baby, Doris Day running around in men's clothes, an actor who does a drag act, and a lady's maid who assumes another identity to make it on the stage, this film mixes show business, camp and glamour with the rowdy energy of the Old West like nothing you've ever seen before. Not to mention the velvety-smooth voices of Keel and Day, with some of the wittiest songs ever written! Not to be missed! "}{"Title":"One of the great all-time musicals","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Calamity Jane and Seven Brides for Seven Brothers are two of the great over-looked musicals of all time.If one knows anything about musical theatre, the score for Calamity Jane is brilliant  in its reverential homage to Oklahoma and other Broadway war horses. Each of the film's original songs is a clever clone which makes the score so delicious.This is the type of movie you can see again and again and it always remains fresh - like Seven Brides. Perhaps one day these two films will get the respect they deserve, particularly for their delightful original songs, wonderful production numbers, and snappy dialogue.And while we're on the subject, let's raise a glass in tribute to the great Howard Keel whose manly presence makes these movies work. Keel was a true he-man without every being macho obnoxious. "},{"Title":"Historical accuracy be blowed; this film rocks!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who berates this harmless musical for being way off the mark when it comes to the facts is taking it far too seriously. This is a movie about a woman who appears to have had a genius for inventing, or at the very least embellishing, her many exploits so why shouldn't Hollywood also keep a very loose reign on history? Okay, so chances are, if her path ever crossed with that of Bill Hickock (and it's a big if), then it was probably only briefly and extremely doubtful that they were ever romantically involved. I like to think though, that had the real Calam ever seen Doris Day's portrayal of her she'd have been pleased with the way her legend has been captured by the big screen and enhanced every bit as liberally as it was by her. Not to mention being, perhaps, delighted by the fact that, in the movies at least, she actually did get her man.In these politically correct times, there's also the portrayal of the Native Americans to be taken in to consideration and no doubt the PC brigade would want this film, along with just about every Western ever made, consigned to the nearest incinerator. But the truth of the matter is that, no matter how wrong they were in their outlook and treatment of the Indians, white settlers did fight them, were often terrified of them and terrorised by them, and did get into the sort of cowboys 'n' injuns scenarios portrayed in the film. It's only recently that we've come to realise that the American natives had plenty to be agrieved about and I doubt that Fifties Hollywood took this into account, let alone Calamity and her 19th century contemporaries.Anyway, enough of the politics and onto the film itself. Calamity Jane is, to my mind, one of the finest musicals that Hollywood has ever produced. The performances are a delight, the songs and singing simply beautiful, it has a sparkling script, gorgeous costumes and the cinematography is just about faultless. It has action, comedy and romance in equal measure but somehow manages, probably because of the nature of Calam's rowdy character, not to be overly sentimental or slushy (a common problem in many musicals of the same era). In a nutshell, it's simply fabulous.If you know nothing about the real Calamity Jane just sit back and enjoy this delightful film. If you do know a bit about her, suspend your disbelief, accept it for what it is and it'll probably leave you with a big grin on your face. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and great music","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Windy City is my favorite song and Calamity Jane is my favorite Doris Day film.  It's Gordon MacRae's first pairing with young Day and it is electric and was to be repeated many times.  Fans of WKRP in Cincinnati may delight in seeing Mrs. Carlson, Allyn Ann McLerie as a young woman.  Overall, a delightful piece of musical fluff. "},{"Title":"Simply the best musical ever!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film has everything - Doris Day, wonderful songs and of course the luscious Howard Keel. This remains my alltime feelgood film, and as far as I'm concerned the plot is both witty AND believable. I have lost count of the number of times I have seen Calamity Jane, but it remains as fresh as a daisy, and my knees still go weak when Howard Keel sings 'My heart is higher than a hawk...' "},{"Title":"A Great Film For Anyone and Everyone!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Being one of the best musical pairings ever, Howard Keel and Doris Day light up the screen with blazing white smiles, great looks, and voices that will knock your socks off.  This movie is definitely family friendly and a wonderful story.  This movie is one you will want to watch again and again if only to see Doris Day's wonderful preformance of Once I had a Secret Love.  The story line is funny and very unrealistic, but for an old movie musical it can't be beat.   "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly good and underrated musical","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie when it was first shown, and have had an on-screen love affair with Doris Day since, once missing a day's sleep at Thule, Greenland, to view another of her films at the base theater. More recently, I saw Calamity Jane again with a four year old girl, and she was so captivated with it that I gave her my video, and after she wore it out, gave her another. I understand that this is Doris Day's personal favorite of her films. "},{"Title":"It's Doris' favourite. The woman's got taste...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's also my favourite. She stuck out her chin and dropped her voice a little. And it doesn't get any better than this. Even Howard Keel is good. I love the songs, and I love the dancing. It makes me want to become a lady, and you can't get any higher praise than that. Ask my dad!! Doris is just truly great in this movie. I can watch it over and over again.  "},{"Title":"A fun musical that holds up well after almost 50 years","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorites, with a great score, a wonderful cast.  I'm sorry to disagree with another post, but Doris Day is NOT miscast--she sings gloriously, as always, and is fun playing the butch Calamity--and we get to see her play physical comedy for the first time.  The screenplay could have been written by Comden and Green, what with some of the silly situations (and Frances Fryer is one of the highlights).  I'm a musical comedy fan from way back, and this gem sure beats some of the over-produced stuff of the 60s (FUNNY GIRL, HELLO, DOLLY!, CAMELOT and MY FAIR LADY, among them).Anyone else out there longing--as I am--to see Doris come back to the screen? "},{"Title":"A musical that mysteriously improves with age.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Most of the great musicals of the early '50s were coming out of MGM, so it's a shock to encounter one from Warner Brothers that stands with the best of them. Its greatest asset A superb score by Sammy Fain and Paul Francis Webster that advances action, defines character, and is blessedly hummable and witty besides.Note the opening number -- a real, Broadway-style, five-minute opening number that introduces most of the main characters, gives Doris a knockout beginning, and tells you exactly what kind of a movie you're going to get. Few musicals even out of MGM would have attempted anything so ambitious. The pastiche numbers are first-rate, too. And Keel's big ballad, Higher Than a Hawk, is at least the equal of the Oscar-winning Secret Love.One more often overlooked plus The charming Allyn Ann McLerie in the soubrette role. She was fresh from co-starring in Warners' Where's Charley?, and you would have expected a one-two punch like that to launch a major screen career. But although she later established herself as a character actress, she never got as far as she deserved. (Trivia McLerie was the first wife of Adolph Green, and later married actor George Gaynes.)Sure, the screenplay is borderline-idiotic in typical '50s movie musical fashion, and some of the staging is stilted (check out Doris' bridal entrance in the finale, which usually brings derisive laughter). Then there are the Indian stereotypes, not to mention the Eisenhower-era morality that puts the independent woman in her place. But overlook all that to enjoy one of the most thoroughly musicalized musicals of the decade, with Doris at her peak. "},{"Title":"doris day at her very best","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  For old musical-or any musical-lovers this is a must see. Can't believe this is not in the top 250. The calamity jane role was made for doris day-her usual brilliant voice shines out as does her great acting ability. I have this on tape and have seen it a number of times always enjoying doris's great voice especially Secret Love which won the acedamy award in '53. A must see!!! "}{"Title":"This is a side of Doris Day that you don't see very often!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  If you love Doris Day, classics, musicals, westerns, comedies, or romances, this movie is definitely for you!  There are Indians, cowboys and cowgirls, gold miners, actors, actresses, and much more!  A great musical for the entire family.  Watch Calamity Jane as she earns her nickname!  This musical is filled with singing, dancing, stagecoaches being chased by Indians, saloon shows, and much more! "},{"Title":"Hollywood's Greatest Western Musical","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is the greatest western musical to come out of Hollywood.  Doris Day is wonderful in the leading role and Howard Keel is her match as Wild Bill.Miss Day's performance is a delight and she tackles the role with tremendous gusto.  She is tough with shades of tenderness in her eyes. And, boy, does she sing up a storm!  Hers, of course, is the best female voice the musical could ever have created.  Her singing of Secret Love was very touching and was a giant record hit for her. Doris danced, as only she can, while doing the number, Just Blew in from the Windy City and was funny and charming all the while.The Deadwood Stage which opens the film is a showstopper.  Miss Day gives a star performance and you can't take your eyes off her.  One of my favorite musical sequences was I Can Do Without You with Howard Keel.  Miss Day and Keel said that they did the number live and it looked it.  It was certainly effective because, otherwise, pantomiming would have ruined the scene.Chubby Johnson, Allyn McLearie, Philip Carey and Dick Wesson (very funny in drag) and the rest of the cast all scored big.  And, Secret Love deserved the Oscar it won for Best Song of 1953.  Long live Doris Day!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A little biased but still, this is a great old movie.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Why do I say a little biased? I played Francis Fryer in our school musical this year, the musical was, of coarse, Calamity Jane.I viewed the movie during rehearsals and I loved it. The songs are great and catchy and you'll find yourself humming the tunes all day long. Being a teenager, I kind of had the feeling of 'this is just a boring OLD musical'. But after seeing it, I loved it. I laughed and sung and thought it was great.If you ever get a chance to see a stage production of Calamity Jane, I recommend that as well (personally I like the stage production a little better) but catch this one on video as well. It really is a fun movie that will leave you humming each time you're cleaning the house, secretly in love with someone or taking in the wonder of the hilly countryside. See the movie, you'll know what I mean. "},{"Title":"A Female Paleface.  One of Doris Days' Personal Favorites","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The reviews for this little movie are funnier than the film. Complaints about cross-dressing and shooting Indians. Lighten up! It's a 1950's musical Western after all. It's not going to be PC but it's mostly innocent fun for all. Certainly not Annie Get Your Gun, but a light, happy show with a few good tunes (not all) and an Oscar-winning songSecret Love. Howard Keel is in good form here, but the songs are not up to 7 Brides or Showboat quality. Doris appears to do some of her own stunts, some of the riding, and appears to be hauled-up to the 2nd floor of the saloon (probably on a wire). She's quite athletic. Watch this with either of the Bob Hope Paleface movies and you will see the easy comparison between the two. Like I said, fun to watch. "},{"Title":"As fizzy as a Sarsparilla.","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Calamity Jane is directed by David Butler and written by James O'Hanlon. It stars Doris Day, Howard Keel, Allyn Ann McLerie, Phillip Carey & Dick Wesson. The score features music by Sammy Fain and lyrics by Paul Francis Webster. Out of Warner Brothers, the film is seen as a response to the success of MGM's production of Annie Get Your Gun in 1950, where Keel was also starring. Plot here is loosely based on the life of Wild West heroine Calamity Jane (Day) and explores the relationship between Wild Bill Hickok (Keel) and herself. I guess the first thing that should be said is that this is no biography of one Martha Jane Cannary Burke (AKA Calamity Jane), In truth this is more a comedy musical romp built around the famous frontiers woman. And with it being very basic on narrative and direction, this really only appeals to the film fan with musical leanings. But on that score the film is delightful, with spirited lead performances from Day & Keel and a handful of truly great tunes headed by the Oscar winning Secret Love. The film also earns some bonus points for giving Day the chance to play something other than the naive innocent girl next door type (it was a personal favourite role of hers). She gets to be spunky and brash without ever losing that adorable appeal that carried her throughout her career. The play on sexual stereotypes is rather humorous without being twee, something that you feel Butler was under appreciated for, and Wilfred M. Cline's colour photography enhances the playfulness of it all. Seen now as a feminist fantasy with a gay following thanks to Secret Love, there's no denying the film is all very Hollywoodized; with characters so animated they could burst. But all told, if one is able to forgive and see past its flaws then it's a film guaranteed to light up the darkest of wintry days. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Now I shout it from the highest hill - I love this movie!","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Not the most obvious subject for a movie musical, Calamity Jane is one of the best.Decked out with a variety of subplots (the drag artist, the dresser impersonating the star, the ensuing romantic triangle) the main thrust of the film - Calam's gradual progression from scruffy tomboy to feminine woman and proud of it, and her realisation that her heart has always belonged to Hickock - is hardly a story at all, yet informs everything else which happens.All the principals are delightful, but this is Doris Day's film. Her portrayal of Calamity Jane - a role which demands, and gets, overplaying - is a tour de force. Keel is also excellent playing a macho man who can deal with gentle self-deprecation.And above everything else are the songs. The majestic Secret Love dwarfs everything else, even the punchy and pithy Deadwood Stage and Windy City numbers, but my personal favourite is Higher Than A Hawk, one of the most underrated songs from Hollywood's musical heyday. "},{"Title":"Oh Howard Keel, How I love thee!!","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" What Can I say about this movie, Absolutely love it.. it's got excellent songs and the casting is impeccable.. Howard Keel is (was) a fantastic singer.. After watching this movie and Seven brides for Seven Brothers I've fallen in love with Howard Keel.. It's too bad I'm only 17.. but this movie Has gotten me into the older musicals.. I've at some point rented all the oldies from the video stores in my city..and bought all the howard Keel movies i could get my hands on.. haha Anyways.. I highly suggest watching it,, yep.. Doris Day also does a fantastically captivating job of sharp shooter Calamity Jane... one last thing Take me back to the black hills, the Black hills of Dakota, To the Beautiful Indian Country that i Looovvee!!Niki "},{"Title":"Greatest 'Feel Good' Movie of All Time","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I cannot believe how this film does not get an '11' ! When I read in the tabloids that children in the UK think that 'VE Day' relates to a pop concert or a 'tariff' I despair. This film shows it's not good to lie and that if you learn to share, to reconcile your EXTREME CULTURAL differences then you'll find your path. Did 'Francis Fryer', (played BRILLIANTLY by Dick Wesson), get judged or accepted as a guy who wanted to find his 'American Dream' ???? This film has been my mantra for life. It saddens me that people can mark it down. Think back to 1953 and try to understand what this film meant then !!! PAH !! "},{"Title":"Just as busy as a fizzy sasparilla...","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" One of Doris Day's most popular movies, a rambunctious musical about sharp-shootin' Calamity Jane and her secret love for Wild Bill Hickok, paralleling that with a friendship she begins with a maid from Chicago who is posing as a famous entertainer (the townspeople are so hungry for entertainment, they really don't mind if she's a maid and make her feel at home). The old 'she's not complete without a man' business is, of course, from several generations ago; however, Day's energy and sass are as fresh as ever. No wonder her movies don't feel weighed-down with the passage of time Doris transcends the old conventions simply by virtue of her timeless appeal, with expressions that tell us everything we need to know, tears that are both moving and funny, and a spirit that everyone here seems to relish in. The tuneful songs are incredibly good, the direction is open and loose, and Day never lets her performance slip into cartoon territory. This Calam' is a buddy, a true friend, but she's also a woman and she has a lot of heart. So does the film. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"I love this film!!!","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the best films ever made!!! I love this film! This is one of my most favert films ever!!! i love the music and the acting, even tho the film is old it will never die!!! i love all Doris Days films, but this one is my favorite, And Howard Keel was so good in this film,i dont usely like his films but this one i did. I wish they still made films like this!!!! Rose Stanyer "}{"Title":"It's simply marvellous. This is truly Doris' day to shine","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful marvellously entertaining film starring the ever watchable Doris Day and the equally watchable Howard Keel.The story is about a tom boy cowgirl who falls in love with Keel's character Bill Hicup. However he loves the newcomer all the way from Chicagee Katie. In the film it works perfectlyIt's so entertaining to watch, it packs quite a few songs including the superlative Black hills of Dakota. Doris is superb and the film moves with such fierce velocity that you simply can't get bored.The sets, the characters, the accents and the costumes' all make this an unmissable piece of entertaining that like in the film that better then anything they got in that windy city ChicageeExcellent. "},{"Title":"Mighty Purty!","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" What a lovely film &#x96; I've seen it so often by now I paradoxically probably don't need to watch it anymore, it's all there in my head almost frame by frame. It's a simple musical Western, with bags of charm and wonderful songs, exuberant acting by all concerned and a cosy colour.Wild Calamity Day thinks she's in love with dashing Army Captain, Wild Bill Keel thinks he's in love with beautiful singer from Chicago, they're both wrong of course, the story and the songs eventually disclosing the truth even though the audience knows the plot before 10 minutes have elapsed. The music by Sammy Fain and the lyrics by Paul Francis Webster are almost unbelievably impeccable and witty, the delivery by the two main stars in their prime is perfect. In fact I can't fault anything in this film &#x96; I never let datedness or corn interfere with my enjoyment like lots of folk though. It's a comfort film maybe but even after all these years it sure is a tonic! "},{"Title":"A Lovely Film","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've just watched Calamity Jane and it really is one of the most lovely films I've ever seen.I am by nature suspicious of musicals. In fact I'd normally say I don't like 'em. But although the characters in this film do burst out into spontaneously synchronised and practised song somehow the songs they sing are short enough to be less than a mild irritation and pertinent enough to keep the story moving.I'm a straight guy but must admit to being a sucker for women with their feet firmly on the ground and that's why I find Doris Day's portrayal of the character so intriguing. Some might say that this is an ugly duckling film but in this case and for me the before look is much more interesting than the after one. She prances around in scruffy attire, walks like a man and often sits or poses with her legs wide open but however much she plays the tomboy and tries to hide her femininity under a bushel she fails. Why? Because she just is a very beautiful woman; heck you could cover her in mud (and this actually happens at one point in the film) and she wouldn't lose her femininity.I've seen lots of cabaret in Berlin - Victor, Victoria type stuff and this film is reminiscent of that although not quite so refined but all the same it's a woman dressed as a man and looking good for it! The film verges on homo-eroticism at times although it never features as a central theme. There is about 10 minute's worth of pure homo-eroticism however that takes place in a log cabin that would do Barbie proud but the main themes focus on a woman who doesn't know how to be one and learns as well as people who are oblivious to the fact that they are in love perhaps because they are such good friends; then Cupid strikes suddenly. As I say, I'm a straight guy but although a part of me appreciated the ugly duckling changing her spots another part of me ended up wishing that she'd stayed the way she was.The sets are wonderful as are the lush costumes.This is not a film to watch on a small monitor. If you have a projector then fire her up for this one. Lovely colour and sound just as one would expect from a musical of this era. "},{"Title":"Great Fun, Funny Inaccuracies!","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a great Doris Day vehicle, showcasing all of her talents singing, dancing, acting and comedic ability. It is also a perfect example of Hollywood's mutilation of truth, unfortunately. Watch this for pure entertainment, and completely disregard any historical accuracy about the people who are depicted.Let us not forget that Calamity Jane and Wild Bill Hickok were REAL people. As legends of the old west, the folklore, tall tales and blatant lies blind us to facts. All the truth about them will probably never be known.The script represents Wild Bill Hickok as an honest, honorable, gentlemanly fellow, and Calamity Jane as a buffoon, blow-hard, liar and farce. Hollywood mixed up the people. It is true that Wild Bill Hickok had been a scout, fought in Indian wars, &#x85; and had many accomplishments. But he was also a known for embellishing his feats as he retold them, fabricating exploits, was more of a buffalo hunter for the army than a scout, drank, brawled and got into shoot-outs too much, was habitually in trouble with the law &#x96; in short, a rather colorful, lawless, wild frontiersman who ran out of frontier. (He was shot in the back of the head during a card game.) Martha Jane Canary, a.k.a. Calamity Jane, was no polished or dainty lady, but was generous to the needy and sick. In reality, she could out-do most men at their own activities in an even more male-dominated world. As a result, many simply denied her accomplishments. Others embellished stories as they were retold, and she did as the men of the time &#x96; told some lies about herself. Please be aware of some actual facts. She did work for the U.S. Army as a scout for 6 years. This was an extremely dangerous job requiring great knowledge of the territory, Indians, wilderness survival skills, and the ability to kill to stay alive. Do not forget that survival alone was insufficient; accurate and useful reports were required to maintain one's position, as well as joining the fighting. Calamity Jane did save passengers of the Deadwood Stagecoach, by grabbing the reins after the driver was killed. (Some reports state she drove for another line for a while.) Most men did not have the skill to drive a stagecoach. She nursed miners through a smallpox epidemic. She was a very good shot. She could hold her own at the bar and in a bar brawl, as well as work the women's side. She originally joined Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show as a western legend, sharp shooter and trick rider, but eventually became a sideshow attraction and was fired after too much drinking and fighting. (And let us not forget that William F. Cody was adept at gaining the public's interest by having dime store novels published about tales of the west. Many of them were extreme exaggerations and blatant lies.) She did eventually marry, but not Wild Bill Hickok. (She claimed she did, but there is no sufficient substantiating evidence.) Numerous reports corroborate that she was infatuated with Hickok, but he was not interested in her. Calamity Jane was a unique collection of diverse talents, obsessed with adventure and danger, but also caring, who never seemed to find peace. (She died of pneumonia in a drunken stupor.) "},{"Title":"Why I love Calamity Jane!!!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie, with great songs that are really fun to  sing along to and annoy your family members that haven't seen the film (weird, silly people) with. The characters are great and Doris Day is funny and adorable! The movie, in the end, is a bit predictable but all old movies are and this one is just fantastic so it doesn't matter. I strongly recommend that you watch it, SOON!!! "},{"Title":"Those fun-filled fifties!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Warner Brother's answer to MGM's Annie Get Your Gun, while something of a junior-league imitation, is still an immensely enjoyable, colorful and tune-filled musical, a quintessential example of the more simple, innocent world of the 1950's.Doris Day is a bundle of energy- what a performer!  Just Blew in from the Windy City is, I think, the film's highlight, with Doris at her rambunctious, tom-boy best.The plot is pretty darn thin; and every time you turn around, the men-folk are stormin' out of the saloon in disgust, Howard Keel or Doris are shooting a bottle out of someone's hand in order to make a point, etc, etc. The character of Frances Farmer, the hapless drag performer so charmingly portrayed by Dick Wesson, is basically out of the film after his first number (I have read that Wesson committed suicide in 1979--very sad).But the bright n' sparkly score keeps the film hopping along; the clever I Can Do Without You, clearly an attempt to duplicate the show-stopping Anything You Can Do from Annie Get Your Gun, was actually recorded ON THE SET, a real rarity in the '50's (that is, Doris and Howard actually sang their parts as they were being filmed, as opposed to pre-recording them and merely lip-synching as they filmed).The simple Take Me Back to the Black Hills provides a lovely sentimental interlude, emphasing the nice family feeling among the film's very likeable characters, and the final Secret Love is truly a classic, legitimately great song.Despite all of the 50's-style innocence of the film though, one can't help wondering about the undeniable element of lesbianism in the plot; to say that it is only HINTED at is to put it mildly!  The crew HAD to be in stitches during the filming of the outrageously campy A Woman's Touch! But I guess one shouldn't try to read too much into it.  Anyway, despite its lightweight qualities, Calamity Jane is a fine, fun, and immensely enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"Calamity Jane","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I thought her performance in The Man Who Knew too Much was great, especially with her number 1 song Whatever Will Be Will Be (Que Sera, Sera), but now I know this will be my favourite performance from her of all. The excellent Doris Day plays Calamity Jane, a female cowboy in the town of Deadwood, Dakota Territory, with man-like qualities and a strong rough regional accent. One day they have an act on stage called Francis Fryer (Dick Wesson) who was expected as a woman, and everyone is hateful of the manager. So Jane travels to Chicago to find a real star, Adelaid Adams (Gale Robbins) who can be see on cigarette packs. Instead, she takes her maid, the beautiful Katie Brown (Allyn Ann McLerie). They give her chance when they discover she isn't Adams, and she is an instant love with the town, maybe even with the man Jane will eventually fall for (after having a love-hate relationship) Wild Bill Hickok (Howard Keel). This is not only a good cowboy film, it is a fantastic musical with songs like Crack a Whip, Just Blew In from the Windy City and the Oscar winning Secret Love. It has the great memorable happy ending as well, with wedding bells and reprise of the film songs, oh, and Jane truly a real woman. Also starring Philip Carey as a good Lieutenant Danny Gilmartin, Paul Harvey as Henry Miller and Chubby Johnson as Rattlesnake. Doris Day was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and the film was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Energetic Western Musical -- Doris Day sings Secret Love","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This pleasant, energetic musical was tailor made for the star, Doris Day. Playing the rough, rowdy frontier girl with spunk enough to make the entire Old West shake, the only medicine to tame Calamity Jane is a good old fashioned dose of love. Enter Howard Keel, who co-stars as Wild Bill Hickock, and eventually all ends well.Along the line of Annie Get Your Gun this film includes the enchanting love theme Secret Love, which won that year's Academy Award for Best Song. Hollywood Candy for any fan of the stars or those who just enjoy a good IL' Western. The DVD version offers additional footage as well as 2 trailers. "},{"Title":"It's hard to be a free woman in a man's world.","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I think that this film tries to depict strong independent women as masculine and lesbian. It reinforces the idea that women can only win acceptance when they conform to men's stereotypical ideas of what women should do and be; i.e. wear pretty dresses, makeup, and learn the skill of homemaking for men's comforts.This said, I think the film is very witty, and cleverly accomplished. This is especially so given that as a Warners' production it is more subdued than those musicals made at the MGM studios.Doris Day is particularly good as Calamity, - albeit performed in a more feminine way than Jane Russel's version of this character in The Paleface (1948) - and her singing is great! This is given more credibility by the fact that the supporting cast of the film give excellent performances.Excellent light hearted film. "},{"Title":"Top-Notch Musical Comedy","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Doris Day and Howard Keel were at the height of their powers when they starred in this energetic musical frolic, Warner Brothers' answer to MGM's Annie Get Your Gun.  The Fain & Webster score is terrific, featuring a host of serviceable melodies and four classic songs.  Day's voice is wonderful, both for power and control.  Her energy carries the film.The opening number, Whip Crack Away, is a gem.  It runs for four and a quarter minutes, and introduces us to Jane, Deadwood and the plot situation.  The tune is infectious, and the lyric is delightfully preposterous-The Deadwood stage is a-headin' on over the hills, Where the injun arrows are thicker than porcupine quillsMusicals are generally not the best place to look for clever plots, and this stage-show-turned-movie is no exception. The tomboy Jane sets off from Dakota to Chicago to bring back a vaudeville chanteuse, gets her maid by mistake, quarrels with Katie the maid over an army lieutenant, then realises that she loves Wild Bill Hickock.  That, basically, is it.Just Blew In From The Windy City is Jane's song on her return to Deadwood, and is the best example in the film of the clever, subtle choreography mentioned above.  Look in particular for the graceful 'lift' which takes Jane to the balcony.  This is one of the 'frontier' musicals which were the vogue in the early 50's, and it is refreshingly stripped bare of choruses and big dance numbers.  Allyn Ann McLerie and Philip Carey as the second leads, Katie Brown and Lieutenant Danny Gilmartin respectively, are perfectly adequate, but the on-screen chemistry between Day and Keel steals the show.The Annual Ball at Fort Scully is pivotal to the action, because it gives 'Calam' a chance to get out of buckskin and into a dress, and it enables Gilmartin and Katie to distress Jane by kissing on the verandah, thus triggering Jane's realisation that she loves Hickock.  The buggy-ride out to the fort also provides an opportunity for the two couples to sing Take Me Back To The Black Hills as a quartet.If the scene in which Jane transfers her love from Gilmartin to Hickock is a little clumsy, the song which follows - Secret Love - wins over even the most flinty of sceptics.  The film ends happily (of course), and the big songs are intelligently reprised.Perhaps a word should be said about Calamity Jane as a gay totem.  In 1953, the world was not ready for a mainstream Hollywood movie with a lesbian theme, but it has to be conceded that there is plenty in the film to attract gay interest.  Jane is a cross-dressing tomboy who undertakes a hazardous journey across indian territory to 'woo' a girl singer and bring her back to Deadwood.  Whilst in Chicago, Jane is propositioned in the street by a woman (Day's reaction is very funny) and spends time with a partially-dressed Katie in a dressing-room.  Katie discovers that Jane isn't a man, and when they get back to Deadwood, she moves into Jane's log cabin and the two women live together in domestic bliss.  When Katie departs on the stagecoach, she leaves behind a note stating that she loves the lieutenant AND Jane, and this prompts Jane to ride out after the coach, 'rescue' Katie and bring her back.  As the girls cuddle inside the coach, the driver mutters, Two women!  The final song, Secret Love, is a gay anthem. "}{"Title":"Doris, Get Your Gun!","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It seems fitting that if Annie Oakley could get her own musical comedy, so could Calamity Jane! And if a brassy blonde like Betty Hutton could get MGM to cast her as Annie (replacing the brunette Judy Garland), why wouldn't Warner Brothers repeat the same formula by casting their biggest blonde star, Doris Day? Joining Jean Arthur (in The Plainsman) and Yvonne DeCarlo (in Calamity Jane and Sam Bass) as other actresses who played Calam (as Howard Keel constantly refers to her as), Day has become the most famous. Unlike Arthur and Russell, Ms. Day got songs, and an Oscar Winning one, too, Secret Love, which was her most popular hit until a certain children's song in Alfred Hitchcock's The Man Who Knew Too Much came along and became her theme.While Annie Get Your Gun is still a fable of Ms. Oakley's life, there are more more truths in that story than this one, but that doesn't matter, because as entertainment, CJ is fantastically fun. The fictionalizes story has Calamity as the sharp-shooting guard of the Deadwood Stage, in love with Philip Carey, scrapping with Keel (who played a similar role in AGYG), and upset when a stage star's maid (Allyn Ann McLearie) shows up pretending to be her employer and wins the affections of both men. A few of the songs are parallels to other Broadway hits. The Windy City was obviously influenced by Oklahoma's Kansas City, while the slightly disappointing I Can Do Without You is an obvious rip-off of Anything You Can Do from AGYG. But Deadwood Stage is a fun opening, mixing into I'm Glad to Say He's a Very Good Friend of Mine, which introduces the townspeople in Calamity's community. (Guaranteed to put hair on a billiard ball! is my favorite lyric.) Keel's presence (on loan from MGM) made me wonder the circumstances surrounding his casting, whether or not Day's regular partner Gordon MacRae turned the role down or was unavailable. (MGM & Warner Brothers swapped a lot of stars that year.) Keel brings a masculine presence to the role and his deep base voice was one of the finest on screen. Future soap star Philip Carey (One Life to Live), already a rising western star, makes a fine friendly rival for Keel. McLearie, fresh from her own Broadway stardom in Where's Charley? and Miss Liberty, gets to be both lovely and humorous, and her duet of A Woman's Touch with Ms. Day (turning Calamity from masculine but pretty plain jane into a clothes horse with mud on her train) is fresh and charming. The usually annoying Dick Wesson offers some genuine laughs in a campy drag number, and fortunately is not on screen long enough to be irritating.As for Day, this is probably her most popular Warners musical (although I find By the Light of the Silvery Moon and The Pajama Game to be the best ones) and definitely her feistiest performance. She goes from rough and tough to sweet when she sings the beautiful Secret Love which is a lovely sequence. The Black Hills of Dakota for me was another major highlight. While this has not (yet) made it to Broadway, there was a brief touring production in the 60's with Carol Burnett (who would later spoof Doris on her TV show)and a fun concept stage recording with Debbie Shapiro Gravitte. The 1984 TV movie on Calamity Jane's real life with Jane Alexander is one that will never be confused with this musical. Que Sera Sera! "},{"Title":"Doris Day at her most watchable","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Good songs and fast action punctuate a basic melodrama about a love quadrangle on the frontier.  Day in one of her best roles as the fiery, masculine Calamity who, of course, has to put on a very nice dress and do her hair before she can win her man, Keel (although she's trying for another one).  Keel's songs seem forced, and he doesn't give his best performance (he's in fact a very good singer and actor often cast in inferior films like this one).   "},{"Title":"Past The Dead Wood Stage","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This must have been like a breath of fresh air in 1953. There hadn't been an 'Original' screen musical for several years, instead there had been several 'bio-pics' of composers/performers and Day had even featured in one (I'll See You In My Dreams, the biopic of lyricist Gus Kahn) herself. So this Annie Get Your Gun-lite (a love-hate relationship between two sharp-shooters, 'challenge' duet (Anything You Can Do, I Can Do Without You) pushed all the right buttons. If you're prepared to suspend disbelief and respond to a fine score then you'll enjoy this one. Allyn McLerie shows what she might have been had things turned out differently and her Broadway background showed - she was, for a time, married to Adolph Green, and appeared in several shows including Where's Charley - and makes a fine second lead. Howard Keel points up the links to Annie Get Your Gun and apart from bursting into Higher Than A Hawk for no discernible reason, proves a decent enough foil for Day. Sammy Fain was an excellent composer though the Oscar-winning Secret Love is much inferior to his earlier I'll Be Seeing You, from a Revue, Right This Way, in 1938. Overall all this is a pleasant romp. "},{"Title":"One actor i never liked","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I agree with everything that has been said about this great movie. Even my young children are now watching and enjoying it immensely. My only criticism is the casting of Philip Carey as Lt. Gilmartin - there is something very crude and vulgar about his acting style which is completely out of character with the rest of the movie. A few scenes that come to mind are 1. His conversation with Katie in the cottage about how she won't come between Calamity and the man she loves - I'm not sure if it's him or the way his lines were written, but the scene plays out quite insultingly to Calamity. 2. Where he tells Calamity to Shut up and listen! - again, either inappropriately written or just poor acting. Those are just two scenes that come to mind, I'm sure there are more. How contrasting is his acting to Howard Keels' . No wonder Howard Keel went on to be a Hollywood legend and Philip Carey disappeared into obscurity.I first saw Calamity Jane when i was 10 and 25 years later Philip Carey still rubs me up the wrong way. I wonder if anyone else felt the same way - surely Hollywood had no shortage of more appealing actors. "},{"Title":"It's hockum, it's silly, it's a lie, but what fun!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  We all know that it falsifies history, that its plot and characterizations are silly, that the story is pure hokum, that neither Calamity Jane nor a vaudeville singer would have been invited to an Army ball, that Doris Day was miscast, that it lacks the Freed-MGM touch, but what fun! Wonderful songs, wonderful if not too expensive production numbers, Doris Day's and Howard Keel's voices wonderful as ever, even if he was the most stolid singer this side of Nelson Eddy. Forget your critical sense and enjoy something that Hollywood has forgotten how to do... and most  of the time did badly.  The other David Butler-directed, Warner Bros-produced Doris Day movies, were all deplorable.  "},{"Title":"The 29 Year Old Doris Day","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The quintessential American female hero. Calamity Jane has been manufactured to be what Mary Seacole is to Jamaica. This is a significant role for the 29 year old Doris Day that placed her alongside of Howard Keel. Not a collectors item, but certainly watchable. "},{"Title":"Deliberate Miscasting for Comic Effect","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Unlike most cinematic musicals of the fifties, Calamity Jane did not start life as a stage production. It was written for the cinema and, reversing the normal order, transferred to the stage later. It was devised by Warner Brothers in response to the success of MGM's Annie Get Your Gun, another comedy musical based (loosely) upon the life of a real Wild West heroine. The two films shared the same male lead, Howard Keel, who was later to star in another Western-themed musical, Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. Indeed, the two films nearly had the same female lead as well; MGM considered Doris Day for Annie but were unable to obtain her for contractual reasons. The film is set in the Wild West town of Deadwood. The local theatre has difficulty attracting top-name actresses, so local heroine Calamity Jane travels to Chicago to try and persuade the famous Broadway star Adelaid (thus spelled) Adams to appear in Deadwood. Unfortunately, there is a mix-up with the plan. The real Adelaid has just left for a tour of Europe, and the girl Calamity brings back with her is her star-struck maid Katie (who is pretending to be Adelaid in order to kick-start her own stage career). After an uncertain start, in which her deception is exposed, Katie proves to be a big hit in Deadwood, and moves in to live with Calamity. The plot is essentially an expansion of the familiar eternal triangle into a quadrilateral. Katie and the handsome young cavalry Lieutenant Dan Gilmartin fall in love, thus disappointing both Calamity (who has always been sweet on Dan) and her friend Wild Bill Hickok (who has fallen in love with Katie). After numerous complications everything ends happily when Calamity and Bill suddenly discover that they are both really in love with each other, thus paving the way for a happy ending with a big double wedding. If one were casting a serious film about a rough, tough cowgirl who can ride, shoot, lasso and fight Injuns as well as any man, then Doris Day, the sweet-faced, sweet-voiced, All-American blonde girl-next-door, would not normally be one's first choice for the leading role. This, however, is not a serious film. Day is so obviously unsuited to the role that I can only assume this was an example of deliberate miscasting for comic effect. Normally seen dressed in a buckskin suit and Army cap, Day tries to show just how tough Calamity is by a series of hilariously unconvincing gestures- pouting, sticking her chin out defiantly and trying to lower her voice. No doubt the real Martha Jane Canary-Burke could not only ride and shoot, but also cuss and hold her liquor, as well as a man, but in the film she drinks nothing stronger than sarsaparilla. As for swearing, authentic cuss-words were taboo in 1953, so they had to be replaced by picturesque slang such as hornswoggled and varmint. (As that po-faced website Christian Spotlight on the Movies puts it, There's no profanity, but a lot of profanity substitutes). Calamity's pronunciation also leaves a lot to be desired, the final syllables of words giving her particular difficulties. She always pronounces Chicago as Chicargee, sarsaparilla becomes sasparilly, massacre becomes massacree, and cigarette is pronounced throughout as cigareet (including by some of the other characters). I am not sure if these pronunciations are meant to reflect her lack of education, or if they were genuine dialectal variants in 1870s South Dakota.The casting of the obviously feminine Day as the tomboyish Calamity may have been done for reasons other than comic effect. It supports the film's rather un-feminist message that beneath the skin of even the most hard-bitten frontierswoman is a sweet young thing just dying to get out and exchange her buckskins for pretty, frilly dresses. (Sexism seemed to be endemic in Western musicals; compared to the rampantly sexist Seven Brides..., Calamity Jane looks like something out of Andrea Dworkin). It also serves to soften the rather obvious lesbian overtones to the relationship between Calamity and Katie. (Obvious, that is, to everyone except Christian Spotlight, who strangely missed this one out of their litany of complaints about the film, and to the film censors of the day who let the film through without objection). It is (or was at one time) a common misconception that every lesbian couple consists of butch and femme partners, and the cross-dressing Calamity and the more feminine Katie fit these particular stereotypes rather too neatly for comfort.Like Calamity, Hickok was a real-life figure in the Old West. (Because of the similarity of our surnames I was at one stage in my school career nicknamed Wild Bill). He was undoubtedly a friend of Calamity Jane, and may have been her lover. In reality he had a reputation not only as a gambler but also as a dangerous gunslinger, but here Howard Keel plays him more as Tame Bill Hickok, suave, gentlemanly, well-groomed and clean-shaven, although the real Wild Bill was famous for his unkempt long hair and straggly moustache. It would, however, be wrong to take this film too seriously. It is, of course, not meant to be a realistic portrayal of the American West in the 1870s, but rather a light-hearted musical comedy, and as such it succeeds very well. Day and Keel both had fine voices, and there are some very tuneful musical numbers such as Deadwood Stage, Windy City and Secret Love. If the contrived ending seems implausible, I should point out, in defence of the scriptwriters, that Shakespeare often made use of similar endings with multiple weddings in his comedies. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Colourful, bright and enjoyable wholesome family entertainment","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In the tiny, male-dominated, wild-west town of Deadwood lives a young woman called Jane who is tougher and rowdier than any man. She brags about her accomplishments, is popular with the men (but not like that) and publicly feuds with Wild Bill Hickock. So when the owner of the saloon accidentally hires a male actor instead of a famous, sexy actress for his show, Jane defends him and says that they promise to deliver none other than Chicago based starlet Adelaid Adams. Jane sets off to get her but, unknown to her, collects her assistant instead. Regardless of who the woman is though, Jane suddenly finds out what it is like to have a real woman in town.Opening with a famous song, a swaggering attitude and a solid narrative that is made up of a series of enjoyable chapters this film pleased me by being a cheerful piece of entertainment without aspirations to be anything other than just that. The general story is not hilarious or that emotionally involving but by being consistently solid it manages to be comic and engaging on a couple of levels; it didn't have any great depth to it but I liked it because it set out its stall and it delivered on that level. The songs are a bit samey but generally they match the swagger and comic edge of the film and they are enjoyably catchy (even if I'm not a massive musical fan).Direction from Butler uses the locations well, while the bright colourful presentation and wholesome look of the film adds to the feeling that this is a cheerful and fun family film, which is essentially just what it is. The cast fill out this approach really well. As an actress I can take or leave Day but she was really good here, playing a fun gruff character but doing enough to keep her a person underneath. Keel is almost as much fun in a baddie role and he works well with Day. Carey was a bit of a wet fish and lacked the spark and fun of the others but was OK due to his limited screen time. McLerie wasn't as good as Day but she is quite fun and solid enough to fill the supporting role.Overall then a wonderfully bright and colourful film with solid songs and a good narrative broken down into chunks blended together as one arch. Those looking for depth or character will be rightly disappointed but more fool them because this is nothing more than good, wholesome, musical family entertainment and as such it works well. "},{"Title":"Annie get your gun and put Calamity Jane out of her misery","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The opening of Calamity Jane suggests the movie is going to be a stinker, with a song consisting of the lyrics Whip crack away, whip crack away, whip crack away, interspersed with whistling and singers going dumb dumb de dumb, dumb de dumb, de dumb dumb dumb dumb, and then two actors repeating these exciting lines The Deadwood stage!, the Deadwood stage!, (chorus) the Deadwood stage! as we watch a stagecoach going across a barren landscape. (I tried to write DUM but the IMDb spell checker kept changing it to DUMB. I didn't think spell checkers were supposed to editorialize.)We then see a very butch Doris Day (or pretending to be butch) riding shotgun on a stagecoach making mechanical motions like a marionette. She starts singing the tune and the passengers inside the coach join in. Trouble is, the words are kinda goofy and the melody annoying. This is not looking like first-rate music. The further along this song goes, the worse it gets. Day's over the top acting is atrocious, and reminds me of a puppet from the Howdy Doody Show. When they get to town and she starts singing and talking some more, it just gets worse. OK, she's a tomboy, a woman trying to out macho the men, I get it, but she way overdoes it. And you are stuck watching this cloying performance for more than an hour before she finally mellows out a bit for a few minutes of the movie. If it weren't for her great looks and super singing, she wouldn't have gotten away with it.I've watched it at least twice now, but there are only two memorable songs, Whip Crack Away and Secret Love. I went back into it and was surprised by how much forgettable music there is. Secret Love is a classic, but the lyrics don't really fit with the story line, and the music is inconsistent with the rest of the faux cowboy tunes, so I assume it was written before the movie, and was looking for a home. The good part is there actually is a plot, (a formulaic mix and match romance plot) and the rest of the acting is good. But Day's performance is so bad and much of the music is so mediocre that there is little to recommend this musical. It could have been pretty good if Day's acting had been more nuanced and interesting, instead of a mechanical caricature. And how many times do we have to endure the same, Give me a sarsaparilla! joke? (Actually, in those days sarsaparilla was alcoholic, like beer.) I do love musicals, and don't expect them to be too realistic, but I don't like them to get too silly, either. I have seen Doris Day movies that I have enjoyed. Day demonstrated she could really act in Hitchcock's The Man Who Knew Too Much, not to mention sing. I have read that Calamity Jane, 1953, was a knock off of Annie Get Your Gun, 1950. In addition to better music, Annie had the fine director George Sidney, who had experience directing many solid musicals, including the first Western movie musical, The Harvey Girls. David Butler did not have this finesse, and the result, in my opinion, is an awkward film lacking style. Calamity Jane is not quite the stinker the opening scene suggests, and it is not awful. There are probably worse musicals out there, but I have never encountered one, and if I did, I wouldn't watch it. I find this corny movie so annoying that I think it's actually worth avoiding. There are much better musicals out there. If you want to see Doris Day in one, watch The Pajama Game. Music by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross includes Hey There, Hernando's Hideaway, Steam Heat, and plenty of other memorable numbers. "},{"Title":"A mixture of entertainment and annoyance","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have two opinions on Calamity Jane. There are times when I see it as a truckload of entertainment and other times I see it as a bundle of stupidity. If I must be honest, I, at the moment, am not too keen on the film. I do love the rootin' tootin' songs, the fiery dances, the romance, the outrageous comedy, but if there is one thing I can't stand for it's the weak sentiment. Calamity tells Bill, after he confronts her about being mean to Katie, how much she was in love with Danny Gilmartin a dashing young soldier, and Bill also tells Calamity how much he loved Katie Brown and he is just as jealous as she is. They randomly kiss after Calam says Danny was so handsome and I loved him and Bills says, and Katie was such a beautiful young woman and I loved her, too and it's just too saccharine for me to cope with. Through its faults, Calamity Jane has got to be Doris Day's best film ever! Her role as a hot-tempered tomboy is certainly very different to the roles she would normally play and that's what makes it so unique and special. I'm sure her throat became sore after shouting in that gruff, gravely voice Calamity had. I wouldn't say that this movie is suitable for any child under 10 as it contains mild language and bloody violence - and insults about Indians (joke)! "}{"Title":"Yyyyeeccccchhhhhhh  !!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Realism was long since dead as the hulking monstrosity Calamity Jane had already been portrayed onscreen by three of the most beautiful women who ever lived (Jean Arthur, Jane Russell, Frances Farmer) and subsequently by yet a fourth Yvonne deCarlo.None of these characterizations is remotely associated with the besotted, disease-ridden camp follower who masqueraded as an infantry troop and Indian scout in order to ply her vocation in the field.  As for this one by the saccharine, puddin'y Doris Day, best I definitely keep opinions to myself on that one!  UGH!!Bill Hickock had a new socialite bride in the East who bankrolled the particular foray into the wild west entertainment media which was his wont - one of many - during which he signed on as part of the troupe the bizarre entity known as Calamity Jane - presented as a curiosity, at best.  That she parlayed this posture into that of eventual burial alongside Hickock's grave is one of the mysteries of the old west - and even the new!Perhaps it's reflective of sick, unreal 50's Hollywood with its Parsons/Hopper/Winchell/blacklist/witchhunt mindset that drivel such as this got ground out.Not for me to say.  I'm having the good taste to stay butted out.... "}]