[{"Title":"Fred and Cyd dance in the dark - perfection!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the finest hour of Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse together (although Silk Stockings comes a close second); the 'Dancing in the Dark' sequence says it all about both this film, and the two impeccably classy stars.There are, of course, other highlights - Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray's acidic writers; Jack Buchanan's overblown producer; Fred's dance with the shoeshine boy, Le Roy Daniels; anything featuring Cyd Charisse - and those wonderful musical numbers, ranging from the anthem 'That's Entertainment' to the hilarious 'Triplets'.'The Band Wagon' sends up the old film staple plot putting on a show and does it brilliantly, thanks to the crackling Comden/Green script.  One of MGM's best musical efforts, hugely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Last of the great Hollywood musicals","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"42 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this again, for the first time in 10 years.  What a show!  This is unquestionably the last of the great line of MGM &#150; and, therefore, Hollywood &#150; musicals . . . the last real flowering of Arthur Freed's genius at holding together a team of top production talents which had produced such a fine string of musicals.  Not a dull spot in the entire movie and tremendous style in Minnelli's direction.  Nice to see Jack Buchanan getting a last chance in the spotlight &#150; his top hat routine with Astaire is one of the highlights of the movie.  Astaire himself, playing the fading musical star which he was by 1953, has a magnificent opening with two contrasting numbers &#150; the wistful By Myself and the exuberant Shine on your Shoes &#150; tailored to set up his character perfectly.  The Girl Hunt ballet is, of course, the dancing highlight of the movie and it is here that the utterly wonderful Cyd Charisse comes into her own.  Apart from being arguably the best female dancer in Hollywood history, she was certainly the most beautiful the scene in the ballet in which she appears on a bar stool and slips off her coat to reveal a dramatic red dress oozes with as much sex appeal as any movie moment I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"One sequence is gorgeous in its silence.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" There are many shimmering moments in Bandwagon Fred Astaire (playing a role close to his own life story; he was 53 at the time), the acidic wit of Oscar Levant ('that'll keep 'em laughing!!') tempered by the sunny Nanette Fabray and musical numbers including Shine on Your Shoes, I Guess I'll Have To Change My Plan, and a clever novelty trio called Triplets. But the musical sequence that stands out the most is the one which has no vocal, no dialog, and gently advances the movie's plot of whether or not oil-and-water dancers Astaire and Cyd Charisse can actually perform together (when he thinks she's too tall and she thinks he's too old). Against a Central Park twilight, the film shows its heroes enjoy a hushed walk through a park (only an instrumental refrain of 'High and Low' is heard), after which they step into an empty courtyard (he in a pastel linen suit and spectator shoes, she in a flared white dress and ballet flats; a necessity to keep her from being taller than him on film) and into the pas-de-deux of Dancing In The Dark. It's an exquisite sequence, which at times resembles courtship, foreplay, and ultimately a romantic climax- all done in dance. It ends, just as smoothly as it began, with the two leads spinning up a short flight of stairs and mounting a hansom cab, without a single hair out of place. Now THAT's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun and Finally on DVD!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" MGM, Arthur Freed, Vincent Minelli, Betty Comden and Adolph Green, Fred Astaire, Cyd Charisse, Oscar Levant, Nanette Fabray, Jack Buchanan and that wonderful company behind them. Wow! The Broadway musical is one of America's great contributions to the performing arts, and the Band Wagon delightfully turns its clichés on their heads, with the story of a plucky group of troopers who put all their heart and talent into...a turkey.Great dancing includes one of Fred Astaire's classic ballet duos, Dancing in the Dark, with Cyd Charise. She does this spin ending in a semi-kneel, with the mid-calf hem of her dress landing mid-thigh, in order to display one of those spectacular gams of hers...'tis a wonder to behold! Also, there's a number with Astaire and Jack Buchanan, one of the great British variety stars. It's a delight to see this all-too-short exhibition of contrasting dance styles by two master hoofers.And there's the added treat of Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant (Levant being one those, like Robert Benchley, who entertains by playing himself) standing in for Comden and Green, who happened to write The Band Wagon (as well as Singin' in the Rain and Bells are Ringing). What I like about Comden and Green is, that while most all American musicals come out of New York, the sound of Comden and Green IS New York. They once said, New York is the ongoing background of our lives - Brooklyn girl, Bronx boy - and whether we have been conscious of it or not, it is the background...Yes, there's the music - five numbers, part of the great repertory of American Standards That's Entertainment, By Myself, You and the Night and the Music, Something to Remember You By, and of course Dancing in the Dark. My favorite dance number after DITD is Shine on My Shoes, surely an under-appreciated classic. All in all, a pretty good score (no pun intended), wouldn't you say? The story is classified as a backstage musical, and certainly it is. But there's a scene in Band Wagon with a truly documentary feel. After the show's premier, there's a dress-down cast party. The underpaid company singers and dancers really are in it for the love, and when they want to wind down, they go somewhere cozy, get their drinks and sing a lovely, subdued song, Something To Remember You By. (Of course, after Astaire joins them, the volume goes up, and it's a miracle they aren't evicted. I guess New Haven is used to it by now.) When I was a kid I was a gofer for the Metropolitan Opera when it hit my town on its spring tours, and it's why this scene in The Band Wagon rings so true as a fly on the wall, I saw the Met company unwinding just this way.One more element of realism (or life imitating art imitating life) according to the trivia, Buchanan had to have triple root canal work and was in pain for most of the production, and Fabray gashed her knee in Louisiana Hayride, then had to dance on her knees for the Triplets number. Ouch! Talk about plucky troopers! This was smart and sophisticated musical comedy of the 50s, an era when New York adults still set pop trends and before American culture became corrupted and dumbed down by television. It's not just nostalgia to say they don't make them like they used to. "},{"Title":"Now *this* is entertainment!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  THE BAND WAGON tells the story of faded movie star Tony Hunter (Fred Astaire) as he attempts to restart his stage career with the help of his two pals Lester (Oscar Levant) and Lily (Nanette Fabray) Marton. The Martons have written Tony a surefire hit... or so they think, until they fall under the charms of writer/director/producer/actor du jour, Jeffrey Cordova (Jack Buchanan) and their lighthearted musical comedy is turned into some kind of freaky Faustian opera. Jeffrey also ropes the famous French ballet-dancer Gabrielle Gerard (Cyd Charisse) and her choreographer boyfriend Paul Byrd (James Mitchell) into the production, but Tony and Gabrielle start off with each other on the wrong foot--almost literally so, since Tony is primarily a hoofer feeling his age, and Gabrielle a ballet star in her prime. They don't seem to match at all, from age to temperament, right down to dancing style. When Tony and Gabrielle finally come to an understanding, however, it's evident their musical is headed for a critical drubbing, and their hint of a romantic relationship thrown into doubt by Paul's annoyance that Gaby doesn't want to leave the show with him. The rest of the film works at resolving this double impasse.It's probably hard to avoid comparing this film to SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, since they were made just a year apart and were both written by Betty Comden and Adolph Green. Moreover, the themes are even vaguely similar--THE BAND WAGON is a gentle, sharp satire on theatrical goings-on; SINGIN' IN THE RAIN a wicked parody of Hollywood and movie-making. Both films list Cyd Charisse as one of the characters; both films have a ballet section towards the end of the film. And of course, both films star (separately, unfortunately) the two greatest dancing talents of any and every Hollywood generation--Fred Astaire (TBW) and Gene Kelly (SITR). So certainly, comparisons are rife... the films seem to *beg* one to make them! Personally, the chips fall on the side of SITR for me it's got a tighter story line, it's less talky, the chemistry between the leads is impeccable, and the songs and dances are simply wonderful.That is, however, an entirely personal preference. There are people--there are in fact several other IMDB reviewers--who prefer THE BAND WAGON, and with good reason. Entirely on its own merits and not in comparison to SITR (as it should be judged), this film is exactly what it sets out to be a cracking two hours worth of sheer entertainment. It's cleverly written, while the songs and dances are charming and some even mind-blowing. Vincente Minelli does an excellent job of directing; he is, after all, justly known as the master of musical films. Astaire couldn't be bad if he tried, and he's quite ably supported by his cast of Charisse, Levant, Fabray and Buchanan. The numbers range from the heartbreakingly romantic and simple (Charisse and Astaire falling in love to 'Dancing In The Dark'); through to the clever and amusing (most of the brief numbers attributed to 'The Band Wagon', the play within the movie, but most especially the 'Triplets' number with Astaire, Fabray and Buchanan); on to the rousing and hilarious (Astaire's German accent midway through 'I Love Louisa); and finally to those that are simply stunning in their sheer technical mastery (without a doubt the 'Girl Hunt' ballet). And of course, that's forgetting to mention the song that best sums up the entire spirit of THE BAND WAGON 'That's Entertainment!'. Joyously performed by Astaire, Fabray, Buchanan and Levant (and in a finale reprisal also featuring Charisse), you really get the feeling that *this* is what Hollywood, and more specifically, the MGM musical, is about. And at the game of entertainment, THE BAND WAGON succeeds handsomely. I think the only problem I have with THE BAND WAGON is that it just doesn't come together as perfectly and as seamlessly as I'd like. There are moments when my attention drifts, and the acting is frequently uneven. (An exception would be Fabray, who simply radiates exuberance with her big voice and great moves in relatively little screen time.) I've said that Astaire couldn't be bad if he tried. True, he *isn't* bad... just a little listless, it seems to me, particularly in the first half of the film. His dancing, however, is faultless as usual, just as you'd expect from Astaire. And he definitely seems to warm up considerably in the second half of the film. It's rather a shame that there's a spark missing from Charisse's performance as well--as a dancer she is visually *and* emotionally arresting, but she's quite frankly not as much an actress as she is a dancer. (She had the same problem in BRIGADOON, and she didn't have to act in SINGIN' IN THE RAIN except through her dancing.) Most of the time her performance is passable, reaching 'good' and occasionally 'great' at the most naturalistic parts--for example, when she's laughing or pretending to smoke with Tony. Astaire and Charisse are fantastic in their two main numbers together though--'Dancing In The Dark' is one of the best, simplest and most romantic film dances I've ever seen, and 'Girl Hunt' is so inventive and perfectly executed that you can't help thinking these two dancers really *do* match somehow.Simply put, you just couldn't go wrong with THE BAND WAGON. You'll laugh, you'll marvel, you'll sing along... but most of all, you'll be well-entertained. And if *that's* the point the film is trying to make... point surely very well-taken! 8/10 "},{"Title":"When there's a shine on your shoes, there's a melody in your heart!","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Vincente Minnelli was a director that worked well in different genres, as his distinguished career shows. He excelled in the musicals he directed. In The Band Wagon, Mr. Minnelli gave us one of the perhaps, most satisfactory musicals of all times. In fact, this is a film that doesn't have many original songs like some other MGM musicals, but still shows the talented Betty Comden and Adolph Green at their best.Some of the criticism directed to The Band Wagon in this forum has to do with the perception that Fred Astaire, the star of the film, was finished, but as he brilliantly demonstrates, he still had a lot left in him. One of the most brilliant numbers of the film involves Mr. Astaire dancing with Leroy Daniels Shine on my Shoes at an arcade on 42 Street. Both Mr. Astaire and Mr. Daniels do amazing dancing in a number that will remain one of the classics of the American musicals in film.The pairing of Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse proves to be one of the most felicitous things in the movie. Ms. Charisse and Mr. Astaire are seen dancing beautifully in Dancing in the Dark and in the ballet sequence. Ms. Charisse was one of the most talented dancing stars at MGM and it's a shame she didn't get more opportunities in which to shine, as she does in The Band Wagon.Oscar Levant and Nannette Fabray are excellent playing Adolph Green and Betty Comden, that in the film they are named Lester and Lily Marton. Jack Buchanan plays Jeffrey Cordova, the classical actor that turns all shows into hits. Mr. Buchanan is hysterical with his approach to turn the show the Martons have written into a variation of Faust, with disastrous consequences.Among the other great numbers in the film, The Triplets, in which Jeff, Lily and Tony, are seen as dancing and singing babies in a delightful turn. Also Nannette Fabray in Louisiana Hayride shows her best qualities. Other songs heard are By Myself, Change my Plan, and that hymn about show business, That's Entertainment.The Band Wagon is a film to cherish because all the right elements were put together by the genius of Vincente Minnelli. "},{"Title":"Now that's entertainment!...","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Last night's viewing changed my mind...this really is one of the great MGM musicals.Strangely, this never held the same appeal for me as some of the other technicolor musicals of the period, but watching it last night for the first time in years, I appreciated what a really fine actor/dancer FRED ASTAIRE was and what a gorgeous dancer and woman CYD CHARISSE always was. Mix in the great supporting cast--JACK BUCHANAN who does a neat tap routine matching Astaire every step of the way and hamming it up appropriately, and those two devils--NANETTE FABRAY with her quick smile and Oscar LEVANT with his quick wit and you realize that Comden and Greene were two of the best comedy writers the screen had, this side of Dorothy Parker. The two musical highlights for me were Triplets (smashing good job by Astaire, Fabray and Buchanan) and the Astaire/Charisse Central Park dance sequence that flows to the music of Dancing in the Dark.Summing up If you love MGM musicals, you owe it to yourself to see this one for the magic of Astaire and Charisse together, not to mention all the other plus factors--costumes, scenery, backstage plot and those marvelous songs that come one after another to delight eye and ear! And give Jack Buchanan a hand for squeezing every bit of ham from a role that calls for it, in spades!Almost forgot the opening Shine on Your Shoes number set in Times Square is a howl! The only black seen anywhere is the shoeshine man himself. "},{"Title":"Cyd Charisse rules","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Stunning musical about fading star Fred Astaire making stage comeback with the help of friends Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabares. Jack Buchanon is fun as hammy stage actor who teams up with the group. Cyd joins in as haughty ballerina. The songs are first rate. Fred's solos and the girl hunt ballet are good but I prefer the romantic Dancing in the Dark number. The other highlight is Fred cheering up the cast after the first night flops.This was the film that introduced That's Entertainment. It is given a joyous presentation as Jack Buchanon explains what the job of show business is all about.The color is stunning,costumes great,set design good.Surprisingly Cyd's big solo Two-faced Woman was cut. It was shown on TCM.  "},{"Title":"The best of the lot (MGM lot, that is...)","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Basically, the only competition for The Band Wagon (TBW) for the title of MGM's Uncontested Musical Champion is Singin' In The Rain (SITR). SITR is certainly the better-known of the two and features one of film's iconic dance sequences. That said, in an itemized comparison, TBW is the winner and by more than a nose.Star Astaire over Kelly. As usual. (Stop that. You know it's true. There's no point in contesting it.)Co-star Cyd Charisse slam-dunks the ever-annoying Debbie Reynolds (herself a major overall factor in SITR's loss to TBW), but herself gets trounced by Jean Hagen (best squeaky virago ever). A draw. Supporting Jack Buchanan, Oscar Levant, and Nanette Fabray triple-team Donald O'Connor (in his defining and best screen performance) and edge out a victory. Choreography Kelly and O'Connor (under Kelly's direction) hoof up a storm, just outdoing Astaire and Charisse. Kelly's title track number over Astaire/Charisse's Dancing In The Dark, although the latter is the best duet Astaire's done since Night and Day with Ginger Rogers, and is itself a textbook to economy, style, and subtlety in choreography.Music Dietz and Schwartz over Freed and Brown. Despite Louisiana Hayride being a kitsch feature almost unparalleled in MGM musical history. Book Comden and Green's TBW ties Comden and Green's SITR.Finale Girl Hunt Ballet over Broadway Rhythm Ballet. By a mile. The former is tongue-in-cheek, visually-engaging despite its smaller scale, and imaginatively-choreographed. The latter a bit obvious and, in typical Kelly style, a little heavy-handed in its inclusion of serious, dramatic elements. Cyd Charisse too, too hot in both, of course.Overall SITR lights up in the Hagen-Kelly sparring and O'Connor's zinging bits, as well as in the early days of talkies bits and the proto-postmodernism of the Beautiful Girls sequence, but Debbie Reynolds and the love interest numbers cause the film to drag and buckle. TBW, by contrast, hums throughout, going from strength to strength Buchanan's God of the The-ah-tuh role, Levant as Levant, Astaire's wistful By Myself, Triplets (why no Hoops?), the disaster that is the Damnation Scene, Astaire and Buchanan, signifiers for class, soft-shoeing on I Guess I'll Have To Change My Plan. An uninterruptedly-enjoyable movie, from start to finish.So, there you have it. See The Band Wagon. Become a TBW fanatic. It's that simple. "},{"Title":"End of an era  the Mannerist Musical","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" THE BAND WAGON is painstakingly crafted, a fitting climax to the Arthur Freed era at MGM, but it's always left me a little cold. It has its moments, like the exquisite Dancing In The Dark -- arguably Astaire's finest pas de deux, with Charisse beautifully matching him, step for step.But Comden and Green's script is little more than a talky, surprisingly bland collection of backstage clichés. Nothing seems fresh and genuine laughs are few and far between. The supporting characters -- especially the writers played by Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray -- are pure cardboard. Only Jack Buchanan's mad director has personality and comic impact.Cyd Charisse's beauty and her superb dancing skills are undeniable, but this was her first acting role and it shows. She comes across as dull, even wooden, and lacking in warmth. Minnelli extracts a sort of performance from her, but none of her emotions ring true. It makes one appreciate what an irreplaceable asset Judy Garland's emotional authenticity was to MGM. Whether she was happy or sad, you believed the emotion and felt it yourself. Charisse, like so many sub-par leading ladies, just makes faces. But, boy, does she look good in those costumes!Charisse's limitations hurt the central romance with Astaire, which already has the handicap of the difference in their ages. The whole romance plot falls flat. You don't believe they're in love or care who that cold fish Charisse ends up with, so there's never any suspense.Then there's the almost complete disconnection between the production numbers and the plot. THE BAND WAGON is the opposite of an integrated musical songs pop up as complete non sequiturs, like the Louisa/Have more Beer song at the cast party (what is that tiresome number doing in the film????) and the stunningly out-of-place Louisiana Hayride, which seems clipped from entirely different movie.I know Minnelli and Co. wanted a wide variety of numbers, but here they seem random. The whole film would be stronger if more of the songs had some relation to the story, or at least to its moods.There is also a hard-sell quality, a forced gaiety to this film -- and also to SINGIN' IN THE RAIN -- that turns me off. Compare the sublime understatement of the Astaire/Rogers films, or even THE WIZARD OF OZ. The numbers in THE BAND WAGON and SINGIN'IN THE RAIN are put over with a frenzied intensity that borders on crass. This hard-edged, vulgar quality seems to enter movie musicals after World War II -- it's as if they're aiming now at an audience of rowdy G.I.s who have no patience for subtlety or elegance.There is also something claustrophobic about Minnelli's mise en scene. Every element is designed, color-coordinated, and choreographed to death, leaving no room for any kind of spontaneity, and giving parts of the film an almost inhuman quality. You see this in the frantic Shine On Your Shoes number, which seems both unimaginative in its use of the arcade location, and so over-hyped, you think the cast and crew had overdosed on benzedrine. The result is off-putting -- everybody seems to be trying way too hard. In the 30s, Astaire made everything look easy. In this film, the uptempo numbers are exhausting.So yes, this and SINGIN' IN THE RAIN are fine films, beautifully crafted and produced, but they lack the warmth and depth of OZ or even Minnelli's own MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS. They seem somehow over-hyped, as if loudness, vulgar clowning, and frantic activity are attempting to conceal a hollowness at the center.It was the end of an era maybe the Arthur Freed unit was beginning to run out of creative steam. It didn't help that the new generation of stars (Debbie Reynolds, Fabray, Charisse, etc.) failed to produce any performers on the genius level with Astaire or Garland. They were perky and well-trained, but they lacked warmth and personality. "}{"Title":"Obvious candidate for best Hollywood musical of all.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Ignore some rather dim comments above about the film's supposed failings, The Bandwagon is one of the definitive products of the MGM Freed unit, the last wholly great musical of its era. The score is outstanding, the pace brisk, the numbers - By Myself, Shine On Your Shoes, Triplets, I Guess I'll Have To Change My Plan and the marvelous Girl Hunt Ballet - a delight. Don't quibble people, it was all downhill from here!  "},{"Title":"Sends You Out, With A Kind Of A Glow","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Bandwagon may yet prove to be the best of backstage musicals. It certainly is Fred Astaire at his best, probably his best film when he did not partner with Ginger Rogers.Arthur Freed had great success with two previous song catalog musicals, An American In Paris with the music of George Gershwin and Singing in the Rain which utilized the songs that he wrote with Nacio Herb Brown. His source for this film were the songs of Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz.Dietz and Schwartz were an interesting pair of writers. Howard Dietz worked right at MGM in their publicity department. In fact it was Dietz who invented MGM's famous Leo the Lion. Song lyrics were in fact an avocation. Arthur Schwartz was a lawyer who just one day gave up the practice of law to devote himself to songwriting. They wrote some of the best music of the Thirties. After which Dietz devoted himself to publicizing MGM and Schwartz worked with other lyricists.They wrote revues and this is where the source material for The Band Wagon comes from. In fact one of their revues was entitled The Band Wagon and starred none other than Fred and Adele Astaire. However the team got together again and wrote one new number for the film, the legendary That's Entertainment.This The Band Wagon is not a revue. The plot concerns an aging musical film star Fred Astaire, talked into coming east by husband and wife writing team Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant. They want him to do a Broadway show to revive his career. They get Broadway wunderkind Jack Buchanan to direct it and later on classical ballet star Cyd Charisse to team with Astaire. Buchanan is outrageously funny as he first tries to get them to do an avant garde musical about the Faust saga. When that flops, he's a good enough trooper to put ego aside and do some serious rewriting. And this man certainly has one Texas size ego. According to a book on the Arthur Freed musicals, Buchanan was in a lot of pain from arthritis and doing some of those numbers, especially Triplets was agony for him.That was not the only problem on the set. It was a pretty grim place. Oscar Levant had suffered a heart attack before the production and he was ten times his normal hypochondriac self. And Fred Astaire's wife was terminally ill at home.Cyd Charisse gauging the mood of her fellow cast members just kept to herself, but Nanette Fabray who is an exuberant personality did not go over well as Miss Perky. She recorded it was one of her worst film experiences.Still this monumental triumph of a film got made. My favorite of all the numbers besides That's Entertainment is the soft shoe duet that Fred Astaire and Jack Buchanan partner in. It's all grace and elegance and so typically Fred Astaire. And it's probably what most people know of Jack Buchanan. Over in the United Kingdom he was a leading stage and screen performer. Until The Band Wagon was made he was probably best known to American audiences as Jeanette MacDonald's leading man in Monte Carlo.Cyd Charisse dances divinely as she always does, never better than in the finale, The Girl Hunt Ballet with Astaire. I still wonder why she never starred at MGM with her husband Tony Martin.When one is asked what the American musical film ideal is, one of the best answers you can give is The Band Wagon. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Dream About Making Dreams (The Best 10 Moments Of This Movie)","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's not the very old story about a band-a failure-a big successful finish ..It's that and more ..It's how they were making dreams, and by the pure Hollywood elements of 1953 at its finest you'd find it all.. from the philosophy of artistic delectation , the different points of view, the unity , the lovable spirit,.. To the last showing of their one right formula at the end as a salute for the previous and a guide for the next shows ..It's simply the climax of the musical cinema in its first 50 years ..and I loved it very much. So what about its unforgettable 10 moments ? 10 &#150; When (Cordova/Jack Buchanan) was telling the frightful story of the musical Faust  That was hilarious.09 &#150; The aspirant happy audience get out of that particular musical as the contrary !  I can't forget that genius irony between them going in and then going out in totally so different mood ! 08 &#150; I Love Louisa ..And Louisa Loves Me ..And then the phone call to (Cordova) when they told him bravely about all their highest smartest dream ..And then it's only the old maid on the other side ! Then what a disappointment ..Finally (Cordova) is here and listened carefully to all of this ..and he agrees too !  One hell of a sequence.07 &#150; That's Entertainment  For the first time I watched this spectacular yet simple number the tune hunted me magically for days and nights ..After some while ..I begin to think about the meanings and wow ! I learned a lot as I was really dreaming to be a movie maker.. Then it was so clever already when I wrote my first screenplay. It's about how to create fun wonderfully , greatly and immortally.06 &#150; A Shine on Your Shoes  I loved that (Tony Hunter/Astaire) is having fun in the street then the street itself has the same fun ! , I loved the fact that (Tony) is still a sharp artist despite getting old , the development of the age , and the retreat of his fame , I loved how the dance hits everything to make it vivid.. All the cheerful ambiance , the smiling chic harmless people , the décor's details and of course the ? mysterious box which you must be live enough to have it opened ! 05 &#150; (Fred Astaire) & (Cyd Charisse) dancing in the bark ..dancing in the dark  A heavenly classic 04 &#150; I'll Go My Way By Myself  One exceptional piece about living in your own , a humble sad celebration of one's confidence of having victory all by one's self , and finally it's the ultimate honoring for the beauty of loneliness with all the pride and the self-belief ! ..I can't forget (Astaire)'s voice when he performed this ..It was genuinely doleful , romantically moving , and I dare anyone that it wouldn't touch one's deepness in powerful sensitivity.03 &#150; The Girl Hunt  The final number which is maybe the greatest number ever made in a musical movie. If you didn't love the music or the choreography then you'll love the sexiness (which still intensively hot even after more than 50 years and more bolder outrageous dances !) , and if you're that poor terrible pathetic and didn't be moved by all of that then maybe you'll love the great hidden meaning of it ..It's the creative conjunction between originality (the ballet) and the contemporary (the jazzy numbers) and honestly How many movie in history got a precious idea like that behind all the dexterous amusement , the colorful numbers and the steamy atmosphere ? (Still the moment when Charisse takes over her cape as the bad girl is one of the sexiest moments in my whole life !)02 &#150; The cute expressive ending when all the true talented people looked at us to tell the main motif nicely and openly..The truth about their fine work once ..The sincere marvelous message of them and their age That's Entertainment ..For sure ! And it hadn't been more enjoying or inspiring .It's pretty certificate about the legendary American cinema comes in the end of one of its most pleasant golden ages ! 01 &#150; When I discovered that behind all the dazzling charm and the bright witchcraft could be something more ..a brilliant idea ..Which all of that entertainment would make it a bandwagon indeed.P.S I hardly couldn't find a bad moment in this ! And my objectivity is just killing me (you must find one ..you must find one..) ! But sorry ..and because of that as well as that it was one of the grandest movies I've watched in my childhood.. It's in my list of the best 100 movies I've ever seen , and in assured rank at the top 10 ..Always. "},{"Title":"The Best Back Stage Musical?","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I tend to like The Band Wagon more than Forty Second Street because while both are instructive about how a musical show is put together, the later movie shows how disastrously wrong-headed some productions become and how they have to be redesigned on the road. While few are as bad as Jeffrey Cordova's version of a musical Faust, there have been many shows headed for Broadway that collapsed on the road, and there have been some productions of classic literature that was turned into musicals but collapsed on Broadway (remember the musical version of Pride And Prejudice, First Impressions - or the musical version of David Copperfield?). Also the first try-out of the show in New Haven reminds me a little of the critical turning point sequence in All About Eve, where Addison finally puts Eve in her place during a try-out in New Haven.The musical score of the show, from a review by Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz, is wonderful, and even includes some tunes that are dance music only - Dancing in the Dark and You, And the Night, And the Music are not sung but danced to - the latter as a joke sequence only, but the former in a romantic, never-land Central Park. But from By Myself, through Put a Melody in Your Heart, through That's Entertainment, Louisiana Hayride, and the Triplets Number the score is practically flawless. It's nice to be able to hear a movie score and enjoy it all.*(*It's interesting to note that in the 1949 William Powell film, Dancing in the Dark, the title song is introduced by his character - while danced by the heroine - as part of the upcoming MGM musical The Band Wagon. One wonders if the Dietz - Schwartz musical was on the planning boards at MGM for several years.)The story is how Tony Hunter (Fred Astaire) returns from his years in Hollywood to the Broadway theater scene. He is over fifty, and believes his best years as a song and dance man are over. But his friends Lily and Lester Martin (Nanette Fabrey and Oscar Levant) have written a complete musical comedy for him, and have gotten Broadway's latest wunderkind Cordova (Jack Buchanan) to agree to produce and direct it. Unfortunately Cordova loves classical theater, and latches onto a phrase in the description of the show suggestive of Faust. He refuses to reconsider the show as just pure entertainment, but only will see it as great serious theater. He gets a leading ballet dancer, Gabrielle Gerard (Cyd Charisse) to co-star opposite Hunter, and her boy-friend director Paul Byrd (James Mitchell) to choreograph the show. Cordova's ego is so wrapped up in his vision of this production (which he insists will be ready for opening try-out in three weeks time) that he fails to see that Hunter and Gerard not only have doubts about the production but if they can work together, and that the Martins are split about trusting Cordova's vision of their work.Vincent Minelli's film has a grand grounding in his background in Broadway theater. In the scenes where a stunned Astaire returns to Broadway after twenty years in California, and finds all the former sites he knew are gone - the Selwyn Theater where he started is a penny arcade (as was the case on Broadway in many old theaters in the period from 1950 to 1985). The round-the-clock rehearsing of the musical's book and dances and songs, leaving the cast bone tired but forced to continue. The way Cordova has to jump from meeting the scenery people to rehearsing the cast to giving pep talks to Astaire to testing the special effects (keep an eye on his overuse of fire for the fires of hell in one dance number, as well as his turntable fiasco).The cast is uniformly good, with Astaire the voice of skeptical, time trained reason in the eye of the Buchanan ego running amok. Levant and Fabray play off each other very well. Charisse demonstrates a nice handling of ballet throughout the film, culminating in the take-off on Mickey Spillane novels that completes the musical. What is nice in the story is how all of the main characters (except the stuffy Mitchell) pull together to save the show, with even Cordova realizing he went too far in his vision and letting Astaire guide matters. I don't know if that happens too frequently - probably not. But it is rather sweet to see that the cast and the production crew could pull together despite a real disaster.Forty Second Street is a first rate film too, but it really centers on the determination of Warner Baxter's director to make his musical a financial success before his health collapses. The Band Wagon is really on what makes a musical good theater, and proves it is entertainment value above anything else - not necessarily intellectual content. "},{"Title":"Yes, the show MUST go on!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A fine MGM musical with Fred Astaire as an aging hoofer, Cyd Charisse as the condescending ballerina, Jack Buchanan as the director of the show, and Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant as Astaire's friends and co-stars.There are many musicals that have great numbers but discardable plots. In this case, the librettists were Betty Comden and Adolf Green, two of the best and most prolific. And the plot is the glue that holds the numbers together. Comden and Green were responsible for a couple of Broadway successes, in addition to Hollywood's On the Town and Singin' in the Rain. Their script here has not only general appeal but biting wit.The choreography is by Michael Kidd whose athletic style (Seven Brides for Seven Brothers) wouldn't seem to mesh too well with Astaire's more graceful ballroom techniques, but actually it works out okay. It turns Astaire and Charisse into paragons of elegance compared to the goings-on around them. Oscar Levant is hilarious. He's always hilarious if you know Oscar Levant and the manifestations of his neuroses. Notice in the That's Entertainment number, where he shares the dancing with Astaire, Fabray, and Buchanan. He's the only one who glances at his feet, as if curious to see where they're going. The director, Vincent Minelli, uses a lot of extras and seems to know exactly what to do with them. (I think anyone who's worked as an extra would notice this first of all; right, Buckie?) Minelli puts color to wonderful use in every scene too. Each new set looks like the director jumped heedlessly, feet first, into the visible spectrum. The acting is up to par, and Levant and Buchanan are especially good, or at least especially funny. (There's tension in the plot but not drama.) Minelli had some kind of supernal vision too. When the show fails because of an excess of pomposity and ambition, we should have seen a series of spinning newspapers with fictitious names (New York Star, Midvale News, Zinzinnati Beobachter) bringing us headlines like BIG SHOW FLOPS and TOO SNOOTY FOR FOLKS, but instead a lugubrious chorus introduces us to a black-and-white sketch of a gigantic egg. I was a kid when I first saw this in a theater and couldn't stop laughing at the egg, and now, at the age of 142, I still find it amusing, although I no longer laugh at it for fear of expelling my false teeth into the guacamole. Once, upon laughing too hard in a fancy restaurant, my glass eyeball achieved such a hyperbolic trajectory that -- well, it gave the diners two tables downwind a rare opportunity to become very unpleasant. Alas, I recall one part of the movie that didn't work for me and doesn't work for me now. The long, usually climactic ballet had become a staple of musicals. Some were exhilarating -- Singin' in the Rain. Some struck me as simply overblown -- An American in Paris. And some went nowhere, as does this one, The Girl Hunt. I suppose at the time, what with Raymond Chandler and Mickey Spillane, it was more of a novelty, but those writers were already being parodied to death by people like Bob Hope.The numbers aren't based on monuments to the Great American Songbook either. You've heard most of them before but they aren't standout standards. One number, occurring about half way through the film, Dancing in the Dark, is among the best that Astaire has put on film with any partner. Not necessarily the most fun or the most sparkling, but romantic, relevant to the plot and technically difficult. Astaire and Charisse twirl their way up a set of a dozen or so steps, for instance. They make it look SO easy but if you or I were to do it we'd break both legs in the first few seconds. That brings me to Cyd Charisse and legs. That's a problem, because I'm not sure I want to go much beyond that point. What a dish, with legs of infinite length, as in the old Flashman comics, so that one feels, were she really to stretch, she could touch her toes to the horizon.You have to see this, I'm afraid. The consequences of not doing so would be dire. Astaire doesn't do pirouettes with hat racks or mops, and he doesn't prance on the ceiling, because he doesn't have to. The performers are at the top of their games, the music is MGM-gorgeous, and the story is funny. "},{"Title":"The most sophisticated musical ever made","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The most sophisticated of all screen musicals and Minelli's masterpiece. It's also the best putting-on-a-show musical ever made, (forget about those Busby Berkeley musicals and Judy and Mickey; this is the real McCoy). The show about to be put on is a musical version of Faust, directed by a high-minded type, 'a genius of the theatre' with more hits running than Andrew Lloyd Webber, (Jack Buchanan in a great musical-comedy performance). The show would, of course, have been a disaster had not its star, (the incomparable Fred Astaire at his incomparable best), and its writers, (Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant as fairly obvious take-offs of the film's writers Betty Comden and Adolph Green), not rescued it with some good, old-fashioned Broadway hoofing and a score that includes 'I'll guess I'll have to change my plan', 'Louisiana Hayride' and 'The Girl Hunt Ballet'. It also has Fred and Cyd Charisse 'dancing in the dark' and this is the one with 'That's Entertainment'. Nothing much happens but it arguably has the best score of any musical as well as the best cast and a director who knew how best to utilize both. It really should be preserved in a time-capsule. "},{"Title":"Cyd Charisse, divinely adorable!","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Viewed recently this and other Hollywood musicals from the great years(nineteen thirties - forties - fifties). The Band Wagon is certainly not the best of what was produced then. At times it's noisy, irritating and the acting performances are often poor. However the dancing is absolutely fabulous! Astair as a gangster and Cyd Charisse as his double-partner are amazing! Great stuff!But what's more, I think that I never saw a more romantic, more beautiful, more heavenly declaration of love than in that  sequence Dancing in the dark. Whoever contributed to the design of that dance (and the music!) is a genius and Cyd Charisse in the hands of Fred Astair is divinely adorable. She has class, she's terribly sexy (although one wouldn't have said that in those days), she is the height of elegance, you can't but fall in love with her. What a woman! Seeing this exquisite pas-de-deux again after so many years gave me a warm feeling of gratitude towards all those who made us dream of a better world. "},{"Title":"This movie just makes me smile","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" What can I say? One of my life's passions is Fred Astaire, and he's simply wonderful here. Minnelli's direction is great and the musical numbers original. The story itself is corny, but the scriptwriter knows it and plays it for kicks and laughs, never taking itself seriously, which works out a great part of its innate charm. Cid Charise also does very well, even if I never really thought of her as an actual actress, no one could deny she had great screen presence. We have an actor who feels his time is over (Astaire, something, thank God, never was reality) and leaves Hollywood for a play in Broadway. Finding help with a couple of writer-friends he manages to get a great play director (Cordova) and a new ballet dancer to star with him (Gabrielle). Of course he and Gabrielle will eventually fall in love. I never though, however, that plots really mattered in musicals (the only exception is Singin' In The Rain, whose plot is extremely smart). It's just an excuse to let people sing and dance and have fun. A saying from my country says that the best way of seeing life is like an old musical. If we are talking about a musical like this one, I couldn't agree more. Lovable through and through, specially the Triplets number. "},{"Title":"Hands Down, The Best Musical Ever","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" You will not find better talent, music, dancing, or production in any other film. Some are nearly equal - An American In Paris, Singin In the Rain, and in a more recent era, perhaps All that Jazz. Pay no attention to the nay-sayers about this movie who want more plot and more dancing and more music ... That is ludicrous. The best musicals always have paper thin plots. Did you ever read Phantom of the Opera? Talk about a nothing story that was turned into one of the most popular musical stage productions ever. Enjoy The Bandwagon for what it is on the surface - loads of campy over acting, and a great bunch of song and dance stars hamming it up and putting on some of the best on screen performances ever. Its pure 50's escapism that will hold up in any era. That's Entertainment! "},{"Title":"Jack Buchanan and the Faust  legend","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movie musicals partly because one of the stars, Jack Buchanan, was an old friend of my family. I met him once, backstage in a London theater, in the fall of 1945.Thereby hangs a tale. The Bandwagon plot centers around a musical production of the Faust legend which was a flop and had to be completely rewritten; then, it was a hit. It is little known that 32 years earlier, in 1921, Jack Buchanan took part in a revue entitled Faust on Toast which did not do well, so it was taken off for a month and then restaged in a new version. It certainly looks as if Jack had a word in the ears of the writers of The Bandwagon. It was his last major picture and he died in 1957. "}{"Title":"Marvelous!","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Probably Fred's last great musical with the strange Daddy Long Legs, the irritating (to me anyway.) Funny Face, the lackluster Silk Stockings and the rather bizarre Finian to follow.That Minnelli got any acting performance out of Cyd Charisse is itself a miracle (Both she and Fred were far less effective in Silk Stockings.) and she proved herself a great dancer in addition. The others were equally wonderful including the flamboyant Jack Buchanan (a hoot as the Jose Ferrer-Orson-Vincente character Jeffrey Cordova) who nearly stole the film with his hammy acting, his singing, and dancing, the peppy Nannette Fabray and the wonderfully grumpy hypochondriac Oscar Levant, the pianist and friend of George Gershwin. (That voice! as Liza Minnelli exclaims in the DVD commentary.) The latter two, in effect, played Betty Comden and Adolph Green, the writers of the film even if they were not a married couple as in the film. Of course, Fred played himself (here under the name of Tony Hunter.) as in nearly all his musicals.I don't feel it necessary to comment on the dance numbers as that's been done often enough in these comments and I agree with the favorable ones. Even if some seem to think the story was nothing new, I'd say that's true of most if not all movie plots at this point and it doesn't matter when the show-biz plot is used so well and satirized so effectively.My only reservation has to do with the rather abrupt show-bizzy ending (That's Entertainment reprise.) but that was Vincente's conscious choice.The two DVD set shows the film beautifully restored with a fine Dolby sort-of stereo audio track as well as the original mono recording. The commentary with Liza Minnelli and Michael Feinstein is too gosh-oh-gee, isn't-everything-wonderful for my taste but it does tell you a lot about the film. Whether a second DVD is necessary is questionable but the price of the set (usually around $25) doesn't seem excessive. "},{"Title":"Why argue about which is best?","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" An excellently done film, which stands next to Singin' in the Rain as the best musical of the fifties. Some people wish to argue that Astaire is better than Kelly (or vice-versa) and all I can think is thank God we have both of them on film, in great movies. Astaire is somewhat more astringent than Kelly, but to argue who is better is pointless, Astaire having had a much longer film career. The Band Wagon has much to recommend it, almost every number is wonderful, and Cyd Charisse (as Gabrielle Gerard), though maybe not as great an actress as some other musical stars, is so sexy and such a great dancer, that her acting limitations are easily forgotten. Jack Buchanan comes through with a grand parody of the Orson Welles-ish (actually modeled on Jose Ferrer, as Betty Comden tells it in the DVD documentary) type of theatrical genius as Jeffrey Cordova, which is wonderful to see from an old pro such as Jack, near the end of his life. Nanette Fabray is sweetly bright in support as Lily Marton and Oscar Levant is Les Marton, the writing couple (based on Comden and Green), one cute, the other cynical. The numbers are uniformly charming, although unfortunately one doesn't really fit into the play as described by the Martons at the beginning of the film, Louisiana Hayride. Although fun, it's a bit of old corn and seems to come from nowhere. Astaire (as Tony Martin) is a parody of himself and his fading career, and his acting and dancing are both without fault here, and the justly celebrated numbers are worth re-watching over and over, as indeed I have done. Of all the numbers, the shoeshine number may be the most startling, as Leroy Daniels (according to Liza on the DVD documentary), was a non-professional that Minnelli found in L.A., shining shoes. Dancing in the Dark is a beautiful, romantic number, and The Girl Hunt is a great, jazzy piece that only disappoints me for being too short! More of Charisse and her hot dancing in that red dress, and I'd have been in heaven. One can complain about the thin plot or other limitations, but to analyze this movie to death is a grave mistake. The musical was a fading genre in the fifties, and we were fortunate to have two of the greatest come along, The Band Wagon (great in its recent DVD release) along with Singin' in the Rain. They should both grace any serious DVD collection of American movies. All I can say about the nitpickers who always find fault is that they have the dramatic instinct of Jeffrey Cordova! "},{"Title":"This made me a fan of Cyd","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. Fred and Cyd made such a team. Especially in Dancing in the Dark * have u seen the saturday night live spinoff* and girl hunt. I enjoyed the whole movie. Never a dull moment. The whole cast was excellent. It is one of my favorite MGM Musicals. I like Shine on My Shoes. You can tell that was directed by Minnelli. If you don't have anythin' to do some night, rent this!!! "},{"Title":"Dance, fools, dance!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Band Wagon or Singing in the Rain - how can one choose?  I've always preferred Fred Astaire, so this is my favourite musical of all time. Astaire plays an over-the-hill singing/dancing movie star, but there's nothing over-the-hill about his performance in this movie.  He is wonderful in the shoeshine piece near the beginning, with the great black dancer Leroy Daniels.  Every move, every angle of his body is perfect as he and Daniels mesh their very different styles.  Jack Buchanan is hilarious as the uncontrollably arty director who manages to turn a sure thing into the biggest bomb that ever staggered through an out-of-town tryout.  Cyd Charisse is not much of an actress, but Astaire never had a better partner - they are wonderful in the Girl Hunt ballet - when she peels off that dark overcoat to reveal a sizzling red dress, the temperature in the room goes up ten degrees.  As for plot, well who ever really expects a sensible plot in a Hollywood musical?  As is almost always the case, the plot is a hook to hang the music and dancing on, and it works just fine.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating...","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Saw it again on TV tonight. Can't help commenting on Minneli's absolute mastery of this genre. Astaire is energetic, Charisse is classy, Levant is cynical & Fabrey is earnest. As stereotyped as the Grand Hotel/ Weekend At Waldorf crowd, & as much fun. Just imagine being able to watch one of the Broadway Melodies in 'glorious technicolour'! This movie has that look & feel with some brilliant reality checks - the pretentious director, the fading dancing man...The highlight is the Chandler/Hammett-ish 'The Girl Hunt'. A mastery of synchronised movement & according to me the best dance ever danced on screen (sorry Zorba). What next, turn a Western into an existential dance drama?Not to be missed for a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Entertainment after 50 years","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  After 50 years, The Band Wagon, like the MGM musicals before it, rings beautifully. A great cast, fine musical numbers, and a song that says it all...THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT! And after 50 years, it still is.  "},{"Title":"the best musical comedy of the 50's","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Band Wagon is the single greatest musical comedy of the 50's.  Most people give this title to Singin' in the Rain, but I disagree.  Sure, Make 'Em Laugh and the title song are all classics, but most of the songs are mediocre.  Also, Gene Kelly doesn't have the charm and wit that Fred Astaire has.  Gene Kelly is more silly than funny, and his smile seems fake and pasted on.  However, Fred Astaire is graceful and debonaire.  The dialogue is better than Singin' in the Rain's.  There are so many wise cracks and quips in this movie that one wonders if this script was entirely original.  Also, Vincente Minnelli gives great, fluid direction.  I was amazed how he was able to shoot the shoeshine song in only one take.The Girl Hunt.  This movie is worth watching merely to see it.  It is hilarious.  The choreography is stunning.  Fred Astaire is at his best. It is a glorious spoof of every film noir made in the 40's and 50's.  The camera work is angular and fluid at the same time.  I found it much better than the overrated ballet at the end of An American in Paris.Also, I was wondering if anyone noticed this In the beginning of The Band Wagon, all we see is a top hat while the credits roll.  Then, the camera pans to show that it's an item in an auction.  Later on, I saw the Fred-and-Ginger musical, Top Hat.  At the beginning of it, we also see a top hat as the credits roll.  Then, the camera pans to show it's on the top of a man's head at an exclusive men's club.  So, the beginning is a combination movie allusion/cruel dig at Fred Astaire.  Cool. "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals of all time.","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a highly under appreciated musical. Taking nothing away from Singin' in the Rain or American in Paris, this was one more absolute gem that MGM put out in their golden years. From Astaire's wonderful number early on in the Arcade (who was that shoeshine man?) to the Dancing in the Dark number with Charisse-which has got to be one of the sexiest, most romantic dances ever put on screen-this movie had it all. It was colorful, tuneful, and a joy to watch. Fabray and Levant were great together and Buchanan was hilarious. The Band Wagon is a true classic musical. I know that when I get to heaven, Cyd Charisse will be dancing with Fred Astaire--when she isn't dancing with Gene Kelly of course.  "},{"Title":"simply the best....","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...musical of all! I've always preferred Astaire to Kelly, whose self satisfied smirk and the long, often boring ballets he insisted in indulging himself with in every film, I find tiresome. In contrast the 'Girl Hunt' ballet sequence in TBW, is short, witty and very cool!Jack Buchanan in my opinion steals this picture as the egotistical Producer/Director, particularly when 'selling' his idea of the show to the potential backers.Astaire is, of course terrific throughout and the supporting cast of Oscar Levant & Nannette Fabray, despite their off-screen difficulties, are excellent.Cyd Charrisse is, I agree no actress, but forget that! Revel instead in the exquisite 'Dancing in the Dark' sequence with Astaire - surely the loveliest dancing ever screened.A marvellous, marvellous movie! "},{"Title":"One of the Best from MGM's Golden Era","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" THE BAND WAGON was a stylish and amusing musical that was one of the best made musicals from the golden years of MGM, IMO, even better than SINGING IN THE RAIN. THE BAND WAGON starred Fred Astaire, in prime form here, as Tony Hunter, a washed up movie star who has been pegged to star in his first Broadway show with a stuck up ballerina (Cyd Charisse) as his leading lady and an eccentric and egomaniacal nut (Jack Buchanan) as the director of the show. This thin plot line sets up some very hysterical moments as Astaire and Charisse try to keep their sanity being stuck in the middle of this big overblown production which bombs on opening night and then Tony takes it upon himself to re-think and trim down so that it becomes a success. Astaire and Charisse work well together and Buchanan is funny as the nutty director as are Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray as the authors of the show. There are several classic musical numbers here Astaire, Fabray, and Buchanan do Triplets dressed as babies, Astaire and Charisse perform a lovely dance in the park to Dancing in the Dark, Astaire does a great solo set in an arcade called A Shine on your Shoes, Nanette Fabray is outstanding doing Louisiana Hayride and the closing Mickey Spillane Ballet is brilliant. This is also the film that introduced the tune that became associated with MGM, That's Entertainment. One of the best to come from the MGM stable. "}{"Title":"The Most Visually Beautiful Musical Ever; Great Fun","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Director Vincente Minnelli is probably the most important star of the visually stunning film The Bandwagon. Betty Comden and Adolph Green supplied the book and most of the songs, aided by Arthur Schwartz and Alan Jay Lerner. And the relationships, as anyone who has worked in theater can attest, are unusually understated and true. The primary story-line concerns Tony Hunter, a man who has had failures in film and has now returned to Broadway looking for a good project. His old friend portrayed by Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant have a project in mind. But they make the mistake of hiring an ambitious director who sees in their tale a vehicle for a Faustian allegory filled with deep meanings, fire, brimstone, explosions and necrophiliac lighting. Of course the musical they produce is a total failure; and Tony has been compelled to dance with a hired ballerina, with whom he finds himself falling hopelessly in love. In desperation, he suggests they go back to the original show and not disband. As a result they craft a success, Tony gets his girl and everything ends happily. This I find to be a first-rate MGM production, using its top personnel cinematography by Henry Jackson, art direction by Preston Ames and Cedric Gibbons, sets by Edwin Willis and Keogh Gleason, Sydney Guilaroff's hairstyles and William Tuttle's makeup, and costumes by Mary Ann Nyberg. The stars of the film are all very professional and likable. Fred Astaire is Tony, Cyd Charisse the ballerina, Nanette Fabray andOscar Levant as ilmic Comden and Green stand-ins, Jack Gardner, James Mitchell, Robert Gist, and many others in small or uncredited roles including familiar faces such as Herb Vigran, Barbara Ruick, Julie Newmar, et al. Some have complained that the musical numbers here seemed a bit static or curiously cold; but this is a musical for once where the numbers look as if they could have been musical numbers onstage; and after chasing this film for decades, when I saw it I was delighted by its stunning visual qualities; and as a theatrical veteran I was also gratified that its human relationships seemed to work, as theatrical portraits by Comden and Green and in the personages who people this very enjoyable entertainment. "},{"Title":"Jump on The Band Wagon, You May or May Not Be Disappointed","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Let me get this out of the way. The storyline wasn't what it could've been, so if it's a real plot you want, look elsewhere. If you crave overall fair numbers, with the crowning jewel that is The Girl Hunt, go no further. Sit back, rest your weary feet, and enjoy. The Triplets number is terribly funny, with three of our stars (including Astaire but not Charisse) in little baby costumes. But now I'm going to talk about my personal favourite, yes, The Girl Hunt. I don't know if you could really call it a full-on spoof of those old detective comics, because there are some parts where it takes itself seriously, but the humour is most definitely there. Is it possible to beat two Cyds in one marvelous scene? I doubt it. Both the Blonde and the Brunette are played, well, danced to perfection, letting Charisse's true talent shine through like one of the brightest stars ever to shine in the galaxy of Hollywood. Enough of my flowery stuff, go see The Band Wagon! "},{"Title":"All Aboard for a Rollicking Musical Masterwork!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Arthur Freed's The Band Wagon is the other great Vincente Minnelli musical from a canon of rarified entertainment. It stars Fred Astaire as washed up matinée idol, Tony Hunter. Seems Tony's career in Hollywood has entered the realm of forgotten legend. But that's about to change when his old time pals, Lily (Nannette Fabray) and Lester Martin (Oscar Levant) conceive of a big Broadway show for Tony to star in. Unfortunately for all concerned, the project is passed on to Broadway thespian and director, Jeffrey Cordova (Jack Buchanan). Jeff conceives the light-hearted show as a heavy-handed musical rendition of Faust. He casts prima ballerina, Gabrielle Gerard (Cyd Charisse) opposite Tony and sets to work on dismantling Lester and Lily's preconceived notions of mainstream fame. But after the show bombs all concerned have a delightful change of heart and, as the old showbiz moniker declares, the show does indeed go on.Scenarists, Adolph Green and Betty Comden fashioned the husband and wife team of Lily and Lester after their own tempestuous marriage and fill the screen with in jokes of subtle hilarity. The score, featuring one hit after another, is over the top toe-tapping perfection. Of particular interest here are Astaire and Charisse's lampoon of the pulp novel with The Girl Hunt Ballet, Astaire's catchy I Love Louisa, the charming Triplets routine, the perfection gleaned from Astaire and Charisse Dancing in the Dark and, of course, the great tributary ode to actors everywhere, That's Entertainment! Employing their ultra-resolution film restoration process, the good people at Warner Brothers have delivered another outstanding transfer for the DVD consumer. The Band Wagon has never looked better. The Technicolor print is exceptionally rich and vibrant. Blacks are rich deep and solid. Whites are crisp, but never blooming. The audio has been impeccably remastered. Extras include two marvelous documentaries; one on the making of the film, the other on the career of Vincente Minnelli; as well as wonderful audio commentaries from Liza Minnelli and Michael Feinstein; a trite short subject featuring Jack Buchanan, and an Astaire theatrical trailer gallery. Great stuff and well worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Hop Aboard","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When there's a shine on your shoes, there's a melody in your heart.Whenever I get a chance, I hop on this wagon for fun, laughs, and total enjoyment.  What can one say, with Kidd dances, Minnelli direction, a Comden-Green script, and an Astaire-Charisse/Fabray-Levant starring quartet?It's nothing short of a brilliant production--witty, playful, breezy and inventive.The Band Wagon takes its place among the screen's great musicals.    "},{"Title":"Great stuff","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  See this film. It's one of the highpoints of the American musical and film making in general. 1953 seems to be a strange movie year in retrospect. Bland schlock like 'Roman Holiday', 'Shane' and 'From Here to Eternity' dominate the memories of movie fans while masterworks like 'Pickup on South Street', 'The 5000 Fingers of Doctor T' and this wonderfully inventive Vincent Minnelli musical are relegated to also rans. What a shame.  "},{"Title":"Never could get on board with this one","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am a very big fan of most film musicals, but this one always left me cold.The plot is not very engaging or involving, and Fred Astaire is not really a very likable character here-whereas in most, if not all of his other films, he is always very likable.The dance numbers are really nothing special-compare some of the ones here with say, Fred Astaire and Eleanore Powell in Broadway Melody of 1940!!No comparison. Now that film had some great dancing , superb, especially the finale, Begin the Beguine.I know everyone simply adores Vincente Minellis's work, and he was very talented to be sure, but this is one of the most overrated film musicals ever. "},{"Title":"A slog","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I'm aware of this movie's exalted reputation; I like quite a bit of Minelli's work, and I love Cyd Charisse. But after 30 years and multiple attempts, I still can't drum up any interest in slogging through this. The songs are very low-quality; and the numbers are intrusive and unrelated to the story. The movie has barely begun and we we've had two forgettable, bottom-drawer songs. We move on to a third trifle about getting your shoes shined (?!), that just bewildered me. I'm not even on board yet... why do I care that Fred Astaire loves a shoe shine? Get this beast moving! The movie is way too long. You have to watch a play in rehearsals fail, before it gets rolling with an Act 2 plot line just as arid and feeble as the first. Fabray and Levant are just a burden.Singin in the Rain is still relevant. There's something to take away from that film. Band Wagon is just nine hours of scattershot, butt-numbing 'entertainment.' It never congeals around a single guiding idea. It just feeds new genres and clichés (hay-rides, babies, gangsters, devils, etc.) through the machinery. Singin in the Rain is a classic. Band Wagon is seriously not. "},{"Title":"Goodbye to an era.","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In a way Fred Astaire is playing himself in this movie; an aging actor, who plays in a dying genre; the dancing and singing musicals. This movie got made in 1953, the rock-'n-roll era. These type of movies were already starting to get old fashioned. The best years of the genre were long over already but nevertheless the best movies in this genre got made at the end of it, such as this movie.It's not the best genre movie I've ever seen but there is no denying it that this is simply one great movie. It's clichéd and has all of the usual ingredients you could expect. It's predictable and not surprising in any way really but yet The Band Wagon manages to excel within its genre. It's just a movie in which everything fits together nicely. The directing, the story, the characters, the actors, the dancing, the singing. It all works out together in this one. No big surprise when you have director Vincente Minnelli at the helm of your production.But still they made some wrong choices. They let Fred Astaire sing too much and Cyd Charisse act to much. Nothing wrong with Fred Astaire's acting and dancing and nothing wrong with Cyd Charisse's dancing neither but the movie lets them do things as well which they are simply not too talented in. I always liked Cyd Charisse best in her non-talking parts, in which she just had to look sensual and dance. In this movie she however plays the female lead and love-interest of our main character, which means that lot of acting is involved for her this time. She obviously took some classes but no, not really any Oscar material at work here. On top of that she and Astaire had very little chemistry together outside of their dancing sequences. Astaire could had very easily been her father and the idea of these two people falling for each other seems too hard to believe. There are a couple of memorable musical moments in this movie, which don't have that much to do with its music but more with its dancing really. It's one of those colorful and happy MGM musicals and is one of the last great ones within its genre, that still shows Vincente Minnelli, Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse all at the top of their game.Despite being very formulaic and predictable, this still is one of the great movies that the genre has to offer, due to its wonderful execution, despite its obvious flaws and weaknesses.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"This show has more scenery than Yellowstone National Park","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In the 1950s, nobody could beat M-G-M when it came to producing musicals, and 'The Band Wagon (1953)' is certainly among their best. A musical comedy based around the staging of a musical comedy, Vincente Minnelli's joyously entertaining picture does for stage shows what 'Singin' in the Rain (1952)' did for making movies. Fred Astaire, who retired in 1946 only to discover that he couldn't stop tapping, here successfully lampoons his aging public image (he was 54 years old), and yet somehow manages to make a romantic relationship with the stunning Cyd Charisse (32 years old) seem entirely plausible. Bing Crosby attempted to tackle a similar age discrepancy with Grace Kelly in 'High Society (1956),' and, I'm afraid to say, didn't quite pull it off though that film is still worthwhile viewing for all musical fans. Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray provide light musical and comedic support, while Jack Buchanan is a veritable laugh riot as Jeffrey Cordova, a pretentious Orson Welles-like theatre director who manages to transform a light musical comedy into a desolate modern incarnation of Faust.Tony Hunter (Astaire) is a has-been, a washed-up musical comedy star who's all but faded from the public memory. Anonymity is a fate he's since accepted. When offered the starring role in a stage show written by his friends (and two remaining fans), Tony is at first reluctant, and even more so when he finds out that he'll have to stand his own alongside a beautiful and popular ballet dancer, Gabrielle Gerard (Charisse). It doesn't help that the director (Buchanan) seems oblivious to the show's intended genre, cramming in so much doom and gloom that the premiere audience leaves the theatre in a hushed despair, no doubt contemplating suicide. Can The Band Wagon be spruced up with comedy before it leaves them all bankrupt? Will Tony and Gabrielle overcome their differences and learn to like, or even love, each other? A happy ending is, of course, never in doubt, and the musical numbers are all completely enjoyable, even if songs like Louisiana Hayride and Triplets felt somewhat poorly integrated into the plot.Certainly the most memorable of the film's musical numbers is That's Entertainment, written by by Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz, an infectious little ode to the joyfulness of the musical comedy genre. MGM musical fans would note that the song also featured prominently in the nostalgic documentary 'That's Entertainment Part II (1976),' in which Gene Kelly and Fred Astaire dance together, for only the second time in their careers. Cyd Charisse, whom we lost just last year, is absolutely gorgeous as ballet dancer Gabrielle Gerard, and her wordless pas de deux with Astaire in the park (Dancing in the Dark) is one of the latter's all-time most most touching duets (equal, perhaps, with the Never Gonna Dance number in 'Swing Time (1936)'). Also worth mentioning is a film noir-inspired stage musical sequence, its surrealism recalling the climax of 'An American in Paris (1951),' with Astaire as a weary detective who is entranced by a shifty femme fatale &#150; Cyd Charisse resurrecting her vampiric dancer from 'Singin' in the Rain (1952).' "},{"Title":"That's Entertainment","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" THE BAND WAGON is a unique film which gently mocks the conventions of the backstage musical genre by piling stereotype upon stereotype to comic effect. While some viewers see the film as purely cliché and dismiss it as such, those in tune with its covert satire often rank it as one of Hollywood's finest musicals. But however you look at it, THE BAND WAGON offers two of Hollywood's greatest dancers, three memorable character actors, fabulous music, and some of the finest musical set pieces ever created for film.The story is slight but contains unexpected twists. Fred Astaire is a has-been movie musical star (much of the film actually parodies his own history) who decides to return to Broadway--and unexpectedly finds himself trapped in a musical adaptation of Faust with a neurotic director (Jack Buchanan), two irate writers (Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray) and a decidedly icy leading lady (Cyd Charisse.) Needless to say, disaster follows disaster until every one concerned decides to junk the Faust element and do something purely entertaining instead. As with most Vincent Minnelli films, THE BAND WAGON is visually stunning in virtually every manner possible, and the loose plot offers plenty of room for one dazzling musical number after another. Astaire literally defies time with his work in this film and Charisse makes an exceptional partner; at the same time, Buchanan, Fabray, and Levant lend a touch of acid humor that adds considerably to the fun.The musical numbers are everything here, and they are all--including the disastrous Faust rehearsal--beautifully and memorably staged the opening shoe shine number, the simple beauty of 'Dancing in the Dark,' the brief turns by Buchanan, Fabray and Levant are all charmers... and 'That's Entertainment' sums up the intent of the film. Although some find it extremely slight, THE BAND WAGON remains one of the few truly great movie musicals of the 1950s--and easily one of the truly great movie musicals of Hollywood's golden age. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"Jovial, resplendent musical. Gumshoe, softshoe... 't shines it's true...","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've loved this film on both of two viewings; it really is a perennial, yet at times irreverent MGM musical. Like Singin' in the Rain you have fairly gentle but winning satire on the show business world. There the early days of talkies, here the contemporary travails of theatre and putting on a show. There are a comparable number of moments and dances that match the other film's utter magic. This is very much of the Hollywood era of transition; the new theatre of Williams, Albee and Miller starting to affect the silver screen and television encroaching with extensive fallout for cinema. The MGM musicals of this time really do signal a last gasp of jubilant, innocent showmanship, but there are, in SITR and TBW elements of genial cynicism that perhaps echo shifting times.There are many great production numbers in The Band Wagon; from the subtle strolling of By Myself, to the sublime ecstasy of the Shine on my Shoes sequence. Astaire's dance with the shoe-shiner is remarkable, it really is. Leroy Daniels, an unknown, I believe uncredited performer here, plies his trade with such an infectious enthusiasm. The part where he returns to the screen to try and match Astaire step for step is glorious; he really does, in his way. There is a book (can't recall the title sadly), comprising film writers' essays focusing passionately on obscure actors, scenes and the like, that has a quite wonderful essay on this number. You also have the wonderful instrumental Dancing in the Dark sequence; such wonderful use of colour in the background, such evocative use of silence... No words are needed at this scene's close, or indeed in virtually the entire sequence; the sublimity of consummate artistry is allowed breathing space and a wise dignity. The Mickey Spillane spoof ballet is really rather gorgeous and quite amusing by turns; truly opulent film making...That's Entertainment! is close to the film's title tune, and marvelously states the picture's raison d'etre. We are presented with all the main characters (bar Cyd Charisse and her choreographer) here, embellishing the artistic illusion with great feeling and gusto. Witty, Cole Porter-school lyrics have rarely been so bound with such steps and personality. Fred Astaire's character is amusingly set up to resonate with his own career at the time; Tony Hunter 1953! He is great; his dancing graceful, varied, wonderful, and his screen persona comprised of winning, breezy charm. While there is not quite the absolute majestic height of say Gene Kelly's title number in Singin' in the Rain, many sequences come very close as I have detailed. I do prefer his general acting to Kelly's I'd say. Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray are a great pairing here; very suitable characters; Levant slightly under used perhaps, but likeably ruffled, Ms. Fabray impish and deliciously spry. I see she only ever did a few other films and this is her sole major role; she displays a kind of Myrna Loy giddy wryness and zest that is of another film era to today. Fabray's Louisiana Hayride is perhaps not the film's best routine - it is not that catchy or witty - but it is certainly good, and doesn't outstay its welcome. Yes, the Martons seem too good to be true, but in musicals why should this matter? The slightly off centre sidekicks really do seem to be a requirement in these films; they happen to be a lot less shoe-horned in to the plot than old Donald O'Connor in Singin' I would say. They work much as well as Gene Kelly's ex-pat. pals in It's Always Fair Weather - Dan Dailey steals that film.Cyd Charisse and the choreographer perhaps are the weak links; the choreographer as he has very little to do and his dramatic scenes with Charisse have little impact. Cyd Charisse, is of course, no slouch in the dancing department; she is perfect really, if a trifle aloof as many have said; the iciness works very well for Dancing in the Dark and the gumshoe ballet. She is not so great in acting terms; very limited, although she is a little better in It's Always Fair Weather, another favourite mid-Fifties musical of mine. Her presence in the film is fine really though... dialogue scenes with Charisse are kept to a minimum.Jack Buchanan gives the film a more varied tone perhaps than some other MGM musicals, playing another central comic role very effectively. Quite a vaudevillian turn, Buchanan works well on film as the pompous, over-reaching, verbose genius Jeffrey Cordova (the character wonderfully introduced by a theatre poster Jeffrey Cordova stars in a... Jeffrey Cordova Production... directed by Jeffrey Cordova... etc.). He reminds me of Clifton Webb slightly; Cordova is obviously a less psychologically grounded role than Webb's in Laura, but there is more than a hint of the comedic juxtaposition of Webb as Mr Lynn Belvedere in Sitting Pretty, five years earlier. The emphasis is on the humorous potential of his inappropriateness for a Tony Hunter project, but he is portrayed as a genial figure overall.Indeed, there are no real clouds over this film's mood; the early wistfulness turns to an autumnal joyousness that is at least very plausible for these characters and the musical genre. A visually enticing, very affecting musical, this. Beautiful dancing, a fine score, appealing folk, tasteful comedy and a certain irreverence of tone that is couched in mature joviality and frivolity.Rating- **** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"My favorite musical!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is the greatest musical of all time (in my humble opinion.)  No really, the dancing is great, the music is great, and the story is great. If you've ever seen That's Entertainment, you've seen this movie. Unlike many aging stars at the time he doesn't try to pretend that he is a young romeo(he never was very handsome), and he has lost none of his charm and dancing talent.  While the old Fred and Ginger movies may still be the definitive Astaire movies, this film is so beautiful and entertaining(especially to anyone who has ever been on stage).  By the way, Astaire is supported by a fine cast of Cyd Charisse, Nanette Fabray, Oscar Levant, and the fabulous Jack Buchanan.  I highly suggest this movie!  "},{"Title":"*****  Gorgeous musical","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Vincente Minnelli outdid his own An American In Paris with this brilliantly photographed and staged musical, probably the best from Fred Astaire's later career period. Astaire plays a has-been movie star who's given the chance to make a comeback when his good friends (Oscar Levant, Nanette Fabray) write a Broadway musical and ask him to star. The show should go well, but first he has to put up with a snotty prima donna (Cyd Charisse), her Svengali-style choreographer boyfriend (James Mitchell) and a melodramatic producer/director (Jack Buchanan) who has totally different ideas for the show than originally planned (a modern musical version of Faust to be exact). No one knew colour like Vincente Minnelli and this is one of the best examples-the song and dance numbers are beautiful and Charisse's dancing couldn't be better.   "},{"Title":"Bravo,Buchanan !","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This film is a gem! The cast is outstanding and the songs all infectious. Astaire is very good in his role as a down and out former Hollywood star and Charisse lovely as the younger dancer he falls for but the true star of the film is legendary music hall star Jack Buchanan as Jeff Cordova. No one Hould command the screen in the grand old theatre way like Buchanan (except of course the great Noel Coward.) It is truly fortunate that we have this film as a record of his great gifts. "},{"Title":"Good Production, Some Excellent Musical Numbers, But Oddly Disjointed","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The high production quality and the generally excellent musical numbers put The Band Wagon among the better of the many worthwhile 1950s musicals, yet it had the potential to be even more than that. Several of the singing and dancing sequences are both very enjoyable and very well-produced, and there are many small touches that indicate some high standards.The story premise is quite interesting, but it is not developed as carefully as it could have been, and at other times the movie seems to be a little disjointed. It could have been a great movie if the story had been interwoven more carefully with the musical parts. Alternatively, it might also have been a better, if simpler, film if they had simply not taken up so much time to set up a story that they were never going to develop more fully.Musicals don't have to have much of a plot in order to work, of course, but the ones at the top of the genre usually do have an interesting, worthwhile story as well as great variety numbers. The premise here offers many opportunities for satire, comedy, and character development. But the story is never handled with the attention it deserved, and it often ends up moving at a clunky pace as well.Jack Buchanan is quite well-cast as the supposedly brilliant director whose ideas are so inappropriate, and Fred Astaire's great variety of skills are shown throughout the movie. Cyd Charisse is unsurpassed in the dancing sequences, although in the non-musical portions she often lacks a real presence. Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray have several good moments themselves.The That's Entertainment sequence is one of the more memorable numbers from any musical, and several of the others are also very good. Despite the unevenness and the unfulfilled potential, The Band Wagon is still good, and it is well worth seeing for anyone who enjoys the classic musicals. "},{"Title":"Musical within a musical comes at you in sections","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When Cyd Charisse vamps on Fred Astaire in The Band Wagon's `Girl Hunt' jazzed-up ballet, he says `She came at me in sections.'  The movie's like that too, its admirable sections not quite assembled into a unified whole. It's made up of a dazzling set piece (or two), a few memorable numbers, and some linking scenes, not all of which fit seamlessly with the others. Apparently it fell to Betty Comden and Adolph Green to customize a script centered around a clutch of songs MGM held title to, and to Vincente Minnelli to direct.  What resulted, as cobbled-together projects go, is far from discreditable - often inspired.Fred Astaire plays a Hollywood hoofer whose canonical films (like Astaire's) are a good decade behind him.  He returns to a New York changed by the war (and in his eyes barely recognizable in the looser post-war culture where penny arcades stand where proscenium arches used to be), to try his hand at a comeback in a Broadway musical.  Old pals Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant (Comden and Green in disguise) pen the book about a writer of children's stories who moonlights as a pusher of pulp fiction; grandiose producer Jack Buchanan (who all but steals the movie) gets the brainstorm to play it as a modern retelling of the Faust legend.  And off takes The Band Wagon.One obstacle Astaire faces is his younger co-star from the more venerable world of thuh dahnce, Cyd Charisse (a dancer whom MGM ill-advisedly tried to puff into a star).  He finds her frosty; she thinks he's fossilized.  But an even heavier stumbling block is the lugubrious metaphysical superstructure Buchanan tries to pile on top of the snappy little story; leaping around caped as Mephistopheles while smokebombs explode around him, he's so bedazzled by his own ingenuity that he can't see the iceberg looming ahead for the show.  After the collision during out-of-town tryouts, it's up to Astaire to salvage the pieces.The song-and-dance routines cleave into two sorts The backstage numbers, which include the Astaire/Charisse Central Park pas de deux `Dancing in the Dark' and the unforgettable `That's Entertainment!,' and those from the show-within-the-show (an amusing novelty number called `Triplets' and the cornball `Louisiana Hayride,' which looks like a discard from Hee-Haw). Despite some snazzy set design and proto-Fosse dancing, the extended Mickey Spillane/film noir parody `The Girl Hunt,' often cited reverently, doesn't do much to redeem what Pauline Kael once called `those damn dream ballets,'.So while the film doesn't lay an egg like `The Band Wagon' does in New Haven, turning the lavish opening-night party into a wake, it's very much a curate's egg of a movie Parts of it are quite delicious.  Astaire often looks long-in-the-tooth and worn-down as his character, and Charisse works hard for what warmth she can muster; Buchanan and Fabray supplant them as the troupers who save the movie.  At its best, it shows off what a master Minnelli was when cut loose in his chosen milieu. "},{"Title":"Good numbers, lousy plot","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  People tend to be overly forgiving with the musical genre.  The Band Wagon is often regarded as a classic, but its weaknesses are all too clear.Mostly, the plot is so unbelievable that it hurts.  There are many problems with it, but the way the musical cast saves a fiasco of a musical (of first act of 'Springtime for Hitler' proportions) overnight by turning it into something completely different requires more suspended disbelief than I can muster.  And this is just one out of several such problems...Typically for this genre, the strengths of the film are its musical/dance numbers.  Most are just well-executed and nothing special, but a few stand out.  My favourite is the shiny-shoes dance towards the beginning which is inventively choreographed and perfectly executed by Mr. Astaire. "},{"Title":"I wish I could like this movie...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Many people seem to genuinely love The Band Wagon, and it regularly receives top recommendations from reviewers and raters, but I just don't like this movie.  Some of Fred Astaire's numbers are top notch, such as Shine on My Shoes and Fred and Cyd's number Dancing in the Dark, and by themselves deserve a top rating.  However, the plot is irritating, particularly the characters laboriously plodding through  trying to bring to fruition producer Jeffrey Cordova's (Jack Buchanan) view of what the next great stage musical show should be like.  Also, Fred and Cyd seem much too far apart in age to be a plausible romantic couple.  Most irritating is that the musical numbers seem to be a hodge-podge which have nothing to do with each other.  It's all too disjointed to be enjoyable.I will say this is not entirely the fault of Betty Comden and Adolph Green's writing--they were, at times, given a group of unrelated songs by MGM and requested to write a movie script that would encompass them.  This film was also loosely based on their own professional relationship as a script-writing team, although they were not married, as the writers, the Martons, are in the film.If you haven't seen this movie, it IS worth watching for some of the musical numbers, and when I've seen it, I try to concentrate on those.  But try as I might, I never seem to be able to warm up to this film. "},{"Title":"A Fine Musical","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A pretentiously artistic director is hired for a new Broadway musical and changes it beyond recognition.Many critics rank this film, along with Singin' in the Rain, as the finest of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer musicals, although it was only a modest box-office success. I have to agree with those critics. Although I am not huge on musicals, every so often one speaks to me, and this was one of them. Definitely one of MGM's best, quite possibly Minnelli's best (I tend to think his work is overrated).Fred Astaire does not necessarily get his best dance moves here, but he gets to act and play the distinguished elder of the dancing community. Among his later films, this is definitely one of the best... I would be torn between this and Daddy Long Legs. "},{"Title":"Can't sing. Can't act. Balding. Can dance a little.","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" In the early part of the twentieth century the divide between the theatrical branch and the cinematic branch of the acting profession was much greater than it is today, and relations between the two branches were not always cordial, with stage actors regarding the cinema as a vulgar pantomime and screen actors regarding theatricals as snobbish and pretentious. To judge by the barbed satire aimed at Broadway in All about Eve, relations do not appear to have improved much by the early fifties, and The Band Wagon is another film from the same period designed to show that anything Broadway could do, Hollywood could do better. Even putting on a stage production.Tony Hunter is a song-and-dance Hollywood star who comes back East to take the lead in The Band Wagon, a stage musical written by his friends, the husband-and-wife partnership of Lester and Lily Marton. (Tony is not only based upon but also played by Fred Astaire). Unfortunately, the production has fallen into the hands of Jeffrey Cordova, a pretentious, self-obsessed Broadway actor- director who wants to turn the Martons' light-hearted comedy into a portentous modern-day reinterpretation of the Faust legend. Predictably, Cordova's production turns out to be a total flop and its backers pull out, whereupon Mr Hollywood rides to the rescue. Tony offers to sell his personal art collection to refinance the show on condition he is given total artistic control. He ditches Cordova's ideas and restores the Martons' original conception; Cordova is enough of a good sport to recognise the justice of Tony's complaints and continues to act in the show. Equally predictably, Tony's production proves a rip-roaring success.A sub-plot deals with Tony's romance with the show's leading lady, a beautiful prima ballerina named Gaby. The two start off by taking an instant dislike to one another, but in that hoary old rom-com cliché (hoary even in 1953), hatred at first sight is always the prelude to true love. Gaby, in fact, already has a boyfriend, a choreographer named Paul, but as he proves to be a snobbish culture-vulture of the same stamp as Cordova, he can quite safely be discarded. So there we have it. Mr Hollywood proves that that he can direct a theatrical production better than any of those snooty Broadway types, and is rewarded for doing so by winning the heart of a girl young enough to be his daughter.A later Astaire musical, Funny Face, was famously (and in my view wrongly), attacked by the film critic of The Times for its alleged anti-intellectualism. (The film-makers' offence was to have poked fun at Jean-Paul Sartre, something of a sacred cow in the fifties). I felt, however, that the same charge could have been brought, with greater justice, against The Band Wagon. I found myself sympathising with Cordova much more than I was supposed to. Certainly, the man has his faults, but at least he has some sort of artistic vision and respect for culture. Tony, by contrast, is all too obviously the sort of man who, when he hears the words culture or artistic vision, reaches for his (metaphorical) revolver. We never get to see very much of what Cordova's Faust musical would have been like, but we see quite lengthy excerpts from the original version of the show, and it appears to be less a musical than a revue, a series of miscellaneous sketches with no unifying theme. The Louisiana Hayride number looks like a rip-off of Oklahoma!, Triplets is a novelty comic song and the finale is an attempt to turn a Chandleresque hard-boiled detective story into a musical comedy. (Yes, it's just as bizarre as it sounds).According to one legend, the report on Astaire after his first screen test for RKO read Can't sing. Can't act. Balding. Can dance a little, and (apart from the balding part) the same could have been said of his leading lady here, Cyd Charisse. OK, Cyd could dance more than just a little; she was a former ballerina who was perhaps the best female dancer in Hollywood at this period. She was also a great beauty who undoubtedly had the best legs in Hollywood, notwithstanding any claims to the contrary made on behalf of Betty Grable. She was not, however, a great singer or actress. The first of these problems could be overcome by dubbing her singing voice, but there was little anyone could do about the second. There is little chemistry between her and Astaire and the scene where they initially quarrel seems particularly contrived and artificial. This lack of chemistry is not necessarily simply due to the age gap; Astaire was to combine rather better with his co- star in Funny Face, Audrey Hepburn, who was eight years younger even than Charisse.On the positive side, the whole thing is very professionally and slickly produced; Astaire shows that his dancing skills had not been diminished by his advancing years, although to be honest he was never a great singer. (There may be some truth in that RKO legend). There are some decent songs, such as That's Entertainment! and Dancing in the Dark. The story, however, is not a very interesting one and merely serves as a framework on which to hang a very miscellaneous ragbag of song-and-dance numbers. The Band Wagon, in the sense of the real-life film, has little more coherence than the fictitious stage show with which it shares a name. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Fred Astaire 1953!","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon is the film Fred Astaire's career was culminating tohis best film in my view. Fred Astaire is Tony Hunter! An ageing hoofer who no longer is the star he once was.The Band Wagon contains little references to Astaire's past, from Bill Bojangles Robinson to the opening credits feature an image of a top hat and cane, to the mentioning of a fictional movie Swinging Down to Panama perhaps a reference to Swing Time and Flying Down to Rio(although I do wish there could have been a little reference to his partnership with Ginger Rogers).The Band Wagon provides Astaire with some of the best musical numbers of his career. While Ginger Rogers is obviously Astaire's greatest partner,CydCharisse is his most accomplished. However the film also allows him to showcase other avenues of his talent, such as his outburst scene, a fine example of the acting prowess he possessed.Was I gullible that when I first watched The Band Wagon that the movie manipulated me into thinking the pretentious stage director Jeffrey Cordova's (Jack Buchanan)idea of a musical inspired by the Faust legend was a good idea?This isn't the same old backstage musical plot. The Band Wagon is a thinking person's musical.Not only is there a great story, there is also great comedy with a cast gels so well together.Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray as a bickering couple and their hystericalfanboy reactions to meting Tony Hunter, to Jack Bunchanan's over the top histrionics and his terrible ideas for a stage musical. If I was to choose my three favourite musical numbers in terms of epic scope, they would be The Broadway Melody Ballet from Singin' In the Rain, The Lullaby of Broadway from Gold Diggers of 1935, and The Girl Hunt Ballet from The Band Wagon in all its 13 minute glory.Here noir meets musical, with Astaire at his most badass. His line delivery could be in an actual crime film itself, plus it inspired the music video for Michael Jackson's Smooth Criminal. There's also the Shine on Your Shoes number, one which I could watch again and again just to look at all those gizmos in the background and the genuine reactions on people's faces at seeing Fred Astaire dance.Oh, and there's the Triplets number. Don't know what that is? Trust me. The early to mid-1950's where a phenomenal period for the musical genre. Hollywood produced some of its finest musicals in these years before television brought this era of film musicals to an end. Films like The Band Wagon elevated the genre to new heights. A Fred Astaire musical which has everything and more! "},{"Title":"A wonderful musical film","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Minelli's great master piece is undoubtedly The Band Wagon. Although it tells the commonplace story of a show and the plot is classic, that is to have a project for a show, the difficulties and success of life, Vicente Minnelli has succeeded in creating a movie of fine psychological analysis, prompting the spectator to think about society. Thus the Director responds well to those who have severely criticized musicals. Another element which gives particular value to this movie is the ballet Girl Hunt. Inspired by detective movies, Minnelli also has a lot of humor, humanity and poetry. It is a well stylized ballet. This belongs to a category of movies without violence and perhaps without cruelty. These days we no longer see musicals of this quality and the opportunity to see such masterpieces as The Band Wagon in more cinemas would be welcomed. "},{"Title":"Fred hitches his wagon to a star!","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" A fading movie star returns to his roots of Broadway to try and make a come-back and encounters issues with the oh-so dramatic director who wants to musicalize Faust, turning the simple musical comedy he wants to star in upside down with pretentious ideas. Fred Astaire never came back to Broadway after 1932's The Gay Divorce, but after almost 20 years on the Great White Way, film stardom kept him busy in Hollywood for another 20 years before he made this film. Arthur Freed's follow-up to Singin' in the Rain, this was a glorious salute to Broadway, almost as if Gene Kelly's character had aged into Astaire's character here, and needed Broadway to help boost his career. Under the direction of Vincent Minnelli, it is an artistic triumph that was also a commercial hit.While Fred makes his entrance escorting a very glamorous MGM star off of the train, it is obvious that all attention is on her, and to the New York press, he is a has-been. Astaire sings the solemn By Myself (which Judy Garland later belted angrily in I Could Go on Singing) then heads to a 14th Street arcade where he takes over after getting A Shine on My Shoes. This well-staged number features practically every archetype of New York character, particularly a frumpy old lady whom he scares while singing of his shoe shine. Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray are outstanding as an Adolph Green/Betty Comden type writing team, and 1920's British heartthrob Jack Buchannan is the extremely eccentric director who can't see beyond his obsession with Oedipus Rex.After almost a decade in supporting roles in MGM musicals, Cyd Charisse moved up to leading lady, here playing an ego-driven ballet star who is brought down to earth by Astaire. Her equally egotistical ballet star is the fantastic James Mitchell (Yes, All My Children's Palmer Cortlandt and Oklahoma's Dream Curley). Charisse, who previously danced with Astaire in Ziegfeld Follies, is a somewhat wooden actress, but when she starts to dance, the magic explodes. Dancing in the Dark is one of the classiest musical numbers where nobody sings, later spoofed by Steve Martin and Gilda Radner on Saturday Night Live, and Charisse (dubbed by India Adams) is delightful in her production number, New Sun in the Sky. Fabray, a perky Broadway star who only made a small number of films, steals the show every moment she is on, turning Louisiana Hayride into a cute novelty number.Buchannan loosens up when he puts on white tie and tails and proceeds to accompany Astaire in I Guess I'll Have to Change My Plan. Then, in Triplets, Fabray joins them for a feisty look at what's going on in the minds of babies. Astaire had performed this number back in the 1931 musical revue which this took the title from, a story being added to give it some substance. Newly written, The Girl Hunt Ballet is an artsy look at the world of a Mickey Spillane type detective and one of the few times film noir met the world of musical comedy. Charisse gets to play several parts in this and like in Singin' in the Rain's big Broadway Ballet, proves her usage as a dancer in movies isn't without merit.Then, there's the glorious title song, utilized in all three editions of That's Entertainment!. And while the Broadway stage may never have been as big as the MGM sound-stages, that really doesn't matter because the stage is a world, the world is a stage of entertainment!. "},{"Title":"Get aboard The Band Wagon indeed.","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Here's the question of the century. Is it wrong to say that the best Fred Astaire picture happens to be one without Ginger Rogers? In the case of Vincente Minnelli's wonderful 1953 musical masterpiece The Band Wagon, I think not. This is the film that answers the question how does MGM follow up a big hit like Singin' in the Rain (1952)? Well, for starters, getting Betty Comden and Adolph Green, the same screenwriters of that film, to write the script for this one is a pretty darn good idea. Furthermore, changing the focus from Hollywood to Broadway isn't a bad idea either. And instead of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen taking over the director's chair, we'll have Vincente Minnelli, the director of Meet Me in St. Louis (1944), lead the charge. Sure, Gene Kelly won't be in this picture, but do you know who will be? None other than the talented dancer who helped teach Debbie Reynolds how to dance, Fred Astaire. YES! Now we're talking! Fred Astaire plays Tony Hunter, a washed-up Hollywood star who has recently quit the business and heads back to New York to try his luck out on Broadway. His two pals Lester and Lily Marton (Oscar Levant, Nanette Fabray) think they have the perfect script for his comeback. They are able to get popular Broadway director Jeffrey Cordova (Jack Buchanan) to sign on for directing their play. However, Jeff insists on changing the light comedy into a dark and dramatic retelling of Faust, which Tony thinks is outside his comfort zone. If that wasn't enough, a young and beautiful ballerina named Gabrielle Gerard (Cyd Charisse) is signed on to be his co-star. Gabrielle also intimidates Tony because he has trouble dancing with ladies that are taller than him and feels that he doesn't have enough classical background to be dancing in her league. Will Tony and his pals be able to pull off a successful show even with all these obstacles working against them? Would you believe me if I told you that Tony's concerns over dancing with his co-star Gabrielle was written especially for the film because it really happened on set? I'm not even kidding. On the making of featurette on the 2-disc DVD of this film, they said that Fred Astaire was concerned over the height of Cyd Charisse. Keeping this trivia in mind, I applaud the screenwriters for having the guts and the great sense of humor to put those details into the script as it was happening on set. Also on the aforementioned featurette, the screenwriters Comden and Green stated that the troubles the film's characters were experiencing while preparing for this production were based on things these two had experienced while participating in other theatrical productions. And you know what? I completely buy that these kinds of situations happened in real-life. I'm convinced that there are some Broadway directors who put too much scenery on set or that the guys operating the sets keep going the wrong way because they can't see what they're doing. It's completely believable in that sense. In the tradition of Singin' in the Rain, The Band Wagon is yet another MGM musical in which it was a miracle that it came together as well as it did. The 'making of' featurette for this picture seemed to imply that this was not a pleasant production. Once again, some of the picture's main stars couldn't get along with each other very well. Oscar Levant drove then-newcomer Nanette Fabray nuts because she stated that he was always looking for someone or something to put the blame on whenever he did a take wrong. But when she told him to go to hell during the production, I guess that shut him up good. Well played, Ms. Fabray. And of course, it's a testament to both Levant and Fabray's delightful work in this film that they make us forget their struggles together during production. Fabray in particular makes everything better whenever she's on screen with her positivity and endearing charm throughout. The Band Wagon literally makes you also forget about the troubles Minnelli was having at the time with his wife Judy Garland and the painstaking hours of rehearsal Astaire used to make his dances perfect. Speaking of the songs and dances, the music by Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz is some of the very best. That's Entertainment is arguably the greatest song ever written for the big screen. Not since Make 'Em Laugh have I heard a song that is the ultimate summary of what Hollywood is all about. It's a bittersweet reminder that anything can be considered entertainment to each and every one of us. Excellent message, terrific melody and rhythm, and outstanding lyrics, this song is a certified classic. And what worthy songs it's accompanied by. It's not every day you come across numbers such as Dancing in the Dark and The Girl Hunt which solely contain music and no singing. But it's all for the better since they showcase both Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse's dancing skills at their best. The endurance, variety of movements, and enjoyment that Astaire and Charisse demonstrate in these numbers are second to none. You truly don't see talent like that anymore. Every single musical number is simply perfection from the Shine On Your Shoes number in the recreation center to the I Guess I'll Have to Change My Plan duet between Astaire and Buchanan. If I were to talk about every single excellent thing about The Band Wagon, we'd probably be here all day. So I'll shorten the rest of my thoughts down for those who haven't seen it yet. All five of the main actors have charisma to spare. The entire soundtrack is sublime. The writing is sensational and relatable. The dance sequences are some of the finest. The stylish production and cinematography are all top notch. Get aboard The Band Wagon indeed. "},{"Title":"Drama too long and dull, but with several unique memorable musical productions","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" About 30 min too long, for me. Much of the between the musical numbers drama was painful for me to sit through. Oscar Levant and Jack Buchanan were generally a bore, not to mention Fred and Cyd in their May-December attraction-repulsion problem. Spritely Nanette Fabray is good in her Judy Garland-like role. While leggy Cyd was often a joy to watch in romantic, seductive or ballet numbers, she was no Judy Garland when it came to acting, comedy or singing(always dubbed). Some of her early dialogue makes her look like a school girl not promising for an eventual romantic connection with Fred's mature character.I don't understand Cyd's rating of her dance with Fred to Dancing in the Dark as her favorite dance in her film career. It's a scenic romantic dance, no doubt, to a classic romantic song, staged as a spontaneous dance, making it seem more romantic. Fred does several partial lifts and supports. Unlike most male dancers, her never seemed to do full lifts, apparently being too weak(very skinny) to do so. Otherwise, I don't see this dance as being especially distinguished. Rather reminds me of Fred and Ginger or Rita. There are, of course, several additional memorable songs or dance routines. So, with fast forward DVD technology, this film is worth checking out, for those who enjoy watching dancing without slogging through the between verbiage.Along with a visible Fred, Cyd and others, the unseen musical stars are composer Arthur Schwartz, mostly with lyricist Howard Dietz, who collaborated, on and off, for decades, beginning in the late '20s, both being New Yorkers. Most of their best remembered songs are from several revues in the early-mid '30s, during the depths of The Depression. This film takes its title from one of these revues. However, the list of songs includes some from other shows during this period, as well as a couple of new compositions. By far, the most remembered of the latter is That's Entertainment, which came to be the title and theme song for a series of compendia DVDs of the best musical moments in MGM films. In addition to being a lyricist, Dietz was important to MGM in spearheading many publicity campaigns and premieres, and came up with the roaring lion to start their films.Aware that most of the songs included were composed during The Depression, rather than during the relatively prosperous and optimistic '50s, gives us a better insight into the lyrics of the songs and even the plot of this film. The original Band Wagon was a musical revue, thus had no story to tell. It incidentally featured the dancing of Fred and his sister in their last stage performances before she retired for marriage and Fred went off to Hollywood. The screenplay concocted for this film involves an aging song and dance man(Fred) trying to decide whether to retire or try to find a new young partner(Cyd)to put some new spice into his act. While this had immediate personal relevance to Fred, it could also serve as an allegory to the state of mind of many people during The Depression. In Fred's first songs By Myself and With Shine on My Shoes, he's trying to cheer himself up, thumbing his nose at his recent professional flops, trying to convince himself that he can restart his career with the right new partner. Similarly, people during The Depression had hopes that prosperity would eventually return. While these scenes offer no remarkable dances, the inclusion of genuine African American shoeshine 'boy' Leroy Daniels, who attracted customers with song and comical dances, added more spice to Fred's adventures in the arcade.Yes, Dancing in the Dark, at one level, provides a beautiful romantic tune and lyrics. The latter is saying that the combo of a new love and music can make us feel young again and have a joyful life as a team. But, it also has a realistic fatalistic component, in effect, reminding us that life is rather short and very uncertain(symbolized by darkness), hence we must be aggressive in finding and holding onto the most compatible mate we can find, to help make the most of our uncertain limited lives.The most innovative productions come toward the end. This includes the unique and very difficult(and painful) to do The Triplets, in with Fred, Nanette and Buchanan are dressed as fraternal triplet babies, sing and do some 'dancing', with short artificial legs strapped to their knees very awkward to deal with! The lyrics mostly emphasize the downside of being triplets...But the highlight of the film surely is the last big production The Girl Hunt a very avant garde dance drama, lampooning the film noire genre. Fred plays Rod Riley a NYC detective, who goes through a series of adventures, especially involving a team of gangster goons, a seductive blond and a seductive brunet(presumably both Cyd). The various scenes really have little connectivity, but all are interestingly staged, presumably by the talented choreographer Michael Kidd. In the end, Cyd appears to accompany Fred, after he has 'done in' the baddies. He remarks that she's clearly bad and dangerous(presumably a gangster's moll), but his kind of woman, nonetheless. ..Just before this production, Fred' character hints a marriage proposal to Cyd, but she says I wish you wouldn't. But after the show, Cyd hints at a marriage proposal to Fred's character. The finale, in which all the principles join in a reprise of That's Entertainment, provides the desired 'feel good' ending. "},{"Title":"this and Singin' in the Rain are really the best","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon from 1953 is a delight from beginning to end, thanks to the inspired directing of Vincente Minnelli, a script by Comden and Green, music by Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz, and putting the whole thing over, none other than Fred Astaire, Cyd Charisse, Jack Buchanan, Oscar Levant, and Nanette Fabrey.Astaire plays a movie star, Tony Hunter, known for us singing and dancing. He's feeling as if his time in Hollywood has passed - in fact, at the train station, the reporters are there, but not for him - for Ava Gardner.Meeting him at the station are two friends, Lily and Les Martin (Fabrey and Levant), who have a Broadway show for him. That's where things go a bit awry. A director is brought in, Jeffrey Cordova (Buchanan) who has loftier ideas. He wants a modern version of Faust and hires a beautiful ballet dancer, Gabrielle Gerard (Charisse) to costar with Hunter.Tony and Gabrielle don't get along, and her choreographer/boyfriend (James Mitchell) doesn't help much.The show is a massive, colossal flop. The cast, along with the writers, decide to go back to the original concept and fix it on the road.There are so many wonderful musical numbers in The Band Wagon that it's hard to pick the best. The entire Penny Arcade sequence is energetic and fun. Dancing in the Dark and You and the Night and the Music both danced by Astaire and Charisse and the latter done in Central Park, are sublime and enchanting. And who can forget the hilarious Triplets with Astaire, Buchanan, and Fabrey? Astaire, with his pleasant voice and perfect musicianship sings I Guess I'll Have to Change My Plans, By Myself, and When There's A Shine in Your Shoes, which he also dances. There's something for everyone to enjoy.Hollywood filmed a lot of Broadway hits and did a few original musicals. They hit the jackpot with 42nd Street, Meet Me in St. Louis, Holiday Inn, White Christmas, etc., and the two best, Singin' in the Rain and The Band Wagon. Both Singin' and The Band Wagon are backstage musicals, though one is about making movies and the other is about putting on a show. It's a toss-up, for me anyway, as to which one is better. I love them both. Both make me laugh, thrill me with the musical routines, and leave me with a smile on my face. If you haven't seen The Band Wagon, I have a question - what are you waiting for? "},{"Title":"Charming Musical Full of Great Gags","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon (1953)**** (out of 4)Very entertaining musical about washed up actor Tony Hunter (Fred Astaire) who agrees to go back on Broadway when his two friends white a new play for him. The only problem is that the eccentric director Lester Marton (Oscar Levant) decides to throw out everything in the story and come up with something original but this here just ruins everything. THE BAND WAGON is one of many legendary musicals that Astaire would make throughout his career and it's certainly a very rewarding one. As with a lot of films in the genre, the story itself is pretty simple but the director and cast manage to do quite a bit with it. I really liked how Astaire is pretty much playing himself as there are all sorts of winks to fans of his that give you a chance to go down memory lane. There's a very good wink to TOP HAT among many other pictures and they're quite funny. Even better are the constant name-dropping of various celebrities and how things were changing in Hollywood. Astaire talking about him not being Marlon Brando was funny and I think it's clear that everyone was trying to make an old-fashioned musical before Hollywood went into a completely different direction. It should come as no shock but Astaire is perfect in the lead role with his dancing moves and singing voice being as great as ever. His comic timing here is also on full display and the actor is clearly enjoying the role. Cyd Charisse is also very good in the role of the co-star who battles with Astaire at first before the obvious love story kicks in. Levant nearly steals every single scene he's in as the crazy director and I've often wondered if this role was based off Orson Welles. THE BAND WAGON contains some beautiful cinematography, countless fun songs and overall it's just a real joy to sit through. "},{"Title":"A Broadway Show Behind the Blow","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The opening titles of Vincente Minnelli's The Band Wagon play over a top hat and cane, which would evoke Fred Astaire even if he weren't the movie's star. Then we see an auction of movie memorabilia. The top hat and cane don't go, even when the auctioneer begs, 50 cents? Anyone? They belonged to one-time entertainer Tony Hunter, and now we see him, played by Astaire, on a train to NYC. Perhaps he can recover on Broadway. From how he sings By Myself, he doesn't sound optimistic.The Band Wagon is a comedy, but has a tone of sorrow with its smirks, a grief ever-pervasive among Broadway people, who've seen more letdown than triumph, who understand the show inevitably closes and that the family disperses and returns to the indeterminate state of auditions and out-of-town callbacks. The movie takes a fictitious musical through all the phases of writing, casting, production, choreography, rehearsals, catastrophe on tour and ultimate success on Broadway. It's so blissfully alert to its genre, but it relies on familiarity with the real functioning situations of Broadway pros, just like Singin' in the Rain knew all about the studio-era movie business. The Astaire and Charisse characters are assembled by Jeffrey Cordova, a director-producer-star with arty affectations, who believes the sparkling little musical by the Martons should be revised as a variation on Faust.Cordova is supposedly inspired by Jose Ferrer, but in the self-image and grandiose plans there's a reverberation of Orson Welles. Buchanan, who ribs his own aristocratic poise, enjoys a character who lacks any realistic understanding of budgetary limitations or the patience of an audience. One of the movie's gems is when he admits he's off beam and Astaire is right, and they do a soft-shoe to I Guess I'll Have to Change My Plan. Astaire and Charisse get into a fuming scrap when they first meet, and then, in the scene where the movie's allure first truly emerges, they reconcile mutely in the Dancing in the Dark scene in Central Park under a full moon. Here and throughout the film, Charisse is a sexy and qualified equal for Astaire. The extravagant Faustian musical has got more scenery than Yellowstone National Park. As the disheartened cast assembles in a hotel suite, they perk themselves up with the I Love Louisa number, but right when the song ends everyone goes right back into a glum slouch.MGM didn't just reprocess Broadway sensations. They produced new ones from square one, often applying songs they already had. That's effective here because, upon ditching the Faustian musical, the players resolve to stage a variety show. One original song would become a hallmark Deitz and Schwartz's That's Entertainment, which commemorates showbiz as merrily though not as madcap as Donald O'Connor's Make 'em Laugh in Singin' in the Rain. One of the older songs that makes a somewhat feebler comeback here is Louisiana Hayride. Even if in an extravaganza anything, as it were, goes, the hayride feels a little forced.Another number, however, the uncanny Triplets, sees Astaire, Fabray and Buchanan all deceptively midgets masqueraded like toddlers, sliding down from their high chairs and foxtrotting. Because we see their feet hit the floor and special effects look out of the question, how did they do that?! Part of the movie's fascination comes from a feeling that what we see is not so different from the real course of making it. It's entertainment for sure, but it's also uphill struggle, and Astaire chain-smokes from beginning to end. I don't think a dancer should smoke, Charisse exhorts early on, but by the end, she's bumming. "},{"Title":"Everything that happens in life can happen in a show","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon was the last of three of three musicals produced by Arthur Freed that used a selection of numbers by a song-writing team of the previous generation, the first two being An American in Paris (Gershwin) and Singin' in the Rain (Freed and Brown). This time round the music is by Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz, a lesser-known duo, but their tunes are certainly pretty enough, while their witty and often satirical lyrics make them suited to this nifty take on the long-established backstage musical.There was a bit of a trend round this time in Hollywood for pictures in which the career of the star and their character mirrored one another. Just like Tony Hunter, Fred Astaire really was thought to be an anachronism in some quarters, and had only recently come out of the first of his three retirements. The Band Wagon is to Astaire effectively a light-hearted and less cruel equivalent of what Sunset Boulevard (1950) was to Gloria Swanson, or what A Star is Born (1954) would be to Judy Garland. And while it may swap screen for stage, many of its cheeky digs apply to both media &#x96; the misguided vision of a slightly out-of-touch producer, the poaching of stars from different disciplines, the embarrassment of a badly-received premier. There's even spoofing of previous Freed/Minnelli musicals such as The Pirate (the pyrotechnics in the latter movie's daydream sequence are exaggerated her in the Cordova stage show), and of course the Girl Hunt ballet, which lampoons all those convoluted film noirs like The Big Sleep and Out of the Past with spot-on precision, right down to the mean dialogue that is not far from what you really heard in some of the more lowbrow crime thrillers. Girl Hunt is one of the funniest and rhythmically beautiful moments in the picture, and it alone makes the picture worth the watch.Director Vincente Minnelli could really bring a musical like this to life unlike anyone else. His style, a little ostentatious in a drama, is perfect here because it is a kind of choreography. Of course, anyone can have a hard cut or a whip-pan to emphasise a dynamic phrase, but it's the way Minnelli responds to the subtleties of the music that make him stand out. Take the very laid-back By Myself number. Those various people walking in the opposite direction to Astaire are timed to the occasional little twiddles in the underscoring. It's a really delicate balance here &#x96; those bits of business are not dancey enough to distract from the smoothness of the song or stop Fred being the focus of attention, and yet they add just enough to make it a little more interesting than simply him walking along an empty platform. There are also some great examples here of Minnelli's bold use of colour, in which funnily enough it is often the more muted shades that stand out. For example, when Astaire meets Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant at the station, the three of them are dressed in grey while all the bolder tones are used for background detail. While all Freed musicals have a deliberately unreal look to them even outside of the musical numbers, it's important that this doesn't spill over into making the people and places look ridiculous. It's Minnelli's good taste in these situations that bridges the gap between the idealised musical world and settings we can relate to.And what of the cast, all willingly lampooning if not themselves then at least their trade? Astaire always had a bit of a self-deprecating streak, and he appears to have good fun with the more comical scenes in particular. However unlike Tony Hunter, The Band Wagon failed to regenerate Astaire's career, perhaps because it doesn't quite make such spectacular displays of his dancing as did his older movies, and perhaps because he really was now an old-fashioned player. Whatever the case he went on to have only middling successes for the rest of his career. Astaire also happens to be overshadowed by the supporting performances in this one &#x96; Nanette Fabray and her delightfully amusing array of facial expressions, Oscar Levant going a little over the top but still showing great comic timing, and most of all Jack Buchanan. Buchanan absolutely excels in his wild and well-informed caricature of the flamboyant theatre impresario, hilarious even when underplaying, such as when he gets hoisted aloft like a puppet by incompetent stagehands, funnier still when overplaying, such as his crazed acting-out of the Faust story to a group of backers, which Minnelli shrewdly gives us in little snippets through a doorway. Buchanan never really made a big impression in any other screen appearance, but as the madcap Jeff Cordova he deserved at least a nod for Best Supporting Actor.The Band Wagon is not only a fantastic musical; it represents one of the nicest things about Hollywood in the post-war era. For every film noir or gritty drama that picked apart its subject manner with brutal cynicism, there always seemed to be a comedy or a musical doing the same thing in a gentle and even joyful manner. Writers Betty Comden and Adolph Green jumped on the band wagon of Show Business introspection, for an intelligent script that some might dismiss as froth, but only because it lacks the sombre tone of Sunset Boulevard and All About Eve. And it was the brilliance of those Comden, Green, Freed and Minnelli that could turn a gloomy subgenre into something as vibrant and appealing as this. That's Entertainment indeed. "},{"Title":"As good as musicals get","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have seen my fair share of good musicals as well as some disappointing ones. What's for sure for me, The Band Wagon is one of my favourites from the genre. It has a good engaging story and a witty script. It also has brilliant direction from the great Vincente Minelli, and absolutely fabulous production design from the scenery to the costumes. And the choreography is really clever and fabulous, and the same applies for the superb music. As for the performances, Fred Astaire is very likable and stunning here, and Cyd Charisse is simply gorgeous. There are also some very memorable sequences namely the Dancing in the Dark sequence and the Mickey Spillaine parody The Girl Hunt ballet. Overall, this film is fabulous and one of the best of the musical genre. 10/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The Band Wagon","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I knew this film was featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, but I was mistaken from the title into thinking it was a western, it didn't matter though, from director Vincente Minnelli (An American in Paris, Gigi). Basically singing and dancing movie and stage star Tony Hunter (Fred Astaire) has been washed up for about five years, and the press are more interested in seeing someone like Ava Gardner (in a cameo) on the train not him. His old friends the Martons, Lily (Nanette Fabray) and Lester (Oscar Levant) have an idea for a new Broadway stage show that they want him to star in, and big shot artistic director/producer/actor Jeffrey Cordova (Jack Buchanan) wants a part of it. Things get out of hand as Jeffrey starts changing the story completely from a jolly singing and dancing show into a modern day take on the dark story of Faust. Jeffrey wants to get the biggest ballerina dancing star Gabrielle Gerard (Singin' in the Rain's Cyd Charisse) to star alongside Tony, and he manages it, but they do have their differences to begin with during rehearsals. After loads of planning, rehearsals and rewrites, the show titled The Band Wagon is ready to go onto the stage, but the first night fails to get a success party afterwards, which forces Jeffrey to allow the original story Lily and Lester wanted to tour the country. After so much time together Tony and Gabrielle have grown to have strong feelings for each other, but in the end Tony decides to leave the obviously successful show, and the four main people reprise That's Entertainment. Also starring James Mitchell as Paul Byrd, Robert Gist as Hal, Thurston Hall as Colonel Tripp and Leroy Daniels as Arcade Shoeshine Man. The best sequences for me are Astaire dancing with the Shoeshiner in the colourful arcade, some of the ballet scenes from Charisse, the usual Astaire top hats and tails bit, the Dancing in the Dark sequence, the Triplets part, and the gangster scene of the stage show. Astaire and Charisse make a great couple singing and dancing together, the choreography is absolutely brilliant, and with great use of colour and songs to wonder and behold, it is one of the best classic musicals I have seen for ages. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Costume Design, Best Music for Adolph Deutsch and Best Writing, Story and Screenplay. Fred Astaire was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and That's Entertainment was number 45 on 100 Years, 100 Songs. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Like the song says, That's Entertainment","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon is one of the best in a long line of quality musicals from MGM. Here, Fred Astaire plays a washed up hoofer who's offered a role in a Broadway musical by two old friends. However, when a pretentious producer/director (Jack Buchanan) agrees to take on the project he changes it beyond all recognition.First of all, the cast is wonderful. Fred Astaire is, well, Fred Astaire. Cyd Charisse, meanwhile, is elegant, beautiful and an ideal partner for Astaire. Jack Buchanan supplies some of the film's best comedic moments while Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray offer quality support.The script by Betty Comden & Adolf Green takes a similar approach to their script for Singin' in the Rain, wherein they built a story around the songs of Nacio Herb Brown. Here they built a story around the songs of Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz and, in my opinion, the plot is even more satisfying than that of Singin' in the Rain.The songs are all good as well, even if they may not have lodged in my memory as persistently as others (except for That's Entertainment). The musical set-pieces are outstanding, though; from the subdued By Myself to the elegant Dancing in the Dark and, of course, the grand finale The Girl Hunt. All of these and more are enlivened by Vincente Minnelli's top-notch direction.All in all, The Band Wagon is an exceptional musical that not only showcases great entertainment but also great artistry. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie.","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 15/10, really.Great singing and dancing movie. Fred Astaire awesome. The shoeshine scene wonderful. Levant creaky singer, but I always enjoy listening to him and his dry humor patter, wise cracks and piano playing. I also enjoyed his parts in An American in Paris and The Barkleys of Broadway.The triplet baby scene fabulous. The baby hats, dresses, shoes and highchairs were a total treat. Singing the baby song about jealousy always blows me away.Charisse excellent, as well as Fabray and the others.I liked the gangster scene as well as the train scene.This is a nice testament to 1950s artistic expression. There is fast paced dialogue that takes some paying attention.We were post World War II and nearing post-Korean War, but these scenes show people trying to be happy and to deal with life. Still, I always think it is good to express our joys and hopes by singing and dancing. These actors, singers and dancers were some of our greatest filmed artists of that time period. "},{"Title":"Astaire and Charisse A Great Duo","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am not a fan of musicals, for the usual reason cited by many- they are not very realistic. People breaking out into song and dance while doing mundane things just doesn't happen. But paradoxically I really like show tunes, particularly those from movies and shows of the Fifties. So with a little trepidation I set out to watch The Band Wagon.Fred Astaire, as Tony Hunter, is getting a little long in the tooth and he knows it. Nonetheless he agrees to perform in an upcoming stage production. The director, pretty full of himself, quickly decides to completely change the plot of the play. Tony is reluctant, but stays with the project.The addition of Cyd Charisse (as Gabrielle) to the cast doesn't go well at first. But over time, after many stumbling blocks are overcome, things start to click.I would have been happy to not have seen and heard most of the tunes in this film, but That's Entertainment and Dancing in the Dark are two of the memorable show tunes of the era, and they make the movie worth watching. That and a number called Girl Hunt, in which the major player is Tony Hunter. Astaire is still spry in this production; he was fifty three at the time. His movements in this latter number are first rate, and I only recall I Left My Hat in Haiti having more complexities.The supporting cast is excellent. Nanette Fabray (as Lily, a friend of Tony's) showed me more talent than I ever knew she possessed, having mostly seen her on television over the years. Wise-cracking Oscar Levant (as Lily's husband Lester) performs as a wonderful foil. Jack Buchanan (as Jeffrey Cordova) convincingly plays the egomaniacal director.The production values of any MGM musical is first rate, and that is no less true here. Surprisingly entertaining, there really isn't a sour note in the whole movie. Three stars. "},{"Title":"More Minnelli magic","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While I don't think it is the greatest MGM musical (It's between Minelli's own An American In Paris and Kelly & Donen's Singin In The Rain for me), The Band Wagon is certainly up there with my very favourites. The Girl Hunt film noir parody sequence is worth seeing alone- 11 minutes of brilliance, performed wonderfully by stars Astaire and Charise. All of the musical numbers are just as good, even if the film does seem to run slightly long. It seems to sag a bit in the middle, after the lovely Dancing In The Dark scene. I also wondered why the show's original director, who was supposed to be a control freak, surrenders his show so easily to Astaire. It just loses tension. Still, the faults here are few and far between and it's a wonderful musical experience. In having the classically-trained Charise and hoofer Astaire come together on stage and off, Minnelli seems to be affirming his own unique talent of blending of art with show-stopping numbers. Art and entertainment are not mutually exclusive- at least, not in a Minnelli musical. "},{"Title":"Jump on This Bandwagon","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Comden and Green story is similar to Singin' in the Rain, but this film lacks the zip of that classic, as it tends to get bogged down between numbers. Fortunately, there are quite a few great numbers, including the energetic Shine on my Shoes, the classic That's Entertainment, the graceful Dancing in the Dark, and the hilarious Triplets. The extended Girl Hunt ballet is fun, with Charisse incredibly hot in that dance she does in the red dress. Astaire's dancing is great while Fabray is fabulous and brings a lot of energy to her role. Based on the musical numbers, this film would rate at least a 9, but is brought down by the talking scenes. "},{"Title":"Art imitating life.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire, the marvelously talented dancer that wowed us with his moves in the 1930s during his 10-film stint with Ginger Rogers has faded off into obscurity at this time. Here, he plays Tony Hunter, a former star who has become the stuff of legend and travels to Broadway to try and revive his career. There, he meets Oscar Levant Nanette Fabray who are writing a stage musical for him to star in. They get the best producer/director (Jack Buchanan), as well as the best choreographer (James Mitchell) to help. They also land the best dancer in Broadway, the incredibly talented and beautiful Gabrielle Gerard, played so well by Cyd Charisse. In fact, it really is Charisse that carries the rest of the story. Astaire has to do more acting and singing than he usually does, and those really aren't his strong points. Charisse, however, can sing and is a fine actress as well. The story hits some snags on the way, but it ends on a high note as well as with the best number in the musical, That's Entertainment. Of course this is no Singin' in the Rain or An American in Paris, but for simple, joyful entertainment, The Bandwagon works. "},{"Title":"Rolls along nicely","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Enjoyable, superior late Fred Astaire musical, effervescently directed by the excellent Vincente Minelli and aided throughout by a strong supporting cast and some fine song and dance routines. What really helps this Astaire vehicle above all else is a beefier than usual narrative, taking gentle but telling pot shots at stereotypical theatre types (Astaire's character not excepted) and posing that old perennial can musicals ever be taken seriously as film art. This ironic stance is something the movie shares with its even greater (in my opinion) contemporary Singing in the Rain, which takes similar aim at the silent movie vs. talkies discussion. As ever with Minelli's work, the colours are vibrant, the set design sumptuous and the interplay between words and music seamless. Okay, so yet again we have to swallow hard and accept that the ageing, diminutive Astaire manages to charm to submission (after a rocky start, natch!) a beautiful younger leading lady - on this occasion the delightful Cyd Charisse - perhaps it is in acknowledgement of this eternal anomaly that almost all of Fred's characters are made men of distinction, adding a further degree of necessary attraction to subdue his younger paramours. The songs are fine, That's Entertainment of course outshining the rest and the very funny Triplets the Couple of Swells of the piece whilst amongst the support, Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray (neatly echoing their creators Green and Comden) get lots of laughs as the bickering husband and wife songwriting team and Jack Buchanan steals the show as the uppity arty director whose pretentiousness comes a cropper and then happily sacrifices / liberates his art to make a down to earth musical entertainment. Astaire mugs and occasionally hams as only he can, but as ever he gets away with it, the character he inhabits here perhaps closer to home than many he played in his later solo years. And are musicals art? Absolutely, when they reach this level! "},{"Title":"Extravagant Musical","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I first saw clips of this movie when I saw 'That's Entertainment' a few months ago. Naturally, I was intrigued as it came up so frequently in that film and it looked like a very good film. As clear as crystal in dazzling technicolour and directed by the great Vincent Minnelli, The Band Wagon is clearly one of the most famous musicals, with famous numbers such as 'That's Entertainment', 'Triplets' (how on Earth they did that, I don't know!) and 'Girl Hunt'. It looks like it could have been made yesterday - and yet it's well over 50 years old! That's the magic of musicals - they never seem to age and more importantly, music will never go out of fashion. And the dancing - oh, the dancing! Magnificent, dramatic, unusual and dreamy are just some adjectives you can use to describe the wonderful choreography featured.I wasn't very sure of Cyd Charrise's dancing ability for this (I didn't think she was anything special) but this movie proved to me that she was a very excellent dancing, with style and grace. Although, I am not sure if she is much of an actress though. Fred Astaire is his normal light-on-his-feet self, proving that you can still be fit and fabulous when you're over 50 (goodness he looks fantastic!). Everyone else in the cast - Oscar Levant, Nanette Fabray, Jack Buchanan are very well cast.Now for the plot Tony Hunter is a has-been. He was once a very famous dancer and singer, but his career is at an all time low. However, he has some old friends to help him. They've written a new musical for him and it would be perfect comeback material. They hire bigshot artistic director/producer/star Jeffrey Cordova and from then on, things get out of hand, not to mention there are conflicts between Tony and Gabrielle Gerard (Cyd Charisse).All in all, a stunning musical no matter how cheesy or cliché it may seem. We all need to escape from reality sometimes and what a better way to escape than to be thrown into the world of lavish Broadway productions, great songs, sexy dances and magnificent colour. Great film. "},{"Title":"That's Entertainment","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The great Fred Astaire plays a fading musical star called Tony Hunter in this great musical comedy.His friends decide to make a funny little Broadway musical.But everything starts going wrong when theytake the director/producer Jeffrey Cordova(Jack Buchanan) to direct the play. He wants to make the play as the modern Faust.And he takes the ballerina Gabrielle Gerard(Cyd Charisse) to the play.And between Tony and Gabrielle it's not love at first sight.Hate would be the right word.But everything goes well as in musicals usually. The Bang Wagon is a great musical from the 50's.It is great to watch Fred singing about shoe shine and about entertainment. Astaire is one of the greatest musical stars of the century. The man really shines in Band Wagon.And Cyd Charisse is the right lady to sing and dance opposite Astaire.Together they both make The Band Wagon one of the greatest musicals ever made.  "}{"Title":"That's Entertainment?","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It is a brave film which has a song called That's Entertainment! as its signature number. Because if, as is unfortunately the case with The Band Wagon, the film is not great entertainment...well, the negative review practically writes itself. This is a film which has the good fortune to have two great talents, Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse, and the misfortune of completely wasting them. It's a film full of largely forgettable musical numbers and it has a story which never really engages and which in the end goes off the rails completely. To call the film tedious would be harsh but not entirely untrue. The film goes for laughs but fails rather miserably in that regard. It tries to give you a little romance but that angle never heats up. The film has no flow to it, there is a real disjointed feel throughout. No, this is not entertainment.Astaire plays declining movie star Tony Hunter. His friends Lester and Lily Marton have written a stage show which they think can revive his career. They bring it to noted Broadway director/producer/star Jeffrey Cordova who decides to turn what was written as a light comedy into a serious, and seriously bizarre, retelling of Faust. Not surprisingly this proves disastrous. Lester and Lily start bickering. The play, which no longer makes any sense whatsoever, spirals out of control. And all the while tension rises between Tony and his costar, ballerina Gabrielle Gerard. Tony is intimidated by Gabrielle's youth and beauty, not for no reason with Charisse playing the part. And he thinks this classically trained ballerina has no respect for his style of hoofing. Tony and Gabrielle have no chemistry, can't stand one another, can't work together. Eventually they do come together somewhat which provides the film with perhaps its one true highlight, Astaire and Charisse with a wonderful, beautiful dance in a park. Unfortunately after that Tony and Gabrielle's play continues to crumble and so does the film. By the time Astaire and Charisse dance together again much later on the film is past the point of being salvageable.Astaire and Charisse really were hung out to dry here. The supporting cast adds nothing. The loony Cordova character is meant to be over-the-top but Jack Buchanan goes way too far with it. This character is too nuts for the film's good. At least he has some spark to him which is more than can be said for the writing couple, Lester and Lily. Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray play those parts quite lifelessly. And James Mitchell, playing a romantic interest for Gabrielle, is a total wet blanket with all the personality of a doorknob. The musical numbers all fall flat and many make no sense whatsoever. By the end the film is just throwing random songs up on the screen to see what sticks. None of it does. Some of the numbers in the film's homestretch are obviously meant to be funny but they are just terrible, producing groans not laughs. The big final number is a little better even if, as with so much of what preceded it, it makes very little sense. The best musicals have a lot of life in them. The Band Wagon does not. The energy just is not there. The story doesn't work, the songs are forgettable, the performances of the supporting cast leave much to be desired. Astaire and Charisse have a couple of moments. A couple of moments is not enough to make a good film. "},{"Title":"One Of the most creavive Hollywood musicals!!!","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I really enjoy this musical very much. Thought Singin' In The Rain is charming for me. But it never gets the depth of human nature like The Band Wagon do for me. The Band Wagon opens when the lead should be a active man but it wasn't at all. Fred's character is passive, unready for a change in life. Instead, Cyd Charisse is active but innocent. What big a reverse! Like 40s film-noir and the reason that Charisse's voice debt is for her man energy. Because aging differences is the main fear of Fred's character. He hates to work with the young. So I don't think seeing this movie should completely take any musical comedy ideas. Especially Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly are not the same type. If that's what most dance musical fans want, they'll probably disappointed. The whole concept for The Band Wagon is perhaps make value change for Fred Astaire at that time. He has to play Faust.The Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz music is so fun and romance in its excellence. Especially Dancing In The Dark, one of the most beautiful blues in musicals. It's needless to say that music hinted their complements for each other. Other song like Triplet is also fun, hinting. This musical is full of dark humors, self-conscious. So why can we just have some thought about our nature? It's also one of the most creative Hollywood musical I ever seen! Not that the acting has anything to do but the script is completely genius. Betty Comden and Adolph Green are my favorite scriptwriters. "},{"Title":"Who wouldn't want to get on this Band Wagon?","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It's a keeper!  Movie musicals' best director and their best star come together like magic.  The supporting cast ably supports and Comden and Green's book is a splendor, while at the same time avoiding the pretentions of most other MGM 50s product with a wry mixture of pure fun and self-reflexive humor.  Astaire gets in Charisse his best partner in ability and grace that I have yet seen (please, no offense to Ginger and Rita!).  Among these self-conscious touches are Oscar Levant and Nannette Fabray (who shines!) as, respectively, Herbert and Betty Fields!  Dietz and Schwartz' best music is highlighted in a spirit of pure fun.  Beautiful direction!!! "},{"Title":"Finally got to see this one in it's entirety","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" ...and on the same night as Singing in the Rain, no less. I've seen SITR many times but for some reason have never seen TBW except in excerpts from films like That's Entertainment. Many people suggest that this film and not the Kelly film is the greatest of the Hollywood Musicals. While it certainly has it's moments, it comes up a little short of the previous year's classic.  SITR has Make 'em Laugh, Moses Supposes, You Were Meant for Me, Good Morning, Singing in the Rain, Broadway Melody and Lucky Star. TBW has By Myself, Shoeshine, That's Entertainment, Dancing in the Dark, Triplets and Girl Crazy. There are plenty of highlights in both but I'll take SITR's group slightly over TBW.Both films parody show business- SITR the movie business and TBW the theater. There's plenty of fodder for both cannons there. I'll take Jean Hagen's squeaky voiced diva over Jack Buchanan's self-involved genius. Both have Comden-Green screenplays, similar backstage talent like Roger Edens and Cyd Charrise, who could teach modern actresses a thing or two about being sexy.The real difference is the energy and pace. SITR is one of the best edited films ever. It moves briskly from scene to scene and never lets up. Each number is done with explosive energy and enthusiasm.  The comedy is the funniest in any musical, (not hard because a lot of the comedy in musicals is rather dire). STIR tells it's story in 102 minutes. TBW is only ten minutes longer but it seems twice a long. There's lot's more verbiage and much more time between the musical segments. It's good movie but it's no Singing in the Rain, winner by a knockout and still champion. "},{"Title":"really good musical","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" It was getting obvious that Fred Astaire was getting a bit old for such young leading ladies but he had such natural elegance,it still worked. This fun spic directed with a sure hand by Vincent Minneli is Hollywood's look at Broadway shoes with its frantic opening night jitters,dealing with flops,the optimism of the chorus kids. One movie book complained the picture was phony,that the stars never mingled with the chorus people,it just wasn't done. Lighten up,this is a frothy musical,maybe it would have been nice if the stars did mingle with the rest of the cast. There seemed to be a lot of tension during the making of this film,Nanette Fabray got the cold shoulder from the rest of the cast and didn't know why. The costume designer Mary Ann Nyberg got no cooperation from the MGM wardrobe department. The simple net coat she dsigned for Nanette took several days to put together with different sleeves each time, When Freed wanted Cyd Charisse to wear a copy of Nyberg's simple white dress with broomstick pleated skirt, The wardrobe department cut it seven different ways on seven different days,pushing the cost of the dress up to $1000. Nyberg finally confronted the head of wardrobe with facts and figures and she was able to to do her work with no interference. Thankfully all that backstage business didn't hurt the film,although it's amusing showing Ava Gardner in a cameo playing herself being sweet to reporters unlike real life. I love the costumes and musical numbers,the DVD has the out take Two-faced Woman' another treat. It's a real dynamic number and one of Cyd's few solo spots,one wonders if Astaire didn't want anyone moving into his spotlight so he suggested to Freed the number had to go. "},{"Title":"Symphony Cyd","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a largely satisfying musical in the old tradition - with the exception of That's Entertainment the score dates from the 1930s - with the only weak link the Book by the vastly overrated Comden and Green. Maybe in 1953 no one was wincing at sloppy writing but seen today it leaves a lot to be desired. Three examples should suffice; 1) the opening scene is on a train just pulling into New York from LA. Two businessman are chatting as they prepare to disembark - bear in mind that it STILL takes three days to travel by train from LA to New York so in 1953 it may have taken longer - here is the sparkling dialogue by C&G 1st Man So you're from sunny Cal? 2nd Man Yep, sunny Cal. They then go on to talk about movie stars (a deliberate ploy to introduce Astaire who's hiding behind a newspaper). The point is THIS kind of stuff would have been dispensed with in the first hour or two out of LA not days later. 2) Astaire and Charisse decide to go out together to see if they can dance together. Astaire hails a cab and asks Charisse her venue of choice, Elmers, the Stork, etc. Charisse, looking RAVISHING in a gorgeous white dress replies that she couldn't go to a fancy place dressed as she is. Ridiculous. Were she wearing REAL rehearsal clothes, jeans, sweat-shirt etc, then maybe. On the other hand this sequence does lead to Dancing In The Dark arguably the most Romantic dance in Hollywood history. 3) The show-within-a-show opens in New Haven and flops big-time. Astaire returns to his hotel room, 5-star, natch, as befits a star, and hears the sound of partying from an adjoining suite. Checking it out he finds the gypsies commiserating with each other. Since when do gypsies (chorus dancers if you're a civilian) put up at the same luxury hotel as the stars? If you answered 'never' you'd be close. If we ignore this Amateur Book then there is a lot to savour in the numbers, all, of course, the work of Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz. In a really audacious stroke Minelli shoots Dancing In The Dark as strictly instrumental and gets away with it even though that lyric cries out to be sung by Astaire. Astaire has the lion's share of the numbers and takes full advantage of such gems as By Myself, A Shine On My Shoes, Louisa and I Guess I'll Have To Change My Plan in which Jack Buchananen just about holds his own against the guy who wrote the book. Fifty years on it holds up well and is a must for Astaire fans. "},{"Title":"Not enough of Fred and Cyd","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I was disappointed with this film as it seems, except for Fred and Cyd's scene's, the first 45 minutes were dull. Even the great dance scene's were too brief. Fred looked stiff in some of those dance routines which is something I thought I'd never say about this great dancer. The scene with Fred and Cyd with all the explosions going on could have been cut from the picture as it added nothing to these great dancers or the picture, it just stunk up the set. I guess all who thought it was a masterpiece had not seen Fred's earlier works. The dance in the park was worth the price of admission as Cyd and Fred excelled in it. The picture should have had more like it. "},{"Title":"The parts are better than the whole","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The songs are simply excellent. Most especially Astaire and Buchanann singing I Guess I'll Have to Change My Plan. Their soft shoe dance routine reinforces the sophistication we should all summon when the girl of our dreams turns out to be the girl of someone else's dreams. That's Entertainment By Myself two other excellent moments. The final mise-en-scene with Fred Astair and Cyd Charise shows a darkness to Astaire that is often overlooked in his easy comedy.But Rogers and Hammerstein, and before them Hammerstein and Kern--SHOW BOAT--had created and perfected on Broadway the 'integrated musical' where music moved the story line forward. What Fred Astaire, Arthur Freed, Vincent Minnelli had done was a throwback to the review which can best be encapsulated let's put on a show. Whether that show would be 42 STREET, BABES IN ARMS, THE GOLDDIGGERS OF 1933, or Broadway MELODY--pick a year--they all came down to a vehicle to show off dancing and singing.I don't think this movie wears well over time. It's not as good as SINGING IN THE RAIN which seems smoother and more finished than this film does. Even Comden and Green ON THE TOWN had a smoother unity than this one did. And certainly by 1953, it doesn't even approach anything Rogers and Hammerstein produced on stage, and would produce on film in the future; a standard we all respond to and measure other movie musicals to.Fred Astaire was the best song and dance man in Hollywood; his limited vocal range showed off the lyrics; his comedy was often a self-mockery; his acting was passable for what his roles expected of him. There are no better films then TOP HAT, GAY DIVORCE, EASTER PARADE, and all those movies with Ginger Rogers. Irving Berlin, Cole Porter, and Dorothy Fields, the Gershwins appreciated the phrasing he brought to a song that made the song important, not the singer. Sadly, this movie reflected a time long gone and simply does not hold up under time. The viewer of 2010 has now seen CABARET, CHICAGO, FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. In BANDWAGON, the parts are better than the whole the viewer loves to see the Fred Astaire and Jack Buchanann soft shoe, but wading through the rest of the story line seems less than rewarding. "},{"Title":"The Band Wagon (1983)","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" 65/100. This is the kind of musical I have a hard time stomaching. All this singing in place of talking, and overblown and way too colorful musical numbers, a color so vivid it doesn't look natural. There are indeed some classic numbers in this film, but I just didn't think the film was ever going to end. Excellent sound, and the score is amazing. Nominated for there Oscars best costume design, score and writing (story and screenplay). The costume design was good, but don't see it is Oscar good.The cast is fine, Fred Astaire is certainly talented, Cyd Charisse is wonderful but I thought the supporting cast was a little weak. I have never been a big fan of Vincente Minnelli's direction of musicals. "},{"Title":"The Grand Wagon.","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon is directed by Vincente Minnelli and written by Alan Jay Lerner, Betty Comden and Adolph Green. Songs are written by Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz. It stars Fred Astaire, Cyd Charisse, Oscar Levant, Nanette Fabray and Jack Buchanan. Out of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, it's a Technicolor production with cinematography by Harry Jackson.Story tells of ageing musical star Tony Hunter (Astaire) whose cinema glory days appear to be well behind him. Upon the request of his friends Lester (Lavant) & Lily Martin (Fabray), he heads to Broadway to appear in a play they have written with him in mind. He hopes this will restart his career, however, the play's director, Jeffrey Cordova (Buchanan), changes the play into an arty interpretation of the Faust legend. Not only that, but he brings in prima ballerina Gabrielle Gerard (Charisse) to star in it, and Tony and Gabrielle don't exactly hit it off.One of the greatest musicals to come out of MGM, The Band Wagon makes up for what it loses in plot ingenuity, with quality songs, stunning choreography, bustling vitality and heart, big heart! Three parts of the film is made up of character building and said characters attempts to put a show on successfully in spite of behind the scenes worries. Then the final third then switches in mood with a different show and primary characters come to their respective destinies.Along the way we are treated to a series of wonderful song and dance routines, with the stand outs being Be Myself, A Shine on My Shoes, That's Entertainment, Dancing in the Dark, I Love Louisa, I Guess I'll Have To Change My Plan and the joyously macabre, Triplets. These are then crowned magnificently by Girl Hunt, an elongated parody of noir-type crime movies from the golden era, where it's not just Fred and Cyd who sparkle, but the dance troupe around them also dazzle the eyes with some truly amazing moves.Where the big heart comes in to it is with Astaire's take on the role of Tony. It's very touching at times, full of nostalgia pangs for his former glories. He also has good comic timing, whilst readily able to laugh at himself as the (thin) narrative thread reminds him of his ageing years. The latter of which accounts for the not so great chemistry with the divine Charisse, but the film under Minnelli's active direction easily overcomes this tiny flaw. There's also some salt in the story in the observation of what goes on behind the scenes of a Broadway play, specifically the people pulling the strings.Big production for a big movie, all told, it's big entertainment, yes indeed. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Fred v. Gene","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" While it's natural to compare The Band Wagon (TWB) to Singin' In The Rain (SITR), it's like comparing cake to pie - both are great and you can't go wrong either way.Fred Asaire is like Gayle Sayers - always smooth and effective. Kelly is like Earl Cambell - maybe not as smooth but more physical. Anyone in their right mind would take either one for their team.While I love TBW, I put it just a tiny tiny notch below SITR. The musical numbers in TBW are all good and the Dancing in the Dark is my favorite. All of the numbers in TBW are better than the weaker numbers in SITR. But Make Em Laugh and the tile number are both better than anything in TBW. Plus Jean Hagen is the tops.I think the most amazing thing about both of these movies is that Comden and Green could come up with excellent story lines when given a bunch of unrelated songs. It's one thing for R & H to take Green Grow The Lilacs and come up with Oklahoma. As great as R & H were, I'm not sure if anyone could have done as good a job as Comden and Green.Another great product of the Freed factory at MGM. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Musical of All Time","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this is even better than 'Singin' in the Rain', in my opinion, because Fred Astaire is, frankly, a better dancer, singer, and actor than Kelly, as well as being a much more charming personality.  Certainly it is far superior to the much-overrated 'An American in Paris'. "},{"Title":"Delightful musical movie, but probably not one of the greatest","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This was quite a delightful film.  Fred and Cyd are good, and so are Nanette Fabray and Jack Buchanan, hilarious as the uncontrollably arty director.  The songs are all enjoyable.  This was two hours well spent.  However, I doubt this is one of the greatest of the movie musicals.  While many of the numbers are enjoyable, such as Fred's shoeshine number, the Triplets one, the Louisiana Hayride one, and some others, the only real standout one is the classic That's Entertainment!  (How come no one's mentioned this song on here before?)  The only dances that stand out are the one Fred and Cyd do in the park (I think it's called Dancing in the Dark.) and the Girl Hunt one, which has gotten enough praise here that I don't need to add any more.  See this film, by all means.  If you're a musical lover, you'll be delighted.  I just don't think it's one of the greatest movie musicals ever made. "},{"Title":"It improves with every viewing","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Once you are prepared to accept that it is not up to Singin' in the Rain, that the Comden-Green is silly and goes back to the Warner musicals of the 30's, and that, with the exception of Dancing in the Dark and the practically discarded You and the Night and the Music, the songs are not top drawer, you can enjoy, enjoy and enjoy the dancing of Cyd Charisse, the genius of Fred Astaire, the Michael Kidd choreography and the playing of everybody. It is a merry, amusing, entertaining musical from the inexhaustible Arthur Freed, the pity is that it could and should have been better the Singin' in the Rain of Broadway. "},{"Title":"Another Overlooked Movie Not on DVD Yet.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe how many classic MGM musicals are not yet on DVD.  Ted Turner is releasing these at a snail's pace.  That's Entertainment, That's Entertainment II, and That's Entertainment III are not even in DVD format yet. So we can't even see the highlights of these great movies on DVD. It's really a shame and we're in danger of not having these movies to share with our children.  I'm sure that my daughter would much rather watch a Esther Williams movie, rather than The Little Mermaid for the 100th time.  Let's get goin'! "},{"Title":"One Lousy","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've come to the conclusion that Vincente Minelli and Oscar Levant are cinematic poison. Imagine how good An American in Paris and Brigadoon could have been if Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly had been the directing team. Imagine how much better all movies, TV shows and piano recitals could have been without Oscar Levant, whose main claim to fame was that he was a friend of George Gershwin.Astaire and Charisse are phenomenal, but even they can't redeem this mishmash of forgettable songs, tortuous plotting and second-rate supporting actors/singers/dancers.They deserved better. "},{"Title":"One of the better 1950s musicals.","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" This Fred Astaire film is a bit unique. For once, Astaire plays a man much like himself and this self-deprecating humor makes the film quite enjoyable. For example, the film begins with a couple guys on a train talking about how great Tony Hunter (Astaire) WAS but how he's a bit washed up now---and Hunter is sitting behind a newspaper and he loudly agrees with them! Later, when he's paired with Gabrielle (Cyd Charisse), he complains that he's much too old for her! The story begins with Hunter arriving in New York city to meet a couple old friends who want him in their newest production. Lester and Lily (Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray) think it's a great idea to get a big-name but EXTREMELY self-absorbed actor-director for this production. However, Cordova (Jack Buchanan) wants to completely take over the show and make it his vision--a vision that is quite the opposite of Hunter's style. The show seems destined to fail. Can there be any way to save it from this megalomaniac? The show features many excellent production numbers--all of which are very polished and exciting to watch. The most memorable occurs early in the film when they sing That's Entertainment but several other numbers really are crowd-pleasers (like the weird one where they are dressed like babies). As for the story, it's enjoyable and light. My only complaint is Levant. During the 40s, 50s and 60s, he was one of the cleverest raconteurs in Hollywood and on television and was able to deliver wonderful one-liners that could bust your gut. Here, however, he's hardly noticeable. Could it be that they misused him? Or, possibly, that Levant was having emotional problems and just wasn't himself (he was VERY public about his history of Bipolar Disorder). I just know that I was hoping to hear the snappy Oscar Levant. As for the rest, they are all quite good and the film quite enjoyable--one of Astaire's best of the 1950s. "},{"Title":"Sly, clever and thoroughly watchable.","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The plot-line is a familiar puttin'-on-a-show backstage musical story that went back twenty years to the beginning of talkies, but clever inside jokes and showbiz references are woven into it for the enjoyment of those in the know Jack Buchanan's Broadway 'genius' is a sly take on Jose Ferrer, who at one time had written, directed or was starring in four shows running on Broadway simultaneously; Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray's professionally functional / personally dysfunctional relationship is a riff on famous MGM songwriting team Betty Comden and Adolphe Greene; and Fred Astaire is basically playing himself as a movie star of an earlier vintage making a comeback on Broadway amidst much younger talent. The actual story line is almost a throwaway - Buchanan's monumentally over-produced show bombs out of town and has to be revised before making its Broadway debut, but at the same time it gives the viewer a chance to ruminate on the musical as a form and glimpse the creative process as decisions get made initially for reasons of ego and personality and then are changed in favor of what the audience is responding to. Charisse is a better dancer than an actress and seems a bit uncomfortable sharing intimate small talk with Astaire, yet she shines in her numbers, especially the final Mickey Spillane film noir spoof at the end, which is as visually clever and elaborate as anything she did opposite Gene Kelly as MGM's top musical actress of the 50s. There is running gag in the movie that Charisse might be too big to dance with Astaire, and with her obvious muscularity she certainly looks like she could bench press him; in actuality Astaire was taller at 5-9 than Charisse's 5-7 and 1/2. She just couldn't stand next to him in heels. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 1950s MGM musicals","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" Fred Astaire--a faded actor-- tries to make a comeback on the Broadway stage by a play written by friends Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant. But he's teamed with a pretentious director (Jack Buchanan) and a costar who hates him (Cyd Charisse). Guess what happens next.Big, splashy and very colorful musical...one of the best. The plot is old but well handled by the cast. With the exception of Astaire and Charisse they overact enjoyably (especially Buchanan). And the music! That's Entertainment, Triplets, Girl Hunt, Dancing in the Dark and (a guilty favorite) Louisiana Hayride. How can you hate this?My one complaint--Cyd Charisse. She was an incredible dancer (her Dancing in the Dark with Astaire is unbelievable) but her acting (in this film) is dreadful. Also her singing voice was (obviously) dubbed. She's really wooden. Still, this is a minor complaint.Don't miss this one! Also nice to see Ava Gardner (briefly) at the beginning. "},{"Title":"Out of work hoofer stages a comeback","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Do you like Fred Astaire? Here he is in a nice little musical about a musical. No real snazzy dance routines here, but nicely staged none the less. Good performances by all kept the show going well for me I especially enjoyed the New York City detective act and the surprise whodunnit. "}{"Title":"A shallow musical","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Legendary actor and dancer Fred Astaire has a lesser role in this 1953 MGM release. His dancing is as usual terrific but it's been seen many times before. To me, this rather weak musical with a mostly implausible plot is not a highlight in Astaire's career. Stick with the much better musicals that Astaire had made for RKO in earlier years with Ginger Rogers. "},{"Title":"That's entertainment!","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Band Wagon was one of those films I'd always managed to miss but which turned out to be a lot of fun. There are minor flaws - Cyd Charisse is unflatteringly shot for much of the picture and is nobody's idea of a prima ballerina, Oscar Levant is clearly well lubricated and sadly well past his prime, while there are quite a few technical fluffs, be it the shadow of the camera making yet another appearance or the stagehand strolling casually across the background in the Louisiana Hayride number, and the Girl Hunt ballet finale goes on far too long as per many post-American in Paris MGM musicals - but Comden and Green's script is so sharp and the numbers so good that none of that really matters. Great fun, and glorious Technicolor too. "},{"Title":"Overrated.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I found the Band Wagon pretty disappointing overall. There is one genuinely terrific number (That's Entertainment), but most of the songs and the dancing routines are really nothing extraordinary. Sure, they are executed with professionalism by all the cast members, but there are no really surprising movements and not as much energy as there should be. The script is almost non-existent, often making the narrative seem slow and predictable. And there is also an uncomfortable element of narcissism here the hero of the film, who has more than a lot in common with Fred Astaire himself (his popularity probably wasn't at its zenith in 1953), is regarded as a person who knows exactly what entertainment is all about, and a man who should be admired by everyone. Despite some bright moments, and the wonderful cinematography, this picture seems to be somewhat overrated... "},{"Title":"Not the best of its kind, but magnificent all the same!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":"  The one thing that most classic MGM musicals have in common is that they're all entertaining! Astaire is a fabulous dancer, and his dancing raises the level of this film considerably. While I'm not a big fan of Cyd Charisse, Astaire's dancing more than made up where she was lacking. Nanette Fabray was excellent in support. And while some of the scenes weren't up to snuff, when it was good it sizzled! A fun watch, 7/10. "},{"Title":"42nd Street in the Rain","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Romance","Review":" The color musical film is a strange beast. Hollywood explored many of its possibilities. And people did buy lots of tickets. But until very recently, musicals were all but dead. That's because they were never able to create a self sustaining genre, actually what they missed were a few constants that could always be counted on to invent anew.Instead, we have rehashing of the old. All of them were retreads in the fifties, but I have a particular warm spot for this one because it was blatantly selfreferential. Astair was indeed washed up. Cyd WAS too tall for him. She did marry her dance teacher and on and on. The writers of the movie appear as characters. The pretentiousness of the community (which was killing the musical) is represented by the Orson Welles character. That trend eventually did the musical in until it found its way (with Moulin Rouge) to merge with wellesian ideas..So in the face of all else, they follow the 42nd Street model a movie in two parts. The first part is a story about earnest players trying to put together a show. The second part is the show itself. In the original model, all the songs have an excuse to appear in the movie because they are part of the show. In that case, much is made of how much sense the show makes.Since 42nd Street, musical movies became more like musical shows. It took Minnelli to do it with Judy in St Louis, where the songs were intermingled with the movie's story.What makes this movie so strange is that they do both. The first half is a St. Louis type of musical where the story and music intertwine. The last half is numbers from the show within. It is logical, I suppose, to go one step further than Singing in the Rain, in loading on excuses for shifting into song.Some odd things result, though. The three numbers we see from the show are as disconnected as can be, something that flies in the face of the template. One is a reprise of a two-generation old stage number. Another, the triplets routine, is inspired by Sid Caesar's TeeVee show, and indeed Nanette would move onto that show as a star. The third number is certainly the first thing conceived in the project. It was modern then, mixed in ballet quite literally and snubbed its nose at noir, the very notion in the movie world that was killing the musical.Everyone knew it &#151; and it wasn't a particularly esoteric insight. For this number, one can see some wardrobe dominoes fall Cyd needs a red dress and she needs to shift hair color from one color to another. So she appears in this movie with black hair (shifting to Marilyn blond) instead of her photogenic natural red.That's okay as the redhead quotient is made up by Nanette and an early appearance of Julie Newmar (as a catwoman-like temptress).That last number is often referenced as a touchstone of an entire era merely on its appearance. But it also is a course in film history, That one scene makes the movie important, but the first half is a pretty dreadful slog getting there.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "}]