[{"Title":"The greatest movie by one of the great filmmakers of all time","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"120 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood was one of the greatest moviemakers in film history. Could he direct? Not really. Were his movies technical masterpieces? Could his actors act? Did he have huge budgets? No. We're here fifty years later, talking about him, because he created worlds on film nobody had ever seen before or since. His characters talked like nobody we've ever heard before (though there are strong echoes in the works of Hartley and Lynch). And unlike every Hollywood movie ever made, Ed ripped open his heart and poured it out on the screen. Never more so than in Glen Or Glenda, his original avant-garde masterpiece.Avant-garde? You heard me. What is the definition of avant-garde film? Some attributes are unconventional narrative, unique visual style, radical rejection of artistic or social norms, an often willful disregard for reality. Gloria Floren said Avant-garde films are often iconoclastic, mocking conventional morality and traditional values; the filmmaker's intense interest in eccentricities and extremes may shock viewers.  Indeed, the avant-garde film maker's purpose may be to wake or shake up the audience from the stupor of ordinary consciousness or the doldrums of conventional perspective.Imagine if people viewed Un Chien Andalou or Meshes Of The Afternoon or Eraserhead with fratboy derision instead of holy reverence. They'd be viewed as unwatchable nonsense too. Everybody'd have a good snark watching for continuity errors and bad camera moves. Does Glen or Glenda rise to the level of those classics? Time will tell, but try this experiment watch it as if it were, and see. The results may surprise you.Here are some hints. Lugosi is not a mad scientist--he's God, looking down upon twisted human morality and pulling the strings. The green eyed monster that eats little boys? Envy. Envy of women and in this case, their clothes. That envy has eaten vast amounts of Glen's life, it's been a torture to him. There are numerous references to that torture and misery. There's also an entire section devoted to judgment--human judgment versus that reserved to God. The nonsensical stock footage of buffaloes and the army? It signifies the rush of adrenaline, fear and anxiety as Glen tries to confront his identity and come out to his girlfriend. Far from random, it's actually used with ingenuity and skill. The symbology of scenes in which Glen battles his female self and resists the devil should be obvious. But then again, a generous viewing of Glen or Glenda, rather than a beer-fueled let's watch a crap movie viewing, would reveal a great deal. Even the campy scene at the end, when Dolores Fuller relents and gives Glen her sweater, comes with the always-missed segment where God absolves Glen of his misery. There are a dozen moments like this. Sure, there are a dozen technical flubs and random nonsense too, but all good art is organic. There's a guy wearing a Timex in Ben-Hur, for god's sake.The narrator seems comical and dated to us, but in 1953 he was standard-issue, and the lines we now take as campy were then revolutionary, almost treasonous. A plea for tolerance for sexual and gender differences? Condemning the police for arresting gays and transvestites just for existing? During the McCarthy era, when all homosexuals were presumed to be communists? A film like that is bound to make some enemies. Especially a film that featured, not actors playing deviants, but the deviants themselves, in their own words. It's telling that the extreme-religious-conservative Medved brothers were the ones who named Ed Wood worst director of all time. They must have thought they were really sticking it to Ed Wood for making all those subversively weird films involving crossdressing and homosexuals and society's outcasts. Thankfully, irony remains the most powerful force in the universe, and their mean-spirited declaration made Ed Wood a household name. Whether they admit it or not, a lot of this movie's detractors are laughing at the subject, not the movie. Many others are baffled by the unconventional narrative. Just because you don't get something, doesn't mean there is nothing to get.It's easy to give any movie the MST3K treatment, especially ones that veer into uncomfortable or seemingly absurd territory. If you're looking for the worst movie ever made, go watch Armageddon or Crossroads. If you're looking for THE pioneering moment in GLBT film history, the greatest and most underrated American DIY avante-garde feature of its time, or an experience that just might change the way you view movies and the world at large, start right here. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Bad!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"53 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" GLEN OR GLENDA is uniquely bad. Suffice it to say, one has to witness it in order to really believe it. There's almost no point of writing a sensible review of this movie because it's beyond wonky. It's so bad that it's almost pure genius. Bunuel couldn't have created a more surreal film than Ed Wood's treatise on the merits of cross-dressing. The movie is 70% stock footage or stuff that has nothing to do with the main story. A huge chunk of the amazing dream sequence is just a nudie cutie. The acting is abysmal. Dolores Fuller wins the award for worst actress of all time. The dialogue is so hilarious that it's endlessly quotable. But the whole thing is oddly frank and earnest and because of this, this kooky disaster of a movie actually has a heart, which is more than you can say about most movies out there. I love it. There's almost nothing like it. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's shining cinematic moment","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"49 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ed Wood. The so-called worst director of all time. Sorry, there are plenty of other directors who could take that title because Ed Wood is not that bad of a director nor a bad person. Ed made movies to make movies, not to make a buck. And that's why his films are sort of poignant in their flaws.Glen or Glenda? is a statement, not a film. It is a statement about transvestism, the truth behind it, and gives several (for the most part, factual) cases of transvestites and transsexuals. Wood is world-reknowned for being a transvestite with a fetish for angora sweaters. And here, he is brave enough to cast himself in an autobiographical role (Glen) and let the world know (yet, he hides under the pseudonym of Daniel Davis).Glen or Glenda? is a bad movie lover's dream. Hilarious dialogue, no coherent plotline, and many memorable sequences of transvestites and their hardships. The narrator does a splendid job of camping things up while explaining how a transvestite is not a homosexual, how it is more healthy to wear womens' clothing, and the tragic results of misunderstood transvestites. Plus, you get Bela Lugosi as God (he's nice and campy), several out-of-place striptease and cheesecake scenes (pretty graphic for 1953), and Dolores Fuller (Wood's real-life girlfriend) as Glen's fiancee.Too many people rated this movie with a 1. But Glen or Glenda? is not as bad as Orgy of the Dead or other later Ed Wood classics. In fact, Glen or Glenda? is arguably Wood's greatest achievement. Check it out, I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Way ahead of it's time, and was also used as a teaching tool!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Ed, after seeing Ed Wood, and I have since bought the book Nightmare of Ecstacy. Also, I bought all of the films that he had made that I could get my hands on.Like it or not, Glen Or Glenda was a landmark film!This particular film was made WAY AHEAD of it's time!! While I was first watching Tim Burton's fantastic film, recreating the making of Glen Or Glenda, I noticed that there were things in it that seemed rather familiar to me, even after 30+ years have passed, and that is what partly interested me in looking into both the book, and Ed Wood's films. What I discovered was, I had seen this film when I was in GRADE SCHOOL!!After viewing the REAL Glen OR Glenda film, I realized that I had had seen this exact same film before, although heavily edited!It was shown as a part of our sex-ed class!! I can hardly believe it that they showed us this back then, but they did. Nothanks to the school I went to, and the horribly incompetent teachers, but they did show it!Now, fast forward to today, the reason for all of the extra scenes near the end of the film, such as the 'Devil' sequences, and the rest of the rather abstract looking scenes, were not originally part of the screenplay. Those scenes (baffling and dumbfounding), were NOT part of the film as Ed had written. His script left the running time short of what George Weiss had told him he wanted, a 7 reel, 16MM film, which was what he needed to sell it. A 16MM reel runs about 10 minutes, and George needed a 70 minute film (at least), because he pre-sold it in several states as a Feature, before he actually found out what it really was. He wasn't too pleased with what Ed had made, but he was able to distribute it to his clients, after all of the extraneous material was added at the end. George did eventually make his money back, and he and Ed worked on a couple of other projects, unlike what is shown in the Ed Wood film.Even today, though, I think that this film was made way before it's time, and Ed Wood should deserve some credit for trying to bring a sense of understanding to what was then a totally misunderstood way of life for a select few.  "},{"Title":"Wood That We Could","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Say what you will about Ed Wood, he was definitely an auteur. His films, bad as they are, have a definite style all their own. While I was watching Glen Or Glenda, I was consumed with how jaw-droppingly bad the movie was. The funny thing is, I was also entertained by it, and so was everyone else in the theater when I saw it (yes, I caught this movie on the big screen at a revival).I started thinking about how Ed Wood so desperately wanted to make a movie that he fashioned this film out of anything he could, stretching the script far beyond its own capacity and inserting bizarre fantasy sequences to pad out the running time, which would have been about 20 minutes tops had he cut the crap.Basically the film is an autobiographical plea for acceptance of transvestism, with Wood himself in the starring role. There is no real story, but rather a series of vignettes in which Wood appears in and out of drag, comes clean to his girlfriend about why her angora sweaters are all stretched out. In seemingly unrelated footage, Bela Lugosi camps it up on a haunted house set, and I'm fairly certain he's supposed to be playing God. Wow. There are no words for what a mess the movie turned out to be...so much so that it becomes fascinating. In my opinion, the worst crime a movie can commit is being completely boring, and in that regard Glen or Glenda is not guilty. Incompetent on every other level imaginable, the film truly must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Believe the hype! Everything you've heard about this one is true! Fifty years on it's STILL one of the weirdest movies ever made.","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ever since Tim Burton's wonderful 'Ed Wood' raised Ed Wood Jr's profile and made his seriously bent movies movies better known than they have ever been, some cult movie fans have gotten their noses out of joint. Wood's reputation as the worst director ever pushes some buffs buttons as it marginalizes already marginalized film makers like Ray Dennis Steckler, Ted V. Mikels, Herschell Gordon Lewis, Al Adamson and other so bad it's good directors. I leave more knowledgeable fans than me to argue over who REALLY is the worst, but there's no denying that Wood's movies are quite unlike anything made before or since. 'Glen Or Glenda' is his best movie, or if the term best misleads, his Ed Woodest. I've lost track of how many times I've seen it over the years but it never loses its power to amuse and astound. Every single time I watch it I am flabbergasted! It literally has to be seen to be believed. Wood plays the title character, a man wrestling with his transvestitism. His girlfriend is played by Dolores Fuller, the cop by Lyle Talbot, the psychiatrist by Timothy Farrell, all three familiar faces from other Wood classics like 'Plan Nine From Outer Space' and 'Jail Bait'. But the real reason to watch this is the utterly bizarre performance from horror legend Bela Lugosi, credited on the version I watched as scientist, and on the IMDb as The Spirit, who may or may not be God. His rantings of Pull the strings! Pull the strings! and nonsensical stuff about Green dragons and puppy dog tails will stay in your head for YEARS, if not for the rest of your life! Wood intercuts this with nutty stock footage like buffalo stampedes, and one of the most wacked out nightmare sequences ever seen, which includes lots of chubby gals in states of undress, some S and M, and and an appearance by Satan. Believe the hype - everything you've heard about this one is true! Fifty years on it's STILL one of the weirdest movies ever made. If you haven't seen 'Glen Or Glenda' you just don't know what you're missing! "},{"Title":"A Classic? Without a Doubt. Don't Believe Me? Look Deeper.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1950s a rigid and conforming time period in American history, a time when homophobia ran rampant and diverse lifestyles simply were not tolerated or glorified, came the 1953 transvestite drama 'Glen or Glenda'. 'Glen or Glenda' was Edward D. Wood's feature-length directorial debut and is considered by many to be one of the most obscure films of all time. Ed Wood's first big picture was quite a special one for him, the main reason being that it told a story very dear to him. Ed Wood was in many senses, the character of Glen/Glenda. The fact is, Ed Wood did find comfort in women's clothing and he did favor angora sweaters to the traditional shirt and tie which defined the era. These factors contribute to the film making, the effort, and ultimately the passion behind the film. Ed Wood was making a picture with a subject matter very dear to him and it comes through in this fine piece of work. Glen or Glenda is now considered to be a cult classic, but at the time it explored previously uncharted territory (not that this was a smash-hit when it came out in 1953 either). However, this is certainly not to say that the film is irrelevant to today's social standards, regulations, and expectations, on the contrary it proves to be quite pertinent to life in the 21st century.'Glen or Glenda' opens with a character simply cast as 'Scientist' (Bela Lugosi) prophetically speaking of the society in which we live and its and loathing of the seemingly abnormal or unknown. He speaks of society's outcasts, the troubled world in which they live, and the problems they face in their day to day lives. The story ensues as the police arrive at the scene of a recent suicide. The victim was a well-known transvestite, cast out by society and all others around him. Among the police is Inspector Warren (Lyle Talbot). Troubled by this seemingly strange case, he seeks help in Dr. Alton (Timothy Farrell), a respected psychoanalysis who has encountered various transvestites in his line of work. He begins to tell Inspector Warren of a patient he once dealt with named Glen. Glen was engaged to be married to Barbara (Dolores Fuller), but had been hiding a dark secret from his fiancée; Glen (or Glenda?) was secretly a transvestite. Alton continues to tell Inspector Warren of the internal struggle within Glen whether to tell Barbara of his secret lifestyle or to keep it to himself&#133; or to entirely stop wearing the clothes which make him feel so much like himself?Although the subject matter, upon first glance, may seem to some a tongue in cheek jab at the transvestites and other oddballs of the world, it was not intended that way - nor does it come across as such after viewing the film. 'Glen or Glenda' is a startlingly solid effort at a fresh (and controversial) subject of the 1950s. Not only was the film fresh and innovative, but it prospered on a technical level as well. With excellent cinematography and pristine, appropriate lighting, the film is technically quite good. Dolores Fuller's acting is well-below average, but the other characters offer decent performances (Ed Wood's acting is curiously above average (seeing how he had little to no professional acting experience). Bela Lugosi's performance is, as always, a strong one with memorable dialogue. Although Lugosi is technically listed as a 'Scientist' in the film, symbolically he represents God. He is the one who pulls the strings; he is the one who has become filled with contempt for the human race and its judgmental nature. The symbolism within 'Glen or Glenda' is often overlooked and classified as inept dialogue, but to an acute observer, it is astoundingly developed. The green-eyed monster, mentioned by Bela Lugosi's character, can be interpreted as Glen's envy of women and their clothing. The seemingly random stock footage of the Buffalo represents the rush that Glen feels when symbolically transformed into Glenda. When realized, 'Glen or Glenda' is full of metaphoric meaning and symbolism, as well as a fresh plot, rife with unique social commentary. 'Glen or Glenda' is a film which does not dance around the subject matter. It recognizes an important (at least to director Ed Wood) and controversial social issue and discusses it in full, leaving nothing left unspoken. The film proves itself to be enjoyable and entertaining to watch throughout, with some memorable performances (for better or for worse...) and an interesting plot. With such originality and such passion, Glen or Glenda is a film which should be respected and treasured, rather than criticized for its below-average acting, seemingly strange dialogue, and obscure premise, for its pure outspoken zealousness in the 1950s, a period when transvestism and homosexuality were blatantly not openly accepted. Is this to say that these lifestyles are accepted today? Shall we consult Pat Robertson or perhaps George W. Bush on this matter? The film is just as relevant today as it was in 1953 when it was first released. Glen or Glenda proves to be entertaining and intriguing, full of obscure characters and a fresh subject matter a film far ahead of it's time. "},{"Title":"A Voice for the Voiceless","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know where this movie falls in the development of camp, but it sure is a milestone along the way to Pink Flamingos and other masterpieces of bad taste.All those people, all going somewhere!  Ok, so the dialogue is laughable, the editing could have been done better than a 6 year old, and there is really no development.  But this is entertainment and a pretty brave statement in favor of those who've been bending gender for centuries.  I value Ed Wood for giving a voice, albeit a fractured one, to those thousands of men who have feared their feminine side, and those who, like the young fellow in the film who killed himself, have been silenced by prejudice, fear, and hatred.Watch it with a friend, preferably one who wears angora.  "},{"Title":"Don't knock on Wood!","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like in plan nine outer space ,Ed Wood tries to put a message across in his film.In his sci-fi flick,he made his E.T. blame the human race for their self-destruction it was not unlike Robert Wise's the day the earth stood still and not more naive than the latter.The main difference lies in the fact that Wood had a shoestring budget with his cardboard flying saucers and his shower curtain in the plane Glen or Glenda is anything but stupid.Just tell me the name of a director (in the USA or elsewhere) who dared to treat such a taboo subject the transvestites -not necessarily homosexual- and even the transsexuals.His film ,with voice over galore,although dated today of course was a plea for tolerance.The fact that Ed Wood himself used to dress himself as a woman (see Tim Burton's eponymous movie) is proof positive that he knows what he is taking about.Bela Lugosi's part,on the other hand,gets in the way.Is he a scientist? a puppeteer who plays with humans? or simply God Himself?(do not laugh at him!when Agnes Varda ,an intellectual director of the notorious French Nouvelle Vague , films such drivel (les Creatures,1966) ,the highbrows praise her to the skies )Despite ludicrous special effects ,terrible acting and poor lines,Ed Wood's film is anything but derivative. "},{"Title":"So bad it's... what?","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you haven't seen any of Ed Wood's other movies, this one is a completely bewildering experience. If you have seen any of Ed Wood's movies, this is still completely bewildering. Wood saw newsreels about Christine Jorgenson (the subject of the first sex-change operation), realized that he had a few things in common with Jorgenson, and made this... um... documentary about it. Lugosi plays, as always, a mad scientist, whose storyline barely ties in with the rest of the movie. Wood himself pseudonymously plays Glen, who enjoys dressing up in angora sweaters. Two policemen investigate Glen's apparent suicide, and... well, the plot sort of lost me between Lugosi's bizarre rants, the stock footage of buffalo herds and the elementary-school-filmstrip-quality acting. It really doesn't make any sense, but it is entertaining by virtue of its profound awfulness.  "}{"Title":"So modern and delicate","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie after watching Tim Burton's biography Ed Wood (1994). I expected something quite clumsy and was delighted with the result  The questions that are being asked and answered are really interesting and Ed Wood dealt with these a very artistic way. Of course, one could argue this is gross and that the topic lacks subtility but you have to envision yourself back in 1953 and I guess you'll suddenly realise how prophetic this movie was. I gave it 10/10  I'll watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"A Truly Unique Film","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I agree with one commentator who says that it's really impossible to review Glen or Glenda? objectively. If one does so, the film on its merits would have to be rated as fairly terrible given the hilarious, convoluted dialog, the generally mediocre to poor acting by the cast as well as the zero production values. Yet, such an assessment does not capture the absolutely riveting experience of watching this film as it unfolds. It isn't the fact that the subject of the film is transvestitism and that it was a controversial lifestyle choice in the 1950s. It's not even the plea for tolerance of people who embrace alternate life choices that fascinates except as an historic relic.No, what makes Glen or Glenda? still a fascinating film after 50 years is that Ed Wood laid his psyche bare in a way that so-called auteur directors like Hitchcock or Godard, despite their vastly superior talents, never did. In Glen or Glenda, Wood isn't afraid to reveal his own deeply conflicted feelings about being a transvestite despite the plea for tolerance for it through out the film. Indeed, the conclusion of the film suggest that Ed Wood's Glen character will be able to kill his Glenda female counterpart by transferring the feelings of love and affection Glen has for his feminine counterpart to his future wife, Barbara. The psychiatrist even reassures Glen and Barbara that as Glen makes that psychic transference, Glenda will disappear. So, while Wood could plead for tolerance of transvestites in general, he wasn't so sure of desiring it for himself.Moreover, Wood wasn't afraid of throwing everything else that crossed his mind on the screen. He did it with whatever stock footage he could get his hands on. If it didn't cohere, so what? What the viewer saw in Glen or Glenda especially was Ed Wood's imaginative world in all of its fundamental strangeness.The only comment I wish to add to my comment above is that my two-star rating is based solely on the objective evaluation criteria cited in the first paragraph. The oddly memeric effect the film has despite its technically atrocious qualities I don't think can be rated. "},{"Title":"Make Mine Angora","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Surprisingly, the movie's neither good nor bad-- it just doesn't register on the conventional spectrum. Instead it's just plain weird, terminally weird. It's like a highschool hygiene lecture wrapped in soft porno, all tossed into a surrealist dream. Really, Wood had all the guts in the world to lecture a 1950's audience on the subtleties of gender bending. That part is genuinely informative and worth a salute. I also liked the soft porn with the squirming girls in semi-undress. But I'm still wondering how that got released in 1953. Then there's Lugosi sitting in some corner of the surrealist universe, telling us to Bevare of puppy dog tails&#x85; and other hammy nonsense. I figure he was added for marquee value since the rest of the cast are a bunch of unknowns. But what's this thing Wood has for lightning bolts. It's like he says, Stop the action, it's time for a lightning bolt, and makes just about that much sense. One thing for sure&#x97;you never know what's coming next. It might be a stampede of buffalo or a stroll down Ventura Blvd. in drag. And, my gosh, Wood (Glen and Glenda) looks so normal, you'd never guess he makes Salvador Dali seem absolutely conventional. I don't know what part of planet Wacko Wood hails from, but I do know it's no part of the known universe. Nonetheless, here's a fuzzy angora Oscar to Wood for just plain weirdness. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film probably impossible to define - but let's give it a try.Wood got the funds for this film by promising an adult's-only shocking expose of the new sex-transformation surgery developed in Sweden. He shovels a load of (mostly unrelated) stock-footage up front to pay off on this promise, then goes ahead and makes the film he really intended all along, a confessional defense of his own transvestism.There's only one problem Not only does Wood not believe he needs to defend his transvestism - he actually advocates it! Women's clothing (we're told) tend to be more comfortable than those of men, and that's what it's all about? Well, but that doesn't explain the wigs and lipstick, which are not articles of clothing, are not very comfortable, but which Wood applies with evident relish.What's the real problem here? The implications are obvious - God is just darn cruel, making some men who would rather be women, even if they are proud of having fought with the Marines in the Pacific and have no interest in sex with men.And here's the big secret of the universe that explains it all - God is really - BELA LUGOSI! He's not really Christ Scientist, He is MAD SCIENTIST after a very bad morphine binge.The reader may wonder if there's any point in going on further about the theme of this film, and of course there isn't - suffice it to say that the film has a happy ending - Wood's girlfriend lets him wear her sweater! All of this would be horrible if it had been better made, but of course this has the worst camera-work, lighting, editing, acting, dialog - oh well, let's just admit, it's the worst made film ever anywhere at any cost.Laugh riot from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Somewhat misunderstood, though otherwise still bad","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Call me deranged, but I feel there's a little more worth to this movie than it is mostly given. Ed Wood's infamy in the film world leads to a particular form of expectation in cult circuits that sometimes gives prejudice in places where it's not due (though I'm not going to argue that Plan 9 from Outer Space isn't terrible... I'll write a review of that one next), but I think Glen or Glenda? shows that there may be a lot from Wood we're taking for granted.Not to say this is a good, or even great, film by any means. It's real problem lies in the fact that despite Ed Wood's own well-noted transvestitism, this movie was made in a time when such issues were taboo enough to be misunderstood even by those who suffered from it. Glen or Glenda? is Ed Wood's personal journey into his own double-life, which involves, among other things, questioning woman's role in society, gender politics, and psychoanalysis. The absurd and random cutting through different viewpoints, narratives, and devices actually work FOR Wood's own confusion... the movie itself is as schizophrenic as people's opinions about the subject the movie is portraying.The second real reason why Glen or Glenda? fails simply has to do with the horror genre itself. Wood uses horror tropes to express himself, when this movie would be a lot more successful as a drama with most of the same dialog... though nothing changes the fact that the dialog could have been delivered much better. Bela Lugosi's role especially stands out in stark contrast to the rest of the film, which at times goes through documentary or cinema verite-like, melodramatic, war, and psychoanalytical concepts at a dizzying pace. Actually, as I see it, Lugosi's character is comparable to The Man in the Planet from Eraserhead or the Emcee from Cabaret, a separate, somewhat metaphysical entity that comments in its own way upon the more diegetic elements of the rest of the film.Otherwise, despite a very vague sense of misogyny, Glen or Glenda? is remarkably successful at detailing the anxiety and confusion felt by transvestites of various personalities. It's not-so-subtle arguments for transvestism are laughable, but they're more reasonable than I think many people are willing to admit. Had this movie been done by more capable hands, it could have become an immensely important document, but on another level Wood's own campy quality reflects the sort of underground sentiment and misassociation inherent in its own subject matter.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"David Lynch eat  your heart out, a strange masterpiece","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood's one genuine masterpiece, not to take anything away from the so bad it's good category most of the rest of his films fall into, but this film genuinely expresses Wood's life with him playing himself. His movie idol Bela Lugosi being the narrator makes perfect sense as do the strange and dreadful supporting actors and inspired use of strange stock footage.The is expressionistic film-making on par with the best in the genre. Also of course it features Wood's one of a kind, up all night speed typing and drinking and never looking back type of dialog that has never been equaled for its, what language are they speaking phrasing.Lynch, Waters--they've seen this film certainly and tried, with various degrees of success and failure, to copy its strangeness and over the topness. But here it is genuine not a reproduction of strangeness but the real deal! This is the kind of film that created cult film fans. One final thing, this is the most genuine expression of a cross-dresser's feelings ever mixed with the alcohol and the love of movies. There will never be another Ed Wood. You may thank god there won't be, but this one is his real deal. There are things in this movie you would never imagine you'd see and won't see before and will only see pale imitations of since. Things you'll never forget. What more can you ask of a film? Ed Wood is the one true auteur of bad film directors and this is his one true good movie.Like a line in this film states Only the infinity of the depths of a man's mind can really tell the story. "},{"Title":"an endearing piece of high weirdness","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Those who have seen Tim Burton's fine tribute film, ED WOOD, know the story behind this; an inexperienced filmmaker named Edward D. Wood, Jr. talked an exploitation movie producer into hiring him to direct what was initially meant to be the story of Christine Jorgenson, the first (and heavily publicized) case of surgically induced transexualism; this project was alternately to be called The Christine Jorgenson Story, and later (after Jorgenson changed her mind), I Changed My Sex. Of course, after Ed Wood got his hands on the basic storyline, he altered it so as to tell the story of his own transvestitism and to plead for greater tolerance and understanding; set against the staid morals of the early 1950s, Ed's pleading was actually ahead of its time.Now, in wanting to tell this story, but in being constrained by both a shoestring budget and some rather bizarrely unusual filmaking instincts, Ed's efforts went sharply astray. This is, without question, one of the loopiest productions ever put on celluloid, chock full of nonsensical dialogue, amateurishly wooden acting (in fact, Ed's hammy attempt at acting was something out of a 1930s B movie), illogically inserted stock footage (gotta love the stampeding buffalo), and various leaps of logic and good taste. In spite, or perhaps because, of these elements, GLEN OR GLENDA is a thoroughly entertaining and endearing piece of high weirdness. The first time you see it, you won't believe what you are seeing.Long live the Ed Wood cult! Pull the strings!  "},{"Title":"definitely not a good movie at all.... but it's not terrible either","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen or Glenda is more than likely the best of the bad Edward D Wood Jr movies. By saying they're bad automatically I'm not being facetious Wood's movies are to independent cinema what John Cassavetes was in his own right to the same movement. They made their marks and have been noted in history as the grandfathers of their particular mold. Whereas Cassavetes was a master at relationships and probing the mind and heart and soul of people, Wood was... not exactly. And yet there's no denying that he was original - just not entirely talented.Certainly as a screenwriter he had all of the trademarks of someone who shouldn't try and write - forced exposition, crummy bits of polemic stuff, no real ear for dialog short of one-dimensional molds - and yet at the same time there's moments in Glen or Glenda, perhaps unintentionally, that appear brilliant. The Beware speech, repeated a few times, first by Scientist Bela Lugosi, who was put in the film just for the purpose of having a mad scientist who is, maybe, like a God or something in this world, is howlingly funny, certainly more inspired than any of the banter between the policeman and the psychologist.And yet... I couldn't tear myself away from the screen, and unlike another Wood stinker such as The Sinister Urge I didn't really need the Mystery Science Theater guys as back-up. There's a perverse energy to the picture, something weird and eerie and dark and brooding and all of those things that should make art. Maybe it is; there's a mid-section in the picture, when Wood splices in random footage of tying up a woman to a couch and other things involving females undressing (with Lugosi and Wood himself spliced in to ogle), that displays a filmmaker who has something going on, something direct and primal to his audience. I almost wished that the movie were better because of it, as though there's the surface of a surreal masterwork that can never be scratched deeply enough before the movie returns to its crap-informational diatribes about transvestites and hermaphrodites.It's neither a disappointment or something I'd really recommend - unless to those friends of mine wondering why an Ed Wood movie is listed as one of David Lynch's favorites. Not surprising, it has 50s sex and desire and nightmare all over it. It's like a student who writes a C+ paper that can never be improved, at all, and it's the best we'll get, yet there are those kernels that keep it from failure. "},{"Title":"Bevare.........Take Care!","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen or Glenda was Edward D. Wood Jr's first attempt at directing a feature film. For this he chose a topic near and dear to his heart...transvestism, the art of a man wanting to dress in women's clothes. To his credit, Wood tried to deal with subject matter that was largely taboo in 1953. Unfortunately, Wood had neither the budget nor the know how to make the film.The story opens with a prologue by Bela Lugosi that makes little sense and then moves to the discovery of a dead transvestite Glen/Glenda (Daniel Davis aka Ed Wood). Inspector Warren (Lyle Talbot) with the help of psychiatrist Dr. Alton (Timothy Farrell) tries to understand why a man would want to live (and die) this way.Glen is engaged to Barbara (Dolores Fuller) and is reluctant to tell her of his obsession. And that's it. We see endless stock footage shots of anything from freeway traffic to soldiers landing on the beach, interspersed with shots of Wood walking down the same street dressed as either Glen or Glenda and looking longingly at women's clothes in a store window. Poor old Bela, who was down on his luck and befriended by Wood, keeps popping in throughout the story. I'm not 100% sure but I think Bela's scenes were added for his name value after the body of the movie was completed.To add to the confusion of Lugosi's narration, Farrell as Dr. Alton also provides off screen narration. Lugosi keeps saying, bevare, bevare...take care, take care, as well as, some gibberish about snakes and snails and puppy dog's tails.The story also deals with a transvestite who has a successful sex change operation and tries to explain the difference between that person and Wood's character(s). The dream sequences are laughable. A wedding sequence in which someone dressed as the devil appears is a good example. Wood also gives us an apparent rape scene with the actors(?) fully clothed but leaving little to the imagination, risqué for 1953.This film along with Wood's other classics were so bad that they became embraced by the public as cult classics over the years. For that reason, they have survived to this day. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie I thought it would be pretty bad. But it was surprisingly good. It is different from Ed Wood's other work such as Bride of the Atom, Plan 9 from Outer Space, Night of the Ghouls. There are no mistakes or bad dialogue. The story line is somewhat interesting. A man torn between love and transvestitism. Ed stars in this, but does not give a bad performance. He acts very believable. That's the way I think an actor should act. Dolores Fuller isn't as believable, but still manages to act out some good scenes with Ed. This movie most definitely did not deserve the beating it got during its release. Warren Beatty was able to see what an overlooked movie it was and convinced Paramount to re-release it. That is until the George Weiss estate bought the rights back. Bela Lugosi is good in his minor, but pleasing role. I think this whole movie is very interesting and fun. But there is this particular scene of girls stripping every few seconds and Bela Lugosi looking at them. I think that is one scene that went on for just too long. I wasn't too fond of the last half. The character Glen's situation was watchable and good enough to keep watching, but when you get to a character named Alan in the end it just got dragged on.But I still do highly recommend this. If you are a fan of Edward D. Wood Jr. check this movie out. Or if you respect Ed's work check it out. It is definitely good to add to your Ed Wood collection. If you're just looking to watch an interesting, fun and watchable movie check this out. If you've seen this movie on T.V. years back late at night forget it. The T.V. quality was horrible. Not to mention the sound. Rent this film  "}{"Title":"Define so bad its good...","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" and generally speaking, you will eventually have to research this little gem. When describing I Changed My Sex, or Glen Or Glenda as it is better known, I must echo the thoughts of Andrew Smith, who so hit the nail on the head when he wrote If you haven't seen any of Ed Wood's other movies, this one is a completely bewildering experience. If you have seen any of Ed Wood's movies, this is still completely bewildering. The film is both hilarious and tragic, yet it moves with a strange rhythm of its own that leaves one in no doubt that its author knows and means every word he is saying during its running length. Wood, bless him, had some of the loftiest ambitions as a director, wanting to promote peace, understanding, and even acceptance, in the 1950s of all times. When Tim Burton recreated a viewing of Glen Or Glenda by studio execs for his biopic, he showed the execs laughing and telling each other that this had to be a put-on. More than fifty years later, there are still people fighting just to be given the kind of respect that the normal take for granted, so I say it most certainly is not.No, the real comedy in Glen Or Glenda is the sheer ineptitude Wood displays in composing his message. Directors frequently use stock footage when they can find some that suits their purposes, and can be edited to fit with their own footage. Ed Wood used stock footage indiscriminately, and Tim Burton's biopic celebrated the fact with a scene in which Wood as played by Johnny Depp bets that he could make an entire film out of stock footage. Sadly, the real Ed Wood died before he had a chance, but Glen Or Glenda is the closest he ever came. The IMDb states that twenty percent of this sixty-something minute film is stock footage, and it is never difficult to guess which footage. Footage of busy highways, planes flying overhead, poor lightning effects, soldiers doing their thing, they're all used in a haphazard manner, sometimes repeatedly, and they often only have a loose connection to the story Wood is trying to tell. Had Wood been able to sit back and think about what he is trying to do for a while, there is no telling what kind of heights he could have achieved.Wood himself appears in the film as the titular character, a confused transvestite who imagines himself as a woman named Glenda. Aside from the daring manner in which he attempts to make his point, Wood makes one hideous woman. Having found myself out on the fringe of a society that thinks I am disabled and need to be cured myself, I honestly found myself hoping for the best outcome for Wood's character. In order to make his point, however, Wood weaves in short stories of two other transvestites. One of them takes the extreme step of enduring a sex change in order to become a woman, the other finds himself so disenfranchised that he fears being arrested again so much he commits suicide. The scary thing about this film is that if you edited out the transvestism and substituted such disenfranchisements as my position on the autistic spectrum or such things as schizophrenia, very little of the film would even need to be changed. That is how little society has learned since Ed Wood was a boy.The other significant personality in Glen Or Glenda is Bela Lugosi, whom Wood shoehorned into the film. Speculation varies upon Wood's motives, but the accepted theory is that Wood wanted to help revive Lugosi's career, and would do anything in order to achieve this. With the exception of taking his time to carefully construct a good film, that is. In Glen Or Glenda, Wood makes usage of Lugosi that was best described in Flying Saucers Over Hollywood as bizarre. Lugosi plays a character billed as The Scientist, but comes off more as an omnipotent puppet master. People who have not seen Ed Wood films before the biopic will think Tim Burton made up the beware of the big green dragon that sits on your doorstep speech. If anything, Burton was being restrained about which bizarre speech to use in depicting Wood-ian dialogue. Nothing can prepare you for seeing the speeches in their original context, not even Criswell's hilarious ranting during Plan 9 From Outer Space.Observant types will also note the presence of Delores Fuller, Wood's girlfriend at the time. Again, Burton dramatises her reaction to seeing the script for the first time, whereas the film portrays her as being accepting and forward-thinking. I cannot help but feel that Burton's portrayal is more accurate, as Fuller looks extremely uncomfortable in her role. She only appears for about fifteen minutes, but her delivery seems so mechanical, so lifeless, that she somehow manages to seem less talented than her cast-mates, if such a thing is possible. Whether Wood's direction was better-focused in this case than usual is hard to determine, but if the ability of the support cast to leave the stars (with the obvious exception of Bela) in the dust is any guide, then it should come as no surprise that Fuller would only appear in a very small role within one other Wood film. That she went on to write a number of hit songs tells you she made the right decision to stay behind the camera. While Wood would appear before the camera again, it was never as more than a cameo, a walk-on, or a bit-part.I gave Glen Or Glenda a one out of ten. I generally only give this rating to films that are so bad they become entertaining as a result. Bold and well-intentioned as it was, Glen Or Glenda fits that description to a T. "},{"Title":"an educational film interesting for Sex/Gender-Debatte","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood is famous for being one of the worst directors and some think that can lead to amazing fun films, though thats right for some of his films, thats not so true for some others. Jail Bait shows him for example as an quite ambitious director (a movie which isn't so much fun, but still not really good in a common way) or films which are just different then others and in that case also not so funny. Glen or Glenda is one of this films of the last mentioned category.Glen or Glenda is a very personal work of the director. the topic is transvestism / cross- dressing and the pressure the society puts on such persons. There are 2 frame-plots, 2 main-plots and 1 quite long dream-like sequence. All of this is packed in a playtime of around 1 hour. So you can understand you will not get a really elaborated story, cause there is no time for that.this film is not so much a feature film, it is more an educational one. A education film which intention is to change the society's opinion, enlighten about this not so well known subject, all done in a pseudo-documentary style.The off-voice is bringing forward some arguments, while the pictures are just underlining them. the actors are just visual representations/examples and like in all educational films they are playing quite bad, though not 'funny' bad. One important role has the doctor, who represents the professional, the specialist, which the people should believe.The problem of the whole movie is, that Woods line of arguments is incoherent first he is against a biologism, than he advances a view in which transvestism is something natural (biologism) and then it is just an illness (plot with the doctor). Ed Wood by himself doesn't know how to argue and how to win the tolerance of the viewer, so he tries it in different ways.The first main-plot is presented still in this educational style and one man's transvestism is shown as an example. The pressure which is put on the protagonist is shown in a dream-like sequence, which reminds on silent-movie-era. In this part there is also shown some S&M (but VERY soft, without naked bodies and just symbolic), though it has nothing to do with the topic. This sequence leaves the educational style and invites the viewer to interpret the film in a more free way.At the end of the film there are 15 mins left for the 2nd main-plot, in which he shows a second example of a cross-dresser. the subjects in this part are sex reversal and hermaphrodtism, a topic which is till nowadays not well known.the movie is not good and it is also not bad, it is not funny either and it is not a feature film. it is an educational one with pseudo-documentarian methods. It is an advocacy for more tolerance in our society. Though Woods opinion is not up-to-date anymore, though it is not well argued, this film is a quite interesting historical document about the debate. Who thinks this is a funny, entertaining or even a horror-film goes totally wrong and misunderstands this film. "},{"Title":"One of the most bewildering movies I've seen","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had a particularly masochistic day today, watching both Manos The Hands of Fate and Glen or Glenda, both of which have at some point been claimed to be the Worst Movie Ever. Watching both movies in one day made Glen or Glenda look good by comparison, but it is, by itself, one of the most bewildering movies I've seen.I say this not because of its pleas for tolerance in gender matters. That might have seemed odder in the '50s, when homophobia was more mainstream. We've since moved on to debating whether gays can marry. What's really striking about this movie, rather, is the extended surreal dream sequences and the inexplicable narration of Bela Lugosi. Throw Satan in there! Why not? A herd of buffalo stampeding below Lugosi? Why not? Being trampled by the herd would symbolize being run over by society for an urge to cross-dress, wouldn't it? Symbolism! Except the symbolism goes on way too long, one sensing in an effort by Ed Wood to drag his movie over the 60-minute mark. Eventually, it becomes incomprehensible.And what of that narration? Bela Lugosi, the Scientist, is kind of like a half-scientist, half-god character, who's also dark. He has skeletons around him for some reason. He says sinister things. Who or what is he? At the same time, a doctor is telling a police officer about Glen and Glenda. I'm reminded of the Nostalgia Critic's criticism of Rock-A-Doodle- who in god's name is telling the story? The Scientist or the doctor?You can find some elements of this style in a movie like Ingmar Bergman's Persona- random flashing of unpleasant things, apparent dream sequences, a kind of god-like narration (a boy watching a TV), but that movie was competently done. Glen or Glenda becomes a giant non sequitur- not the worst movie ever, but worth quite the WTF? "},{"Title":"A good Ed Wood film","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you mention the name Ed Wood Jr. to people, you think of bad movies. Yes, Ed Wood Jr. was known for making really bad films, but some of films were really groundbreaking for there time. Glen or Glenda is the first feature length film that Ed Wood Jr. created. Glen or Glenda starts off with the suicide of a known transvestite. A detective goes to a doctor and learns two different stories about people, Glen who is a transvestite who has not told his fiancé about his problem and Alan a man who wants to be a woman.Like all Ed Wood Jr. films this film has what Ed Wood's film are known for; horrible script, bad acting, poor special effects, lots and lots of stock footage, and horrible continuity are some of what Ed's films are known for. While this film falls under the category or a B-movie, the film itself is quite groundbreaking. This film was made in 1953 and at the time transvestites and sex changes were items that were quite taboo, so it was never really talked about a lot.This is a camp film, however to get the full appreciation of this film you need to view the film in a different light. If you go watch a b-movie or a camp classic with the mindset of that you want to see how bad it can be, you will not get the full meaning of the film. If you watch the film with the mindset of seeing what this film has to offer, you will then understand what this film is about.If you enjoy Ed Wood films, enjoy low-budget films, or enjoy risqué films then Glen or Glenda is a good movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Unique Film","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Definitely Wood's best film in my opinion. Very film noir. The images and dialog were profoundly bizarre and almost incomprehensible. Documentary? Horror? Erotica? The film seems to have a total lack of vision, and if you compare this to his other films, you may be swayed to confirm this. However, you have to take this movie on its own. It's hard to watch Glen or Glenda and not think about the guy who made it...his own transvestism, war history, and his ultimately dubious movie-making legacy. But if you can just watch this film without any pre-notions of Ed Wood, you may find this a truly original and remarkable film. OK, the dialog is strange, the acting was goofy, the various metaphors didn't make much sense...but think about it Bela Lugosi playing a mad scientist who narrates a documentary on transvestism which eventually turns into random scenes of soft-core lesbian bondage and stock WWII footage. That's just Freekin' Brilliant! I'll have to agree with the people that say that this film was before it's time...but not because of the subject matter, but because of the sheer insanity of the end result. "},{"Title":"Bad and funny","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like other movies from the worst director ever, Ed Wood, this movie is very bad but because of that it is also very funny. May be not for everyone, but I laughed a lot. It is a strange thing when you enjoy a bad movie. How do you rate it? As a movie very low, as entertainment at least a little higher.The movie tries to explain what a transvestite is and it does this through a scientist (Bela Lugosi) and an inspector (Lyle Talbot) who talks to a doctor (Timothy Farrell) who knows about these things. The doctor tells the detective two stories and that is what we, and apparently the scientist, see. The doctor tels these stories because a dead transvestite is found, suicide, and because of a headline in the news paper about a sex-change. The first and longest story is about Glen (Ed Wood himself) who is in love and about to marry Barbara (Dolores Fuller) but he has never told her he like to dress as a woman, when he is named Glenda. The movie tells the same thing over and over again, especially the fact that a transvestite is not necessarily a homosexual. The movie almost says that being a transvestite is not a bad thing, but being homosexual is, since it keeps telling us the fact that a transvestite is not a homosexual. The second story is about a transvestite who really wants a sex-change and not just wants to dress up as a woman, but it is much shorter and less interesting.A couple of things make this movie very bad, and therefore laughable. How the story is presented is the first thing, the way the same things are told over and over again and the conclusion of it all are others. This is not where it ends. The acting is very bad, especially Dolores Fuller seems to be reading her lines directly from a little screen somewhere. Every thing she says is funny. The whole dialogue actually gave me quite some laughs.There is also a sequence where someone walks into a room. The door stays half open and we see something hanging on the wall, not completely straight. Then the door, in what seems to be the same shot although we know it is not, is a little less open and suddenly the thing on the wall hangs straight. Ed Wood didn't mind to leave this kind of continuity errors in his movie. May be a good thing, because basically it is just another laugh for the modern audience. I think you understand that it is a bad movie and I think there is a good chance you will laugh at the ridiculous mistakes as well. "},{"Title":"A Story Must Be Told!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *****SPOILERS***** Obviously a self-portrait of director Edward D. Wood Jr. strange life in and out of Hollywood. With Wood playing the title character in the movie Glen/Glenda. Originally titled I led 2 Lives.The movie starts with Bela Lugosi sitting in a laboratory and telling the theater audience about the mysteries of nature and creation as well as life and death and that nature, as perfect as it is, also makes mistakes. Mixing some chemicals Bela gets what looks like a full head on a mug after you pored a bottle of beer in it and his eyes light up and he says triumphantly A life has begun! Then we see a big city and as the camera focuses in on a room where there's the body of a woman who committed suicide we hear Bela, off camera, sadly says A life is ended. It turns out that the dead woman is a transvestite who was arrested four times for wearing womens clothing and couldn't take being arrested anymore. Since as he wrote in his suicide note That he'd rather be dead in womens cloths then have to live without wearing them. Police inspector Warren, Lyle Talbot, who handled the case of the transvestite was so shook up over it that a few days later he went to a psychiatrist Dr. Alton, Timothy Farrell, just to settle down his nerves from seeing what he did. Dr. Alton tells Inspector Warren a long story about someone that he treated recently who had the same problem that the unfortunate transvestite had but with a happy ending. Glen, Ed Wood, is a man engaged to Babara, Dolores Fuller, but has a deep secret that he's afraid that if he told her it would destroy their relationship and he would lose her. Glen seems to be more in love with Barbara's angora sweater then he is with her. Dr Alton goes on to explain how Glen is a transvestite and what he does to satisfy his yearnings is to wear womens cloths. Dr. Alton goes on saying that to cure Glen of his obsession was for Barbara to except Glen for what he is after Glen confessed to her. Barbara, after taking a few minutes to absorb all that Glen told her tells Glen I don't understand all of this but maybe together we can work it out.We see Dr. Alton telling this story to Inspector Warren in a long weird surrealistic like strip show. We see women appearing on screen in all sorts of dress and undress scenes as well as Bela Lugosi popping up every now and then, mostly off camera. Bela Logosi keeps the audience entertained with saying things like  A story must be told and Pull the string and for some reason that I can't figure out we see a herd of stampeding wild buffalo's in the background. Lugosi starts to get even more ridiculous as the movie rolls on with sayings that make no sense at all in light of the story that were seeing like Dragon tell me, do you eat little boys and puppy dogs tails and big fat snails?. So after Dr. Alton's treatment Glen was completely cured of being Glenda by transferring Glenda, Glen's alter-ego, to Barbara but most of all having Barbara except Glen for what he is, a transvestite. With Barbara allowing Glen to wear her cloths both her and Glen can now live happily ever after. As the movie draws to a close Dr. Alton and almost in cadence Bela Lugosi end the it saying sadly that there are other transvestites like Glen who's stories don't have that same happy ending; and just how many more are there? just how many more are there? What can one say after seeing a movie like this! your left speechless. You have to give Ed Wood credit for not only making Glen or Glenda as well as staring in it with an added attraction at the conclusion of the film of the then,in 1952-53, sensational story about the Christine Jorgesen sex-change operation, that was making headline news all over the world. The biggest surprise of all in regard to the movie is how on earth did Wood ever get it passed the ultra-prudish Hayes Commission back in 1953? That in itself ranks as one of the great accomplishments in motion picture history. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...okay...","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bela Lugosi as God?  Transvestites discussed in a movie in the straight-laced 1950s?  By golly, this must be an Ed Wood film.Watching this movie, I felt a combination of guilt, pleasure, and nausea all at the same time.  The story is about Glen (Ed Wood himself) and his cross-dressing alter-ego Glenda.  Somehow, if this movie were made now, I could see Kevin Kline playing Glen/Glenda.  Notice how all the cross-dressers' alter egos are versions of their male name (Glen/Glenda, Robert/Roberta, etc.).  It attempts to sympathetically portray it as the mental disorder that it is, rather than as a graphic perversion. Somehow, Wood manages to sneak in bondage and S&M sequences into his initial story of Glen/Glenda. Along with these racy scenes, Satan himself shows up, obviously having a bad hair day.  The dialog and pace are nonexistent, but the film is enjoyable in its context -- the weird world of Ed Wood.Sterno says put on your favorite lace panties for this one. "},{"Title":"Pull the string!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, Ed Wood Jr. is not the worst director ever, Plan 9 From Outer Space not withstanding.  Coleman Francis deserves that title.  I present Exhibit B, Glen or Glenda.The first half of the movie consists of a surprisingly thoughtful exploration of crossdressing, especially since it was made in 1953.  The last 15 minutes of movie are also not bad as well.This is not to say the movie doesn't have problems.  Bela Lugosi was totally extraneous, intoning odd lines.  Poor Bela looked like even he wasn't sure what was happening at times.  The acting was decidely wooden, though no worse than a period Universal B movie.  The long dream sequence that makes up the middle of the film was totally bizarre; more like a vaguely menacing stag film than a dream sequence.  The Alan/Ann story, the supposed original focus of the film has a tacked on quality about it.No, Ed Wood Jr. is not the worst director ever.  He was able, at least for part of this movie, to make an earnest social statement.  When Coleman Francis tried to do that in Night Train To Mundo Fine (aka Red Zone Cuba), it just ended in chaos.  Glen or Glenda is at least watchable without Robot help. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I had been led to believe","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I approached this movie with the understanding that it was one of the worst flicks ever made.  I sat down to watch it with this mindset, and was pleasantly surprised.It's not great.  It's not even that good; in fact, it's pretty poor.  However, it's not as bad as I had been led to believe, by a long shot.  It's pretty inept, and, evidently as a cost cutting measure, a lot of stock footage is pressed into service, a lot of which has no apparent relation to the narrative.What it is, however, is an intensely personal movie made by a man who evidently did not have the skills or the funding to do his idea justice.  Before you discount _Glen or Glenda?_ out of hand, examine your own artistic skills.  Me, I'd love to be able to draw, but anything I try to sketch comes out like stick men.  I'd love to be able to sing, but all I do is frighten young children.Wood had an idea, and unfortunately he didn't have what it takes to make it work.  However, this was an incredibly daring movie for the puritan 50s, however exploitative or incoherent it may appear at first glance. "}{"Title":"Pulling the strings here","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For the 1950's Edward Wood was incredibly brave to make this movie about transvestites and sex change - dealing with two taboo subjects. It was made with real passion by someone who understood the issue, but it can be quite off the wall and dull, but its a hell of a lot more intelligent than a lot of the rubbish made today and costing millions of dollars to make. The opening message of Glen or Glenda reminds me of the opening message of Tod Browning's classic 1932 horror film Freaks. The first part of the film begins with a narrator (Bela Lugosi) making cryptic comments about humanity. In a way, Bela Lugosi plays the creator, watching the people moving by their own, making their own decisions. Pull the Strings' meant everyone (puppeteer) is the master of their own destiny (puppets), by pulling the strings so as to control your destiny and bring it wherever you want it to be. These theological ruminations Ed Wood gives us are right up there with Ingmar Bergman's greatest films on the purpose of life and faith in our world. Edward Wood wanted to keep it open to religions who don't believe in the commonly accepted God, or do not call their god(s) God. The Creator is an umbrella term that doesn't offend any particular religion or belief set, nor does it truly suggest religion in the first place (The Creator could be anybody or anything). This way, he doesn't directly accuse religion for people not accepting transsexualism and transvestism, rather he accuses people's stubbornness. The Bela Lugosi portions of the movie seem like such an afterthought to the central story, which is too bad considering that they are also the most compelling. He put Bela in the film, because, at the time, the old man was sick, addicted to drugs, and badly in need of money, and he loved Lugosi so he tried to help him whenever he could. Sadly Bela wasn't in any shape to memorize the ingredients for an ice cube, let alone a movie script, even a bad one. The lines were feed to him, but some lines still didn't match what was being produce half of the scenes (Bisons running around in stock-footage is a example). Maybe a example of not being trampled by life or others. Another one is 'The Dragon at the doorstep' is maybe the mockery, people must fight against to be what he wants to be. Puppy dog tails and big fat snails are the transvestites of the world getting eaten (destroyed) by the Dragon, (mockery from people). The examples of people excuse for sex change, intro-cut with having cars and planes are just out there. This film has artistic merit to it with those lines. With Bela on film, the audience has a hard time figuring out who is the true narrator, due to another narrator later in the film. So it's felt like a story within a story. This part seem like a horror film, while the rest of the film seems like one of those better ways towards clean living type of short films made in the fifties that they showed to kids in school, only instead of promoting personal hygiene, this one is showing you how to justify your life as a transvestite.The film proper opens with Inspector Warren finding the corpse of a male transvestite named Patrick/Patricia, who has committed suicide. Wanting to know more about cross-dressing, Warren seeks out Dr. Alton, who narrates for him the story of Glen/Glenda and the viewers. Ed Wood himself was a transvestite playing Glen under the pseudonym 'Daniel Davis'. Glen is shown studying women's clothes in a shop window. Dr. Alton points out that men's clothes are dull and restrictive, whereas women can adorn themselves with attractive clothing with outrageous/ bizarre claims. Women's clothes comfy? In the days of the Iron Bra and the panty girdle? Glen is getting married to Barbara (Ed's real life girlfriend Dolores Fuller) who questioning if Glen is with another woman. Glen is being force to admit to Barbara about his wanting to wear women clothing. A bizarre dream sequence, containing some BDSM pornography, follows with Satan. Not really need. It ruins the film. Glen then decides to tell Barbara the truth. She proffers her angora sweater as a sign of acceptance. The second part of the story about Alan/ Annie is a letdown, not worth noting. The acting is quite poor, with different actors you can spot Ed Wood's trademark dialogue style.It's this type of pseudo-intellectual verbal non-stop talk that erupts from their mouths for no reason at all. Much like a person reading a book out-loud; there is an unnaturalness to it because we know, deep down in the depths of the human mind, that humans, such as us, do not talk like characters in a audio book. The random shots of things, like dramatic radiator are just odd to be in the film. Looking through the opening credits, it included a Music Consultant, rather than composer, or director. I have no idea what a consultant would be needed for, unless the music he used in this movie was canned or public domain. Found out it's the old theme song as the old Lassie TV show. The dub lines in post-production is funny. That phony granny voice is one thing that's laughable. Unfortunately the film doesn't broach the subject that gender Diaspora & transvestism aren't the same thing. Ed Wood who was probably a very nice man, but a not that good film maker. Working with what he had on a low budget, with a script he had to write in less than 2 days with production starting not long after- to say this was horrible is a understatement. It wasn't that bad. It actually seems pretty progressive for 1953. Rather watch a flaw film made with lots of enthusiasm than a mundane manufactured movie anyday. Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Stunningly abstract half-amateur film-making gives unbelievably modern and humane insight into gender issues.","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As probably many other viewers I decided to see Glen or Glenda to verify if it's really what was hinted in the brilliant biographical Ed Wood. And indeed, I stared with my mouth open at Bela Lugosi's recitations and the random buffalo scene. It was all there. Some honestly unintended avant-garde.Yet the movie is not half as bad as the legend holds it. The important fact is that it isn't an actual story, it's more of a semi-documentary, party educational picture. Behind the really weird editing the movie tells a lot about transvestitism, transsexualism, relationships, sexual identity and social roles. It's hard to believe that it was made in early 1950s! Not only it was produced significantly before the so called sexual revolution of the '60s, but also certain gender issues that were carefully covered in the movie seem to be still beyond the understanding of certain narrow-minded and prejudiced people today.I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to get to know Edward Wood and his work and also to people interested in the history of approach to gender studies and the society. "},{"Title":"Bad or Pathetically Bad?","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A good novel tells us the truth about its hero; but a bad novel tells us the truth about its author. --GK ChestertonSCIENTIST Bevare...bevare! Bevare of the big green dragon that sits on your doorstep. He eats little boys...puppy dog tails, and big, fat snails. Bevare, take care....bevare! --Ed Wood, Glen or Glenda (1953)How to make sense of Ed Wood? There are six alternate titles for this film Glen or Glenda Confessions of Ed Wood, Glen or Glenda?, He or She, I Changed My Sex, I Led 2 Lives, and The Transvestite.Spoiled milk, by any other name...What is important to me is not THAT this film is bad, but WHY it is bad, and if there is anything salvageable from the experience of watching it. The most significant problem of the film is that it is so deeply personal, so internalized for Wood, that it is frequently incomprehensible. If there was ever a film that shows the risks of getting too close to the subject matter, this is it. Gestures, images and dialog from the film have prominence that far outweighs their impact on the viewer. One gets the feeling, after a few minutes, that the film was made by Wood to explain his own nature to himself, and the fact that it was to be seen by others became an unimportant afterthought. For Wood, Bela Lugosi reciting a nursery rhyme in a pathetically melodramatic fashion makes perfect sense. I also assume that it made no sense to poor drug-addled Lugosi, to any of the other characters, or to many of its viewers. A few examples of the film's too subjective, too Wood-centric nature all of Lugosi's lines; the lightning motif that crashes in at random;the fake African tribal dance; the Betty Page antics in the last half of the film (including a pseudo-rape, which is accompanied by polka music). Many scenes indicate a general sense of fear, or transgression, but they aren't specific enough or clear enough to serve as part of the narrative. They are simply hapless gestures from someone desperate to feel personally validated in public. This makes the filmmaker the subject of pathos and not the characters. As a viewer, I empathize more with Ed than Glen. The inept filmmaking distances me from the character of Glen while at the same time eliciting pity for the man who is confronting a source of personal shame by broadcasting it to the world. At times, the film is a documentary, at times a police drama, at times a horror film, at times a love story. Wood uses expressionistic sets, dream sequences, and special effects, and crushes them up against images of traffic and steel mills, and World War II footage, interspersed with monologues by dry professors discussing the current scientific understanding of transvestites. Given all this ineptitude, one has to ask is it worth viewing even as kitsch? I would say so. One learns as much by bad examples as by good. One could easily assemble a `how-to' book on narrative filmmaking using just this film as a negative example. Pick a topic with gravity. Consider your audience. Don't humiliate your actors by giving them nonsensical scripts. Pick music that supports the action. And never underestimate the power of a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Don't let the low rating fool you - this is a must see!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is so ineptly made, that it winds up being great. If you have seen the movie Ed Wood then with Glen or Glenda you can see how idiotic Ed Wood really was and how well Ed Wood captured the essence of his films. Crossdressing was undoubtedly dear to Ed's heart and with Glen or Glenda he was trying to make an important statement about it. However, even if he had been competent enough to manage that, I doubt that 1953 was ready for any statement about crossdressing. The film is so badly made that it's a hoot! Definitely a lot of entertainment value in this one even if it is a colossal failure.  For a better made commentary on crossdressing, which is also quite entertaining, watch Ma Vie en Rose.  "},{"Title":"Pulling strings, and not a G among them.","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The world of cross dressing took a beating in this Ed Wood debacle, the first to feature long faded horror star Bela Lugosi, still reduced to touring in wretched productions of Dracula. In need of quick cash, Lugosi took what he could get to quote non-Edgar Allan Poe poetry that started off with Bevare! and concludes with his melodramatic cry of Pull da strings!. Those who saw this film probably thought, hey that guy reminds me of that dead actor who played Count Dracula, not realizing that like Abe Vigoda, the actor was still very much alive.Lovingly recreated by Tim Burton for  Ed Wood, this film has achieved a legend all its own. Yes, it is wretched, the cross dressers (obviously the transvestites of their day) are sad looking and desperate. Tones have changed for men who long to live as women, and in a sense, this film did more harm than good. Wood at this point wasn't the trollish looking man he would ultimately be a decade later, and his efforts to tell what he considered an important story is respectable if ill-advised.Lugosi stands out of course, as a she'll of himself, but determined to have some sort of dignity, even if they just meant paying off creditors. In the first of his three Ed Eoid appearances, he remains commanding even if the vehicle he prayed would be his comeback failed. Every serious moment Wood intended just brings on laughs, and ultimately, that is why Wood is remembered today. "},{"Title":"You Say Bad, I Say Classic","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A psychiatrist tells two stories one of a transvestite (Glen or Glenda), the other of a pseudohermaphrodite (Alan or Anne).Ed Wood is often seen as a bad director, and this is often seen as a bad film (though not his worst). As I type this, IMDb gives it a 4.4 out of 10. Not atrocious, but still low. In my opinion, much too low.Yes, it is campy and is bloated with stock footage and scenes of Bela Lugosi that make no sense. But it also happens to be fun. And even if the science is not necessarily correct (I have my doubts about curing transvestites), it does have a favorable and progressive approach to gender that had to be unequaled in 1953. "},{"Title":"He is not a hermaphrodite any more than he is a pseudo-hermaphrodite... he just likes to wear angora sweaters..","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Over half a century before Bruce Jenner decided to step out as a woman, Edward D. Wood Jr. came out with this daring, yet incompetently filmed would-be documentary about cross-dressing and sex changes. Wood, a notorious cross-dresser, insisted he was the perfect director for this subject, and with a budget smaller than the amount of change in a normal person's couch cushions, he sort of made a little movie about these themes. At just over an hour, this hodgepodge of stock footage, poorly written and acted scenes, odd fantasy sequences, and old Bela Lugosi rambling on about life and death is truly a finished product that defies a typical synopsis. Pull the stringk!! Lugosi shouts, and he theoretically represents some sort of a puppet master presiding over the human condition. Though Wood should be applauded for his courage in dealing with these subjects, one cannot forgive the incredible ineptitude with which this thing was thrown together. Some of its more interesting and racy moments were apparently thrown in post-production by the producer who obviously wasn't expecting any attempt at a thoughtful documentary from his director. The dramatic scenes deal with a young man (played by Wood under the pseudonym Daniel Davis) engaged to be married, but he's hiding a huge secret. The man loves to wear women's clothing, particularly angora sweaters! Should he tell his fiancée? How should he tell her? What if she doesn't want to marry a guy like that? The horrors! The scenes dealing directly with this plot make up about a third on the screen time. The biggest chunk of time has a doctor narrating about the differences between transvestites/homosexuals/hermaphrodites among many other things while at the same time explaining them to a police detective. It is in these scenes where some of the most laughable use of stock footage ever can be found. The funniest is perhaps where Wood has inserted footage of a steel mill and two off-screen blue collar types are talking about transsexuals while railroad rails are being forged out of molten steel and sparks are crashing all around! Other random shots of traffic and stampeding buffalo are thrown in. There is a suggestion that some random guy changing a light bulb in a rail yard might be wearing pink satin panties or something... hilarious!! The fantasy scenes go on for about 15 minutes, and make very little sense.Finally, we see the story of a WWII veteran who goes through a sex change. I'm sure they thought this was graphic back then, but its mostly a shot of doctors looking down at the patient while the narration explains in very general terms what is taking place. And the WWII veteran angle only gives Wood even more chances to throw in stock footage of soldiers in battle. The film's conclusion would probably not satisfy the militant LBGT (or is it LGBT?) community of today. It seems the doctor thinks and recommends that the young transvestite man can somehow be cured from his fetish, but I forgot how. Somehow his wife ends up taking the place of Glenda (his cross- dressing alter-ego) and they live happily ever after. Whatever. Anyway, give Wood some serious props for attempting to take a thoughtful look at trans-gender and transvestite issues at a time when they were probably only hinted at within the moldy pages of dime detective novels. 4 of 10 stars.The Hound "},{"Title":"This phony documentary is a terrible mix of metaphysics and biology.","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Glen or Glenda, 1953. An unusual suicide begins a police investigator's look into the world of transvestism, trans-gender, and hermaphroditism with a psychiatrist.*Special Stars- Bela Lugosi, Lyle Talbot, Dolores Fuller, Timothy Fuller. DIR Edward D. Wood Jr.*Theme- Some people feel they are mistakes and need science to correct it.*Trivia/location/goofs- Auto biographical documentary on transvestism and hermaphroditism. B & W. Bela Lugosi was broke and a morphine addict at the time so readily took on a role in the film for which he allegedly was paid $5000. In reality, this figure was probably closer to $1000. Shot in just four days. The film was originally intended to be loosely based on the story of sex-change pioneer Christine Jorgensen. In March 1981, Paramount placed a full-page page ad in the New York Times announcing the reissue of Glen or Glenda (1953). Warren Beatty is purported to have sponsored its 1981 reissue by Paramount, while he was working there making Reds (1981). The film includes almost 14 minutes of stock footage, including the end credits, and 73 seconds that run concurrently with new footage of Bela Lugosi. The stock scenes include Fake Lightning (used 6 times), Pedestrians (3 times), Highway Day (3 times), Highway Night (twice), Playground (twice), Superior Court (twice), Ridiculous Soft Core, Natives, Bison Stampede, Parking Lot, Steel Foundry, WWII, Ambulance, Airplane, Signalman, Milkman, and Girls with Fuzzy Hats or Sweaters. GOOFS- The headline on the newspaper at the beginning has clearly been taped on. The text accompanying the close-up of a newspaper story headlined Man Nabbed Dressed As Girl is a hodge-podge of unrelated paragraphs lifted from stories about tax reform, a prison injury, and faith healing.*Emotion- This phony documentary is a terrible mix of metaphysics(Lugosi role) and bad biology. Due to the huge press from Christine Jorgenson's sex surgery from a male to female, the film wrongfully and simplistically connects many gender issues and presents them in this faux erroneous documentary. Todays medical doctor's know more about such matters that openly contradict the message of this early film by a closeted transvestite film maker. The film features the famous Lugosi pull the string monologue featured in the Johnny Depp 'Ed Wood' biopic film. That scene is presented in a much different tone and context.*Based On- Edward D. Wood Jr. sexual life style and his thoughts. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's Debut Is A Masterpiece Of Bad Movies.","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen Or Glenda focuses on two people, a transvestite named Glen/Glenda, and then a trans-gender person named Alan/Ann. During the course of the movie, Bela Lugosi provides narration.Ed Wood made is directorial debut with this masterpiece of the bad movie genre. Similar to some of Ed Wood's other movies, this film is loaded with everything that you would expect to see in his movies, with bad directing, laughable acting, corny dialogue, and several plot points that make no sense whatsoever. First off, I'll admit that I do have a thing for Ed Wood's movies, particularly his 1950's projects, before his sexploitation years. As a result, I decided to watch all of his movies that he made in the 1950's. In my honest to goodness point of view, I'll admit that although this movie is your quintessential Ed Wood picture, that means that it's on the level of so bad it's good. Ed Wood not only directed this movie, he also starred in it, playing the titular character(s). And when I watch this movie, I was not disappointed at all, it was everything that I was expecting it to be, in some sort of way, I guess you can say that Ed Wood was something of a genius, nobody, I repeat, nobody could take bad movies to the so bad it's good level that way that he could.In this movie, the acting is as bad as it could be, although I did enjoy it, I enjoyed laughing at it that is. Bela Lugosi plays a scientist who provides narration for the film, although it makes little sense, such as Beware of the big green dragon that sits on your doorstep and eats small boys, or something along the lines of that. And how could I forget the infamous Pull the string! Pull the string! line? I haven't forgotten it I'll tell you that, as that line is immortal. Ed Wood gives a very famous (or infamous) performance as Glen/Glenda, and in addition to his superb directing skills, he also proves that he could be a superb actor as well. Although I will say one thing, his acting skills leave much to be desired. And to add to that, everybody else in the movie does superb jobs as well. By the way, I guess you probably know that I'm being sarcastic right there.To all fans of Ed Wood This movie is legendary, it's the legendary beginning of the career of a director whose career defined the meaning of so bad it's good. When you watch Glen Or Glenda, you'll laugh at all of the cheesy qualities that this movie has. But like I said, considering that it's Ed Wood, he takes the cheesy qualities and elevates it to the level of an art form. The bottom line, is that Glen Or Glenda is a masterpiece of movies that are so bad they're good, and it's also a must see for your education on B-Movies. Needless to say, you should also check out Ed Wood's other 1950's films, particularly he most infamous one, Plan 9 From Outer Space. Ed Wood, you were a genius, if you were still alive, I would thank you for entertaining me with your genius works of art.9/10 "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I might sound insane, but I'm giving an Ed Wood movie a positive score from an artistic point of view. Glen or Glenda marked Wood's first film, which he not only written and directed, but also starred in. The film was originally slated to be an biopic on Christine Jorgensen, the propriety of the first publicly known sex change operation (in this case from male to female) Wood however took over production and instead turned it into a film about his own transvestism.Weather you're conservative or liberal on issue of cross-dressing and trans-sexuality, Glen Or Glenda manages to do something which I've seen many sacred cows fail to do, create emotional interest in its main characters, and succeeds to raise question on what it means to be normal, with an issue which is just as relevant today as it was in 1953. The movie's production values are surprisingly good for a film of this cauliber. The surreal dream like sequence in the 2nd half of the movie features some impressive film making techniques and manages to engage you in the character's descent into insanity. Even the film's acting is decent, certainly better than in the likes of Plan 9 from Outer Space.Lugosi's character is widely regarded to be a scientist representing God. At first I didn't understand the character's role in the movie (plus the use of stock of footage is completely random). However I was impressed with how his catch phrase which he utters throughout the course of the movie actually finds its way to having relevance with the plot. I'm not the type of person who over analyzes movies looking for their deeper meaning, but in Glen or Glenda it really came through quite obviously, and did leave an impression on me, as well as changing my opinions on Wood as a director. I can defiantly sense Ed Wood put a lot legitimate feeling into this movie, and certainly comes through in the finished product. "}{"Title":"Historical treasure","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How can you describe Ed Wood's Glen or Glenda? Well, it was supposed to be a biopic on Christine Jorgensen, the subject of the first, well-known, sex change, but Wood transformed the story into a semi- autobiography about his cross-dressing habit and how the society looks down on those like him.Essentially, this is a sociological docudrama about transvestites and pseudo-hermaphrodites, depicting tribal rituals and connecting them with contemporary social issues, laced with a slight comedic touch and filled with loads of idiosyncratic stock footage and featuring a narrator speaking cryptic, pseudo-philosophical, non-sequitur lines in a shlocky B-horror film spook-lab, but then it turns into an auto- biographic plea for compassion to viewers and follows two stories of two characters, intercut with strange nursery rhymes and interrupted by an impressionist/psychological horror-themed surrealist dream sequence featuring vignettes of sadomasochism, rape, religious imagery and an autoerotic session, only to shift back and forth between fourth wall-breaking reactions of both the narrator and the protagonist, in a 68-minute film with three separate narrators and NUMEROUS confusing flashbacks-within-flashbacks containing said narrations.We also learn that hats make you bald.Ed Wood certainly outdid himself on this one. It was shot in four days and starred his idol Bela Lugosi, in one of his last roles, as the narrator who sits in a chair the entire time and sometimes does chemical experiments. Wood played Glen under the pseudonym Daniel Davis, and his girlfriend Dolores Fuller was cast as Barbara.Glen or Glenda is a hysterical and entertaining movie, that is until the storyline unexpectedly starts following Alan instead of Glen, about 55 minutes in. Alan's storyline is also over-the-top, but considerably more boring than Glen's, which is an absolute riot. The scenes with Bela Lugosi are pure gold. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I feel really bad for Ed Wood. Not only was this movie a way for him to express his feelings, but it was also an attempt to get people to open their minds and accept people for who they are, which is a fantastic concept for a movie that was made in 1953. However, instead of getting an emotional narrative on the life of the transvestites and how they struggle to get people to accept and understand them (as well as their internal conflicts), we got a horribly narrated documentary type movie with abysmal acting and lazy writing. I don't even blame the concept of the film, because this (like I said before) could have been incredibly powerful and have more of the characters interacting with each other and trying to cope with society's hatred toward them, which in turn would get intolerant people attached to the characters, therefore causing them to question their beliefs. In fact, I think that this could have been one of the greatest movies of all time if the writing was not so dull and lifeless, if the acting was not laugh out loud ridiculous, and if it was not a god damn documentary type movie. Think about it, if more effort and editing was done to the script, if the actors had even a shred of talent (except for Bela Lugosi), and if it was more of a narrative than a documentary, it could have been a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Seven out of ten men wear hats... AND SEVEN OUT OF TEN MEN ARE BALD!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space may be the most popular of Ed Wood's film, but Glen or Glenda is... something on a whole different level of awfulness.For entertainment purposes and Bela Lugosi it earns a 7 out of 10. (If I was rating it based on quality alone.... 1.5 or 2 stars would be about right.)Even the boring portions (i.e. the extensive amount of stock footage, the dream scene or whatever that was supposed to be) are pretty hilarious.The funniest part about this film is that it tries to be educational. Most of it has a similar tone to those movies they play in middle school health classes. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad...","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After seeing Tim Burton's Ed Wood as well as Ed Wood's own Plan 9 From Outer Space and Bride of the Monster (aka Bride of the Atom) I was expecting the worst... and while I can't say it was the best film I've ever seen, it wasn't nearly as bad as I expected.Surely the film was quite bizarre at many levels to say the least. However, when we watch a David Lynch film, a John Carpenter film or a David Cronenberg film we call it genius... but when it's an Ed Wood film it's considered horrible cinema.When I try to look at things objectively, however, I see mostly avant-garde. Although Plan 9 From Outer Space and Bride of the Monster weren't nearly as good, Glen or Glenda seemed like a mixture between '50s propaganda and your average David Lynch movie which probably was the effect intended by Ed Wood. Therefore, in spite of many technical errors, I believe this film deserves a lot more credit than it actually got... in spite or regardless of its controversial message (even today). "},{"Title":"Mainly for the curious and doesn't make a whole lot of sense","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw the biopic of Ed Wood many years ago. Tim Burton payed loving homage to this extremely untalented but yet enthusiastic filmmaker.Then I saw Plan 9 and it actually tickled me to no end. A silly story, kind of bad production values but still entertaining and even funny.Then this. What can you make of it. Well, since Wood has been reported as being a cross-dresser it is startling to see a movie that deals with it like a cartoon. Yes, there are some stabs at teaching the audience something about the subject but mostly this is some kind of really twisted self-parody.One of it's problems is that it has a hundred points of view. On one hand it is a plea for tolerance. Another portrays transvestism as a disease. And finally, it tells the audience Okay, if you are schocked now, then wait until you see this! The problem must have been that Wood had to compromise in order for the film to be made. You can almost sense it when you see the opening title from the producer Personally supervised by... So, where are we. This is neither a serious subject movie or an all-out schocker.The entertainment value is practically nil. The wooden voice-over is mildly amusing but only because it sounds so misguided. This was made in the 50s though, so one can argue that was brave making a film that even mentioned the word transvestites. It all comes down to what the film itself is trying to advocate against. Schock. The rape scene, while mild is there simply to do that.So, sorry. This is a misfire but the discredit is not Wood's alone. "},{"Title":"Worst director of all time...? One of the most daring, brave and insightful movies of all time...?","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood is thought to be the worst director of all time.... maybe that's true... Plan 9 from outer space is a movie from outer space!!But that does not change the fact that Glen or Glenda is 100% a piece of movie history. Not so much a movie with the strict meaning of the word but rather a dramatized documentary about a subject that even today, 60 years from its time, raises brows, frowns faces, causes unease and creates misconceptions...The prologue of the movie says it all I think. Yes, all the technical elements are flaky and below mediocre...etc etc... the actors are not top notch.. yeah well, how many low budget movies now days suffer from that and on top of it have absolutely nothing to say!! And even high budget movies with superstars still have ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO SAY! Nobody can accuse Glen or Glenda and ultimately Ed Wood of such a film crime... on the contrary. It will give you and your company PLENTY to take into consideration and talk about!Ed Wood hit home run with this one and he deserves to be acknowledged for it even now.... Sure, he hit the ball half naked, barefoot and dirty, staggering drunk, with his eyes half closed and with an awful haircut but he certainly hit a great home run! "},{"Title":"The Ed Wood Story","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen Or Glenda has to rate as one of the most personal films ever done by any director, anywhere, even if that director happens to be Ed Wood. He not only wrote and directed it, he acted in it himself and told his own story of cross dressing. It's sad that Wood did not have the talent or the budget to bring this off.As we all know now thanks to Johnny Depp's biographical portrayal of Wood that Wood liked to wear feminine attire. So given the accepted knowledge of the time, no doubt gleaned from his many visits to a psychiatrist, Wood fashioned Glen Or Glenda and gave himself the title role.The film is done documentary style as police detective Lyle Talbot investigates the suicide of a man found dead in women's clothes. Seeking information for future encounters, Talbot meets with psychiatrist Timothy Farrell who talks about two cases of men dressing as women one of those being Glen/Glenda the other being Alan/Ann.Knowing several transgender individuals as I do they and I both see this thing as laughable in its ignorance. Not to mention the acting and writing was on the level of a high school play. Bela Lugosi has a part in here as an overall narrator who is given to saying cryptic things in a sinister fashion that you will search in vain in trying to figure out what they mean. No one talked sinister better than Bela Lugosi, but this was Bela's first association with Wood and Wood being so happy to have a box office name of sorts for his project just shoehorned him the best way he could. Why he just wasn't playing the psychiatrist is beyond me. Wood was a terrible actor to add to being a terrible writer and director. But he was not alone as the rest of the cast is pretty bad as well. Yet in his own clumsy untalented way, Ed Wood was giving us a glimpse of his world and how people in general saw individuals like him in 1953. No doubt most who see this especially transgender folks will think this as bad a film as I do, but it's an incredible insight into the world of its creator. "},{"Title":"Come on people - it's so bad it's good but it's NOT a serious movie","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a fan of movies that are so bad they're good. I've seen plenty, and Ed Wood is the king of cranking out such stuff. But until I saw his Glen Or Glenda I never new how genuinely horrific a movie could be! First let me say that I find some of the other reviews almost as ridiculous as this movie. Calling it some sort of 'ahead of its time GLBT' classic or any sort of 'serious look' at anything is simply finding pearls among the dog doo. The storyline is very thin; some parts of the movie are not even related to the storyline and are inexplicable, such as the silent (with background music) scenes of one woman tying up another lying on a couch, or a guy whipping a woman lying on the same couch, or Ed Wood (as Glen/da) making a face that looks like he's being electrocuted while a little girl's voice echoes in the background Puppy dog tails! Puppy dog tails! Puppy dog tails! Now really, is this a GLBT treasure? There are obviously some men dressed as women in some scenes of the movie, none of whom are any more of a feminine nightmare than Wood himself dressed as Glenda. He looks like Fred Flintstone in drag with makeup.Many of the cast of actors are seen in other of Wood's films. Actually they must be incredibly, fantastically talented actors to be able to utter this insane dialog without bursting into hysterical laughterI guess I've seen just about everything there is for a policeman to see. Yet I wonder if we ever stop learning... learning about which we see... trying to learn more about... an ounce of prevention. I'm a man that thrives on learning. We only have one life to live. If we throw that one away, what is there left? Okay. Here's a story from fact! Now, most of the handful of men dressing as women in this movie are NOT good basic material. Frankly they all look more like your Uncle Ralph or someone equally non-feminine.This movie is a riot, a howl, a scream. In some places it's a baffling mystery. What does THAT mean? What is going on HERE? It alternates between insanely funny and just insane. It is not some deep work as some here have tried to make it out. It cannot be described how truly and riotously AWFUL Glen or Glenda is... watch it, and try not to have your mouth full of Pepsi during the dialog lest it come shooting out your nose. "},{"Title":"And I thought this movie was bad!","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I normally would never give Glen or GLenda a four, in fact I once thought it was the worst movie ever made. Sadly, I have since seen Tree of Life, now that's the new gold standard for bad! Never before had a movie made me physically ill. Back to Glen or Glenda. Ed Wood Jr., for all his limitations, mostly financial, was a genius in my opinion. Plan 9 from Outer Space is great Sci.Fi. The production values are dreadful but somehow forgivable. Glen or Glenda doesn't suffer nearly as much from the poor production values, mostly because you're too busy trying to follow the incomprehensible plot line, the Belly Dancing sequence alone can put you in a near trance state. If you're the type that can enjoy a bad movie, give this a try, in many ways it's a charming film. "},{"Title":"Theater of the absurd","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is Ed Wood's masterpiece. One literally has to experience this film to understand how nuts it truly is. The film literally makes no sense whatsoever and that is the brilliance of it. The story of the transvestite Glen/Glenda is told by not 1, but count them 2, yes 2 narrators. One of whom was the sad, pathetic drug addled Bela Lugosi. Watching him rambling almost incoherently Bevare, bevare... it is hard to imagine just 20 years before he was the toast of Broadway as Dracula, just watching him spouting his mindless chatter gives the film a surreal quality. Obviously this was the biography of Wood himself and watching him take the angora sweater from his confused yet loving fiancée is priceless. This movie takes camp to a whole level of it's own. No other film, not even Plan 9 from Outer Space can touch it. One watches it in utter amazement. "}{"Title":"Incredibly inept yet an intensely personal statement","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood was legendary for the fact he wasn't an incredibly talented filmmaker (to put it lightly). However, he certainly isn't the Worst Filmmaker of All Time as many people ignorantly label him. His films, while technically inept, are personal statements of the man's obsessions. Despite the fact I prefer Plan 9 From Outer Space, I consider this to be the quintessential Ed Wood film. It is a reflection of who the man was. Transvestism, Bela Lugosi, classic Hollywood, and family all play a part in this portrait of the man's mind.The script is quite autobiographical. Glen is an ordinary man (not a homosexual as the narrator inter tones roughly ten times) engaged to a young girl named Barbara (as the narrator reminds us about ten times also). The only potential problem in this marriage is that Glen is a transvestite, which he is afraid of revealing to Barbara. He is worried that she won't be able to cope with this.The story is just a springboard for everything that was in Mr. Wood's surrealistic mind. The dream sequence is him attempting to portray how society will shun him just like his father (represented as Lucifer himself) did. This legendary scene is as bizarre as anything Ken Russel or Luis Bunuel ever attempted. Than there's Bela Lugosi as the narrator. He appears on screen as the scientist (possibly God), offering bizarre phrases against the backdrop of a laboratory. He seems to be controlling the fate of all mankind, or something like that, it's never really explained. This whole story is being told to a police inspector by a psychiatrist. At least they're placement in the film is explained.The whole film is goofy and surreal, often somewhere between. However, it is a highly personal statement of Ed Wood's fears and problems, and therefor should not be called the worst film ever made. Michael Bay and Jerry Bruckenheimer have never attempted anything this personal as far as I can recall. In fact this film (along with Plan 9) ranks up there with Reefer Madness, El Topo, and Spider Baby as one of the ultimate cult classics. Anyone with an appreciation of cult or surreal cinema is highly implored to check this film out. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Attack of the Stock footage.","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Amazing. Simply amazing. How could a 70 minute movie feel like it drags on and on and on and doesn't end? I'm glad you asked. It's the sheer level of depth in Glen or Glenda's narration. Yes, I said depth, and yes this is Ed Wood's Glen or Glenda I'm talking about. Bear with me.Now when I describe Glen or Glenda as having depth and numerous layers, I'm not saying the film is philosophically deep by any stretch. I simply mean there are multiple levels of narration going on. The film opens with a textual statement about the integrity of the film, and how it attempts to present the facts unbiased, and warns the audience not to judge. Two minutes later, we're watching a bad lightning effect flash across a darkened sky to punctuate scene transitions of this pseudo-documentary style . . . horror film? Then we have Bela Lugosi who opens and closes the film like a twisted take on masterpiece theatre, and we occasionally cut or dissolve to him so he can deliver an ambiguous and unnecessary line in that thick Hungarian accent that would forever remind us he was, is, and forever will be Dracula &#150; Pull the strings! Pull the strings! Lugosi speaks as the grand maestro of the fates with magical powers beyond this world (although the credits are content to call him scientist). Bela informs us that it has begun. A life has begun; a life has ended. Cut to a detective finding a dead transvestite, complete with a voice over narration (which is not done by Lugosi). This same detective winds up speaking to a psychiatrist where we have an oversimplified discussion on transvestites. The psychiatrist tells the detective the story of Glen. Cut to Glen, who is Glenda, and his life as he's getting ready to marry Barbara (voice over narration still going.) He faces the tough decision of telling her the truth about Glenda. At one point, Glen has a dream or daydream or epiphany or something. Cut to a completely incoherent sequence (more accurately phrased a nonsensical juxtaposition of several completely incoherent sequences) that's supposed to be symbolic.The dream is beyond description, and it exists beyond the reaches of criticism. Ed Wood's ineptitude surpasses this critic's ability to bash it. I could describe it, but 1 - my description would make more sense and 2 &#150; people would assume I'm exaggerating or say Duh, it's Ed Wood! And, you know, I could try to be witty and make fun of it . . . but the sequence, itself, is way funnier than anything I could write. I'm strangely awed and impressed over Ed Wood's mastery over crap. You have to see it to believe it. If nothing else, rent Glen or Glenda for the dream. You'll thank me later.Okay, we're through with the dream. Cut back to Glen. Resolve that issue. Cut back to the psychiatrist. But wait? The story isn't over! Cut to Allan, who served in the military. Cut to an abundance of war stock footage. Cut back to Allan. He has a sex change operation to become Ann. Okay, we're done with Ann. Cut back to the shrink. Wait! Wait! Wait! We're not done with Glen. Cut back to Glen to give the *final* resolution on Glen's problem. Okay, now cut back to the shrink. Their discussion is over. Cut back to Lugosi. He's sitting in the chair with the big book in his hand, precisely as we found him at the beginning of the movie. And what's this? The end credits? Hooray! It's amazing how Glen or Glenda can be so incredibly deep, and yet so laughably shallow. Unbelievable how aggressively terrible a film can be while the director strives to achieve a good product (To this day, I still can't suspend my disbelief to the fact Eddie honest to God tried for good movies.) Breathtaking how the man had no restraint, and threw together elements that so sharply contrasted with one another to point of defeating his purpose entirely. And it's mind boggling how much of the running time is composed of stock footage (open question &#150; anyone know the ratio of stock footage vs original footage? I'm seriously curious, because it seemed like the stock footage outweighed Ed Wood's material.) You might have noticed I really didn't comment much on the details of the plot. There's a good reason it doesn't exist. The film is too busy cutting between its various levels of narration to really embrace a plot. It's like opening a present on Christmas morning to find another layer of wrapping paper, and another, and another, and then finally we get a box containing a Christmas card.If Wood were to film MacBeth in the same style as Glen or Glenda we'd find out Macbeth became king; he had a dream involving mirrors; and he was overthrown and spend the rest of the time cutting between Lugosi (written in as a master Warlock or something), a student talking to an English Teacher, and a few scenes from Hamlet.At any rate, Glen or Glenda has all the ingredients of a classic Ed Wood. "},{"Title":"A testament to cinematic failure","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ed Wood's first feature was perhaps his most challenging undertaking and his greatest failure as a filmmaker. That being said, it remains an incredibly funny film to watch, that mercifully clocks in a little more than an hour. The film attempts to both provide a 'documentary' view on the need for compassion in understanding cross-dressing, and a 'horror' movie that completely demonizes the same. Bela Lugosi stars as a scientist (within both plot and sub plot, inexplicably)whose role in the film is inexplicable except for the fact that Wood probably simply wanted the opportunity to work with him. Lugosi's sputtering phrases of doom are completely divorced from the painfully Spartan plot unfolding in the movie- he repeats a nursery rhyme a number of times in his mad scientist's lair to the backdrop of lighting and constant thunder. In one scene, Wood shamelessly uses nearly 5 minutes of WWII footage for no real reason. Wood's understanding of pacing is non-existent- we are told the story must be told 4 or so times, the last being more than halfway through the movie. A scene in which, I would assume, Glen is attempting to suppress his inner 'Glenda', is profoundly disturbing. A prolonged string of images of half-naked women (whom the viewer has not seen thus far) being whipped and nearly raped is accompanied by gleeful Tin Pan Alley music.Though hilarious, this film's turgid dialogue, shameless use of stock footage and nudity (by 1950's standards, I would assume), and cruelty towards its characters leads it beyond camp into the territory of sociology. It's not often one can claim that about a film.  "},{"Title":"A Terrible Movie - But Courageous For Its Time","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's a part of me that would like to give this movie a high rating. Considering that it was made in 1953, this is a very courageous movie about transvestites, tackling the issue fairly seriously and sympathetically (and offering the viewer a lot of information on the subject) and trying very hard not to stereotype. The movie clearly makes the point that transvestites are not homosexuals, and that aside from wearing women's clothing they lead a relatively normal life. It deals with the pain of not being accepted in society - the plot revolves around a police officer (Lyle Talbot) desperately trying to understand the issue because of the recent suicide of a transvestite. So, you have to give everyone involved with this movie credit for taking on such a controversial (in the context of 1953) subject.Having said all that, I'm also sorry to say that this movie is absolutely dreadful. In trying to portray Glen/Glenda's (Edward D. Wood) pain, the movie falls into silly (and at times surprisingly - again given the era - sensual) fantasies that make the story very hard to follow. The acting is wooden at best. None of the dialogue comes across as real; the actors look and sound like people reading speeches written by others. And - worst of all - there was no point to having Bela Lugosi in this movie. This was another of the increasingly embarrassing roles this poor man took on in the latter stages of his career. Pull the strings; pull the strings, poor Lugosi's character (called The Spirit in the credits, but really coming across as more of a mad scientist) kept crying. And nothing he did really seemed to have much connection with the rest of the movie.For artistic merit, the movie doesn't really deserve much more than 1/10. However, for the courage involved in just putting it out, I'll give it a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Sexxxy!!!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ooh-la-la, what can I say that hasn't already been said ad nausium? However, I would like to convey a little personal anecdote about Glen or GlendaWhen I was very young (too young to know, really), I remember stealing furtive glances into my cousin's massive porn-magazine collection. In the back of the sleaziest of these magazines were advertisements for those new-fangled video-tape thingies. One of such was a tape with a painting of a very sexy and statuesque young 'woman' on the cover. The title of this tape was I Changed My Sex, AKA Glen or Glenda.Many years later, I viewed this famously 'so-bad-it's-good' classic on public access television, when it slowly dawned upon me that i was watching the film from that silly advertisement! I had to imagine a man, waiting patiently for weeks for this item to come to him in the mail. Feverishly he tears the wrapping away and slides the tape in the VCR. Gazing longingly at the cover, he readies himself for an evening of hot, kinky 'n' perverted porn--and then this thing plays.As the above thoughts occurred to me, I laughed so hard I fell out of bed!Cheers! )  "},{"Title":"This is Ed Wood's most interesting film.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you know enough to look up this movie, you've probably already seen it. If not, you need to see this now.  Poverty-row sets (which always give these kind of movies a creepy realism), lack of conventional acting ability and weirdly-phrased dialogue are in all Wood's movies, but here we also have Bela Lugosi as God, buffalo stampedes, funny disembodied voices, the devil with eyebrow-horns...I could go on.  It's the world as it should be.  "},{"Title":"surrealism on the hoof","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's beautiful--a better surrealist film than Blood of a Poet.  This movie sends normal filmic logic down on its knees screaming with what Tom Wolfe would call a great barbaric YAWP! at the skies!  Also note Bela Lugosi's passionate performance.  Pull the string! "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's Masterpiece","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Glen is NOT a homosexual.That is the most important thing about the film Glen or Glenda?  Never mind that this film is Ed Wood's masterpiece; a loopy, nonsensical hodepodge of exploitation film narrative, stock footage, and hammy narration from Bela Lugosi.  The movie makes little sense.  Bela Lugosi doesn't belong in this movie and the bizarre dream sequence that Glen has is more like a stag film and has little to do with the movie.  Perhaps Wood was aiming for a Hitchcock-type dream sequence like the one found in Spellbound. Whatever, he failed.I repeat Glen is NOT a homosexual.Never mind that this is one of the most personal statements ever put on celluloid.  That Ed Wood was given money to make a film loosely based on the life of transsexual Christine Jorgensen but instead made this ode to cross dressing that begs for acceptance from society is not important.  You are society, judge ye not.Once more Glen is NOT a homosexual.Never mind that Wood actually had the gall to make a totally different film than the one he was commissioned to make that essentially was HIS story. Never mind that he actually starred as a ficitionalized version of himself. Never mind that he actually had his then-girlfriend star as a fictionalized version of herself.  Therapy was only for the very rich in the early 50's, you see.Glen is NOT a homosexual.Never mind that this is one of the worst movies ever made with some disturbing images to haunt you forever.  Particularly the scene where Glen's girlfriend takes off her angora sweater and gives it to Glen.  And the aforementioned dream sequence with the devil, women with whips, and women in various poses.Glen is NOT a homosexual.Never mind that this film has some of the worst dialogue ever written. Bela Lugosi's narration makes little sense. And the other narration is truly hysterical.  One can only guess that Wood did not take a class in screenwriting, or even basic grammar for that matter.The most important thing about this movie is that although Glen does enjoy wearing women's clothes to make himself feel comfortable, he is NOT a homosexual. "},{"Title":"Jaw-droppingly sincere...","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood strikes again! This time, the amateur filmmaker (and open transvestite) makes a plea for understanding the ordinary, everyday man who enjoys dressing in women's clothing. What begins as a hilariously sincere, would-be educational piece about cross-dressing deteriorates soon enough into demented sex-fantasy with S&M overtones. Bela Lugosi is our overly-enthusiastic host, practically foaming over lines such as, Snips and snails and puppy dog's tails! More pathetic than amusing, with stock shots of Los Angeles in the 1950s which are more interesting than the movie itself. Wood directed and also stars (under the name Daniel Davis); one assumes his heart was in the right place, but the money-men obviously wanted an exploitation piece and got what they deserved. * from **** "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is without a doubt Ed Wood's best.  While his other films, like Plan 9 From Outer Space, drag a little, this one doesn't contain a single dull moment, although it is a bit long, I'll admit.Bela Lugosi is the star.  His bizarre ramblings/narration and of course Mr. Wood himself feeling women's sweaters create the perfect cinematic experience.  The dialogue is just great, and Lugosi has the best lines. The stock footage and the odd dream/porn sequence will have you in stitches.And the fact that it's not supposed to be funny is what makes it even better.  See this film to experience the true brilliance of Wood's work. You'll be an instant fan!And just remember Glen is not a homosexual.  He is a transvestite. "}{"Title":"Take Care.....bevare........PULL ZE STRINK! PULL ZE STRINK!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What the Hell is this...is this an actual movie? says Mr Feldman of Warners after Johnny Depp leaves in his 'little opus' after far more promising titles (The Vampire's Tomb, The Ghoul Goes West, Dr Acula) were given the brush off. We will never know how much Tim Burton's 1994 depiction of 'Glen or Glenda's' open-mouthed reception at Warners' matched the reality, but probably it wasn't too far off. And may the suits be forever despised for their narrow minded lack of vision. It was in 1953, as the guns of Korea fell silent and America got ready for sex, courtesy of Monroe, Dean and Presley. Into this changing world came the pencil-moustacheod, angora-wearing figure of Edward D Wood Junior, a proto John Waters and all American hero who had parachutted onto the beaches of Normandy wearing a brassiere, aware that his bravery would have meant nothing in the face of the dishonourable discharge that would have been automatic had his secret been unveiled. Glen or Glenda was his statement to the world be tolerant, a few TVs wearing womens' garments at home won't usher in the end of civillisation. We start with a decrept Bela Lugosi warning us to 'bevare of the big Green Dragon..he eats little boys!' Then we find a police officer and shrink chatting over the recent suicide of a transvestite...long-winded dialogue commences before our hero is introduced, Glen. He's engaged to Barbara 'a lovely intelligent girl' but he's got a problem..his other self 'Glenda' Should he tell Barbara (Delores Fuller)? After all, Glen is NOT a homosexual, he is a transvestite but he NOT a homosexual Wood's stream of consciousness, admittedly in better form in 'Plan 9' babbles on like stream, taking in ruminations about human nature, western civilization and mental illness, at times simply illustrated by stock footage of streets and factories! Fans of Burton's Ed Wood will know that Screen Classics boss Georgie Weiss originally wanted a 'sex change flick' for 'those repressed Okies' but Wood's script was pretty lop-sided, not being about that til 5 pages near the end. The rest is about some schmuck who likes Angora sweaters! The film is a sad reflection of how low Lugosi had sunk at the end and it does make you wonder how accurate was the Depp-Landau portrayal of Wood as a nice, if talentless guy who just wanted to help out his idol. By the standards of 1952, parts of Glen's nightmare scene are a bit saucy and does hint at where Wood eventually went, in the direction of soft porn. It is a pity that he died in 1978. The special effects boom and gender-bending fashions of the 1980s could have let him direct 'Dr Acula' with aplomb. "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly Bad","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sitting in a big wing chair with a huge book in his lap, the one and only Bela Lugosi looks into the camera and, in a dreadful vocal delivery that sounds as if he were mocking a reading of Shakespeare, intones sloooow-ly Man's constant groping of things unknown, drawing from the endless reaches of time, brings to light many startling things; (snicker); startling?, because they seem new (Lugosi's eyes now bulging, with raised eyebrows, and mouth sneering, he continues) but most are not new, the signs of the ages (cue a visual of lightening, accompanied by the sound of thunder which then continues to rumble for an astonishing 86 seconds).And so begins what is arguably the worst film ever made. This movie almost defies description. Told in semi-docudrama style with an unseen narrator explaining the plot ... such as it is ... the story revolves around the vicissitudes of a man named Glen (Ed Wood, Jr.) who cross-dresses; hence the reference to Glenda. The film has no real structure. Instead, it consists mostly of a random assortment of vignettes that may ... or may not ... relate to Glen or to the cross-dressing motif. One long sequence consists of some unknown woman wriggling on a sofa, followed by a man whipping a woman in what we would today refer to as S&M.Then, at odd moments Bela reappears, for no apparent reason, and babbles more inane dialogue, like When he's wrong because he does right, and when he's right because he does wrong; pull the string, dance to that. Huh?About twenty percent of the film's visuals consist of stock footage, accompanied by a VO that relates to the story motif but not the visuals. Hence, we see stock footage of bustling city streets, freeway traffic, a thunderous herd of buffalo, and a playground full of kids. But it gets worse. In a film about cross-dressing, we have 58 consecutive seconds of stock footage of a foundry furnace making hot steel, and 84 consecutive seconds of battle scenes from WWII.Even the simplest items are botched. In one scene we see a newspaper headline that reads Man Nabbed Dressed as Girl. Underneath the headline, which has clearly been glued or pasted on, the article is about ... taxes. In one of my favorite scenes, an off-screen woman spouts out airplanes, why it's against the creator's will, in a voice that sounds like she's just inhaled helium.Except for the performance of Lyle Talbot, the acting is uniformly horrendous. Production design is cheap looking and drab; (but you gotta love that tacky wallpaper). The editing is sloppy. Most of the background music is suitable only for 1950 style elevators. The B&W cinematography has way too much contrast. And the costumes look like something that came from a thrift store.This film is so bad it makes Plan 9 From Outer Space look like Citizen Kane, by comparison. I just don't know how one could make a film any worse than Ed Wood's Glen Or Glenda. But thankfully, it's got Bela Lugosi in it. Every time he opened his mouth, and gazed into the camera with those big, bulging eyes, I about fell on the floor laughing. "},{"Title":"Bevare!","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is even more hilariously inept than Plan 9 From Outer Space but it has it's heart in the right place. If you can get over all the mind-blowing bad acting and dream sequences which make no sense to the rest of the production, you can see a courageous message of tolerance which was quite ahead of it's time. Whether this message resonated with any of the audience of the time who probably went to see a freak show is an open question. Bela Lugosi, sadly looking dissipated from drugs and drink certainly gives his all in his professor role. Edward D. Wood, Jr. must be given thumbs up for not only having the courage to display his quirk on the screen, but to appear as the main character. There is no way to prepare you for this, just see it! "},{"Title":"Something needs to be said about this film.","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1950s in America was a very, very judgmental time. Sex changes, homosexuality and cross-dressing were not only grounds to get you chastised from home or a community, but were (and sadly still today) things which you could get arrested for. This film honestly challenges the audience to accept peoples difference in a way which no prior American film, at least which I am aware of ever did.Glen or Glenda discusses the ideas of putting personal happiness before conforming to society. The film challenges society as a whole to question, what is an isn't acceptable and how views on other acceptable activities have changed over the years.The film itself primary focuses on the story of a young couple named Glen and Barbra (Ed Wood, Deloris Fuller) whom are to be married. Glen secretly likes to dress in women's clothing and is unable to tell Barbra. The story is narrated by a psychologist (Timothy Farrell) who is explaining the story to a police officer (Lyle Talbot) who is questioning the ethics of discriminatory laws after being called to a suicide of a transvestite. Eventually Glen tells Barbra about his cross dressing, she decides she still wants to marry Glen. There is also a small sub-story about a sex change.The film works for reasons beyond its progressiveness, because the viewer honestly cares about the people involved. I genuinely wanted Glen to come to terms with himself, and I was happy to see him and Barbra get married.The film ages well and is still relevant, especially with many of the political issues of today. Regardless of what you've heard about either this film or Ed Wood, you will have an enjoyable and enlightening experience watching this film. "},{"Title":"Define Creepy","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen or Glenda tells two stories. One is about Glen, who secretly dresses as a woman but is afraid to tell his fiancée, Barbara. The other is about Alan, a pseudo hermaphrodite who undergoes a painful operation to become a woman. Both stories are told by Dr. Alton, who also delivers an earnest lecture on tolerance and understanding. There is a second narrator, called the Scientist, whose commentary on the action contains more philosophical pronouncements than facts. The movie also has flashbacks-within-flashbacks and a strange dream sequence. We meet Insp. Warren, whose investigation of a transvestite's suicide leads him to learn more about men in women's clothes; Johnny, whose wife left him when she discovered what he wears when she's away; Barbara, oblivious to Glen's desire to wear her angora sweater; Satan, who invades Glen's nightmare; and others. Meanwhile, the Scientist will only offer cryptic advice.Remember That I Saw Plan 9 & Said That I Will Watch The Worst Movies Ever Made On A List Thats On Wikipedia? This Is The 5th (Thats From Memory So It Could Be Wrong). I Take Back What I Said That Ed Wood Isn't As Bad As Modern Directors. SERIOUSLY This Film Is The Creepiest Thing I've Ever Seen To Be Put On Film. I Really Hate Glens Nightmare About Glenda...SERIOUSLY The Sequence Is 40 Freaking Minutes Long & Has Nothing To Do With Anything.I Also Thought The Acting From Miss Dolores Fuller Is Worse Than The Tree Like Acting From Ed Wood. This Film Has Another Interesting Concept...Shots Of Lighting Strikes & Traffic. This Film Varies From Guys Wearing Womens Clothing To Lightning Strikes & Traffic. I Also Hated Bela Lugossi's Character. Sure What Happened To Him Was Tragic But He Drags People Away From The Already Confusing Plot.I Also Laughed Like Hell When The Nosferatu Look Alike Had His Screen Time...He Also Has Nothing To Do With The Plot...Hell You Could Remove As Much Film From Any Particular Scene You Want To & STILL Have The Same Movie.This Definitely Quollifies As The Most Embarrassing Thing I've Seen With My Parents (My Mother Calls This The Worst Movie Ever Made...I Think Its Close But Not Quite The Worst).Puppy Dog Tails Ha Ha Ha Puppy Dog Tails Is Literally A Line Of Dialogue In This Film. WTF Was Ed Wood On??? "},{"Title":"Pull the string! (and plug)","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is without doubt a candidate for one of the worst films ever made and truly boggles the mind. Glen or Glenda? stands as a textbook example of schlock, where a desperate filmmaker whores himself and throws any kind of crap he can get hold of. The main story is a masquerade of good intentions shot with all the panache of an Indian restaurant commercial. Just because Ed Wood's become a cultural icon, that doesn't make this movie any less hilariously inept. Even in the camp cult genres this is still awful. When Wood closes the film, the audience goes beyond poverty-row cinema into a nirvana of audacious tastelessness. Pull the string! "},{"Title":"Glen or Glenda","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood had a certain notoriety as a film maker although Tim Burton's biopic gave him back some dignity. So naturally his films today are viewed as the products of the worst director of all time. Certainly Brided of the Monster or Plan 9 are nothing but reasonably well executed b movies but Glen or Glenda is actually different. It would be an interesting experiment to show the film to people who have never heard of Ed Wood and tell them it's by an intellectual French film maker and give people the opportunity to judge the film without preconceptions. Would they see Lugosi's character and performance as camp or as legimitate surrealsim or his use of stock footage as a collage technique? It is very easy to make fun of this film because in these days the story seems trite and even camp. When watching this film you have to bear in mind that cross dressing and homosexuality (although the film actually makes the point that both are not necessarily related) were not only taboo topics but plainly illegal. Wood tells the autobiographic story of a heterosexual male who cross dresses and has to come to terms with this urge and learn to accept himself. To my knowledge that is the first film to give anyone termed a degenerate by society depth and dignity. Seeing Glen or Glenda simply as a camp classic draws away attention from the fact that Wood was a pioneer and also very courageous because he is in the lead role. The film itself is not really badly made except for the use of stock footage only loosely related to the film. The structure of the film is actually rather clever. The acting is more or less competent (certainly not worse than a lot of other b films I have watched), there are no wobbly sets and the story is coherent. Often fun has been made of Lugosi's character. I don't really see why. Yes, it's odd but Lugosi gives one hell of a charismatic performance and we don not generally call every film that employs surreal elements turkeys. "},{"Title":"Bit boring, but has an absolutely kick-ass middle part","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When he's not using paper plate spaceships, unconvincing zombies or rubber monsters, you might wonder what the point is to Ed Wood. He made being terrible at science fiction into an art form, so it's a bit weird to see him doing a throughly non-supernatural drama, even if it is about cross-dressing. However, this movie has a trigger somewhere. At one point, all of Wood's overall weirdness becomes so irresistibly overwhelming that you just give in to it and have a great time. I'm talking about the little segment where he gets creative with the devil, tie-up games, looped dialogue and Bela Lugosi. Had David Lynch directed these scenes, well let's not go there. As for the rest of the movie it's charming, it has a heart, it has incoherent Bela Lugosi speeches, but I can't deny it bores sometimes. The dialogues are just too long and provide little to none classic Wood lines. I mean sure, there's pull the strink, dance to that! but again, that's Lugosi. He's not part of the story in any way, and the actual characters are rather dull. Still worth a watch though. "},{"Title":"Bevare Da Beeg Green Something Or Other","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" bevare! bevare! pull da string! screams Bela Lugosi. um. oh okay. if you say so. this movie is pretty weird going. but what Eddie Wood flick isn't.this is my favorite of all tranny Ed's movies. it defines who he was, and it makes an ideal double bill with Tim Burton's Bio flick. it's also way ahead of it's time.i wonder how many films about the subject of transvestism were actually made by transvestites themselves. probably not many or none at all. and as silly and over the top as a lot of this gets, some of the insights are right on the mark.like the fact that not all transvestites are gay. that's true. Ed Woody himself, always had a woody for the ladies. in fact he was a ladies man of sorts. i recall a documentary i saw about Wood in his later years romping around in a room full of under age naked girls. it was pretty deviant and shocking, but very revealing (no pun).i've seen this movie several times and it never gets boring. i think the scenes with the devil who has horns shaped from pubic hair to be pretty darn crazy. and i love it wear the man dresses as a chick for Halloween and then the narrator says, but Halloween came and went but still...a lot of this film is shocking, disturbing, often very insightful and intelligent, and a lot of the time just plain nuts and off it's rocker. but that's what people love about Ed Wood. His films are crazy, but never dull. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Jr's directorial debut.","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed and written by the famous/infamous Edward D. Wood Jr, using a pseudonym(Daniel Davis)playing the lead role of Glen/Glenda. This is an almost radical documentary about transvestism; Wood himself being a transvestite with a fetish for angora sweaters. It seems miles of stock footage and an incoherent Bela Lugosi is used to stretch this odd and awkward film to 67 minutes. Police inspector(Lyle Talbot)seeks enlightenment from a psychiatrist, Dr. Alton(Timothy Farrell), to better understand the emotional and disposition of transvestites.Also in the cast Delores Fuller, Tommy Hanes, Captain DeZita and Wood's sister Evelyn. Of note Farrell also acts as narrator. And Fuller later helped write songs included in the Elvis Presley movies BLUE HAWAII, KISSIN' COUSINS & KID GALAHAD. "}{"Title":"Bevare, Bevare...","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just recently watched Ed Wood Jr.'s autobiographical movie Glen or Glenda for the first time after having heard so much about it for so many years. Nothing I had read or heard about this film could prepare me for what I saw. This has to be the most bizarre movie ever made. Stampeding buffalo, women in bondage, Satan prancing around and Bela Lugosi, rambling only as he can, Bevare, Bevare....pull the string, pull the string..., it was totally insane. The acting was atrocious and the dialog was unintentionally hilarious, exactly what one would expect from an Ed Wood film. Having said all that, as horrible as this movie was, I have to give Wood credit...he was way ahead of his time. You have to remember that when this movie was made transvestites were not even discussed in public, much less the subject for a movie. I have read that Wood was a transvestite in real life, and I'm sure this movie was based on his own experiences. It was sad to see Bela Lugosi having to say the ridiculous lines he had to say for this film, but it was kind of Ed Wood Jr. to at least give Mr. Lugosi an acting job at a time in Bela's life when he was penniless and a drug addict and no one else in Hollywood would hire him. If you have never seen this film then you have to see it, especially if you are a fan of Ed Wood Jr. "},{"Title":"Puppie dogs' tails and big fat snails.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As many know, this is the feature film debut of Edward D. Wood Jr. as as a writer/producer/director/actor. I have been a fan of Ed Wood for several years now. While I don't like this as much as some of his other films it was probably the largest insight that the cinematic going public gets of Wood during his life. Everybody knows that he was a transvestite. This film is about changing one's sex and how being a transvestite can create conflict in relationships with loved ones. This film is way ahead of its time in dealing with this subject matter and how it deals with it. However, the film still contains Wood's usual pitfalls of bad dialog, meaningless stock footage, and hokey special effects. Throw in Wood's usual overdose of Bela Lugosi hamming it up and you have Wood's first attempt at being a director.The plot is that a police inspector goes to a doctor after he discovers the body of a transvestite who committed suicide for advice on how to avoid further problems along these lines. The doctor tells him the story of Glen, who is also a transvestite. Glen wants to marry Barbara, but can't bring himself to tell her about his secret. He also tells the inspector about Alan who undergoes a sex change because he is really more suited to being a woman. Bela Lugosi plays a scientist who seems to add some kind of running commentary on what is going on (Lugosi's part really isn't well defined and proves to be most likely a vehicle for Wood to have a star in his film and Lugosi to get some cash).All in all, the movie shows the hallmarks of Wood's career. It was obviously shot on a very low budget and has quite a few things thrown in rather haphazardly. It definitely has the it's so bad, it's good feel to it. However, I do have to applaud Ed on his progressive thinking in making this film. Transvestitism and sex changes were not extremely open subjects in the early 50s. Wood took a big risk in making a film that portrays transvestites as people who are not sexual deviants and putting a more human face on cross-dressing. "},{"Title":"sincere nonsense should have been better...","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a letdown...after admiring the 'craftsmanship' behind Edward D. Wood, Jr.'s Plan 9 from Outer Space, I took a belated journey with Glen or Glenda, a film with scattered bits of charmingly inept nonsense, but not enough to sustain its meager 63 minutes. 'High points' include a bizarre voice-over conversation between two blue-collar workers playing over stock-footage of a busy interstate and factory; the constant repetition of WHY ARE PEOPLE SO SHOCKED BY THIS HEADLINE?!; the odd (and somewhat sad) conviction with which 'Scientist' Bela Lugosi delivers his incoherent monologues (A life...is...begun); and that is to say nothing of the poorly-conceived framing device, in which a policeman interviews a psychiatrist regarding a transvestite's suicide. While pulled off with a charismatic obliviousness, my opinion tends to echo producer George Weiss (in Tim Burton's 1994 biopic on Wood) ...it's just about some schmuck who likes Angora sweaters! "},{"Title":"Worst film ever but so courageous for that time","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No one will doubt, Glen or glenda is the worst American film ever shot...from beginning to end, it's amateur quality scenes acted by Wood himself, cutted with stock shots of a bit everything (running bulls, lightnings,... ) and incomprehensible speeches by Bela Lugosi... But the subject of the movie, the so poor production and the fact that Ed Wood wanted so much to tell the world a so difficult story for that time (The main plot is a kind of documentary about transvestites) makes it a major movie in the film industry history. 5 out of 10 (movie is really worth 1 /10 ) "},{"Title":"ed wood's confession","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  amazing film. i like plan 9 and bride of the monster better because of the eclectic cast of sci-fi wood stock company like vampira, tor johnson, etc glen or glenda is an incredible sharing of wood's darkest secret (although he tried to veil it slightly by using the name danny davis in the credits.) ed wood is so unique there is no way he could have worked within a studio system, the film is too surrealistic and personal i disagree with a lot of the easy slams at the film (such as the oft-repeated, the stock footage of buffalo has no sense, bela's dialogue is unrelated) that's the point of surrealism!!! buffalos represent the herd instinct, the capacity to judge (matthew 77), and they are an symbol similar to the traffic image. ed wood uses symbols for example, . in plan 9, he uses symbolic special effects like the fake model saucers on a string that represent the better special effect he would have if he had the budget. lugosi's rambling dialogue is from a nursery rhyme about strict gender images and roles, the subject of the film. ed wood wrote and directed seven features, which is more than 90% of his detractors can say and that is why in the low budget digital indie world here in LA, ed is a beloved, (albeit, eccentric) patron saint to those of us making films without a huge budget. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Rocks.","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, Glen or Glenda is a really bad movie, Ed's penchant for wearing fuzzy angora sweaters is definitely not enough to pull this film out of the trash heap. Ed Wood was not a particularly good looking man so as you can imagine he is an extremely homely woman.That being said, Ed Wood movies are so bad that I own almost all of them on tape. I am a big Wood fan. here is a guy with very little or no talent as a writer, actor,producer or director, yet he lasted in and around the periphery of hollywood for over 20 yrs. That says something about Wood's ambition. He tried, god knows the man tried. In his day, hacks and hams were not in vogue, but in our era you can make money and be very famous if you are an incredibly bad actor or director. That is because there is now a cheese factor attatched to movies and Ed Wood  movies are some of the cheesiest selections of all times. (Arch Hall Jr. movies not withstanding)Today millions of people know the name Ed Wood, Whether its the not so subtle message in Glen or Glenda or the pure schlock of Eds later movies like Jail bait or the infamous Plan 9 from Outer Space. You can say one thing about the man, there have been literally thousands of directors in film history and many good ones have been totally forgotten, but Ed Wood is remembered and even Glorified.  Behold the power of cheese. "},{"Title":"In it's own way, what filmmaking is all about","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sure you've heard by now that Ed Wood is the worst director in history.  In a way, it is certainly true.  Everything about this movie is the essence of ineptitude, from the acting to the bizarre stock footage. But Wood's uncompromising vision shines through in every scene.  Bela Lugosi's insane opening monologue, read with a background of charging buffalo, is a wonderful mini film in it's own right.  From that point, the film turns into...something or other.  Equal parts documentary (although filled with complete non facts) and interior drama, it peaks in a hallucinatory climax that is both silly and genuinely frightening.Of course, Wood knew very little about directing a film.  But there has never been anything like this in the history of film.  Whatever you want to say about it, Glen or Glenda will still be watched years after 'quality' big budget films like Pearl Harbor and 'The Green Mile' are forgotten. "},{"Title":"Pull the string!  Pull the string!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  surpisingly the best actor in the movie was ed wood himself.  i first saw the movie before seeing ed wood the burton movie.  when i first saw it i thought it was total crap.  after seeing a little background info about the movie and ed wood himself, i understood it more after i watched it again. wood was kind enough to write his ailing friend bela out, he was given a project and decided to use it to express his own tranvestism, which in the conformist world of the 50's was unheard of.  there was the trademark moronic ed wood dialogue, strange inane, and misplaced scenes (50's S+M why??), horrible use of stock footage, and haphazard editing, but who cares, right?  it was almost hard to believe that this actually was a real movie. i loved the devil guy.  let's put it this way, don't try to take the movie too seriously, and being under the influence of something will probably make your viewing experience a lot more fun. "},{"Title":"Just weird","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I actually bought this movie on tape after I saw Tim Burton's excellent movie 'Ed Wood'. I must say that the film 'Glenn or Glenda' only seems to make any sense if you know anything about Ed Wood's background and state of mind. Having seen the Burton movie helps! Some parts of this flick were just plain hilarious. The stock footage with buffalos and ofcourse Bela Lugosi's strange lines ('Pull the string!!!') just make you laugh out loud. The rest of the movie is pretty down tempo and is told with a lot of voice overs... pretty boring actually. On the other hand, the subject that is chosen for this movie is so extremely weird for its time, that it was worth the money spending on the tape. "},{"Title":"When you talk about camp you talk about Ed Wood, when you talk about Ed you talk about Glen or Glenda.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Glen or Glenda is one of those movies that isn't meant to be a classic of the silver screen but there are many aspects of the show that make it endearing. The show is one of the only none documentary style films to ever consist of mostly stock footage. I am not saying this makes it great, but it does make it entertaining none the less. If you are interested in seeing how a movie can be made on little to no budget this film is a must see. This movie will show people how much can be done with so little.  "}{"Title":"horrendously inept yet massively courageous","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In examining other reader's comments on this film, I am heartened to see that the majority of them get it. That is, they see past the obvious ineptitude and realize that Ed Wood is a courageous film-maker with something to say.It's just that he does not have the talent to realize his vision. But at least he had a vision and that's more than we can say about Joe Esterhazy, John Hughes or many others. It would be tedious to go over the staggering amount of goofs and weirdness here, but some scenes stand as cinematic classics. The voice-over scene of two steelworkers discussings tranvestism while footage of iron being forged pads out the screen time is bizarre...especially when one of the workers apparently becomes a female! And who can forget the dream sequence? It's like a stoned Salvador Dali directing a Bettie Page bondage shoot! Most amazing is the bizarre figure of the Devil, played by Captain Dezita, whom Wood found booking strip joints. Never have I seen a character so comical-looking on the surface but ultimately so creepy. And of course, there is Bela Lugosi as the Watcher, with his well-known babble on puppy dog tails and pulling strings. After all the silly stuff is disposed of, Glen or Glenda is  a movie with a lot of heart, if not brains. It sticks up for the misfit and that, in my book, makes it more profound than many of the movies on this site.  "},{"Title":"ONLY THE INFINITY OF THE DEPTHS OF A MAN'S MIND CAN REALLY TELL THE STORY.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Wood's body of work, there is a spark of genius along with the landslide of incompetence. Generally, there will be a few scenes that are just too inspired to be labelled bad. GLEN OR GLENDA is what might be called an unconscious surrealist masterpiece. The form of the movie slides back and forth between docudrama and educational film. Bela Lugosi is the film's god, the scientist. A mad, cackling, spiteful old man who controls our fates but never seems to know what he's doing. Timothy Farrel, known for playing gangsters and thugs, plays the equally crazy psychiatrist. As voice-over narrorator, he smugly explains that the reason men go bald and women don't is that men's hats are so tight they cut off the blood flow to the head while women's hats are loose and comfortable. Dolores Fuller puts in a hypnotically wooden performance as Barbara, a lovely, intelligent girl. Wood himself is actually pretty good in his role as Glen/Glenda. The crescendo of the story is Glen's nightmare, where Satan is witness at his wedding. Unfortunately, the nightmare is interrupted by a stag reel producer George Weiss threw in to make the movie more exploitable and to pad out the running time. GLEN OR GLENDA is a very funny movie to watch and, in an odd way, a haunting movie. I couldn't imagine a more personal movie or a movie with more creative energy. People. All going somewhere. All with their own thoughts, their own ideas. All with their own personalities! One is right because he does wrong. One is wrong because he does right... PULL THE STRING! DANCE TO THAT WHICH ONE IS CREATED FOR!! "},{"Title":"The strangest film of all time???","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film last year - twice!  What is it all about?? As far as I can see, it's basically about a transvestite who wants to tell his unsuspecting girlfriend.  That's about it.  Obviously a very personal film for the writer.  Did he really think the audiences across the world would be interested?  This film has absurd scenes.  The dream sequence was very boring and very long.  The rest of it I found watchable.  Much better to watch in the 90s than the 50s I suspect.  I didn't mind the stock footage as much.   The film is a better experience if you watch the biography on him(ed Wood - Don't look back in angora) or the johnny Depp film or reading a book about him Then you'll understand more about Ed Wood his movies.  Until you do then you won't understand what he is all about. "},{"Title":"A triumph of sorts..","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Imagine that Van Gogh could only afford one color of paint..and had to work with a housepainting brush..and was drunk most of the time..would his work have been immortal? Ed Wood was not the worst director of his time, and certainly not the weirdest, but he tried, damnit! Stock footage, loopy dialogue, crazed writing..this one has it all! Phil Tucker was cheaper, and Kenneth Anger was weirder, but Ed had the drop on both when he did this semi-autobiographical bit of total nonsense.  "},{"Title":"Delightfully stupid and oddly sincere","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unlike Ed Wood's more celebrated Plan 9 from Outer Space, which is never as amusing as it is dull, or Bride of the Monster, which has nothing save Bela Lugosi's presence (as opposed to performance) to redeem it, this cross-dressing epic is delightfully stupid, and, therefore, well worth its 63 minutes of rough black-and-white footage.  Landing the aged Lugosi for this film was quite a coup for Wood, but a film about a transvestite didn't really require his macabre presence, so he's simply shoehorned in, stretching credibility even more than Wood stretched his girlfriend's angora sweaters when donning them for his perverse kicks.  Glen or Glenda wouldn't be very credible even without the former Dracula in the cast, but it is oddly sincere, and worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Absolute chaos makes You think","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is the unique one. It is good and it is bad simulteniuosly. Some episodes are awesome, such as dream sequence, in which Glen (or Glenda?) exposes him(or she?)self before the fiancee (it reminds me of a dark surrealistic atmosphere in David Lynch's Eraserhead), or magnificent scenes with unreal Bela Lugosi. On the other side all the scenes in the movie don't have any logical connections with each others. It is absolute chaos. So it is difficult to apprehend the movie as a single whole. I can understand only parts of it. But anyway it is the movie, that will make you think. "},{"Title":"Only the depths of a man's mind can tell the story.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is probably the most fun of all the Ed Wood flicks.  There isn't even the slightest hint of a plot.  It is also interesting to note just how subversive this movie is and at the same time it is so apologetic.  I guess it was just part of the times.  I love the part when a gay guy tries to light Ed Wood's cigarette and Ed blows it out, because Glen is NOT a homosexual.  The only problem I have with this movie is a certain part of the dream sequence in which Glen must decide to reveal himself as a transvestite to his girlfriend.  There is an absolutely unnecessary and pointless striptease that drags on and on...  Who wants to see a bunch of 1950s 40 year old floozies?  The devil in the dream curiously reminds me of Jerry Stiller.  Go fig.  I dig the way the characters keep mentioning what of the hundreds of thousands of other Glens?  Don't miss this movie for Bela Lugosi's role as the eyebrow lifting narrator. "},{"Title":"Cross dressing can be watchable","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only movie-project Ed Wood could possibly have believed in. Excepting the confusing buffalo-footage (don't ask!) this actually has a plot and something like continuity (by his standards anyway).He is obviously trying to express something important about cross-dressing with this pleading confessional, and it's the closest he ever came to making a personal film. So, while not as terrible as his other movies, this is actually watchable, in a perverse, peeping-tom kind of way. "},{"Title":"Nice sweater.  Angora?","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ed Wood made the worst films in history the only way that ever really worked - unintentionally!  Glen or Glenda takes its place in his pantheon of good/bad/indecipherable.  Imagine a social drama about transvesticism in a car crash with a 1950's public information film, half-remembered by the kids from Reefer madness, mixed with offcuts from the edit room floor at a stock photography agency.  All wearing an angora sweater.We can only speculate as to the real meaning of this, erm, film - not everyone will see the joke, if indeed there is one, so like the man says... Bevare! Bevare!This film covers adult themes (transvesticism) but has no nudity or bad language.  Not suitable for children, or indeed human beings of any description as far as I can tell.Eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen in my life","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This oddball, stock footage-riddled pseudo-documentary/b-flick, directed by the infamous Ed Wood, makes The Phantasm look like The Empire Strikes Back. Ed Wood plays Glen, his autobiographical movie counterpart, a closet transvestite who worries about confessing his habit to his fiancee. The film starts out reading like one of those duck-and-cover educational videos as it tries to scientifically explain the transvestite phenomena to what it assumes to be a 5-year-old, or someone with equal intelligence. Then there is a totally bizzarre dream sequence that makes absolutely no sense, and the whole thing goes downhill from there until the viewer feels as if their brain is being slowly sucked out of a very small hole. This film is one of the worst things I have ever seen- and I don't just mean movies! Rent this if you want to see just how bad a movie is capable of being. "}{"Title":"Pull the string on this one","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is truly awful.  It is so bad, that its trademarks like the Stampeding buffalo have become shorthand for bad filmmaking.  (See Diane Chambers film on Cheers!)  Why he edited in a closeup of the radiator I do not know. If you are a fan of horrible movies for the sake of kitsch, then this is a must see.  Otherwise, note that this has to be one of the worst films ever made. "},{"Title":"A muddle","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the reviewers on this site calls Ed Wood a moviemaker with something to say.  That is precisely untrue.  Wood's movies are like the ragbag ramblings of a garrulous pub raconteur, who has absolutely nothing to say, but goes on saying it till the hearer's eyes glaze over.  His mind was a muddle past all sorting out; even here, dealing with the subject closest to his heart -- or at least, to his skin -- he is unable to decide whether to assert that cross-dressing is nothing to be upset about, or should be decriminalized, but treated psychiatrically -- while the looming interpolations from Lugosi suggest the whole subject is less than a step away from the diabolic -- although the sole really coherent line Lugosi speaks, his last, the story is told, is a big, fat lie; as always with Wood, the story is the first casualty.I greatly enjoyed the recent film bio of Ed Wood (especially the fictional but delicious encounter with Orson Welles, where genius and ineptitude find common ground in a love-feast of egocentric non-communication), but am unable to concur in the general belief that Wood had a passion for making movies.  With every allowance for budgetary constraints and the patchwork production-schedules they imposed, Wood was slovenly, impatient past belief, either as a director, cinematographer or (above all) a writer for the screen; nothing is too hasty, too botched, too half-baked for him to put in the can.  No, what he desired was the prestige, the self-esteem, the celebrity of being a man who had made movies, and the actual making was something to be got out of the way as cheaply, expeditiously and painlessly as possible.  Even so, he remains a unique and rather lovable demonstration of ambition that can triumph over anything, even a complete absence of talent. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, Even For Ed!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I consider myself a lover of bad movies; movies so poor that you have to laugh at them.  Once in a good long while you find a movie that is so deplorably bad that it goes beyond the realm of being fun to laugh at and is just mind-numbing, jaw-dropping, stupor-inducing bad.  Ed Wood's first feature, Glen or Glenda walks a very fine line between the two categories.The story (And I use that term very loosely) revolves around Ed himself, playing a transvestite, who cannot confront his fiancee with his dangerous obsession.  The plot bounces back and forth between Glen's story, and other transvestite stories, and definitions and arguments between people about these topics.  It's all very uninteresting.Bela Lugosi is the star of the film (once again in quotes), playing a bizarre character who lords over all the other participants of the film shouting, BEVARE!  BEVARE!  TAKE CARE! every so often.  He is billed as The Scientist yet he sits in a chair laughs, yells, and somehow makes characters disappear.  All very scientific I assure you.You have your weird parts, and then the just plain bizarre; such as the extended couch scene that involves the ripping of clothes and other goofy stuff.Here's something fun to try when watching this movie.  Note what time it starts.  Then don't look at a clock, timer, anything, until the movie's done.  Guess what time it is.  Then check the real time.  You'll probably be off by about 3 to 4 hours.  It just goes on and on and on, yet it's incredibly short in reality.When a film has as many names as Glen or Glenda does you know it's going to be bad (It's also known as He or She, I Changed My Sex, I Led Two Lives, and The Transvestite).  It can be fun to watch, but you've really got to be into bizarre, goofy, just plain bad films to appreciate it.  Not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"Too bad to be fun","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ed Wood was like Dan Quayle a living, breathing refutation of the Peter Principle, he ascended to the glass ceiling of his incompetence and shot through it like a rocket, raining bloody shards on the ground. This makes him a Representative Man, in a way. Americans will always love men who succeed solely on the basis of cocky optimism, which is what made Tim Burton's film Ed Wood so appealing.Still, none of that made him a director capable of producing watchable movies. Burton got to the root of Wood's amateurishness in a scene in which a backer takes Ed to task for the continuity problems in one of his pictures. Ed brushes him off, saying no one will notice; after all, Moviemaking isn't about the small details-- it's about the big picture!Well, actually, it is about the small details. Wood, however, would never let himself be distracted from his themes to worry small stuff like characterization or plot. It quickly becomes obvious that he felt his job was done once he managed to sell his treatment and secure backing for a picture; the rest was just having fun on the set with his cronies.That said, Glen or Glenda? is personal and idiosyncratic enough to hold the interest of a charitable viewer. The scenes of a dying Bela Lugosi intoning, Snips and Snails and PUPPY DOGS' TAILS! have a certain train-wreck fascination. When all's said and done, though, this is just too awful even for the so-bad-it's-good shelf. If you must rent an Ed Wood video, this is the one to rent-- but save your popcorn money to buy Tylenol.  "},{"Title":"All funny, but the funniest part","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The whole thing is entertaining and funny.  The part that makes me laugh out loud is the end scene, when his attractive and buxom girlfriend hands over her cashmere sweater, AND HE NEVER TAKES HIS EYES OFF OF IT ! ! !  I may be a dirty old man, but I was NOT eyeing the sweater.  Maybe Ed wasn't homosexual, but he wasn't exactly... NORMAL!?  Ed, we love ya.  "},{"Title":"If the Creator Wanted Us All to Cross-Dress, We'd All Look Like Devine  =8P","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Whew!  What can one say about this bizarre, stupefying mock-u-mentory about Ed Wood's cross-dressing fantasies??  Well, one word that comes to mind is incoherent! Wood uses raw slabs of innocuous, incidental stock footage, and then builds a story around them - and what a story!!  Wood himself stars as Glen, a regular Joe who just happens to enjoy lounging around in his fiancee's lingerie and sweaters.  I think what Wood wanted was a plea for tolerance for all the Glens of this world by showing that Glen is just like all of us underneath, only in angora.  Ummm...ok.  But then, we get this very bizarre montage of some horny devil, a chick in bondage, some rude, pointing people, some moore stock footage, and finally an emaciated Bela Lugusi,playing some kind of twisted, invalid Puppetmaster.  Lugosi is a howl, spouting out such rubbish as Beeevaaare...the beeeg greeeen dragon that seeets at your doorstep he eeeets leeetle boys, puppydog tails, and beeeeeg snails!  Um, ok, Bela...  =8/ There is a strange, twisted type of Wood logic going on here.  Afterall, he does remind us that 7 out of 10 men wear hats, and 7 out of 10 men are bald.  Hmmm, must be that alien/cross-dressing/habidashery cowspiracy-thang!!  Glen or Glenda stars a plethora (whatever that is...) of reliable Wood schlock-actors, including Lyle Talbot, Delores Fuller, and Timothy Farrell, and Wood manages to coax every bit of wretched, amateurish non-talent out of each one.  Everybody by now knows Bela's sad story by the time Wood used him for this flic, he was probably jonesing for another fix and needed the moolah, but even for him this is depth heretofore unreached.  One of the MooCow's favorite Wood mooments comes with the stock footage charging buffalo scene - it is sooo loopily demented!!  The MooCow says Puuuull de schtriiiiings, and git yer hooves on a copy of Glen or Glenda - you won't believe it! &#141; "},{"Title":"Has many things wrong with it, but I see it as a kind of guilty pleasure...","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like Plan 9 From Outer Space, I consider Glen or Glenda a kind of guilty pleasure. Is it a good movie? No, not really. But of Ed Wood's resume, I consider Orgy of the Dead and Night of the Ghouls worse than this. There are many things wrong with it, there are some hokey special effects, stilted acting on the most part, cheesy lines and too much padding in an attempt to disguise the fact that there isn't much of a story. However, I thought the opening sequence was terrific, the cinematography isn't too shoddy, the score has some atmosphere, Wood directs with heart and although some of his line delivery is rather slow Bela Lugosi's presence is magnetic. All in all, a guilty pleasure though in a way it's not a good movie. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Ed Wood invites you into his world and you may need a drink for this one","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film that is Ed Wood's supposed life story, his very first film and we get an introduction into his twisted world and oh, boy is it twisted. Glen or Glenda I'm surprised was made as it seems very edgy for it's time. At a time where it was more conservative and sex changes were virtually unheard of, this film pushes boundaries. Ed Wood of course is named as the worst director of all time and I'm curious why because while his films are bad at times, they have a lot of passion behind them and he was able to tell a story. He was an outcast of Hollywood and knew what it was like to be judged at all times, especially as this was his vision. But he was born to make movies and even though this movie is a big WTF he had a style no less and in some way you could consider this an art house film. I'm not saying that this film is all good, it's very sloppy and disorganized as well as there's some very questionable dialog green dragon on your door step and slow snails and dog tails, very odd. But like I said, this film was very ahead for it's time and still to this day carries a strong message.The film opens with Inspector Warren finding the corpse of a male transvestite named Patrick/Patricia, who has committed suicide. Wanting to know more about cross-dressing, Warren seeks out Dr. Alton, who narrates for him the story of Glen/Glenda. Glen is shown studying women's clothes in a shop window. Dr. Alton points out that men's clothes are dull and restrictive, whereas women can adorn themselves with attractive clothing. Glen reads about sex change operations in a newspaper, then meets with Barbara, his girlfriend, who asks if Glen's secret problem is another woman. Another transvestite friend of his, John, tells Glen how cross-dressing ended his marriage. A bizarre dream sequence, containing some weird pornography, follows. Glen then decides to tell Barbara the truth. She offers her angora sweater as a sign of acceptance.I'm curious if Ed Wood was still alive how he would think of our society where we are starting to accept homosexuality more and more. Also the term metro sexual and how males are a lot more feminine that we accept a man men who wear a little make up or get their eyebrows done. Who knows, maybe this movie helped as clearly in some way it did educate people about transvestites. I think the dream sequence is what really threw this movie off, I mean we have this weird girl getting whipped by a guy, then a strange strip tease and then a horrific rape scene. I don't think I would want to know Ed Wood if he did acid because I wonder what he was on when he was writing this script.Bela Lugosi is used as a narrator and almost like a God who pulls the strings of the people in the story. He does a great job with the dialog that he's given and is really frightening with the atmosphere. Watching this movie really brought me a lot closer to Ed Wood and his world. The movie Ed Wood is one of my favorite films of all time but I know a lot of it was fictional so I have to make the judgments on my own with what I think Ed Wood must have really been like. But supposedly this was the movie to watch that he said if you wanted to get to know him to watch Glen or Glenda. I would recommend this movie for those who are curious about Ed Wood or have an open mind to this edgy film. Like I said, it's amazing this movie was made and while it may be garbled up and have some cheesy acting, it really does work for it's message and Ed Wood was destined to tell others judge ye not.6/10 "},{"Title":"Ed Wood's supremely bizarre cinematic meditation on transvestitism","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nobody could make a entertainingly awful movie with quite the same warped imagination or infectiously loopy go-for-it enthusiasm as the late, great, and downright legendary Ed Wood. This singular ode to cross-dressing rates highly as one of the single most mind-boggling messes to ever stumble its way onto celluloid. On one hand it's a compassionate and nonjudgmental plea for tolerance, acceptance, and understanding that's done with a certain endearingly clunky sincerity and pure honesty (Wood goes to great lengths to note that transvestitism and homosexuality are two very different things). However, it's also a gloriously ghastly train wreck of a film complete with plentiful what's-he-doing-here? footage of a ranting Bela Lugosi as a deranged scientist on an incredibly cheap set who spouts all kinds of absurd gibberish, overheated dialogue (Pull the string!), hopelessly atrocious acting, a slushy score, a meandering narrative, and a hilariously surreal dream set piece that manages to be funny, poetic, silly, and even erotic in equal measure. Wood displays an all-out ineptitude as a filmmaker that's easily matched by his undeniable earnestness. It's this earnest quality which in turn gives this picture its uniquely cracked charm. Yeah, Wood was a terminally fumbling director with no real knack or talent, but man did this guy have a lot of heart just the same. Said heart is all over this movie -- and that's exactly why in the long run this film proves to be oddly affecting as well as unintentionally amusing. Moreover, one must admire the courage it took for Wood to deal with such bold taboo subject matter head-on back in the extremely repressive 50's. Art it sure ain't, but boy is it really something to behold. "},{"Title":"GLEN OR GLENDA Extended Re-issue Version (Edward D. Wood Jr. and, uncredited, W. Merle Connell, 1953) BOMB","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Considering the film’s reputation as truly the worst of the worst, I was looking forward to watching Wood’s Crappus Opus (my word); it’s not necessarily any more inept than the other Woods I’ve watched – however, being from the REEFER MADNESS (1938) school of film-making, GLEN OR GLENDA doesn’t come across as readily ‘enjoyable’ as his genre efforts.Also, this surely emerges as Horror legend Bela Lugosi’s nadir (his first of three ‘collaborations’ with the director) one wonders whether he was really aware what kind of film it was (considering the actor’s history of heavy medication and the sheer senselessness of his cameo). Besides, Lugosi’s idiosyncratic delivery is perhaps at its most awkward here…though Wood’s script is mostly to blame for this – given the impossible dialogue (with repeated nonsensical allusions to “puppy-dog tails” and “big fat snails”) he handed the ailing star! By the way, Wood himself plays the central role (under the pseudonym Daniel Davis) – and, being just as worthless in this area, proves to have been an all-round dog!; Dolores Fuller – his wife and co-star – was similarly untalented (she would also appear in JAIL BAIT 1954)…but, at the very least, the image where the latter finally lets Glen wear her angora sweater did give Tim Burton’s affectionate biopic ED WOOD (1994) its famous poster! Incidentally, the latter film features a presumably fictionalized meeting between Wood and Orson Welles – well, for all intents and purposes, GLEN OR GLENDA constitutes Ed Wood’s CITIZEN KANE (1941) given its gleeful propensity for gimmicky narrative techniques in fact, the barest thread of plot is padded with stock footage galore (many of it irrelevant, such as the bewildering instances of S&M) and inane dream sequences (highlighted by the presence of an impish demon sporting outrageous bushy eyebrows that would make Martin Scorsese weep with envy)! The film’s sincere attempt at a plea for tolerance and psychological probing into the affliction/phenomenon of transvestism is, however, sabotaged at every turn by the sheer amateurishness of the approach.For what it’s worth, the edition I watched was the “Extended Re-issue Version” which included six minutes of ‘depraved’ footage (directed by W. Merle Connell) censored on original release! Furthermore, my copy went out-of-synch every so often (which forced me to rewind it slightly to get the audio back on track) – though, thankfully, this was the fault of the source conversion to DivX as opposed to the film itself. "}{"Title":"Bevare ! Bevare ! Take care.","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood at his nonsensical best.The story (AHHAHHAHA - sorry.) is about a transvestite that commits suicide. The officer that finds him then consults a doctor to tell him all about transvestites.The movie starts off with Bela Lugosi sitting in a chair, talking gibberish. It seems out of place when considering that the rest of the movie comes off as a documentary on transvestism. Its as if Vincent Price was doing his thing and the director randomly placed his scenes at various points throughout the movie. And the movie is Super Size Me. This movie is wrought with Ed Wood's technique. There is more stock in an Ed Wood movie than there is on Wall Street. There's nothing I like better than a close up of a radiator at a suicide scene. I also love all the numerous shots of Ed walking or crossing the street. And what about all the highway shots and lighting shots. Classic Ed. There is also a scene that seems to be straight out of the Orgy of the Dead. It seems be stock footage from an S&M movie of the time with a jazz & polka soundtrack (another Ed staple). The dialogue is about as good as a decent porn movie. The sets are not much better. They're flat and angular. There are other technique's worth noting  the conversation with no one in the shot, and then suddenly someone walks in; the jump cut; the coming through the door but not closing the door and then someone walks in after a jump cut shot; Glenda coming in through the door and something falls off the paper thin wall shot.This movie is bad. There's a part at the beginning where the movie is assuming we're laughing at the sight of a bearded man in women's clothing. How right the narrator is, too bad it's not the man we're laughing at. The best part of the movie is watching everything unfold or refold. Bela and the devil both give amazing performances.I do not recommend one watches this movie alone. PULL THE STINGK !!! "},{"Title":"Watch only if you're dying and you want time to pass more slowly.","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love Plan 9 From Outer Space, so naturally, I thought that I should see this too.  Bad decision.  Plan 9 is fantastic for the terrible lines, the bad acting and the quick pace.  The best moments of this misguided monstrosity can easily be seen in other movies (Ed Wood, It Came From Hollywood, etc.), so there is no reason to sit through Glen or Glenda unless your life is coming to an end and you want time to pass much more slowly. In all honesty, I have never seen a longer eighty minute film. "},{"Title":"Should not be in worst 100 films list, but it ain't great","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Would anyone involved in this 'made in a week' piece of exploitation really think we'd be sitting here discussing this movie 50 years later? No way.The movie really only continues to exist because of historical value (Transvestitism in the 1950s!) and because it's a work from of Ed Wood.Now, this movie lacks many essentials such as pacing, production values and structural coherence, but it does have style and sincerity.Ed Wood seemed to be very sincere and naive at the same time. His movie is very honest and genuine. It seems like a personal request for tolerance and acceptance. But at the same time, he's got to be naive thinking he can deliver this message wrapped in an obvious art house movie. There's no way Middle America is going to accept such scenes as Bela Lugosi sputtering non sequiturs while his image is dissolved over stock footage of stampeding cattle. It would take a head full of acid to even begin to understand that one.Such is the case with Ed Wood; sincerity, style and enthusiasm mixed with eccentricities, questionable editing and horrible production values.The whole reason we even look at this weird, low budget, goofy movie is because of the man who made it and it's place in time.It's not very good, but it shouldn't be in the Bottom 100.  "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ed Wood has the reputation of being the worst director of all time, and it is easy to see why.  This film is such a remarkable mess, no thinking person could rate it above a 2. Ed Wood loves making movies, the same way pederasts love children.  What they both do is unnatural, and must be stopped! The director of the worse-yet Plan 9 From Outer Space and the only-slightly better Bride of the Monster made movies quick and cheap. It has been shown that such approaches can produce fine films (The Blair Witch Project), but Wood could never show the talent that separates the artist from the hack. Bela Lugosi as a scientist-god.  Ed Wood himself playing the lead character.  Documentary fashioned, with a 20 minute Ed Wood dream sequence that is staggeringly awful, the only reason to watch it is for its camp value. Be warned!  Beware! "},{"Title":"a real head-scratcher","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not the worst thing I've ever seen, but one of the funniest and most rewarding bad films you could ask for.  A really bad film, like Galaxy Of Terror, is one that doesn't even give you the pleasure of criticism.  Not so, Glen Or Glenda.And it curiously brings to mind director Ed Wood's problem, having been dressed as a girl by his mom until a fairly late age.  Modern moviegoers wouldn't know, but girl's clothing was, in the previous century, used as generic kid's clothing until school age, at which time poorer families would finally buy boy's clothes.  Wood's transvestism was probably an unfortunate stressing of this tradition beyond its relevant time period.As to Wood's other and numerous eccentricities, I have no explanation... "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst film ever made, this hilariously inept film stars Daniel Davis (a pseudonym for Ed Wood) as Glen, a young man who wears women's clothing.  Bella Lugosi horrifically overacts in his campy narration (Bevare...Bevare the great green dragon that sits on your doorstep!) Best parts the laughably incoherent dream sequence (including a wedding officiated by Satan, and a women tying up another woman) and the let's go native scene.  A must-see for fans of bad movies! "},{"Title":"Beware of Tight-Fitting Hats!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Glen or Glenda? directed by the infamous/famous Ed Wood is a fun picture to watch.  Sure, it is outrageously bad.  It has a bizarre framed story where Bela Lugosi plays some kind of omnipotent being pulling the strings.  He can change the sexes and situations of two transvestite cases(Glen and then Alan who later turns into Ann through a sex change operation).  Lugosi's role has virtually nothing to do with the film and he utters some of the worst dialogue he has ever uttered(finishes film with, Hmmm, snips and snails, and puppy dog tails!).  The rest of the film deals with two cases being discussed between a psychiatrist and a policeman who has just witnessed a transvestite that has committed suicide.  I see that many of the reviewers commend Mr. Wood for his bravery on approaching such a topic, but what seems to be lost to many of them is that this man, at least it seems so to me, had one heck of a problem.  He is taking abnormal behaviour and trying to justify its existence in a film that is not meant to be a fictionalization but rather a cry from Wood to be normal and excepted.  Doesn't wash with me, but still is fun to watch for its ineptitude.  I will agree the film has heart, though this is not enough to make it a good film.  Some of the scenes are just too bizarre, too incomprehensible for explanation.  Wood plays the titular characters(although using another name)and his performance is lacklustre at best.  The rest of the cast is equally bad.  I can just imagine what poor Bela Lugosi thought when he saw the finished product! "},{"Title":"It'll make you want to buy a tight angora sweater for the man in your life","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the classic Bad Films We Love.  It's an excellent introduction to the oeuvre of Ed Woods, one of the worst directors of all time, who never met a film clip he didn't like.This is Woods' first film, a paean to transvestitism, which was his own personal passion.  One of the many amazing things about this film is that the issue is actually a very serious one, and in the right hands, his basic points about the issue are well made.  However, the way the film is made will make you laugh out loud, because it's so inept.For example, Bela Lugosi is randomly interjected giving diatribes as the scientific voice of society -- but what is a stampede of buffaloes superimposed over one of his speeches doing there?  Where does Ed find size 12 pumps with 4 inch heels to coordinate with his outfit, and how did he find a Janet Leigh torpedo bra to fit?  Do the scenes of lesbians tying each other up have anything to do with this, and how did he talk his (theoretical) actresses into do the scene?All of these poignant episodes -- and more! -- await you.  See it with the one you love, with a case of beer and cheese doodles at your side, and be prepared to laugh very hard.BTW The Rhino version of the movie involves a very good restoration.  Try to get this version of the film. "},{"Title":"Hypnotizing...but not in a good way","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An Edward D. Wood Jr. classic! Truly stupid movie about transvestites and cross-dressers. It starts off with a transvestite killing himself because he feels so ashamed of it. Then a police detective talks to a psychiatrist who then gives him two case histories of guys who wanted to be woman...or something. The story is kind of vague. It mostly focuses on Glen (Ed Wood) who is in love with Barbara (Dolores Fuller) but lusts after her angora sweater!!!! There's also cuts to Bela Lugosi (billed as the Scientist) who makes some potions in a laboratory and says inane things directly to the audience (Bevare! Bevare!) while footage of animal stampedes are superimposed over his face! And then there are the girls in their underwear tying each other up...As you can see this makes little sense but is utterly fascinating. It's next to impossible to stop watching. You keep thinking it can't get any sillier...and it does! I think this was made as a serious movie by Wood (who was a cross-dresser himself) but the man had absolutely no talent as a director or writer or actor! You got to give him credit for still doing the film. Full of unintentional howlers and just incredible scenes. My favorite part has to be when Glen is dreaming of marrying Barbara...and a man in one of the WORST Devil costumes ever casually stands by watching! This really comes to life with an audience.As a comedy this is a 10 but as an actual film this is a 1. "},{"Title":"Even more idiotic than Plan 9 but not quite as fun.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ed Wood's first film is his most chaotic, and certainly at least as much of a giant in its ineptness as Plan 9. As with all of Ed Wood films, people tend to primarily mock the visual silliness the bad special effects, the moronic documentary footage, the awful sets, bad costumes, etc. But I am much more fascinated with the incredibly bad dialog - undoubtedly the dumbest in movie history. Ed Wood's scripts are in fact so badly written that even the English language is torn apart at times; there are grammatical errors (e.g. A new life is begun, or a word like hisself), questionable choices of words for descriptions, and some truly chaotic sentences (like this one?).Lugosi starts off the movie with a rambling monologue that makes no sense at all (one of Ed Wood's lovable attempts at depth), while we see buffalo roaming the U.S. landscapes in the background; this sort of scene could only come from Ed Wood. He got some buffalo footage for free so he used it; if he had acquired footage of bees or rats or giraffes instead, he would have used that. Soon after Lugosi's monologue, we are witnesses to a first in a series of hilarious dialogues between a police inspector and a psychiatrist (or something). These two talk like idiots straight out of an asylum; at one point the cop explains to the other guy (and the audience) what a policeman's job is! And then he says As in most jobs there is always somebody who doesn't want that job to be done. This is a classical Ed Wood attempt to make a wise statement on something. If Wood had only spent ten seconds thinking about this statement he would have realized how dumb it is, and erased it from the script. But that's the way he was whatever idea came into his mind immediately found its place on the typewriter, without him spending a single second thought about it (the idea, not the typewriter).I don't think that he was THAT dumb; he was a dreamer living in his own cloud-world. That a self-deluded man and talentless director such as Ed Wood would do a transvestite drama was an incredible stroke of luck for future B-movie aficionados everywhere. Wood hammers us with his definitions of transvestism over and over and over; it seems that never ten minutes pass without either the narrator or an actor telling us what a transvestite is and why he isn't necessarily a homosexual. Priceless. "}{"Title":"Pull the string! Pull the string!","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You know, I thought this was a very good movie. Sure, it was utterly, and I mean the word utterly, horrible in the sense of production, acting, and even direction, but the mind of Ed Wood Jr. was not meant to be understood in the 1950s, but for some strange reason really worked well in today's society. I mean, look at this film. Glen and Glenda was not a huge success in the 50s causing Ed Wood to be considered one of the worst directors out there at the time, but look at this film. It is about transsexuals, transvestites, and sex change operations. These were topics not discussed in modern cinema at the time. In fact, I don't know of any that dealt with this issue. Wood opened the door. He talks, he thinks, he expresses his feelings into this film, and the final result may seem a bit Mystery Science Theater 3000-ish, but the honest truth is that it works so well in today's society. Throughout this entire film I couldn't help laughing, not just at the poor production and the scene where Glen's fiancée gives him her sweater, but also that this type of story is happening today. There are people that deal with situations like this all the time in our modern society.This had me thinking, was this just a cheap film for Ed Wood Jr., or was it nothing short of brilliant. Here we have a director who created a film well before its time that was not understood when it was released, but somehow really really works today. Think about it for a second. Here you have this man, who loves to dress as a woman, but is afraid because of what society may think. We have those issues now. There are so many closeted homosexuals in our society that are afraid to be themselves because of what others may think. Glen feels this. He experiences it with his own fiancée, a woman that is supposed to love him no matter what issues come across their table. Then there is Alan, a GI for all things, which comes back from the war, and wants to be a woman. This is wild. When I was watching this, my mind was being blown away. Remember the headline news years back about gays in the military? Perhaps everyone should be watching this film. I never knew a film like this existed. It has been a long time since I have seen Tim Burton's film about Ed Wood, but now I want to revisit it.Now, I will admit, there were some scenes that just screamed cheesy B-rated film. Bela Lugosi's entire part in this film was absurd. The fact that he was a scientist, trying to talk about the changes in our society and how they are affecting people like Glen, was interesting, but difficult to take in noting Lugosi's deep accent. BEEEVAAARE. HA! That still has me laughing two days after watching the film. But, it isn't laughter of disgust. It is laughter of enjoyment. There was a huge level of enjoyment to this film. It is short movie, so Wood gets straight to the point, interrupting for just a brief moment to have this wildly sexual dance in the middle. This film reminded me of some of Christopher Guest's very early styled mocu-mentaries. Sure, Wood didn't have the money to make an elaborate picture. He used stock footage and voice-overs half the time. You could tell that budget was low because he was in it as the title character (I think that also had something to do with his interest in the subject), but for me it worked.Overall, this was a very humorous and eye opening film. For those that comment on how dated the story is, I don't know. I really think that Wood's film has so much to offer today's society. While not all the facts are correct, he was brave enough to make a film about it. Who else was going to do that in the 50s &#133; oh, when times were better? I stand-up and applaud Wood for this film and really suggest everyone going out and experiencing this one for the first time. It is enjoyable, sinful, and jaw dropping all at the same time. I am surprised that Wood's time machine didn't show up in this film somewhere along the line, because it was as if he was looking directly into our society. It was bizarrely beautiful. I loved it.Thank you Mr. Wood! Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Mariana Trench of the Cinema","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me say this about Edward D. Wood Jr. He had a passion for his work that I wish more people did have. If we all had the optimism and the commanding hope of Ed Wood, the world would probably be a much better place. Being familiar with Ed Wood's story and having seen the most wonderful biopic Ed Wood (1994) several times, I admire his boldness and his strives for the job he loved; I still admire his never-say-die attitude. He had a love for directing that I wish more people in modern-day Hollywood had.But that doesn't make his movies any more fun to watch. And Glen or Glenda, his first and most confessional film, is probably his very worst.Glen or Glenda is a deadening cult movie about a cross-dresser named Glen (played by director/writer Ed Wood himself) who despite his love for his fiancée Barbara (Dolores Fuller), cannot seem to conquer his lust for transvestitism, in which he dresses in women's clothing and a wig and thus becomes...Glenda! Glen/Glenda's story is narrated by a doctor and he too is talked and watched over by a mysterious character called The Scientist played by veteran horror star Bela Lugosi. Oh, and there's also some sub-story about an Alan/Anne character who becomes a transsexual based on the Christine Jorgenson story, upon whom this movie originally titled I Changed My Sex! was previously to be based.Have I dropped your jaw yet? Well, as much as I want to warn you off this picture if you've never seen it, I would never tell a lie about a movie and there is not one word of falsehood in that plot synopsis I just gave you. Every thing in it is true. This is a movie about cross-dressers and transsexuals, a topic that does not sound very appealing to begin with and is not done in a very appealing manner. I'm sure that with a good screenplay, and a good director (it had neither) that Glen or Glenda, despite the subject matter, could have been a very moving picture. It is a confessional movie on Wood's part, as he was a transvestite in real life as well as on screen. But once again, that does not make it a good movie...or a watchable one for that matter. Glen or Glenda is a jumbled, disorganized mess of a movie that sinks into new trenches in the realm of bad cinema. It makes no more sense than does its notoriously silly scene where Bela Lugosi screams Pull the string! over inexplicable footage of stampeding bison. The majority of the movie is narrated in a monotonous voice, reminding me of some very bad short informative films I've seen before. It's like one of those really bad short films expanded into a seventy-minute feature and twice as dull. We sit there for ages waiting for the plot that never comes. There is no real attempt to even build energy with the camera being locked down in one position for many grueling minutes and long stretches of time where nothing at all happens. The only moments that are worth anybody's time are those of Bela Lugosi who manages to bring some light into these dark trenches. I guess Lugosi is supposed to be like the deity of the film, but personally, I couldn't care less who or what he's supposed to be. I'll tell you what he was A gifted actor who wound up making trash. But he and Wood were very good friends and liked working with each other, so good for him.I will always admire Edward D. Wood Jr. for his passion for the cinema, but I will never as long as I live admire his movies. A film critic once called Ed Wood's movies innocent fun but I think even that is questionable. Innocent? Yes. Fun? No, sir. And if Citizen Kane is the Mount Everest of the cinematic world, then Glen or Glenda is probably the Mariana Trench. "},{"Title":"Well, It's Fun at Least","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen or Glenda (1953) ** (out of 4) Edward D. Wood, Jr.'s plea for tolerance against men who like to dress in women's clothing reminds us countless times that they aren't homosexuals but just transvestites. This is an extremely cooky little film that often times gets called one of the worst ever made but that's so far from the truth because movies that are among the worst ever made and never this entertaining. What makes this film so surreal is the fact that it comes off campy yet every single scene in the movie is trying to be so heartfelt and serious that the viewer just has to sit there and not believe what's going on in front of his eyes. You can tell that Wood was so serious in trying to get people to understand him and this is made even clearer by the director playing the role and Glen and Glenda. Wood's screenplay contains his usual off the wall dialogue, which while silly, is certainly entertaining. Wood always tries to be poetic with his dialogue and he manages to do so but at the same time this stuff is so out there that you can never take it too serious. Then, of course, you have Bela Lugosi playing some sort of scientist yet it's pretty clear he's suppose to be a God-like being. What can you really say about Lugosi? Sure, it's rather sad in a funny way to see someone like him in a movie like this but that just adds to the film's surreal charm. I must say that even though his dialogue is downright silly, Lugosi, always the professional, does a good job in his role. I'm not sure if Lugosi actually knew what the film was going to be about but that fire and passion is still there for us to watch. Wood, the actor, isn't the best thing around but he's certainly no worse than what we usually see in a movie like this. Dolores Fuller, future songwriter for Elvis, plays Glen's girlfriend and does a pretty bad job but she does give us plenty of laughs. Lyle Talbot and Timothy Farrell are also on hand so more laughs here. When it's all said and done, there's no doubt this is a bad movie yet it's very original and I'd even go a step further and say that it has a surreal nature about it that makes it strangely entertaining throughout. "},{"Title":"The last years of Bela Lugosi in an Ed Wood's cult film that is so bad that became good","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Glen or Glenda is very funny but the problem is that Ed Wood want to do a serious film. The reason is that in all the film Ed Wood tries to say to the audience that be a transvestite is not a real problem because he has that problem.I admire a lot Ed Wood because he loves movies and he could direct, act and watch how his dream became trues, and i think that undependable of his films, he is an example to all the people that want to be some day a director (i include myself in that persons) because it is true that Ed Wood had no talent but the way he makes films just because he loves that is truly an example.More about the film well just that Bela Lugosi plays a very strange but funny role, because he say the phase pull the string like 5 times and well what is he, a science man or a doctor????????? Only Mr. Ed Wood knows. Conclusion If you want to be director or if you loves films, you must see Ed Wood's films that now are true cult films. "},{"Title":"This movie really doesn't make sense.","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's not the worst movie I've ever seen but it sure is a strange one...What on Earth was Ed Wood thinking when he wrote this script? It really is unbelievable how a person can write a script like this, nothing in it really makes sense and is just plain weird. I've also read the script (before watching this movie actually) and reading it makes even less sense. Yes, Ed Wood really is the worst writer of movie history.There are some very weird scene's that seems to have nothing to do with the movie such as all of the Bela Lugosi scene's. What or who was his character even supposed to be? Even worse are the just plain weird dialogs he has to speak with his trademark horrible accent. I'm talking about line's such as Beware! Beware of the big green dragon that sits on your doorstep. He eats little boys... Puppy dog tails, and BIG FAT SNAILS... Beware... Take care... Beware! Which is repeated countless times throughout the movie, in all kinds of variations. Or what to think of the line Pull the string! Pull the string! while a pack of wild bison's run through the screen...talking about weird! At one point in the movie there are some erotic tinted scene's that absolutely don't make any sense to me. No wonder Wood in his final years ended up making hardcore porn movies such as Necromenia.Dolores Fuller really is an horrible actress. Perhaps the worst I've ever seen in a movie. She delivers her lines like an 9 year old would and I think by saying this I'm offending some 9 year old now...Still you have to give some credit to this movie. As a documentary about transvestism it really isn't a that bad movie, especially not for its time. If the movie had been completely been made in documentary style it would even perhaps have been a classic. You have to give some credit for what Ed Wood tries to achieve with this movie, which is also based loosely on his own life as transvestite. You can tell by watching this movie that it had been made with lot's of ambition.Like all Ed Wood movies, it's so bad that it actually becomes good.3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Plan 9 from Outer Space was better","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My 10/10 rating is of course for Ed Wood enthusiasts. For everyone else, Glen or Glenda is ridiculous. I personally preferred Plan 9 from Outer Space. Anyway, GOG tells the story of transvestite Glen (Ed Wood). The most interesting scenes are Bela Lugosi as the narrator. Most of the movie makes no sense at all. If anything, it's just interesting to see how Ed Wood got his start. But I was surprised that IMDb.com was only able to identify one revealing mistake; it seems like an Ed Wood movie should have one in every scene (although I wasn't able to identify any).Anyway, the movie is full of bad dialogue, and everything else that one expects in an Ed Wood movie. Lovably idiotic. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood really is a crummy director","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apparently Ed Wood was voted worst director of all time by movie critics. He's pretty awful. This movie was miserably bad, although I was able to laugh between long periods of boredom thanks to Ed Wood's ineptitude.His use of stock footage is appalling! As I recall, there are about 10 minutes of film that are actually directed by Wood, the rest is stock footage. The only reason to watch this movie is to enjoy it's lousiness. If you like to watch bad movies, then this is one for you.1/10 "},{"Title":"Pull the plug!!! ...errr, I mean STRINGS!","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I will probably continue defending Ed Wood's Bride of the Monster and Plan 9 from Outer Space for as long as I live, because they're enthusiast films made with a lot of goodwill and inspiration. Glen or Glenda, however, is a painful and tedious disaster and - no matter how good Wood's intentions were - it's a strong contender for the title of worst movie ever made. Wood attempts to give a documentary-style portrait of the minds and feelings of transvestites. Pivot character is a young man (played by Wood himself under a pseudonym) who's about to marry a girl that doesn't yet know he also likes to dress up as a woman. The character and voice-over constantly ramble moralistic speeches they can hardly handle while the substance most of the time is completely beside the point (Flying?? If God wanted us to fly, he would have given us wings!) Wood himself is a lousy actor and when he's dressed up as a woman the unintended comedy effect truly kicks in. He's one ugly broad! Yet, the ONE aspect that makes Glen or Glenda really unendurable is a senile looking Bela Lugosi constantly interfering with pointless nagging and tricky grimaces. God only knows what he's talking about (green dragons, puppets on strings...) and why!?! "},{"Title":"Whatever?","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very strange and personal film. I have no idea what Ed Wood was thinking and I don't think I ever want to know. Bela Lugosi is very interesting to watch because I was wondering the whole time what was he thinking making this film. A paycheck is a paycheck. There will never be another film like this one so enjoy the originality and profound effects it will have on you. "},{"Title":"bad and unwatchable","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unlike Plan 9 and Bride of the Monster, I found watching this movie to be VERY difficult. It is obvious that Ed Wood was a very disturbed man struggling with being a transvestite. But do I really want to watch him star in such a painful to watch film? Not really. Instead, I actually felt rather sorry for him--not just because of his fetish to wear women's clothing but because his earnest plea for understanding will only elicit laughter because of its inept script, acting and directing. It's sort of like looking at circus freaks and laughing--you know some will but you hope you are a better person than that. Instead, try to watch the other dreadful films he made in the 1950s (before he got into making low-budget porn) for a giant laugh. "}{"Title":"THE Worst film ever made!","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a Bela Lugosi fan, I HAD to get this film, but it was so gawd-awful that I had to FORCE myself to keep watching it!I've had it in my Lugosi collection for years now, but could never bring myself to see it again.THIS film makes Plan Nine From Outer Space look like Gone With the Wind!!!!!!!!!!!!! Enough said! "},{"Title":"Glen is not a homosexual","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What's the line 'Glen is not a homosexual' all about?  I'm giving this movie ten stars simply because it's one of the funniest things I've ever seen.  Poor Ed Wood thought he was making a serious social commentary, but instead he only made himself look like a fool.  At least he never gave up. Gotta love Ed Wood.  "}]