[{"Title":"Nightmare for children, heaven for adults!","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"44 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Of course this is not really a movie for children. The structure of the movie is similar to Wizard of Oz, beginning with a child which seems to be frustrated with the real life and then dreaming into another world, full of magicians, witches, fabulous adventures and so on. But while Wizard of Oz is funny, the characters can simply be divided in good and bad, the adventures can be understood - in 5,000 Fingers the little boy enters a nightmare! Funny and helpful characters are emotional disturbing. A witch can be recognized as fabulous being, but a piano-teacher is close to real life, and Dr. T. is much more frightening than the evil witch from Oz! The decoration and especially the musical numbers are fantastic, think of the bearded twins on skaters! Fantastic! The psychology of the movie is excellent A boy suffering from the lack of a father is afraid that his beloved mother is hypnotized by a strange man and will marry him. Certainly thousands of children at any time are fearing such a situation. Literature and cinema are full of this theme, think of Alice in Wonderland, Fanny and Alexander and so on. Really interesting is the time at which this movie was made. During the 50s almost everything was nice and perfect, and here you have a nice and perfect Musical showing frightening, fear, the other side of everything. - Here in Germany I am desperately waiting for getting it on DVD or TV! This movie is quite unknown and perhaps unpopular for its content. But believe me It's one of the pearls in movie history! "},{"Title":"It will leave you feeling rather uncomfortable","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This movie is one of the most bizarre and random films I have ever seen. It combines a mind-boggling storyline (a kid dreams he's trapped in a castle ruled by his satanic piano teacher who is setting up a piano camp for 500 players), intriguing characters (the heroic, down-to-earth plumber, the helpless, beautiful, damsel/mother in distress, the all-American kid on the block, and the disturbing, foppish, freak of a villain, Dr. Terwilliker) weird costumes and sets, and the most outrageous songs ever conceived. Among my favorites are the Doe-me-doe dress up song, The Dungeon Song, and We are Victorious! Any orchestra geek will get a kick out of the dungeon ballet. This is a terrific film to scare your friends or corrupt your children. I highly recommend it to anyone with an unbalanced imagination.Also recommended The Brave Little Toaster, Time Bandits, Happily Ever After a Snow White Tale, The Never Ending Story, Nightmare Before Christmas and Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. "},{"Title":"Surreal, funny, poignant... and there IS a logic to it","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I am a European who hasn't read one single book by Dr. Seuss, but I am magically captivated by this movie. I've seen the DVD four times by now, first having seen it twice at film archive shows.There's only one way to have the seemingly absurd pieces to fall into place. This film is a  highly sensitive depiction of a little boy's hopes and fears--occasionally wildly fluctuating between the two. Just try and find another logic behind Didn't you know? This makes you my old man. Yeah, I guess it does, at that.Yes, Tommy Rettig's singing voice was dubbed by Tony Butala. After all, there's only so much one person can do. Hans Conried probably sang himself. After his double voice role in Disney's Peter Pan he went on to play the Magic Mirror in several Disneyland TV shows. 5,000 Fingers must be the finest showcase of his talents.Repeating the last words of the previous speaker was not a mannerism of Tommy Rettig's. All that is in the script, and Tommy was simply doing his work. The previous year, he was incredible in the neglected b/w movie Paula which is basically a two-person drama with Loretta Young. (If anyone watches Paula and does not have a lump in their throat at the end they are beyond all hope.)The Hassidics with the Siamese beard (Or you will get choked by the beard of the twins With the Siamese beard With a terrible twin on each end as it says in a deleted song) are simply the boy's two great-uncles--their photos can be seen on top of the family piano.Originally, Dr. Terwilliker did not appear in the parlor scene at the beginning. Some stills are in circulation--one on the VHS tape box--where Bart Collins darkens the eyebrows on the sheet music portrait with a pencil. The same version includes an alarm clock which Bart attempts to set ahead. In the final movie the clock still remains in one scene, at the high end of the piano keyboard. Late in the production, an immense risk was taken; having anyone speak directly to the camera is problematic, let alone a child. But this worked superbly. Some lines were obvious afterthoughts. I've seen a script with the line One hundred per cent perfect gold plated fony sic, double fony added in Tommy Rettig's hand.The musical score goes to show what years of experience can do. Friedrich Hollaender--Frederick Hollander in America--composed music for pictures as early as in 1931. The simplistic ditty Ten Happy Fingers is developed into many superb variations in the film score. As someone who plays himself, I found Bart's hundred pianos rendition under the baton of Dr. Terwilliker a sheer delight. (Characteristically, Dr. T. is not satisfied...)Films like this also remind us about the ephemeral nature of life. At least Peter Lind Hayes, Hans Conried, and Tom Rettig have passed away. Tom--a highly esteemed computer programmer--later said these words in his dBase language, IF its_time EXIT ENDIF. But they will live forever on film. And when Bart and the excited dog run lickety-split down the street you will want to see it all over again... I did.  "},{"Title":"Happy Fingers","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" A small boy plots to upset the grand performance by THE 5,000 FINGERS OF DR. T. to be held in the sinister Terwilliker Institute.The whimsical world of Dr. Seuss first saw expression in a Hollywood feature film in this fast-paced fantasy which examines a child's musical nightmare. Although it was a financial & critical disappointment when initially released, it has established itself comfortably as a nostalgic favorite for Baby Boomers who first discovered it decades ago.Dr. Seuss (Theodor Seuss Geisel, 1904-1991) wrote the original story, co-authored the script and penned the lyrics in his own inimitable style. The action plays itself out over vast, curvaceous sets which will immediately seem familiar to readers of his books, while the brightly colored costumes make the players look like characters from the good Doctor's stories come to life.Completely dominating the movie in the title role is the marvelous character actor Hans Conried (1917-1982), gleefully breathing life into the part of the mad piano teacher who schemes to force 500 little lads into performing his compositions at a gigantic keyboard. Conried is wonderfully funny, striding about, leering, snorting & chortling as he plots his nefarious plans. He attacks the role with relish, nasally enunciating every syllable with his unique diction, softening his villainy with a thin veneer of unctuous civility. This was Conried's finest on-camera performance, but 1953 would also present him in the part for which he is perhaps best remembered, voicing Captain Hook in Disney's animated PETER PAN.The other three performers in the movie Tommy Rettig as the much beleaguered boy attempting to thwart the evil Terwilliker; Mary Healy as his lovely, albeit mesmerized, Mom; and Peter Lind Hayes as a friendly, deadpanned plumber, all do very well with their roles, but their ordinariness, like that of Dorothy in Oz, make them pale in comparison beside Conried.The film, which delivers perhaps an unnecessarily nasty knock to piano teachers, does come across with some fine songs, ranging from Rettig's plaintive 'Because We're Kids' to Conried's hilarious 'Dressing Song.' Also on view is the bizarre Dungeon Dance, in which kidnapped male orchestra members present one of the most unusual terpsichorean displays ever seen in a kiddie film. "},{"Title":"Odds Bodkins.","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Well I never. I have just had the pleasure of watching this film on Channel 4 in the UK. Its a damp and dreary Friday afternoon and this wacky exercise in surrealism has just been broadcast and has certainly put a smile on my face. What a storyline. What a set. What acting. This is a gem of a film which I had never heard of till today. It is a real departure from your average 1950s family film. Through the whole duration the film swings between brilliance and total whack. The madness of Dr Seuss comes across so well, especially when you jack up the colour a few notches -) I am led to believe that Dali had a hand in the design of the sets. That in itself is enough to get me watching. I was surprised at the amount of reference to this movie I have actually experienced without realising it. For example, the Uk is presently showing an add for frank which is a recreational drug use/misuse information service available to the public. It uses a character who is undoubtedly based on Bart to do so. As a fan of surrealism I totally enjoyed the spooky weirdness of this mindbending musical. Just sad I didn't record it as I see it isn't available in European pal DVD format. Doh. "},{"Title":"?  Very Atomic!!!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"      It's sad that this enormously entertaining children's fantasy film goes almost unseen today.  It is the only live action feature film that the late great Dr. Suess was involved in.  The story involves young Bart, a free spirited little boy who is forced into piano lessons dictated by the pretentious, snobby Dr. Terwilliker (Hans Conried at his nasally best!)  In his dreams, he imagines this horrible teacher runs a prison like institute where prisoners are forced to play a silly, large piano meant for 500 piano players all at once.      The film has wonderful dialog, crazy musical numbers with great lyrics.  Two of my favorite songs in this film is the baratone executioner, and Dr. T's gleeful song about dressing up.   Oh, and there's a reference to the atomic bomb that is just too gosh-darned funny!      This loopy classic has a nice message, mostly aimed at adults- take children more seriously, and let them be children.  The last shot of the film has Bart running off to play sports.  A perfect happy ending.    "},{"Title":"Hans' greatest acting role, and Dr. Seuss's politics","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Hans Conried was a marvelous character actor, usually in comedy parts. He was possibly the first non-regular to appear on a popular television series (Make Room For Daddy - later The Danny Thomas Show) whose appearances were so welcomed that he became a leading regular to the extent that he stayed for the entire run of the show. But he was tall, had a nasal voice, and while striking looking could not be called handsome. So when he appeared in films it was (for most of the 1940s) in bit parts, although he usually was very effective in them. Take a look at his ill-fated magician in Journey Into Fear or his possibly communist agent/waiter in The Senator Was Indiscreet.Only in 1953 did he get a clear shot at stardom in this film, which fortunately survives and flourishes. His Dr. Terwilliger, the demonic piano teacher, is the center of this fantasy. He will prove his method of piano teaching is foolproof, even if he breaks the spirits of all the little boys in the world to do so. Conried relished the role (just like he would relish Snidely Whipflash on the Dudley Do-Right cartoons, and later his Professor Waldo Wigglesworth in the lesser remembered Hoppity Hooper cartoons). He also has a real chance to strut his singing abilities in the number Dress Me Up. One wonders if that number, where Dr. T. sings and dances while he puts on his music conductor / leader's costume, influenced a spoof on The Simpsons, where Mr. Burns sings a song (to the music of Be Our Guest) in which he revels in all the clothing he has made from endangered species.The rest of the cast (Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy and Tommy Retig) are better than competent, but it is definitely Conried's show. Interestingly enough Peter Lind Hayes had a role in The Senator Was Indiscreet, and one wonders if his and Conried's casting together here has anything to do with that (they really did not interact together in the other film).Theodore Seuss Geisel (a.k.a. Dr. Seuss) has not been greatly served in the movies. Only this film, The Cat In The Hat, and How The Grinch Stole Christmas, have appeared on film. The last film was pretty well done, but there was a lot of complaints about The Cat In The Hat. On the other hand television specials based on his works are more frequent. What many people don't know is that Geisel/Seuss was a life long liberal and he questioned many establishment views (which may explain his continued popularity). He was also a complete opponent of fascism, Nazism, and Communism, which he fought with political cartoons up to 1944, and which colored his early works. His book, Yertl The Turtle, about a turtle who forces his fellow turtles to form a pyramid throne for him on their backs, which finally collapses at the end, was actually an attack on Hitler (in the original cartoon Yertl has a small mustache under his nose). My guess is that when he wrote The 5,000 Fingers Geisel/Seuss was likewise attacking totalitarianism. It was 1953, and the Nazi and Fascist Italian and Japanese regimes were gone, but Stalin's Russia was still around. It certainly looks like the use of labor/concentration camps and torture were on his mind when looking at Dr. T's establishment. "},{"Title":"Real adventure, real entertainment, and a real message.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" What a pity they don't make films like this anymore for children, and an even greater pity that if they did no one would watch them. This wonderful music-and-dance fantasy tale harks from the days when there actually was a culture, and at least some movie makers, and some parents, felt it was their responsibility to pass that culture on to the next generation. The screenplay for Dr. T was written by none other than Dr. Seuss, including the songs, and is delightful from beginning to end. The story, about a boy who dreams that his mean piano-teacher runs a surrealistic prison-school, is an adventure that holds the attention of young and old, and the excellent performances of Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy provide the love interest for those who find that necessary. The protagonist is played by Tommy Rettig -- Jeff of the original Lassie TV series -- at 12. It's interesting that so many of his pre-Lassie roles were in musicals, especially since apparently he couldn't carry a tune. (Tony Butala, one of the founding members of The Lettermen, provided his singing voice in this film.) One number, way ahead of its time -- in fact way ahead of THIS time -- makes as clear a protest as I've ever heard against adults who push and shove us little kids around. A VERY YOUNG Hans Conried as the conceited villain will have you laughing out loud, and references to the atomic bomb should be understood in the context of a year when thousands of people were digging large holes in their back yards. Watching this movie is a real and rare treat. "},{"Title":"Calling Tim Burton....","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Accurately described elsewhere as a bridging film between WIZARD OF OZ and the 1971 WILLY WONKA, this Technicolor Halloween treat is one of Columbia's best children's films. Uncompromising in its clever and psychologically disturbing child's nightmare, it is a great Theodore Giesel adaptation and unforgettable for any intelligent child. One shudders to think it will be remade into multiplex junk like the disgraceful CAT IN THE HAT of 2003, this original and deliciously unsettling 1953 masterpiece deserves to be 'up there' with OZ and WONKA in the foremost influential kids films of the 20th century. Find it and lap it up.....and I dare any adult not to scream and climb backwards up their sofa when the elevator operator (the eyes in the square helmet guy) takes us all for a ride.Probably what FOX were trying for in MONKEYBONE and wasted $70 million dollars in the attempt. Maybe Tim Burton is the only person we can trust with a remake....given his success in many ways with the CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY release this year. DR T has production values and a Technicolor palette of perfect 50s imagery and is a stand alone classic in it's own right. I think really it is a boys version of The Wizard Of Oz. Sadly Tommy Rettig did not seem to have had a happy adult life and died in the last decade only in his fifties. Find Dr T on DVD and relish its lunacy and sense of style. Also, it is very camp with, as one friend said  an incredible amount of poncing about by Hans Conreid...especially in his 'dress me up' song sequence...and sequins......The avant-garde dungeon number with the rejected players and their squarky boom-boom instruments is an astonishing and hilarious piece of choreography as modern and as idiotic as anyone in 2006 could think up. This is great fun, and even survives the horrible appearance of the genuinely uninteresting and unappealing Peter Hayes...see ZIS BOOM BAH for my insight into his (and Mommie dearest's) dreary Hollywood appearances. "},{"Title":"A little boy battles an evil piano teacher out to rule the world.","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" An alienated boy misunderstood by his parents at home rebels against an exacting piano teacher whom he finds out has a sinister plot to rule the world.I remember it best for its plaintive song You Have No Right to Push Us Kids Around later revived by Jerry Lewis in his TV appearances. The song is a cry about the angst of childhood. Part of the lyrics goes something like this Just because you have hair on your chest doesn't mean you're the best. Just because you have stayed longer on this planet doesn't mean you own it. You have no right to push us kids around just because we're closer to the ground. Under the megalomaniac piano teacher's plan, all children would be condemned to an eternity of piano practice trying to catch up with the ever increasing beat of a metronome. Spectacular blow up endings such as in James Bond movies satirized by Don Adams (Maxwell Smart) or even Mike Myers (Austin Powers) must have taken inspiration from this very early attempt at such.Much belatedly did I find out that this story is by the revered Dr. Seuss (he is not a real doctor you know) famous for witty, whimsical stories written in cute rhyming verses about outlandish animals (Green Eggs and Ham, Cat in a Hat)but praised by educators for their effectiveness in getting children to read. Seuss deserves Ph.Ds in education, psychology and literature even posthumously. "}{"Title":"The most underrated film of all time","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I saw this when I was about 5 years old and the images were burned into my brain. Images created by Dr. Seuss! I especially remember the Twilliker Institute, with it's electrified Barbed Wire Fence...And the curved ladder into the sky... And all of he strange and wonderful musical instruments played by the prisoners in the dungeon. And the costumes that possibly inspired the makers of Star Trek, the hoods in this film look like the Original Klingons (Without the forehead makeup).And the wonderful music and dancing and the insane lyrics written by Dr Seuss! Seeing this film at an early age definitely affected me... And it also made me afraid of music teachers. But it was not music teachers but Normality and Forced Peer Pressure I despised- The being told. HOW to dress, HOW to talk, HOW to walk, HOW to live! This film is, as Groucho Marx says Is Against That. What this film is for, is free musical expression, and free speech. This film teaches us, that not all people talk or look the same way. And the ever growing popularity of this film shows us a great deal about our societies 30 years ago, freedom of expression was NOT encouraged, but now it is.This film will forever be on the front lines of free speech, and it is probably one of the most important films ever made, due to the fact that a child can figure this out about the film, that it is about freedom.And the biggest mistake regarding this film is by parents who insist that This is a movie not intended for children or that the film is not appropriate for children I can say with 100% assurance that this is false, that I saw this film when I was a small child and I believe I benefited from the experience. This film should be shown to small children, but with discretion because some of the images can frighten a child But because my parents were in the room I did not get frightened by the imagery.The way this film is shown to a child can affect a child's creativity forever- And if the child is frightened, well then they can always watch it later. I was mortally afraid of Mr. Magoo cartoons until I was about 3 years old, the noise frightened me. But about 1 year after I was frightened by the introduction to a Mr. Magoo cartoon, I saw this, with my brother and parents, and we all loved it.What is amazing was the almost 100% negative reaction to this film by the critics of the time, and we can thank whatever deities that they were 100% wrong. "},{"Title":"That Dungeon Ballet!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  The 5.000 Fingers of Dr. T is one of those 'sleepers' that have been turning up on video over recent years. As many commentators have said, the film is uneven in terms of inspiration. This is especially true on the musical level only a couple of songs are memorable. Still, even the weaker ones are effective. But the film has a memorable, surrealistic set design with a marvelous color component.A generally good cast compensates for any other deficiencies. As Bart, Tommy Rettig makes a terrific hero for his own dream/fantasy. (This film could almost be described as a lesser Wizard of Oz). Real life married couple Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy are fine as the 'parent' figures. While Hans Conried dominates every scene he is in the wonderfully mean-spirited Dr. T. (The wonderful Dress Me Up song is irresistable).But what truly makes this movie compulsory viewing is the brilliant dungeon ballet. Bart steals into the dark recesses below Dr. T's institute and discovers a beautifully realized nightmare world. All of Dr. T's non-piano-playing prisoners are incarcerated here, along with their instruments ('screechy violins, nauseating trumpets' etc). But this is no conventional scary, kid-movie sequence the scene is staged as a major jazz ballet piece. The choreography is no less than ingenious. In their green leotards, these very musical 'boys' (including young George Chakiris) perform as rousing a dance number as has ever been put before the movie camera. And the musical score, at its peak here, is at one with the dancing.Film historians tell us that The 5.000 Fingers of Dr. T was virtually ignored in its day. Perhaps it was too weird in 1953 for audiences who were already growing used to milder TV fare. But Conried's performance and the incredible ballet scene should assure it a place in fantasy film history for some time to come. "},{"Title":"I hate to have to begin by stating the obvious, but...","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  This is a child's dream. As such sex scarcely, if at all, enters into it. (Bart understands that both Dr. T and Zabladowski have designs on his mother of some sort, but he doesn't really know of what sort or why.) There are NO Freudian metaphors &#150; none that resonate or shed any light, anyway; one can always find a random background level of such pseudo-metaphors anywhere, including in the patterns in the grain of the wood in the table in front of me -; and there's certainly nothing in the dream to indicate that Dr. T, or anyone in the film, is gay. That is there's nothing in the content of the dream to determine that he's gay. He likes music? He's fond of fine, fancy clothes? He has pinched nostrils? Give me a break.I suppose there's very little to indicate that he's heterosexual, either, although if we must decide one way or the other we should conclude that he is, since he DOES want to marry Bart's mother (who alternates between looking prim and sexless and looking altogether luscious), and neither his desire for profit nor his vainglory provide him with a motivation for so doing. I'll admit he may simply wish to indulge in his lust for power.Power is the key. What moral content there is &#150; and it's really more of a fantasia than a parable &#150; is this it's wrong to push people around. The more sinister interpretations people seem to have racked their brains to come up with simply do not, in the cold light of day, make any sense. Is the film really saying anything against musical education? Against piano practice per se? Even if this is what Dr. Seuss et al. were trying to do, Frederick Hollander's music subverts the enterprise. Are we being subliminally told that there's something suss about art? Even if we are the images are subliminally telling us the precise opposite. I refuse to believe that anything with such a wonderful score, such delightful and clever songs, such beguiling art direction, is REALLY telling us not to bother with the piano if we really want to learn to play it (you'll notice that one or two of the 500 children look quite upset that they don't get to play Ten Happy Fingers), or that artists are not to be trusted.The score and the songs and the art, and most of the ideas, are more than enough to compensate for those aspects of the production that are merely competent (there are and were directors who could have DAZZLED us with this material, from the first minute to the last). Don't worry it's never less than competent. The only way in which the film falls short in any important way is that it doesn't quite have the nerve embrace its own fantasy. Why does it have to all turn out to be a dream? Why can't Bart REALLY be kidnapped by Dr. T. and forced to practise on a 44,000-key piano? For decades, Hollywood was so terrified of pure fantasy that it would ALWAYS do this it would take, say, a book by L. Frank Baum in which Dorothy goes to the land of Oz and create a film in which she merely dreams about doing so. There's no denying that this hurts the screen version of The Wizard of Oz even if there's also no denying that the fantasy is more than strong enough to survive the blow. So it is here. "},{"Title":"Reflections of one of the Original Fans","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I saw DR T at its original opening in 1953. As an irrepressible fan of both Dr. Seuss and Hans Conried, I found this to be a crucial moment in my adolescent years. I came away somewhat disappointed by this too-1950ish movie, but enchanted by Seuss' lyrics and Conried's performance (may they live forever!). I bought a Dr T Songbook, but resisted the lure of a five-fingers beanie. Reading these comments has been a trip. I am delighted to find fellow enthusiasts, and bowled over by the humorlessness of some folks who do not seem to have read Dr. Seuss' books. Of course there are in jokes in the movie--something typical of the 50's movies that were beginning to sneak around the censorship imposed by the Hayes Bureau. But anyone who really thinks this really is anything other than a story about a kid who hates to practice the piano, likes to play with his dog, and wants a father--and that these are reasonable attitudes--probably is in need of a childhood themselves. What would some of these subtext types make of one of Dr. Seuss' loveliest books HORTON HATCHES THE EGG? Is it really about unreliable welfare mothers and beset transsexuals? Or is it exactly what it claims to be--a moral tale (wildly presented) about caring and responsibility? As Horton says I meant what I said and I said what I meant./ An elephant's faithful one hundred per cent. Please, let's leave moral fantasy as it is supposed to be an endangered but deathless species. "},{"Title":"Busby Berkely On Acid","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Others have commented on this but I just have to add after seeing this again today that the prison for orchestra members number looked like Busby Berkely on acid.. not to be missed!! A great goofy fun movie that has Dr. Seuss written ALL over it... "},{"Title":"Would have been better with more Seuss, less normalizing","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" It seems like it's almost impossible to translate the artistic style of Dr. Seuss to other artforms. While there have been a couple recent films I've liked--I'm a fan of both How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000) and the much-loathed The Cat in the Hat (2003)--many other attempts have fallen a bit flat. And even though I liked both of those recent films, I wouldn't say that they capture the tone of a Seuss book. They succeeded more for their different approach to a twisted, somewhat-kid-oriented surrealism. A recent endeavor to put Seuss on Broadway, Seussical, was fairly awful. The only translations that have been anywhere near the tone of Seuss have been a couple of the animated shorts--such 1966's How the Grinch Stole Christmas and 1971's The Cat in the Hat.Even though Seuss co-wrote the screenplay of The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T, it too cannot quite capture the mood or magic of Seuss' books. That's not to say that the film is a failure, exactly, but speaking as a big Seuss fan, it would have been much better if it had not tempered its Seussian characteristic in such odd ways.The story is basically one long nightmare (literally, that's not stated as a criticism). It is the story of Bartholomew, or Bart, Collins (Tommy Rettig). Bart is the child of a single mother (relatively unusual for a film in 1953), Heloise (Mary Healy). He is taking piano lessons from a Dr. Terwilliker, or Dr. T (Hans Conried). Dr. T is egotistical--he seems to teach only out of his own instruction manuals--and quite the disciplinarian. The Collins' plumber, August Zabladowski (Peter Lind Hayes), says that Dr. T is a conman, or racketeer. Naturally, Bart is not a big fan of his lessons with Dr. T.When the film begins, we're in a brief dream of Bart's. He's being chased by colorful men holding colorful nets in a surreal but sparse landscape. He wakes up and we see that he's been sleeping at the piano. There's a relatively short scene introducing all of the characters as they are in the real world, but before long, Bart is asleep at the piano again. This time his dream makes up the bulk of the film. It features Dr. T as something of a mad scientist. He's built a huge, double-decker piano at which he plans to torture--er, uh, teach, 500 students at the same time&#151;hence, 5,000 fingers. Dr. T has hypnotized Bart's mother. Can Bart save his mother while saving the world from the evil Dr. T? Seuss' writing in his books tends to be surreal, somewhat nonsensical (with that as a positive, playful quality) and is almost always verbally focused on crazy word play, including lots of neologisms and hilariously twisted rhymes. For some reason, dramatic adaptations of his works tend to avoid these qualities. I suppose it's because producers think that the typical Dr. Seuss style won't work in the context of a drama. However, it's a bit like throwing the baby out with the bathwater. In The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T, the dreaded tempering of Seuss' style is present. The story and songs--yes, this is something of a musical--are fun so long as they are focused on Seussian insanity. But director Roy Rowland (and maybe co-writer Allan Scott and producer Stanley Kramer) keeps reigning in the more bizarre qualities to try to make the film something of a standard drama. The combination of the two styles tends to make for awkward moments.Likewise, the typical Seussian artwork is tempered. While there are many admirable aspects of production design in the dreamworld, the sets and costumes tend to be far too minimalistic and occasionally too mundane to capture the wonder of Seuss.On the other hand, this film is relatively daring for its era. We should probably be happy that a live-action version of Seuss was attempted at all in 1953. On the other hand again, it might be surprising that there weren't far more films like this in the wake of The Wizard of Oz (1939). But not many films, including this one, could capture the expansive, otherworldly surrealism of The Wizard of Oz. Whether it was due to budget (my suspicion) or artistry (maybe because there weren't many people experienced in creating filmic fantasy worlds?), The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T feels like it takes place exactly where it happens to take place--on a large soundstage, on economically constructed sets.Because color was still exotic enough to be an attraction in itself in 1953, Rowland sometimes dwells on colors in an obvious way. For example, the nets of the opening, or the later descent down the fireman's pole through the variously colored rooms. There are other blatant devices tying The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T to its era, such as the atomic substance that appears in the climax.That a fuller commitment wasn't made to creating an authentic Seussian world on film (and why does it have to be a dreamworld?--Seuss' worlds are not dreamworlds, they're real, alternate universes) means that a lot of dramatic momentum and suspense that feels like it should be there is missing instead, replaced by relatively random dream occurrences.Still, there are aspects to recommend. For example, the Seussian elements that are present, including the sets, are delightful, and a long musical number featuring all of the non-pianists is fun and has great Seussian instruments (unfortunately the music to accompany this is very pedestrian where it should be equally surreal).Some have complained that this film (and other Seuss works, such as the recent films) is too dark or too sinister for Seuss. If you read his work closely, Seuss was never that innocent. There's often a crazy, almost nightmarish tone to his books. It's just that some of us, even when we were kids, love that kind of dark surrealism. "},{"Title":"Sadly ignored surrealistic fantasy","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Little Bartholomew Collins (Tommy Rettig) hates his piano teacher and having to play the piano. He falls asleep and slips into a fantasy world. Here he is ruled by Dr. Terwilliker (Hans Conried) who is a tyrannical piano teacher. He runs the Terwilliker Institute of Happy Fingers. Here 500 little boys will be forced to play the piano...for some reason. Bart tries to escape and with the help of plumber August Zabladowski (Paul Lind Hayes) tries to help his mom Heloise (Mary Healy) who is under Dr. T's spell.One of a kind fantasy. It was written by Dr. Suess himself and the actors talk like they came out of one of his books. The sets are incredible...they look EXACTLY like the drawings in Suess' books. It's shot in blazing color and most of the actors wear very interesting costumes. All the sets are larger than actor Rettig but it fits...this is a child's view of a fantasy world where the adults are in charge. For whatever reason there are some musical numbers (and songs) shoved in. They're intrusive and bring the story to a screeching halt...but they're so inventive visually that they're lots of fun. There's a long musical number in a lower dungeon that's a jaw dropper! The acting is as good as it can be. Rettig is good in his role but Healy and Hayes are pretty bad--but they're given little to work with (especially Healy). Conried, on the other hand, REALLY chews the scenery and has a whale of a time playing the evil Dr. T. He's WAY too over the top but he's lots of fun.This was a bomb when it was released and was trashed by critics. It's easy to see why--this was WAY ahead of its time. Well worth catching. I think this is a perfect movie for adults AND children. This should be rediscovered. An 8 all the way. "},{"Title":"The piano teacher from hell","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Theodore Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, the wonderful writer of children's books, wrote the story in which this movie is based on. Allan Scott translated it for the screen and Roy Rowland directed the gorgeous Technicolor production that was shown recently on cable. This 1953 film relied on the use of color, which still shows crisp and sharp, something that other films using the technique didn't achieve.The story reminds us a bit of The Wizard of Oz, since it involves the vivid imagination of a young boy who is terrorized by his piano teacher. Since Bartholomew Collins doesn't have a father, his mother is the most important figure in his young life, until August Zabladowski, the best plummer in town, comes to the rescue and becomes a male role figure in the young boy's eyes.The musical numbers, while not magnificent in comparison to MGM standards, are still well staged and the music by Frederick Hollander is tuneful to the ears. The amazing color cinematography by Franz Ploner gave this movie a great look and Al Clark's editing helped the story immensely.The principals in the film do good work under Mr. Rowland's direction. The sweet looking Tommy Rettig, wearing his saddle shoes and beanie, steals the heart of the viewer with his earnest approach to the role of Bartholomew. Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy are seen as Mr. Zabladowski, and Mrs. Collins. Hans Conried's villainous Dr. T is one of the best assets of the film.The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T is rarely seen these days, but it's worth a viewing for the sheer pleasure of the use of color and Dr. Seuss' wonderful timeless story. "},{"Title":"So campy it's cool","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I showed this film to my high school music appreciation class at the end of the semester and it was the one time they were absolutely silent and attentive. I told them that the film was somewhat bizarre and they just ate it up. I think young people who enjoy the films of Tim Burton and the Monty Python troupe would get a kick out of it. Younger children seem to enjoy it too as my kids at home have watched it several times.An enjoyable musical fantasy that is not too far removed from The Wizard of Oz in its look and style. Hans Conreid is a standout as the hilariously evil Dr. Terwilliger, the mad piano teacher. The dance of the instruments and The Dungeon Song are musical highlights from this Technicolor classic. "},{"Title":"A Dream of a Nightmare","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Young Bart Collins (Tommy Rettig) has only one enemy in the world. It is his piano teacher Professor Terwilliker (Hans Conried). The creator of the Terwilliker Method of learning the piano and well-known racketeer obviously has Bart's widowed mother (Mary Healy) buffaloed. Why else would she want Bart chained to the piano for the rest of his days? He can't even get sympathy from his friend Mr. Zbladowski (Peter Lind Hayes), the plumber.Out of Bart's fear and longing we are plunged into a nightmare that could only have come from the mind of the film's writer, Dr. Seuss. Fantastic and strange sets, incredible eye-filling use of Technicolor, plus fun and moving songs take us on a wild journey. A unique and totally winning movie experience. "}{"Title":"a truly bizarre experience","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" The rich imagination of Dr. Seuss and the suburban daydreams of the early 1950s combine to make this one-of-a-kind musical fantasy more than just a perverse novelty item rarely has a film captured so well the unique perspective and peculiar logic of childhood. Kids will no doubt identify with the young hero, an unhappy piano student who dreams of liberating, with the help of a handsome plumber, 500 boys held captive at the mile long keyboard of his maniacal music tutor, Dr. Terwillicker (played by Mr. Fractured Flickers, Hans Conreid). But only adults will appreciate the shear strangeness of it all the surrealistic architecture; the outrageous and colorful costume designs; and the improbable song and dance numbers, with nonsensical lyrics only Dr. Seuss could have written. At times it almost resembles a nightmare vision of child anxiety, but the passing years improve the film by restoring to it the innocence of the age in which it was made. "},{"Title":"A celebration of the child","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" There are two writers of in the English Language who advocated for the youngest of readers and celebrated the power of imagination above any other Dr. Seuss and Roald Dahl. While Seuss penned the 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T, the story reminds me more of Roald Dahl, clearly depicting the children overpowering the adults and putting the characters in rather horrifying situations (Case in point, as our young hero fears being punished by playing the drum forever, Dr. T corrects him by noting the man being punished is IN the drum).But if the story is reminiscent of anything, it's something like the Wizard of Oz in the mind of a young child. The imaginary world (or is it real, in a way?) draws parallels to the real world, while Bart deals with his overbearing piano teacher and a mother who seems all too agreeable with the piano teacher. It sounds like a child development case study, but this is way more fun. The story isn't nearly as poetic as OZ, but it's full of those gentle Seuss touches, such as puns, nonsense words, and a few memorable songs.But if there's any failures in the film, the look of the film makes up for it. Forget the Grinch and Cat in the Hat. If Dr. Seuss was to be translated into live action, this is what it'd look like. It looks like a simple Seuss world lifted from his books. The children's hats and the many abstract but colorful set pieces aren't scary or disturbing, but rather, dreamlike and imaginative. Neeless to say, for 1953, it's a strange looking movie and it could be easy to dismiss it.The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T is worth a look, especially among Seuss fans. It's also an amazing visual achievement for its time. I wouldn't consider it classic Seuss or even classic cinema, necessarily, but it should strike some joyful curiosity among cinephiles and Seuss fans alike. "},{"Title":"A creative, colorful, surreal musical nightmare","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" As I grew up taking piano lessons, I can remember times when I attributed all sorts of evil motives to my kindly (but task-masterly) piano teacher. Dr. Seuss must have had a similar experience, because he created the perfect piano student's nightmare of oppression by and ultimate revenge on the musical establishment.What struck me the most about seeing this film (after about a 30-year gap) was the brilliance of color big swatches of primary colors and every shade in between. And if you're a fan of Dr. Seuss's illustrations, you will love the sets which seem like the pop-up book version of his surreal landscapes. This film delights the eyes with mind-boggling props and Daliesque sets which Fritz Lang would have loved.Tommy Rettig is a child actor with just the right amount of cuteness factor to make him watchable without being unbearable. And Hans Conreid (here in his mid-30s) steals the show with his bombastic delivery and expressive face.Some of the songs drag on a bit too long, but all in all this is a delight to watch for pianists of all ages. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, truly unique film - excellent new DVD","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I've been familiar with this relatively obscure film for quite a few years, and while I am not familiar with the various VHS versions of it, I have had the laserdisc version for at least a decade, or more.  The new DVD release is amazingly superior to that edition in picture quality, in terms of definition, color and contrast.  Even the darkest, shadowy portions of the picture are rendered in sharp detail in the DVD, whereas those areas in the laserdisc picture are just an indistinct, dark grey blur.  The colors are stable and vibrant, as well.  All this helps tremendously in presenting the vivid imagery of this film to best effect.  If you have any regard for this film, you really should have this edition.I can't add much to the accolades already posted for this fascinating, and genuinely unique, work of pure imagination.  I've never seen a bad review of it.  I might only make another mention of the hilarious `dressing-up' song that Hans Conried performs near the end of the film.  Much comment has been made about the items Dr. T calls for in the lyrics (`undulating undies,' `purple nylon girdle,' `peek-a-boo blouse,' etc.).  However, it should be pointed out to those yet unfamiliar with this film that these items bear no relation to the outfit in which he is actually being dressed, which is a cartoonishly-exaggerated drum major uniform.  I guess you couldn't do THAT in 1953, at least not in such a mainstream venue.  Those sophisticated enough to get the joke will get it, though, and the rest will find it strange, but amusing.  My point is that despite all the bizarre and subversive attributes people have seen and commented on in this film, it is very much of its time in style, and decidedly family-friendly viewing. Anyone with a fondness for `Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory' should appreciate this, and I'm not sure it isn't superior to that film in style, wit, and pure imaginative pizzaz.  "},{"Title":"Top notch nightmarish children's fantasy.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" With a title like this I was expecting a gloriously cheap and trashy sci-fi or horror film - my initial disappointment on finding that it was a children's musical fantasy was quickly forgotten.'The 5000 Fingers of Dr T' is based on a story by Dr Seuss, who gets a co-writers credit, and produced by Stanley Kramer. It is a wonderfully inventive, well made fantasy film with great subversive undertones - fans of 'Charlie & the Chocolate Factory' should lap it up.Tommy Rettig (later in TV's 'Lassie' series) plays Bart, the child hero, who finds himself trapped in the castle of Dr Terwilliker where a huge piano is played by 500 other kidnapped boys - hence the 5000 fingers.The film features wonderfully bizarre sets, freakish minor characters ( not unlike 'The Wizard of Oz' ), and musical numbers and dance routines which keep the narrative flowing smoothly.I really cannot praise this film enough - it is a delight from start to finish and with the renewed interest in Dr Seuss generated by Jim Carrey's turn in 'How the Grinch Stole Christmas', 'Dr T' may start to garner some of the attention it deserves. "},{"Title":"A see-it-again-and-again classic.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  '5,000 Fingers' deserves all the accolades you see here and elsewhere.It's a sumptuous visual banquet, including top-notch music with wry lyrics. (One tune, 'Dream Stuff', slows things down somewhat but, like Somewhere Over The Rainbow in The Wizard of Oz, I'm glad it's there, though today's kids will squirm.) Hans Conried is a hoot, as always. Mary Healy is gorgeous, the epitome of feminine class, and this is an all-too-rare chance to witness her flawless diction and singing/dancing grace. Peter Lind Hayes' talents likewise should have been seen more during his prime. Tommy Rettig seems a bit uncomfortable at times, but it all comes off well. The ongoing Daliesque surrealism is a knockout. You'll replay the film just to wallow in the expressionistic sets and to memorize the Dr. Seuss lyrics. 5,000 Fingers should have been a multiple Award winner; it's that great.      "},{"Title":"An Intriguing artifact of the 1950s","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T is one of those anomalous films that result when one takes the style of a brilliant illustrator and translate it to live action. All sorts of psychological concerns not so evident in the illustrated, cartoon work of Dr. Seuss become more readily apparent when live actors are substituted for cartoon characters. For example, the lack of a father figure for a young boy and the resultant feelings of loss and loneliness are very strongly expressed in this work. Young Bart's father has died prior to the start of the film and the discipline of Doctor Terwilliger's piano practice methods seems to serve Bart's mother as a means of providing the masculine element missing in Bart's life.The problem is that Dr. Terwilliger's take on masculinity, as the film makes abundantly clear, is rooted in megalomania and, worse, has strong suggestions of sexual perversion. Many commentators have pointed out Dr. Terwilliger's obvious gay affect. Remember, this film, as an artifact of the 1950s, would not have viewed this sexual preference favorably. Mr. Zablodowski, the plumber, is presented as the representative of so-called normal sexuality, i.e., heterosexuality.I suspect Dr. Terwilliger's gayness stems from American ambivalence about high culture. On one hand, Bart's mother sees merit in his practicing the piano. Even Mr. Zablodowski concurs with that at one point in the film. On the other, there is the suspicion underlying this film that anyone committed to a career in high art, has to be bent sexually. (This was graphically shown in a recent episode of the police drama, Law and Order, Special Victims Unit, where a piano teacher was a predatory pedophile. The allure of high art was that piano teacher's bait to catch children for sexual purposes.) Dr. Terwilliger embodies these suspicions and anxieties. Clearly, as flamboyantly unpleasant as Dr. Terwilliger is, parents send their children to him to introduce them to high art. Yet, it is up to Bart to liberate the children from Dr. Terwilliger's hold.It's an ironic position On one hand, the film argues that kids should be kids and do kid things like run with their dog and play ball and look up to salt-of-the-earth men like the local plumber, Mr. Zablodowski. On the other hand, very real artistry went into the depiction of Dr. Terwilliger's institute as well as the songs that served to bolster the story. So, art is desired yet deprecated. Like I said, an intriguing artifact of the 1950s. "},{"Title":"Too Weird, But the Actors are Good","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I simply can't warm to this movie - it's just too self-consciously weird. Maybe it's supposed to look like a living cartoon, but it comes across more like a trip through the Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. The comment in the NY Times TV listing for this movie is that it is Freudian, and I have to agree. There is just so much symbolism stuffed into this that it's easy to interpret it in just about any way you care to, including old-fashioned Freudian psychology, which would have probably been the interpretation of choice when this movie was released in 1953. As I watched it recently, I remembered the rumor that Dr. Seuss did not really like children, and I think this film bears that out. It is a fantasy of adult cruelty toward children which is executed with great relish. The word that comes to mind to me to describe this movie is sour. (Another would be overstuffed.) Nevertheless, many of the actors whom I liked very much in my youth are in this movie, notably Tommy Rettig and Hans Conried. Rettig was a very talented performer who never really got a chance to be anything more than a child actor. I remember Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy from a television morning talk show that was broadcast in New York City in the 1950s. And the fabulous, flamboyant Conried - I just loved him. In this movie he gives an over-the-top performance which is fitting under the circumstances (he is imitating John Barrymore's way of speaking, a voice Conried used often, especially when doing cartoon characters). However, the character is rather nasty, and would probably be frightening to children, as every good villain should be. But look, folks, I'm sorry -- the homosexual inference of many of the characters is far from subtle, in fact I'd say it's inescapable, and the anti-gay bias of the authors of this film is unmistakable.Reservations aside, I would say that this movie is worth a look, if only for the strangeness of it, and to see the remarkable performance of Hans Conried. Incidentally, I'd like to comment on another comment made about Tommy Rettig's lovely singing voice. I seriously doubt that a boy that age could sing like that. The voice has definite adult qualities - a boy soprano wouldn't have that kind of vibrato in his voice. I think if you listen more carefully, you will hear that the singer is a woman who has been dubbed in to sound like a little boy. Nevertheless, Rettig was such a natural performer that it does indeed seem as though he is the one singing. "},{"Title":"My mom took me to see this in 1953.","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I haven't seen it since but here is what I remember. I knew all the Dr. Seuss books by heart (I could read). I was taking piano lessons from our Protestant minister's wife who resembled Hans Conreid. My mom and I went on the bus to a large, metropolitan movie palace and we were well dressed. We watched the entire movie and then went home on the bus. Hans Conreid was always one of my favorites and even more recognizable as a voice. Lassie was a fixture later on our home TV. I don't think the movie had any real effect on me except that the books and my dreams were a lot better. I listened to radio every night as a child. I sometimes dreamed in black and white like most of the movies I saw as a child. I remember many of the scenes described in the written reviews and trailers. I'll see it again sometime. I'll let you know. "},{"Title":"By far the best of the feature length films based on the work of Dr Seuss","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" And to me that's saying quite a lot. Horton Hears a Who was surprisingly good, The Grinch I thought was better than its rep but I liked it more when I was 10 than I do now(the animated version is a classic though) and Cat in the Hat was an abomination. I did think that Dr Seuss worked better as shorts/short films, somewhat being too thin structurally for feature lengths.The 5000 Fingers of Dr T proved me wrong. It is a visually dazzling movie, with inventive cinematography, brightly coloured costumes and stunning sets and backdrops. The music and songs range from plaintive(Because We're Kids), to hilarious(the Dressing Song) to bizarre(the Dungeon Dance) and I love the witty lyrics and the melodies delightful whether crazy or not. The 100 Pianos rendition is wonderful.Choregraphically, particularly with the Dungeon Dance, it is all very spirited. The script is full of funny and scary moments, with the wit of Dr Seuss still evident, and while the story is nightmarish at times and wonderfully surreal, it is always incredibly imaginative too. The characters intrigue, with the disturbing Dr T most memorable, and the acting is great.Tommy Rettig is appealing, as are Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy, but it is the marvellous titular-role performance of Hans Conreid that dominates the film. All in all, a great film and by far the best of the feature films based on Dr Seuss' stories. 10/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Bart's Adventure in the Piano Prison","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I had no clue whatsoever that Dr. Zeuss wrote a movie. So as soon as I did discover this, I was on this faster than a Skooskimmer being chased by a Waffsteiner on Falgoom Roots! Besides a tad too many musical numbers, I was really entertained by this one of a kind film.The film follows a young boy named Bart who's under the tutelage of the uber-obsessed piano teacher, Dr. Terwilliker. Bart, over-practiced by the mad Dr., eventually succumbs to the Sandman's wishes and falls asleep. Once asleep he enters a world where Dr. T (for short) is even more obsessed with the piano and even more evil. (Though not as evil as the spindly Kratch Creature from Lissen Lake.....but you knew that already) He's trapped in this world where Dr. T runs a soon-to-open Piano School where children will play piano forever. Foooreeeverrr. (Sandlot anyone?) Besides that, he even has Bart's beautiful Mom under his hypnotic spell whom is being forced to assist the malicious Dr. T with the opening of the school. With the assistance of the dancing, singing plumber Mr. Zabladowski, Bart may have a chance of escaping the piano prison and saving his Mom. But with henchmen lurking around all corners, that may be easier said than done. It's kinda like saying that the minuscule Yogagoya has the ability to out-eat the massive Barvenheimer. Which is pretty much impossible! The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T was a fantastic film visually. It had great, imaginative sets that truly show-cased the mind of Seuss. It makes it especially eye-opening that this was all done over 50 years ago. The acting was fun and over-the-top. The writing was vibrant and colorful just like a Seuss book. And the music was unique, which fit the visuals almost perfectly.I'm not the biggest fan of musicals, but when they show imagination, and are made by the main man himself, it's almost impossible to not be slightly entertained by this lil' wonder of a flick. Yet, I still thought the movie would have benefited more if there were less musical numbers. Nevertheless, they were there, and they were all done very, very well. So, it's easy to say if you enjoy musicals, definitely give this a shot. And even if ya don't, I know ya like Dr. Seuss, so you should be seeing this flick anyways. That is, if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This film was released the year I was born. I lived in lots of different countries (due to my parents being in the British Army) and I can't remember when I first saw it but I do know that I liked it. I suspect it might have even been in the 70's or 80's. It is such a bizarre film (one memory that sticks in my mind is always the hat the boy wore!!).In England it doesn't get shown very often (shame) and when I finally got a video recorder I taped it. I want to get a copy of it on DVD but it looks like the only copies available are American (region 1) versions which don't play on European (region 2) players.I really like weird, bizarre films and this definitely falls into that category. I never saw it when I was a child. Now as an adult I really can't imagine what it must have been like to have seen it as one.The sets are amazing, the colours are fantastic and I can see why people on here have compared it to The Wizard of Oz. But 5,000 FDT is a much darker film in my opinion.If you have never seen this film I would recommend you do. I don't know how often it gets shown in its home country or overseas but it's well worth looking out for. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully surreal and campy children's films, a personal favorite of mine","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This is probably my favorite live-action children's film. Sure, its not the most well-made or the most memorable, but I find myself viewing this one more than either The Wizard of Oz or Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory combined. The reason is that, more so than the previously mentioned films, this is one seriously bizarre film, even bordering on deranged at times. The sets look like something out of Dali or a Technicolor remake of Dr. Caligari. They're surreal and have Dr. Suess stamped all over them. Also, for fans of the good doctor such as myself, this provides much enjoyment even if he hated the film himself. Hans Conried may have been a one-note actor, but hes entertaining often. Fans of him will be in heaven. This is simply 50s camp at its finest.My only complaint are the songs. I'm not a fan of musicals so maybe I'm slightly biased but everyone seems to agree with me - the songs are absolutely horrible. They're like nails on the chalkboard. As much as I love the rest of the film, I couldn't wait for the songs to end with. They seem to go on for eternity and are very distracting. Fortunately, the rest of the film is so surreal I can put up with them. The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T is a true cult classic and an unjustly overlooked film. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm just a nostalgia freak, but . . .","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I remember this film for Tommy Rettig's singing voice and I watch it whenever I see it is being shown just to hear him sing again. I wonder why more wasn't made of his singing ability. I had never heard a child sing with a more melodic voice; it was such a surprise to hear him sing for the first time in this movie. I am hoping to find the songs he sang in this movie and more of his singing available for download. What a loss! I am not a movie aficionado, but I thought that this movie has quite an engaging story and was a quality production for it's day and especially for being a child's film. I highly recommend this movie for adults as well as children, especially adults who have a memory of Tommy on the Lassie TV series. "},{"Title":"Under-rated fantasy","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  This movie was practically unnoticed upon its initial release, and there's not a whole lot more awareness of it today.  It deserves wider recognition. It's the only original non-animated film from the fertile mind of Dr. Seuss. Despite the studio clamping down on the budget (causing Seuss to walk out on the project for a time), it does a remarkable job of creating a live-action equivalent of the worlds created on the pages of Seuss' books. Hans Conried (whose voice would crop up in several Seuss cartoons later) has the best role of his career as the maniacal Dr. Terwilliker, and Tommy Rettig (from the Lassie TV series) gives a sympathetic portrayal as put-upon young Bart.  But the real stars of the film are the production designers and choreographer Eugene Loring.  The latter's contributions are especially impressive in the opening chase sequence and in the dungeon production number.  The songs aren't much to speak of, but everything else about the film is first-rate. "},{"Title":"A visual and aural delight for kids and a sociology lesson for adults.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This musical-fantasy-adventure is certainly indebted to The Wizard of Oz but goes far beyond the yellow brick road. The dialogue, co-written by Dr. Seuss, is full of spoonerisms(hot oiling boil) and suessisms(insightful paradoxes like You talk a lot but I don't know how much you say/ If children had their way,parents wouldn't be born at all/ People should always believe kids. They should even believe their lies) That many of the themes in the film are pro-child should be no big surprise coming from the master of KidLit. The theme of social conformity is wrong is narrowed down to the theme that the social conformity of public school is wrong. The nemesis, Dr. T, is basically a school teacher and his institute, which his henchmen called the Poison Ivy league school, is an allegory of modern schools, a place where children are forced together to do the same work at the same time in the same room as 500 or so other children, a place where kids like Bartholemew Collins are alienated from their parents, a place where they are hypnotized into being part of the big system. The plumber August Zabladowski, who represents the work force, tells evil Dr. T that I am not a cog... I am an independent contractor. This film was made in the 1950s when the word Atomic is enough to scare anyone into submission(The film's deux ex machina does exactly that). It was also made during the Joseph McCarthy era which might explain why this well crafted parable was never given the credit or popularity it deserved. Had Dr. Seuss been blacklisted for this film, his idealogy would still live on through his Kiderature. "},{"Title":"weird, wild, structurally interesting","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  It's a wild, weird, surreal, visually and verbally fascinating film that cannot be compared to any other movie I can think of. One thing I found interesting, and this is where it gets a lot of its flavour, is the multiple levels of abstraction.  This is- a Dr. Seuss version of- a dream, from- a child's viewpoint, told as- a 1950's Technicolor musical. "},{"Title":"Gloriously insane","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Stanley Kramer, just coming off the success of High Noon, took a real turn with this one- of-a-kind children's musical fantasy co-written by Dr. Seuss and directed by the personality-free Roy Rowland, but Seuss seems to be the real auteur. Mostly the dream of a fatherless kid (Tommy Rettig, and he's fine) tormented by his overbearing piano teacher (Hans Conreid), it's staged on startling, angular, huge sets and filmed in saturated Technicolor the likes of which we'll never see again. More genuinely spooky and subversive than most studio kids' fare, it failed in its first release, but kids are said to have liked it--I wonder if its anti-authoritarian message at the height of the McCarthy era made parents nervous. The songs, by Seuss and Frederick Hollander, are a mixed bag, but there's one pip, Conreid's Do-Mi-Do Day, a list song with wordplay worthy of Cole Porter. A long dream ballet is intriguingly out of place, there's inexplicable homoeroticism (what are all these bare-chested guys doing in Tommy Rettig's dream?), and the B cast is actually more functional than bigger names might have been Think of the off-putting associations we'd have brought to it if it were, say, Gene Kelly, Ginger Rogers, and Louis Calhern instead of Peter Lind Hayes, Mary Healy, and Hans Conreid. Another remarkable touch Rettig's song, Just Because We're Kids, a real plea for children's rights in a society that tended to suppress them. It drags a little, then ends abruptly, but there's no other movie like this. "},{"Title":"Dr. Seuss Gives Moving Pictures a Bart Attack","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Troubled ten-year-old Tommy Rettig (as Bart Collins) isn't getting enough sleep. Consequently, young Rettig has bad daydreams, especially during practice sessions with priggish piano man Hans Conried (as Dr. Terwilliker). Rettig tells his instructor, I don't think the piano's my instrument. Obviously, Rettig should be out playing baseball. The boy also believes the dictatorial Mr. Conried may have mother Mary Healy (as Heloise Collins) under some sort of spell - and, may even be planning to marry her, thus replacing Rettig's deceased father. Rettig would rather have his mother marry the plumber, Peter Lind Hayes (as August Zabladowski).Director Roy Rowland and the Stanley Kramer production team keep things interesting, as they plunge Rettig into a nightmarish fantasy world. The film's garish, colorful sets and costumes are very nicely done - and they are imaginatively connected to Rettig's hopes and fears. The influence of writer Dr. Seuss is everywhere; it's too bad the film was not a hit, since Seuss' material works well in the live action format.Rettig is able to carry the film, with an endearing, sincere performance; he is directed well, and happily refuses to be cloying. Conried's character is more cross (and daffy) than menacing; he is a delightful entertainer - yet, there is no deep emotional connection to his Dr. Terwilliker. He is detestable simply for being a piano taskmaster. The film's other characters are rather bland. The musical score is great, but the soundtrack lacks strong individual songs.This film might have helped Rettig win his role as Jeff on Lassie, a part he played superbly, until giving the collie to Jon Provost's Timmy (one of 1950s television's most memorable moments). The immediate popular and critical success made Rettig one of TV's earliest superstars. And, Conried's Terwilliker may have been a precursor for his semi-regular role of Uncle Tonoose on Make Room for Daddy - et cetera! et cetera! ...et cetera!******* The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T. (6/19/53) Roy Rowland ~ Tommy Rettig, Hans Conried, Peter Lind Hayes "},{"Title":"Dennis the Menace meets Dr. Caligari in Oz...","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Alright, this isn't great film, but it's an amazing film for the 50s, and for a kids' film of that era.I saw this in the early 60s, and it's haunted me ever since. I couldn't find anyone else that remembered the movie with the kid wearing a beanie with a hand sticking out the top, and the huge, curved piano, Hans Conried, and the kooky set design. (oh, and don't forget the twin men with the connected beard---on roller skates!?!)It took a long time to discover even what the title was. Thank goodness for the internet. I got a copy of the film a few years ago, and have watched it a few times since. It's a quirky movie. Kind of a kids movie with a set design by the guy that did the Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. This is sort of the 1950s' answer to the Wizard of Oz.Watching this transports me back to an age where they actually said things like darn, simmer down, holy gosh, and a man could hug a boy, not his own, without a raised eyebrow.Actually, watching it on TV tonight, I only just noticed that strangely, out of a huge cast of extras, there seems to be only one female--the kid's mother. That is kind of odd...I honestly can't be objective about this movie, but I think it should be seen by Dr. Seuss fans, and fans of 50s stuff. "}{"Title":"Child sociologists take note!","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This film is amazing, in terms of the sociology of the 1950s family here in revealed. It's all right out of Max Horkheimer (Authority and the Family) and Talcott Parsons (Social Structure of the Family), both of whose essays you can find in Ruth Anshen, ed. THE FAMILY. We have the mother-housewife, assuming the role of both nurturing parent and disciplinarian (the father has died here in this film, though in many, many families, he was instead away at work, as Parsons and Horkheimer lament). In the boy's fantasy, his piano teacher, Dr. T., becomes the embodiment of a greedy, technologically glutted corporate America, pulling Mom's and Dad's strings. Mom (Heloise Collins, played by Mary Healy) is wearing a costume that has must be seen to be believed--she's split right down the middle, corporate masculine vs. evening gown party girl feminine. Then there's of course the very interesting songs, the best of which is when little Bart pleads for adults to understand children. "},{"Title":"Gotta love Hans ...","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" as the wicked Dr. T.! I wish I could find and see this flick again. Haven't seen it for more decades then i'd like to admit...but I remember it well, considering all of the damage done during the years in between and now! the scene that sticks with me though - above all others, is the guy in the drum! Man, what an image that was! hope that's not a spoiler. Nah, has nothing to do with the plot or storyline...just one of the many interesting, bizarre and well done visuals in this movie. But, hands down (pun intended) Hans steals the show just as he does all of those little fingers. Don't ask why.. its great entertainment and that's enough! I think that any one that studied music, specifically the piano, can relate on some level with this movie - in fact - even if you didn't - you can still see the kid's point of view of music lessons being a bit of a nightmare. Which is my personal view on the psychology behind this film. It makes the reality of music lessons so nonthreatening that if you had been dreading yours you could laugh it off now as being at least not so bad as this kid's had been. "},{"Title":"Just when you think you have seen every movie","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  This was an enjoyable film.  I couldn't help but wonder if it had an influence on other films.  It almost seems a bridge film, with it positioned between The Wizard of Oz and Willy Wonka.You would think just for the title alone the film would be known, but I just discovered it the other day and I have been watching films for 40 years.Hans Conried performance makes you wish he had been given even more work as a lead.  He is an Anti-Danny Kaye type.  Same abilities, same range, but made for bad guy roles.His work as Snidely Whiplash to this day remains among the very funniest of any animation.  This film showcases him as well it should.The other actors, including Lassie's best friend frankly seem to be more for background than anything else.The music could have been a bit better as well.  If the producers didn't use some of the folks who worked on the aforementioned Danny Kaye movies, they should have.All in all, this movie will kill some time on a rainy afternoon perfectly. "},{"Title":"One of the best live-action children's films ever made","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  What a wonderful and beautiful movie! It was a failure when it was first released, so it's about time that it was rediscovered by the whole world. Only a couple of other live-action children's films are better. This ought to be considered next to The Wizard of Oz and Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. It's about a boy who is forced to take piano lessons and hates it. When he falls asleep, he dreams that his piano teacher is an evil villain hypnotizing mothers across the country to make their kids take piano lessons. The film is stuffed to the brim with outrageous colors, great sets (that look exactly like Dr. Seuss' books), good performances, and wonderful songs. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Could 5000 Fingers... be bad for your kids?","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I found the comment below of `xenophil' interesting and provocative, and would not necessarily argue with much of it.  While the old-fashioned stereotyping is apparent to me, I'm not bothered by it to the point of calling the film `repulsive.'  To me, the film reflects middle-American attitudes that were common in its day, and are not unknown now, either.  Some modern film villains are a bit fey, to say the least.  For me, one of the great examples of the un-manly sort of movie villain with an artistic bent is Peter Usinov's portrayal of Nero in `Quo Vadis.'  It's great fun to watch.  But regardless of whether your ideology is right or wrong, if you feel it strongly enough, it'll inevitably spoil some of life's pleasures for you.Supposedly we're all adults at this site, and can withstand a bit of outrage.  I would hope, also, that a true film-lover can see outdated attitudes of older films in context as a product of their times, and still appreciate what makes the films good, great, fascinating, artistically or socially significant, or just plain fun.  But as this is considered a kids' film, it may be appropriate to ask if the old-fashioned male/female, or straight/gay stereotyping of this film is likely to affect a character that's still in the process of formation.  It's fashionable these days to ask this question about modern entertainment, but how about older entertainment, the kind that the usual askers of this question hold up as the paragon?  Does `The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T' demonstrate to children that art and high culture are inherently evil and `queer,' while things like baseball, plumbing, and violence are the stuff of heroes -- or at the very least, normality?I wish I had a definitive answer to show off with here, but I don't really have what I'd call an `informed opinion.'  Talk is, after all, cheap.  But the comments by `xenophil' certainly made me think about it, for which I thank him or her.  I still love this film, and find it great fun to watch, but I can now see yet another facet of it.  To me, that's one of the great things about the IMDb, and why I love to read it and contribute to it.  "},{"Title":"Misleading Title  This isn't a sci-fi flick","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  It was only by chance that I ever even heard of this movie.  I was listening to a show called Over the Edge on Pacifica radio and heard some really cool snippets of songs from the movie.  I looked the title up here on the IMDB and ordered it right away.How can I begin to describe how cool this movie is.  Each character is a delight.  Bart Collins is a little boy who knows exactly what he's doing. You have to see how goofy he looks when he runs around, especially in his official Terwilliker beanie.  The plumber, Mr. Zabladowski is humorously cynical yet easily taken in.  Bart's mom is hilarious as the easily hypnotized captive of Dr. T.(The work for the happy fingers method must go on.)  And who can forget the choreographer of chaos, the conductor of cruelty, the lyricist of leers, the pianist de resistance, Dr. Terwilliker himself.  Forget all the Disney villains, the wicked witch of the west, etcetera, etcetera.  This guy is just soooo deliciously evil.  Did Dr. Seuss even notice what a queen this guy is.  I mean he's got his own crew of men to dress him in what he himself confesses in a blouse, a bodice, undulating undies, and what not.  The entire musical sequence that takes place in the non-piano-playing musicians dungeon resembles a bacchanalian orgy. (Sometimes a trombone is just a trombone)  Dr. T even asks the plumber to dance.Don't forget the set.  It is a seemingly endless labyrinth of stairways, hallways, and passages.  There's 50 searchlights, destinationless ladders, electrified fence.  Something of a cross between Disneyland's Castle and a death camp.The only qualm I have is that the ending is somewhat of a cop-out.  The whole group of 500 kids should have played the happy fingers song at least once.If you want to see an extremely imaginative, subversive, extremely freudian movie this is your ultimate goal.Does anyone know why or if a verse in the dungeon elevator song about the household appliances (scalping devices) was omitted?  I would also like to know if there is a soundtrack out there somewhere. "},{"Title":"Korean War Allegory","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This film is certainly an allegory on the Korean War--missing Dad likely killed in action; communistic brainwashing by the Terwillker Institute; etc.This is one of my all-time favorite films; can't add much beyond this to what already is written in comments from others. This film brilliantly touches on a number of phobias of the time, including atomic war.Nearly all of the musical numbers are fantastic, there are a couple of slow ones that don't add much (Dream Stuff for example) and bog down the film. It would have been better to leave this out--anything to shorten the film would have made it more kid-friendly. "},{"Title":"how to hallucinate without drugs","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This movie was a huge flop when it was released. It didn't even make its print costs back, and embittered Theodore Seuss Geisel, who had a screen writing credit, so much that he never permitted another live action movie to be made based on his work while he lived. Now a true cult classic with dedicated websites, this is a bizarre combination of kiddie movie and nightmare musical, with elaborate dream scape sets and overt Freudian themes.Its running time is long enough to lose younger viewers. Tommy Rettig is not your usual child star; he is very direct and expressive. SPOILER ALERT Also notable for Hans Conried's flaming performance as an evil, gay piano teacher who kidnaps 500 boys so he can force them AT GUNPOINT to play his masterpiece on an enormous piano while wearing blue beanies with a yellow hand on top and the words happy fingers on the front. It's Atomic! Even weirder than it sounds. The movie is so imaginative, and so far beyond anything else made up till then, that it looks like people involved with the movie had experimented with hallucinogens. Not that that's a bad thing. Now I want one of those beanies, which come up for sale on ebay now and then. BC "},{"Title":"Cockeyed Flumdummery","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Impeccably inverted Masterpiece that could be the most unseen, unadulterated, unsung, great Movies ever. It was an Atomic Bomb at the box office and with critics and as such was swept away by indifference, fear, and misunderstanding in the cookie-cutter 1950's.The expressionistic sets and the Dr. Seuss dialog and songs are fluffy and frightening, bizarre and beautiful. There is a whimsical way about it and yet it is a scathing psychological and sociological indictment on conformity, highbrow Arts (look what all the supposed high minded purveyors of culture tried to do to Comic Books and Rock and Roll), the educational system, and totalitarianism.Quite a lot of deep stuff for Kids, but the best of it (The Wizard of Oz, Willy Wonka) are just that. Layers of concern and empathy for the plight and suppressed nature of us all from the lack of individualism manifested by a xenophobic, ultra-conservative culture.This is a surreal, colorful, playful, experience and all of that subtext can be ignored and overlooked as this Movie is wonderful on the surface as an offbeat Musical/Comedy/Fantasy that has been unjustly ignored and forgotten. This is one of the best Films of the 1950's and can also, arguably, be mentioned as one of the best Films of all time. "},{"Title":"It's The Wizard of Oz with a futuristic twist!","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" To be honest, I think this movie is absolutely great! After all, Dr. Seuss did write the story of this movie. Bartholomew Collins has a dream that Dr. Terwilliker is going to force 500 young boys to play his gigantic piano (500 boys X 10 fingers= 5,000 Fingers, hence the title). Even Bart's mom, Mrs. Eloise Collins, approved the whole thing! (Actually she is hopelessly hypnotized by the evil piano tutor) Bart then befriends a plumber named August Zabladowsky and must escape the Terwilliker Institute with Bart's mom and the other 499 boys from Dr. Terwilliker and his henchmen, Sergeant Lunk and the Siamese Twin Guards, Judson and Whitney. Starring Tommy Rettig as Bartholomew Collins, Hans Conreid(yes, this is the guy who voiced Captain Hook in Peter Pan, The Grinch in Grinch Night and Thorin Oakensheild in the hobbit) as Dr. Terwilliker(hence his name Dr. T in the title), Peter Lynn Hayes as August Zabladowsky, Mary Healy as Mrs. Eloise Collins, the Heasly Bros, Jack, John and Robert, as The Siamese Twin Guards, and Noel Cravat as Sergeant Lunk with George Chakiris as one of the dancers, Tony Butala and Kim Charney as the boy piano players, Herny Kulky as Stroogo, Alan Aric as the singing elevator operator, and Diki Lerner as one of the jailed dancers. A musical story with wondrous landscape, original music and excellent choreography and dancing.10/10 stars "}{"Title":"A creative, colorful, surreal musical nightmare","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" As I grew up taking piano lessons, I can remember times when I attributed all sorts of evil motives to my kindly (but task-masterly) piano teacher. Dr. Seuss must have had a similar experience, because he created the perfect piano student's nightmare of oppression by and ultimate revenge on the musical establishment.What struck me the most about seeing this film (after about a 30-year gap) was the brilliance of color big swatches of primary colors and every shade in between. And if you're a fan of Dr. Seuss's illustrations, you will love the sets which seem like the pop-up book version of his surreal landscapes. This film delights the eyes with mind-boggling props and Daliesque sets which Fritz Lang would have loved.Tommy Rettig is a child actor with just the right amount of cuteness factor to make him watchable without being unbearable. And Hans Conreid (here in his mid-30s) steals the show with his bombastic delivery and expressive face.Some of the songs drag on a bit too long, but all in all this is a delight to watch for pianists of all ages. "},{"Title":"Best at being bad","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I can see why this film would attract a cult following, and most of the musical/dance numbers are indeed very good. But I ended up not actually liking it that much, precisely because it is so recognisably reminiscent of the mindset of a certain type of small boy whom I have disliked from the days of Just William onwards -- music, poetry, reading, keeping to the rules and all that sissy girly stuff are Bad sport, fishing, practical jokes and shaggy dogs are Good, and anyone interested in the former can only be doing so for deeply suspicious motives. As for the very unsubtle plot about Bart trying to pair off his mother with what he sees as a new father figure, it just makes me cringe. This is an accurate wish-fulfilment fantasy of a nine-year-old, but what I find alienating is that it's played to the audience at face value; I suspect that I personally might have preferred Dr Seuss's original scripting of the plumber as an elderly man to be played by Karl Malden.My other problem with the film was that the excellent Hans Conreid totally steals the show from the other characters -- particularly noticeable when he and the generic blue-collar hero Peter Lind Hayes share screen time, with the latter virtually vanishing into bland nonentity. By the big escape scene I realised, with a jolt, that as a result I was actually on the side of the villain and was thoroughly gratified to see the heroes' plans unexpectedly foiled; and while I do seem to have this frequent problem with Hollywood output, it's never a good outcome since it inevitably means you end up on the losing side!There are elements clearly recognisable as bearing Dr Seuss's imprint -- the truly bizarre dungeon ballet and Dr Terwilliker's lavish dressing song, with its love of wordplay and preposterous lyrics. Superimposed somewhat uneasily alongside this seems to be an all-American musical about family values and 'coming of age' featuring a wholesomely naughty corn-fed scamp (portrayed very competently by Tommy Rettig); those who remember being, or wishing to be, that kind of small boy presumably find the character much easier to identify with. The film is very good at being gleefully villainous, but failed to engage my sympathies for its child's-eye heroics.Ironically, the loathed Ten Happy Fingers is actually quite a good tune. A very good tune, by piano-exercise standards.... "},{"Title":"FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY!!!!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I found this movie by looking through my old Dr. Seuss tapes.  It didn't have a label, so I just popped it in to my VCR to see what it was.  After I saw this movie the first time, I just had to see it again and again.  The acting was so superb.  I especially enjoyed Hans Conreid's portrayal of Dr. T.  This was, and probably always will be, the funniest movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Bart's Terrible Night, er, Day-mare","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Little children like Bart, played by talented Tommy Rettig  who went on to do a successful few years on TV's Lassie, want to play outside rather than sitting at the piano and being forced to practice by their parents and the horrible piano teacher Dr. Terwilliker. For a 9-year-old his singing and piano skills were exceptional. Can you picture a 9-year-old playing the theme song of Dr. T. and talking about something totally different at the same time? Bored by it all Bart falls into a deep sleep and a horrible day-mare where he is always running from Dr. T's henchmen. He certainly got a lot of exercise and he never seemed winded. As in most children's movies, the kids are smarter than the adults as is the case here. Adults don't listen. The house could be burning down and the adults would say, Don't bother me. Which is a good lead in to a great song about adults bullying kids. One of the minor themes is that Bart lost his father(no indication how) It was made in during the Korean War, sooo. Bart wants and needs a father. He sort of likes the plumber who's working in the kitchen while Bart is at the piano. Of course he's part of the dream as is Bart's mother who's hypnotized by the evil Dr. T. and follows his commands and is often caged in a lock me tight cell. Dr. T. also wants to kill the plumber, Mr. Zabladouski. Bart gets wind of this plot and trys to warn the plumber who won't listen. Who listens to kids, right? The dancing was precision pieces done by professional  dancers in the dungeon scene. You really have to look at the co-ordination of the dancing, music and the playing of the make-believe xylaphone. they were right on cue. Dr. T. wants 500 kids(all boys) to play on a giant piano,  his theme song that he wrote. Just like Wil Wheaton on Star Trek Next Generation who was always saving the crew from evil, Bart is going to save his mother,Mr. Zabladouski and all the kids and prisoners all by himself. In the dream Bart's mom and the plumber are brought together cunningly by Bart so they can marry and Bart has a father. There is a part in the dream where BArt and the plumber seal a pact in blood and bandage their fingers thereafter. When Bart is awakened, screaming from this day-mare they both have the band-aids on their respective fingers making it a bit eerie. When Bart's mom needs to go shopping Mr. Zabladouski offers to drive her. Bart is supposed to stay home and practice on the piano but grabs his baseball and mitt, runs out after the car takes off and the maniacal and mischevious  look on his face as the car disappears down the street is priceless. He then runs off down the street with his dog, not Lassie Personally I think that Bart, Tommy Rettig and Dr. Terwilliker, Hans Conried should have been co-stars and they both were better actors than the mother and plumber who were. You can watch this show over and over without being bored as the music, songs, and dance routines were great. 10 stars for this one for sure. "},{"Title":"This one will amaze and astonish your friends!","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Worth watching for The Dressing Song alone, one of the campiest scenes in all moviedom, this is my favorite video to play for unsuspecting friends (nobody has ever heard of it).  Guaranteed to keep their mouths hanging open 'til it's over.I can't believe that the producers weren't perfectly aware of the homo-erotic undertones of this movie, which I'm sure were probably lost on the 1953 audiences for whom it was intended.  (Why is it that none of those 5000 fingers belonged to little girls?)Insane Dr. Seuss sets and decoration, nice songs and the spectacular dungeon-symphony scene (watch those limp-wristed zylophonists) are only a few more reasons why I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Tripped out in technicolor","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I actually had the pleasure of seeing the film at the Music Box theater in Chicago last year at a midnight showing, which is the recommended way to see it. IF only for the spectacular use of color and sound, this movie is worth seeing. Not to mention the subversive small talk that takes place between Bart and the plumber. And the Dungeon-Trash-Symphony is one of the most incredible scenes EVER. "},{"Title":"A forgotten classic.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie on television as a young child.  It left an indelible impression on me, but it took me over 20 years and the IMDB database to find it again.The title is one of the reasons this movie gets ignored, who can remember it?  And it doesn't sound interesting.  I was so relieved that it is available on video.  Find the other Dr. Seuss movies in kids section of your video store, and hopefully you can find it (misfiled) there.The movie is so dreamlike that I was convinced that I had dreamt the whole thing.  For example, there is this wonderful scene where Bart (not a brat like Bart Simpson) is being chased by Dr. Terwilliker's thugs, and he is surrounded, when out of nowhere appears a bright red ladder.  Bart starts climbing the ladder going higher and higher.  He looks down and the people below are becoming dots and he can see nearly the whole evil piano academy. Eventually he gets to the end, and the ladder leads nowhere! How nightmarish! How Dr. Seussian! It is like a Tim Burton masterpiece filmed 40 years early.Bart is fatherless, and his mother is hypnotized by the evil piano teacher. The subplot is about Bart finding a new father.There is also an underlying political commentary about conformist society and an educational system that discourages individuality and imagination.Hopefully this movie will someday get the recognition it deserves. "},{"Title":"Key Personnel","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This one got under the wire. Released just over half a century ago it did bupkes at the Box Office and went from flop to cult. Today it only surfaces, if at all, at venues like London's National Film Theatre where it receives one or two screenings at best. It's one of those films in which it is possible to read almost Anything - witness the several 'gay' readings in the reviews here. This was an era that also saw 'The Boy With Green Hair' which explored the idea of being 'different' and which is also open to a 'gay' reading. Because it is all a dream it is also easy to interpret it as a nightmare of the way the world seemed to be heading in the early fifties but if we leave all that aside we have some fine surrealism with sets worthy of Salvador Dali. The acting is competent but the film is highly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Visually very good live action Dr Zeus film","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Young Bart is forced to practice piano non-stop by his mother and his piano teacher Dr Terwilliker.  However he uncovers a plot by Dr Terwilliker to use 500 children all playing together to make the piano the number one instrument while imprisoning all other musicians in his dungeon.  Bart evades capture while trying to foil Dr. Terwilliker's plan.This plays like a live action cartoon.  All the colours are bright, the performances are exaggerated to cartoon style, the musical numbers are big and sets and costumes are out of this world.  The story itself is imaginative if a little silly - what do you expect? This is Dr Zeus!  However what makes this film is the commitment to putting Zeus' vision up on the screen.  Stairs go up forever, children are guarded by roller-skating twins who share a beard etc.  Visually everything is wonderful - sets and costumes are great and are true to the books.Substance takes second place to style but it contains good songs and some very sparkly dialogue (for a children's film).  Overall a very enjoyable children's movie that is probably best for taking adults back to their childhood. "},{"Title":"Best Kid's Movie Ever!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I saw this film when it originally came out. The children in the audience stood up and cheered when it was over. Then it disappeared. My own kids saw it on TV sometime back in the 60s and loved it. Thank goodness it's available on video! "}{"Title":"The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I heard the title somewhere before, and knew critics gave it five out of five stars, then I found out it was produced by Stanley Kramer (director of Guess Who's Coming to Dinner) and co-written by Dr. Suess (The Grinch), so I was definitely going to see it. Basically Bartholomew 'Bart' Collins (Tommy Rettig) lives with his widowed mother Heloise (Mary Healy), and has to practise the piano, which he hates, especially because of his teacher Dr. Terwilliker (Hans Conried), he even feels his mother has fallen under his sinister influence, and often visiting plumber August Zabladowski (Peter Lind Hayes). While practising his piano lessons, Bart dozes off and enters the fantastical musical dream world (kind of like The Wizard of Oz) of the Terwilliker Institute. In this world the madman dictator has locked up 499 non-piano-playing, and constructed a piano so large it requires all these slaves' fingers to play it, oh, Bart is player #1. Bart must escape the Institute guards in order to save himself, his mother, who is hypnotised to obey and soon marry the doctor, and the 499 other slaves. Bart tries to get help from Mr. Zabladowski, hired to install all sinks, but only after convincing is he willing to help him. After a couple of chases, and some songs and dances, Bart and Zabladowski construct a noise-sucking contraption to ruin the mega-piano's opening concert, and when used, all the slave boys run riot, and the VERY atomic sucker blows up, bringing Bart out of his dream. Also starring John Heasley as Uncle Whitney, Robert Heasley as Uncle Judson, Noel Cravat as Sgt. Lunk and Henry Kulky as Stroogo. The songs and dances might not have interested me as much, but the surreal material and imagination (obviously helped by Suess) is dazzling and fun to watch, as is the film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Friedrich Hollaender and Morris Stoloff. Very good! "},{"Title":"Anti-Authoritarian Suessian Fable","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Here in the 21st Century, I'm not sure who this film's proper audience is, besides cinephiles. The protagonist is a kid, a fact which will turn off many adult viewers. At the same time, there are some amazingly elaborate and artistically choreographed dance and acrobatic sequences, prefiguring Cirque du Soleil...the complexity and wonder of which might be lost on kids. (I also wonder if kids' attention might wander during these sequences...)I am, of course, a cinephile now, but was I at age 10, when my brothers and I watched this back in the 1970's, broadcast by a UHF TV station out of Youngstown, Ohio? Because we liked this film then. Would today's kids, fed a steady diet of video games, MTV and R-rated movies like this film? I doubt it, but you never know.My 21st Century cinephile self recently re-watched this film, after 40 years, finding it to be beautiful and frightening. It is a clever mix of Suessian imagery and the anxieties of childhood (which adults remember better than we admit) contained within the forms and conventions of the 1950's Hollywood musical. The cast is excellent, particularly the dancers, but credit should be distributed all around. Mary Healy is very sexy as Bart's mother, and her real-life husband, Peter Lind Hayes, portrays the kind of adult every kid wishes he knew. Hans Conried, at what turned out to the pinnacle of his career, is perfect. Even Bart, played by Tommy Rettig is good (child actors are often very hard to stomach). Almost the entire film is an extended dream sequence, showing life for a young boy inside a surreal fortress of mandatory piano lessons, and where strict, autocratic order is enforced by a legion of uniformed, thuggish soldiers. Very obvious to my adult self, it is a commentary on authoritarianism and totalitarianism, in the world of an American child. It is interesting to consider that the year of this film's release, 1953, was the peak of the Senator Joe McCarthy witch-hunts. The following year, theocratic authoritarians successfully pressured the US Congress into mandating the phrase 'one nation under God' into the Pledge of Allegiance, which was itself an oath forced upon millions of schoolchildren 5 days a week. Among many memorable moments is a solo titled 'Because We're Kids,' containing this verse 'Now just because your throat has got a deeper voice, And lots of wind to blow it out, At little kids who dare not shout, You have no right, you have no right, To boss and beat us little kids about...'So, as I said before, this film will not be 'accessible' to everyone. But to those of us for whom it is, there are rewards. "},{"Title":"A Seuss Masterpiece that was way, way, way before it's time...","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I first saw this unique movie at the tender age of about 7 or 8.....and it was about the time I was having my own recurring nightmares. After watching it, I realized I wasn't alone, and that recurring dreams were normal. I remember afterward having a few dreams where I was being chased by men with brightly-colored, humongous butterfly nets.....dreams that were obviously influenced and driven by this movie.And like a lot of folks, I always felt I was trying to run through water....that sluggish feeling when your legs just won't move fast as you need them to move. But this is supposed to be a movie review...so let's look at a few things about The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T. First off, Hans Conried was a genius of comedy...and this role is perhaps his finest role and performance. He made Dr. Terwilleger into a maniacal, egocentric, hypnotic menace...the kind of pushy, abusive adult that all pre-adolescent kids dread...that parental-approved authority figure that kids are forced to deal with despite all protestations, usually found today in overpowering, intimidating sports-coaches, a perfectionist teachers, or any adult that looks DOWN on kids and treats them like lowly subordinates. The genius of Dr. Seuss's understanding of fears and insecurities of young children is quite evident in how he wrote Conried's role....and the sad and winsome song that Tommy Rettig sings alone as he feels abandoned by his only confidante, the plumber Zabrodowski after Terwillger entrances Zabrodowski with magic and tainted pickle juice is both touching and revealing of just how kids feel when they find they have no one, or no compassionate adult to turn to with their problems. Yes, Tommie, adults shouldn't ever push us little kids around. I have always felt this movie is VASTLY underrated, and it is a darn shame that Seuss never made another movie after this one....never again had the creative license and control to bring some of his other work to the magic, Cinescopic big screen. The sets, backgrounds, costumes, and music in this movie are brilliant and imaginary, and some of the script was pretty daring, for its time. Especially notable is the song sung by the Executioner as he describes what each floor of the dungeon is used for.....watch the movie and listen to the lyrics.There are many other moments in the movie that carry a not-so-subtle message about the vagaries of American child-rearing, even some commentary about the threat of nuclear Armaggedon that was very much on people's minds in 1953. I think Seuss was also making a jab as to how so many Americans were sending their children off to camp to receive instruction in whatever the PARENT thought the child needed, rather than what the children themselves were proficient or interested in. Well, done, Dr. Dr. Seuss's books are a recognized, language and decade- spanning treasure, and so is this movie. Although The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T. gave me some nightmares as a 2nd-grader....it has stayed with me all these years later...and every time I pull it out of my movie collection, I am reminded of the blissful, carefree picture of typical American life that Hollywood was always trying to project in the mid-1950's, highlighting our sunny blue-sky days, our disposable income, our perfectly-manicured, beautifully-dressed (but overly submissive) Moms and families, and all the other post-WWII aspects of pure Americana that the sudden, burgeoning post-GI Bill Middle-Class sector of America was creating for itself. Don't miss this MOVIE!! I've rated it a 9 for one main reason it is an utterly-unique reminder of what Dr. Seuss was really trying to tell us all in his many great books Children are a treasure, the most-perfect gifts we receive in our short lives, and they should be loved, cherished, and respected.... Wouldn't it be wonderful if we ALL never, never, never had to grow up? "},{"Title":"Dr Seuss' childlike feel translated on film","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Bart Collins is haunted by Dr. Terwilliker's piano lessons. Even in his dreams, he's haunted by Terwilliker who has built a fanciful piano that will have 500 children or 5000 fingers playing it. He must save his widowed mother Heloise Collins from under Terwilliker's spell. The only person who might be able to help is the Collins' plumber August Zabladowski.Written by Dr Seuss, this has all his original visual styles. It is imaginative, creative, and hypnotic. The style is definitely 50s even with songs of sounds of the era. The acting has that childlike broad feel that is so fitting for a movie that takes place almost entirely in a child's imagination. The best is Hans Conried as the evil Dr. Terwilliker. His unique voice adds depth to his performance. "},{"Title":"A Visual Delight!","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" This film was the first script by a then unknown Dr. Seuss. It's not surprising to see his influence on children's literature. Tommy Rettig played Bart Collins, a young boy who couldn't stand piano lessons. When he dreams of a nightmare about his piano teacher, Dr. T for Tutwiler I think, he believes that his piano teacher has a plan to enslave 500 boys to sit and play the piano on a grand scale. The visual images are unforgettable. Who could forget Bart's mother, Mrs. Collins, played by the late Mary Healy and reunited on screen with her husband Peter Lind Hayes. Healy and Hayes were a real life couple who performed on screen and on stage as well. Peter Lind Hayes played the plumber, August Szabatowski, who comes to Bart's rescue. When Bart learns of Dr. T's plans, he sets to foil it. The film's art direction is first rate. The film score deserved it's Oscar nomination. Hans Conreid played Dr. T with delight and pleasure despite his evil plan to turn his piano school. The film could be a delight for both children and adults. It's probably dated by today's standards. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I recently introduced my six-year-old son to this movie. He doesn't have a lot of movie history background, so I didn't try to build it up.  My husband had seen it before, and enjoyed noticing a lot of the little details - like Whitney and Johnson's portraits on the piano. I was a little uneasy about how our son would take the whole 'kid with a mom and no dad' plotline, seeing as he's a kid with two dads and no mom; not to mention the whole Evil Wannabe Dad (Dr. T) vs. Good Doesn't-really-wannabe Dad (Mr. Z) conflict, but he seemed to swallow it whole as the Technicolor dreamstuff confection it was. In short, it was just as fun (for me) as I remembered it from my childhood.  I've a sneaking suspicion that my kid will grow up with a fondess for what I call Christmas tree ornament movies, like'Spiderman' - big and shiny and completely hollow.  Still, we do what we can.  If Dr. T ever shows at a repertory house here, I may have to declare a family outing. "},{"Title":"A must see for anybody","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Dr. Seuss and live action, who could have imagined it?I saw an interview the other day and they talked about The Grinch beeing the first live-action Seuss story.  How sad that this classic is forgotten.  If it was not for the age, I would swear that Tim Burton actually made this movie.As far as the cast, I have only one thing to add that nobody else here seems to have remembered  Rollerskating Siamese Twins, conjoined at the beard!And for Dr. T being gay, I do not think that was ever intended.  If you check, Peter Lind Hayes served in WWII, and was even given medals for valor.  I think the prissyness was put in to make him less evil in a way, and less scarey to kids.   "},{"Title":"Pure horror for an 8 year old","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I saw this film when first released.  I was eight years and will never forget it.The Seussian backdrops and skewed structures (now recognized by everyone) were bizarre for 1953.Probably OK for TV, it could be unnerving for kids on the big screen - even those who are used to the gore and violence of today's films.Definitely worth renting. "},{"Title":"Finally I have seen it!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Hi all folks!I remembered to have seen this movie ending when I was a 10 years old guy, more or less, and I had a little frustration since then. Now I am 29 and finally, like 3 days before they put it on TV at 2 am or so, and I waited to that hour only to be sure the video was recording it from the beginning to the end.GENIAL! I is like a cartoon, no doubt, with all those little details of exaggeration and that marvelous flashy technicolor!By other hand, it is too short. And sometimes I don't like so much musical scenes. But I have to agree that that's the usual style for those kind of antique movies( like those Marx Brothers boring musical scenes in the middle of great movies).I have a friend who is now a piano teacher, and I will make sure He will see it.I think this movie is a funny  way to tell parents - hey, maybe we are pressing too much our boy/girl to play piano, and maybe it's not his/her instrument!!;-)Cheers "},{"Title":"This Movie Scared the Heck out of me when I was a child.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  This movie scared the heck out of me when I was a child.  They used to show this movie all the time; and I used to watch it whenever it came on.  I used to have bad, bad dreams about Dr. T., and all of those pianos.Dr. T. was villian that truly seemed as if he was crazy and cruel to childre.  It was bad enough that this movie was in color; that made things look as if the characers and sets were in primary colors; Tommy looks a little; well brown.  The fact that Tommy didn't have a father was bit sad and I remember thinking; I hope my father does't end up going away from us. It was a scary time in our lives when this movie was shown on t.v.; their was a war going on and I guess they thought we could use a little variety in our lives.The problem I had with this movie was the dungeon scene; with the hachet man being just horrenedous to look at; he was the dirtiest and nastiest looking-man I had ever seen and I had many, many nightmares about that scene with all of those pianos and those little boys trying to play the piano. Dr. T. is also the scariest man I had ever seen at that time in my life. Hans Conried was Danny Thomas' uncle which made me want to see this movie. After a while; I was banned by my parents from watching it at all because of all the nightmares I had from seeing it.I recently saw this movie on cable tv and it is still one of the scariest movies I have ever seen.  For them to say this is a child's movie is just a true joke.Don't let your children watch this unless you are with them and am able to understand that it is just a movie. "}{"Title":"The only live action Dr. Seuss film that I know of","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  A MUST SEE! Dr Seuss' world is rendered in all its glory in this film. Don't look for any big explosions or sexy co-stars; this film relies on such old fashioned ideas as character, plot, and most importantly, set design and pure neuvo mythology. The characters in this film have the same quality as the characters in all of Seuss' books. They are so insane that they become everybody that we know. Dr. Terwilliker IS that despot that made us all practise the piano (or play soccer, or study chemistry, or try to learn the periodic table) to no end.look for the scene where all of the musicians that play any instrument other than the piano jam in the dungeon. (this is a musical)GREAT MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"a sweet, exuberant piece about a fascist piano dictator","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Now this is something of a find, and of course I wonder if I had seen Dr. Seuss' The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T as a kid what I would make of it. I imagine I would embrace it even more than I do now; as it is, as a grown man, this is just incredibly wild, odd stuff, and not all of it works but it's certainly a unique achievement. It's like Seuss' Alice in Wonderland with little touches of Wizard of Oz (the whole You were there, and you were there, and you aspect, even for subtle things like bearded figures in photos on top of a piano), and it's certainly nothing if not unique.The easiest way to describe what it's about is that its a... musical about a fascist dictator only he is obsessed most of all with getting his piano army to play perfectly (the 5,000 fingers belonging eventually to the many children - probably not 5,000 total, it just sounds cool, but I digress). There's a little boy named Bart Collins (a decent child actor in Tommy Rettig) and he is in the real world kind of pressured/forced by his harsh piano teacher Dr. Terkwilliker to keep playing and playing, and his mother (Healy) does the same. But he falls asleep (or is it hypnosis of some kind, dun-dun-dun) and enters into a kind of nightmarish world where Dr. T is the ruler and he has minions and jailers and a whole system set up - but most of all a very, very long piano.Why is he obsessed with the piano? Eh, honestly, who cares after a certain point; he's one of those self-aware movie villains (or at least Seuss is clever enough in the writing of him) to know that it's just the fun of being villainous that's the thing. He's the sort of guy who has a musical number about people getting him dressed with his wide array of a wardrobe. Meanwhile there is the opposite side of Dr. T, the Nice Guy leading man Mr. Zabladowski (Peter Lynd Hayes, the only plumber I can think of with pomade in his hair all the time keeping it just perfect), and Bart needs to help him so that he won't be turned as a puppet by Dr. T (and as his mother has become in this world), or worse.This moves around with the sort of wild invention, manic and vivid set designs, and sense of continuous, rambunctious, over the top play that has made Dr. Seuss so beloved over the past century. I think you'll either go for it or you might not, depending on your quota of weird and odd images. Did I mention it's a musical? Or I should say it is but only about 25 minutes into the film. That's one of the flaws of the movie, where it has music to it but it doesn't show itself as being what it really wants to be until Mr. Zablowski and Bart share a song (a soft number, probably the least effective). Then again once it gets into it, and Seuss' creative lyrics start to spout off, it's a lot of fun.Some of the movie drags here and there - yes, even at 88 minutes - primarily with a sequence involving a bunch of green-skinned men who are jumping around and playing musical instruments (it feels like 5 minutes is spent on a xylophone alone). I should complain about the excessive musical numbers - even a black elevator operator in one scene gets a song (only black man I should note, which is strange unto itself but not uncommon for 1953) - but that's actually where the movie kind of shines and the singers do wonderfully (albeit not the actor actors I don't think, except for Hans Conreid who can do no wrong here).There are a lot of really creative ideas here, such as the device that sucks up all the air in a room and makes it sounds warped and silly, or little things like giant hands and arms that stick out of the wall and can open up doors. It's all so much that I'm tempted to say that it would have been a little easier to take - or just greater visually speaking - had it been an animated film, with its music easy enough to interweave. But with live action it's both a success and kind of a slog a couple of times as I mentioned, with the actors doing fine more or less except for Conreid who is, I should say again, spectacular here as he eats up the scenery but doesn't go so far as to take you out of the scene in its context. He's having the time of his life here, and Seuss created something unique in its time and place a live-action children's musical with some subtle (or not so subtle) satire about dictatorships and oppression for kids. "},{"Title":"love it or hate it... your choice","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" 5,000 (not to be confused with 300) is impossible to rationally review. If you like movies simply because they're weird or off-kilter, you'll love it. Stop reading and watch it.Unfortunately, I'm an engineer, rational to a fault, and have seen so many terrific films that it's impossible to feel much sympathy for this mess. 5,000 should have been a one of the great fantasy films, but it fails on every level.The worst problem is that someone decided 5,000 should be a musical. This someone apparently didn't bother to look at Snow White or Wizard of Oz to see how such movies are done. It helps to have good songs, don'tcha know? Except for Dr T's ditty about his weird wardrobe, they're tuneless and instantly forgettable. * I'm not kidding when I say that Schoenberg's Fnf Orchesterstcke is more melodic and appealing. (Really.)The script is beyond boring. I won't waste time cataloging its sins against good dialog and solid storytelling.The art direction is a major misfire. Dr Seuss often drew environments that expanded well-beyond the characters in them. This worked well in a two-dimensional medium. But when it's translated to a three-dimensional space, the characters often seem lost.The One Good Thing is, of course, Hans Conreid. (Conreid and Mencken are good-enough reasons to be proud to be a Baltimoron.) Conrad's performance is colorful and varied, as good as one might expect from someone performing Hamlet or Willy Loman. Why Bosley Crowther found it mechanical is hard to comprehend. It's anything but one-note. (Sorry.)By the way, it's Terwilliker. Terwilliger is Sideshow Bob's name.* One might say they're so bad, you'll have forgotten them //before// you've heard them. Frederick Hollander /did/ know how to write orchestral music, and his score was (rightly, I think) nominated for an Oscar. Note the excellent the title sequence. "},{"Title":"Transcended by time, and social implications","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" How director Roy Rowland ever managed to get this chaotic vision of the incomparable Dr. Seuss on the screen is a tale in itself. From the beginning, placing Seuss's maniac work in front of audiences made of atomic 1953 movie-goers was a tremendous gamble that didn't pay off. Staid suburbanites didn't get it, children were afraid of it, and the huge production costs to screen the film in Wonderama (utilizing three separate screens/projectors all at the same time years before Cinerama) sank the film which was already being savaged critically. Fingers is something unique. It perfectly captures the zeitgeist of the era in which it was made. All-American boy Bart Collins (played by the utterly elfin Tommy Rettig) is forced to endure piano lessons at the behest of one Dr. Terwilliker, his evil piano teacher (Hans Conried, chewing up ALL the scenery). Real boys don't do sissy music lessons, even though his widowed mother (Mary Healy) slaves to pay for Bart's lessons. The boy's only friend is the the manly plumber August Zablidowski (Peter Lind Hayes, the real life husband of Mary Healy) thinks the piano maestro is a crook, robbing the pocketbooks of American moms. Young Bart falls asleep at the keyboard, and dreams himself into a nightmare the Terwilliker Institute for boys with Happy Fingers who will give voice to the gigantic piano designed to showcase the talents of 500 boys simultaneously. Hence, 5000 fingers.Dr.Seuss's nightmare world comes to startling life here on gigantic sets. Mazes that the child Bart must confront (his emerging libido), the rescue of his mother, now a slave to the swishy Dr., and a nuisance to the plumber who see nothing of what's going on around him. All the subconscious 50's psychological tropes are here An evil, and obvious, homosexual will indoctrinate boys into a life of cultural pursuit no matter what it takes. The mother, who is the only female character seen during the film, has been taken in by the rhetoric of the Dr. and rejects both her son and a possible husband by force of hypnosis. Fey singing and dancing occur often in the film, culminating in the infamous elevator sequence in which a muscular man in a hood sings about the horrors of torture found on each floor. The dungeon orchestral ballet features the gayest green men ever seen on film, watch for the xylophone sequence in which bearded half-naked men make music on a keyboard wearing Technicolor pastel fuzzy mittens. This is followed by the show-stopping tongue twisting Do-Mi-Do Day (The Dress Me Song) in which fashion forward Dr. T gets his freak on, attended by valets in lavender tuxedos in a dressing room with columns that are nothing short of phallic.However, in terms of 1953, it's questionable that anyone saw the film as it appears today. Having seen this film dozens of times over the years, it feels as innocent as any post-war fantasy film could have. Still, the years since it first appeared have reshaped the context into something far more sinister than the dream of a young boy who just wants to play baseball and not be saddled with anything that might be cultural. A fascinating film that's gained a huge cult following over the past decades, it's up to the viewer to ultimately decide if the film's makers actually did what we think they did...or has the social implications of our time reshaped what we see on screen? For the true fans of this slice of early psychedelia, see it in it's original theatrical format if you ever get the chance. For many years in the late 70s, the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia mounted this eccentric film in it's original form including the three projectors and stereo sound on their wonderful Cinemascope screen. It was their annual Christmas offering...and tickets sold out yearly by Halloween. Seeing Fingers as it was meant to be experienced is something all fans of the film should hope for. "},{"Title":"A bizarre, campy adventure","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Psychadelic imagery and homo-erotic undertones abound in this fun and visually stimulating fairytale.  Although the film was made for, and will be enjoyed by, children, much of the film is remarkable in its pure camp. "},{"Title":"Playful and twisted children's fantasy","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Bart Collins (Tommy Rettig) hates playing the piano. His egotistical piano teacher Dr. Terwilliker (Hans Conried) insists he perfects his art for an upcoming performance that will prove Terwilliker the greatest teacher. Bart drifts off into a sleep, where he dreams of an alternative world where he is imprisoned in Terwilliker's castle, who also has Bart's mother Heloise (Mary Healy) under his control in a trance-like state. Terwilliker forces Bart to practice on his giant piano where he plans to capture 500 children to perform all at once. The only person that Bart can turn to is plumber August Zabladowski (Peter Lind Hayes), who Terwilliker plans to execute once he has finished his sink installations.Children's author and illustrator Dr. Seuss is a national treasure in his native U.S., yet here in the UK, his work is less known and loved. Works like How the Grinch Stole Christmas and The Cat in the Hat have been made popular by recent Jim Carrey and Mike Myers movie vehicles, but I went into this film not really knowing what to expect, with this being Dr. Seuss' sole movie writing credit. Dr. T. plays out like The Wizard of Oz (1939) with less colour, campness, and much more imagination. The songs that Seuss wrote for the film are instantly forgettable, so the film works less as a musical, and better as a rather strange and twisted children's fantasy.The sets are the film's main strength. From the start, which has Bart fleeing from a group of men with different coloured nets in a barren, futuristic and industrial landscape, to Terwilliker's gigantic piano hall, the film is rich with imagination. I can only assume the set designers were influenced by German expressionism, as it immediately brought Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari (1920) to mind, all jagged angles and exaggerated features. Dr. T is occasionally ridiculous, but the film's heart and playfulness make it a thoroughly enjoyable experience, and features a surprisingly annoying-light central performance by young Rettig.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Break the bank, and still it sank...and stank!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  A friend essentially forced me to watch this, noting that at the time of filming, it nearly broke the studio as production costs were astronomical! You can see the millions spent (until then by far the largest sets EVER created for a movie) but the movie has the surreal atmosphere of a codeine induced hallucino-dream. I will add that it IS a must see (only to believe) and confirmation that Dr. Seuss' world is best left in print or as a cartoon. I wonder if Ron Howard watched this before How the Grinch Stole Christmas.....  "},{"Title":"Good to see once.","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Some films aren't particularly enjoyable but still are worth seeing. This is exactly how I would describe THE 5,000 FINGERS OF DR. T. While the film suffers from being too long and at times too slow, it is so visually arresting that it's still worth seeing...at least once.The movie is a fantasy written by Dr. Seuss (Theodor Seuss Geisel ) and came out during a time when the writer/illustrator was not as famous or ubiquitous as he would become later. Because of this, the public was less likely to embrace the film's weirdness and left many in the audience confused--and as a result the film bombed at the box office. I think if such a film came out now that it would do much better as people are more willing and able to embrace weirdness and unconventionality.In addition to writing the script, Seuss also wrote many, many songs for the film--and therein lies some of the problem. While some of them are clever and fun, many of them simply aren't and make the film drag. Cutting several songs might have really helped tighten up the picture and kept the audience's attention--I know it felt like a real chore for me to finish the film.So if the film was slow and had too much music, then why do I say that you should see the film? Well, the look of a Dr. Seuss book is there and in glorious 1950s Technicolor. The look of the books are replicated exceptionally well--with amazing set designs. The bizarre color pallet, stairs and ladders, disembodies hands, hats, costumes, etc. all look like they were pulled straight out of a Seuss book--and you marvel at the care that went into making the film. Despite having lesser-known actors in the roles, it must have been a very expensive film to produce just because of the sets alone.Now the question is who will enjoy the film? For younger kids, the film is occasionally too scary and slow, so I'd never dream of showing it to them. For everyone else, it still might be a chore due to the songs and pacing, but for anyone who is artistically minded or just loves Seuss' books it is a treat.Finally, where can I get one of those wonderful hats? There must be some floating around somewhere. "},{"Title":"Not For Everyone","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Oddball fantasy about a boy escaping into dreams to avoid his tyrannical piano teacher. Trouble is his dreams are also terrorized by the same teacher and his minions.The movie's definitely not for everyone. There's little dialog and in a cast of hundreds, there's exactly one woman! Most of the time is taken up by either dance routines or little Collins (Rettig) running hither and thither to get away from his tormentors. Frankly, I fast-forwarded through some of the routines. Unlike some other reviewers, the sets and art direction impressed me as imaginative and well-done. The candy box colors also hold the eye, and I wouldn't be surprised the exotic project was intended to compete with new-fangled TV.Also looks to me like the woodenly conventional Zablodowski (Hayes) is intended as reassurance amid all the unconventional settings. Taking a child to the movie would be a risk, I think, since the material could easily come across as nightmarish, whatever the original intentions. Little Rettig does well as the average boy, while the eccentric Conreid is at his most archly sinister. And what about that chaotic scene of hundreds of little boys escaping that piano from heck. I'll bet that was a year's worth of headache trying to keep a mob of ten- year olds in line.In years of viewing, I've seen nothing quite like this production. Frankly, I'm not sure I liked the overall result. Definitely, this oddity should be approached with caution, unless you like seeing bands of men dance to no particular purpose or little boys run and run and run. "},{"Title":"Where's that subtext?","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  The sexual subtext is so carelessly concealed it's practically a supertext. Love Bart's mother's one-sleeved glitter bondage outfit. Bart sings nicely, too. "}{"Title":"Psycho-Drama or Psycho-BabbleControlled or Contained Insanity from the Mind of  Dr. Seuss!","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Beautifully filmed in Technicolor from Columbia Picutres(Harry Cohen) must still be rolling in his grave, comes The 5000 Fingers of DR. T !Co-written by Dr. Seuss(Theodore Geisel)well known for Cat in The Hat' and Green Eggs and Ham, was also known for his battles with mental health. Therein lies the rub. This disturbing tale of a young man , who battles with on-coming neurosis caused by a haranguing single mother Heloise Collins(Mary Healy)and a somewhat maladjusted piano teacher DR. Terwillger or DR. T(Hans Conried).What seeps through the film is the ongoing presence of Dr. Seusses'touches of his reality and how he copes with existence. Interesting.Bartholomew Collins(Tommy Rettig) before his Lassie days, is the typical adolescent who wants to please his mother, partly because of the loss of his Dad, but mostly for just wanting to be a good son.The strain of trying to achieve the level of concert pianist plays upon the young man, and so he starts to have delusions of a hidden agenda of the piano teacher. A prison for 500 young men to play 24/7 to placate the teachers demands ! Needless to say, the bizarre visions and dreams are designed to help Bartholomew work through his problems and overcome his neurosis so he can continue growing as a well adjusted young man.The visions are weird and nicely photographed and choreographed.The conclusion is that he does beat his phobias and has a nice life. August Zabladowski(Peter Lind Hayes) plays the plumber who befriends Bartholomew, and becomes a love interest to his mother. In real life, Mr. Hayes was married to Mary Healy, and was a popular composer, actor and entertainer. So , art imitates life.If you want a really strange film to watch, I suppose it has redeeming social values, then this maybe your cup of tea, er, goo. BTW, Terwillger is the eternal foe of Bart Simpson, so you can see where the writers of the Simpsons got allot of their material from. Psycho-Drama or Psycho-Babble, depends on your point of view. This film is difficult to classify or recommend, because of its uniqueness. But , for the struggling adolescent, it might make sense. "},{"Title":"What was missing?  The final 500 piano theme. It would have been impressive.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  An ingenious & inventive film.  It was in fact a musical - it had production numbers. The distinguishing thing about it was that is was  made in the early fifties and anyone alive now either wasn't around in the fifties or if they were they can't remember what was going on in those times.  The morality of the fifties escapes us.  I mention this because somebody commented about Freudian sex, homosexuality and other modern day subjects that were supposedly intimated in the movie.  Isn't Hollywood wonderful!! "},{"Title":"Rambling","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  I love this movie, and everything Xenophile said below is correct. Violence is always just below the surface in it, but this tension is almost invariably resolved artistically.  Even the admittedly violent climax is precipitated by discordant sounds.Sexual stereotypes are depicted, but not favorably; remember, it was the villain who locks up the mother.  This film is an indictment of fascism. Many of the shots copy German Expressionistic technique. Fritz Lang's German films did the same thing, and the title of his final film was 1,000 Eyes of Dr Mabuse; maybe a coincidence, but I find that hard to believe.Of course there are no girls in his dream.  He's gay, after all - check out that touching love duet with the plumber. I'm not being flip; this whole film is gay as heck. Half-naked men performing in a dungeon?  That leather queen running the elevator?  The hero and villain duking it out by dancing and talking with their hands?  C'mon - gay, gay, gay.Not that that's a bad thing. "},{"Title":"You talk a lot but I don't know how much you say.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MILD SPOILERSA likeable, memorable tale of the slightly lippy product of a single parent family. Tommy Rettig plays Bart, a young child who yells the only thing you'd try for is time-and-a-half for overtime at plumbers and has a penchant for repeating whatever anyone's just said to him. He also has a serious Oedipus complex; something that forms the backbone of the picture and ensures it can also appeal to adults. If he were alive today he'd be regarded as having issues and sent to a child psychologist. But this was 1953 and not only is he allowed to dream virtually the whole movie but he's even allowed to cuddle up to the local plumber and have a blood pact. Before you can say, call the NSPCC we're treated to six sickly forgettable songs and some disturbing imagery, such as two old men on roller-skates, made Siamese twins by virtue of a shared beard. Even Peter Greenaway would have nightmares. Dr. Seuss, (who created and co-wrote), has a wonderful way of tapping into child dream imagery, such as the immense, sky-touching ladder that leads to nowhere. Also nice is the child-logic, such as if kids had their way practically no parents would be born at all. It might look a little cheap now, but this actually taps into the Seuss comic-like mentality. The giddy, Heironymous Bosch-like sense of surreal imagery and bodily mutilation successfully offsets any inherent tweeness in the movie. Of particular note is the human instrument interlude, which is almost so saccharine it could be the illegitimate lovechild of Disney and Harpo Marx. However, green men with trumpets growing elephant-like out of their faces is disturbing enough to pull it through.For a film carried by, largely, just four actors, then it rarely drags. Perhaps it could benefit from being a little shorter so that younger minds wouldn't wander, but it generally gets by. Best song is the quite sweet Because We're Kids. Hans Conried as Dr. T constructs some of his sentences around paraphrased Hamlet, and namechecks Beethoven, ensuring that the film has some literary awareness. A little strange to see his henchmen with (apparently) artificially darkened skin talking about their black hearts though. Mind you, any children's film that has mentions of torture chambers and nooses of the very finest rope is clearly of a skewed mentality. There's even a nuclear parable towards the end, with fear of a potentially atomic potion. Bart ends the tale by threatening to blow up Dr. T with his atomic power and incites the other 499 kids (only four of whom are non-white) to rip up property and riot. Truly the age of the rock 'n' roll hooligan was upon us. It's never revealed what happened to Bart's father by the way. Was he killed in a sugar-related accident or did he just pack his bags after hearing one song too many? And youngsters looking for a sequel should probably avoid Dr. T and the Women, lest they get an unwelcome surprise. "},{"Title":"High-brow fantasy for older children...","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" Dr. Seuss story becomes heavy-coated, high-minded semi-musical set inside a manic fantasy world. Put-upon youngster imagines himself to be the prisoner of his cold-hearted piano teacher, unleashing a flurry of surreal, menacing images worthy of Pink Floyd The Wall! A triumph of production and set design, which no doubt trumps the unmemorable musical score, the film hasn't much to offer beyond its imaginative look (which will be enough to satisfy some). Hans Conried is well-cast as the nefarious Dr. Terwilliker, but there really isn't anything interesting for Dr. T. to do--forcing Conried to exaggerate the character's nastiness in a virtual vacuum. This premise had limitless possibilities, and yet, as it unfolds here, the plot isn't inviting or absorbing. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite jell","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I am personally not very taken by the whimsy of Dr. Seuss but this film should have been much better than it is. The players (with the exception of Hans Conreid) seem ill at ease and not quite certain where they are. The music by Frederick Hollander (who wrote for many memorable films starting with 'The Blue Angel) is good and the lyrics ingenious. But the staging seems a bit amateur and unsure of itself. It should have been much more over the top, like Busby Berkeley. I am not surprised Dr. Seuss was himself disappointed. The film has attained something of a cult status with time and there are some amusingly kitsch sequences but overall it is a wee bit of a bore. "},{"Title":"A Garish Curiosity","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" One of the many box-office disasters Stanley Kramer produced for Harry Cohn and Columbia before becoming an independent director on his own, this well-intentioned and, for its time, adventurous excursion into fantasy by Dr. Seuss unfortunately falls flat on its face. The film suffers from a series of unfortunate choices all the wrong people for the right job. Veteran director of kiddie flicks, Roy Rowland, seems to be taking this light-hearted nonsense with ponderous seriousness; and the mood of the film is not helped at all by garish over-lighting of some very unimaginative big studio sets photographed by the otherwise great cinematographer Franz Planer who could do such masterful work in black and white --witness his Sorry Wrong Number. Radio and TV personality Peter Lind Hayes is particularly unappealing, wooden and physically unattractive as the plumber; Hans Conreid as the villain overacts embarrassingly. Perhaps the sole pleasure of the otherwise joyless film are some of the songs by Marlene Dietrich's favorite composer, Friedrich Hollaender, (Falling in Love Again) aided by Dr. Seuss's clever lyrics. Dr. Seuss was not helped by the fact that Columbia Pictures rarely did musicals; and it certainly shows here. Perhaps if Seuss had had the good fortune to have had MGM's Arthur Freed as his producer and Vincente Minnelli as director and designer this experiment might have come off. It doesn't. "},{"Title":"I'm going to get slated for this, but it's what I believe","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I've read all the comments below, and can understand that this film has a place in the hearts of many, I do not understand whether this is because American children are brought up reading Dr Seuss, but I have just seen this film and could not believe the acting, dialogue, dance routines, costumes, and sets, how this film went so over budget I can only assume that someone's pocket was very full. The acting - I could do better myself, the dialogue was atrocious, I have never heard such a load of rubbish in my life, the dance routines!!! where did they get the 'musical prisoners' from, was this a charity event to get some homeless people some work or what! Costumes, the ideas were OK but did the guards change outfit's for a laugh as none of them seemed to fit, and sets were OK but isn't this where most of the money goes if so again how did they go over budget??? I will not be watching this film again, And recommend that unless you've seen a particular bad film & need something to compare it to you don't either.(P.S. can some more non-Americans comment just to see your views)(P.P.S. just in case anyone thinks I'm a old foggy who doesn't like this kind of film then you'd be wrong as usually I love it, but after watching this film & reading the reviews I couldn't believe what I read, I honestly thought this film was going to be in the top 100 worst films)  "},{"Title":"A perfect film for children ... if you hate kids!","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" It is curious that this film has so far drawn 76 reviews. It seems to be a film that people either love or hate enough to comment on. I recall having seen this film for the first time as a child of about ten years and I was born the year this film was released. It is the kind of film that one doesn't forget, as much as I would have liked to. My wife and I were discussing films the other day and this film came up and after 30 years of marriage we discovered that we both knew the film, saw it once as children and found the film hauntingly disturbing. Conversely, I have always liked Hans Konried (Conried?) and would love to learn piano still, despite having seen the film as a child. Some, like Jane Schoettle, may argue that the great thing about the movie is that it takes the perspective of a child. I would argue that the supposed perspective left me perplexed. It drew more than a dislike.To sum up, I would say that as a unique perspective, it is timeless in more than the usual sense. Have you ever witnessed an act of cruelty that you could not stop and wished that you had never witnessed it? Once seen, at least as a child, the film will not be forgotten, no matter how much you try. "},{"Title":"Positively horrible!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I was astonished as I read everybody else's positive reviews on this movie- am I the only one who felt positively ill after watching it? The words that I would use to describe this movie are Bizarre, awful, stupid, dark, a total waste of time! Besides being cheesy and corny this movie is just plain ridiculous! Naturally, being a low-budget film from the 1950's you can't expect a lot in the way of special effects, but I can usually get past all that if the script is good; but this didn't even have a good script! The dialogue was stupid and the acting even worse! I know this is supposed to be a children's movie and I suppose a child under the age of 12 would probably not mind a bad script, cheesy settings, and ridiculous acting but I wouldn't even recommend this movie for a child because the movie has a very dark atmosphere- there are also several scenes which could potentially be pretty terrifying for a child as this movie is basically about this little boy's nightmare.Don't waste your time!!!On the plus side, I did enjoy a few of the songs- slightly. "}{"Title":"One I don't like.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Hopelessly over-budget, nightmarish, everything tossed into it but the kitchen sink- and still, in my opinion, it isn't worth it. It is simply a mish-mosh, blas film. It wasted not only money, but the talents of such fine thespians as Hans Conreid and Tommy Rettig. Even they could not rescue this thing from the well-deserved obscurity into which it fell upon release.As a previous poster noted, this film is a perfect example of why Dr. Suess's work should remain on the printed page. Since this technicolor abomination came out, we've seen live-action film versions of How the Grinch Stole Christmas and The Cat in the Hat- both utterly inferior to the original works from which they were taken. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" The film is a dream sequence by Tommy (Bartholomew Collins) and takes place in a castle ruled by his piano teacher, Dr T (Hans Conried) who is intending to put on a piano performance by 500 young boys. All other musicians are put into dungeons. He has Tommy's mother, Mary (Heloise Collins), hypnotized and put into another dungeon while she assists him in his scheme. Tommy spends the film trying to free his mother and escape from Dr T. His only ally is Mr Zabladowski (Peter Lind Hayes) who is employed as a plumber to install sinks for the boys in the castle. There are songs and dances along the way and once the dream ends, Tommy awakes to find his mother and Mr Zabladowski both at home with him.The film starts how it means to go on, so if you don't enjoy the opening sequence you won't enjoy the film. It is badly choreographed, the use of colour is dismal, the songs are forgettable, the sets are sparse, there is nothing aesthetically pleasing about the film and even though Dr T and Tommy try with the acting, the rest of the cast are insipid. Its bad. I've given it 3/10 for novelty factor. Homosexuals will enjoy the camp aspects to this film. "},{"Title":"Green Eggs","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":" I watch so many bad films that I'm worn out for any try at campiness. I never recommend films as jokes, and many seeming bad films are really good ones with bad production values.But this one is such a disaster it deserves all the bad press it has accumulated. (And it is not even the worst of the Seuss films!)Seuss's genius was to take a thin layer of reality. On that he laid a higher layer of the absurd, extrapolated from the real in unpredictable ways. But what was predictable was the brick of the extrapolation. Each time he made a deviation from the real, that deviation was of constant abstraction. This same brick size was used for drawing, story and verse.This was done unconsciously, I'm certain, but that's what geniuses are made of.If you need to translate Seuss to screen, you need to use the same size brick, and abstract in the same direction. This project looks like it started with a ballet choreographer and an unimaginative set designer and then grew in the general direction of what they thought was Seussdom.You may find it interesting if you study mistakes. But for a regular viewer if sensitive, this could mess with your imagination.'Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Repulsive recreation of Dr.Seuss","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy, Music","Review":"  Someone lent me this movie to show to some little girls whose mother is a music teacher. I was expecting something witty and engaging, off-the-wall, but suitable for children.   I was surprised to feel over and over that there was something really wrong and off-color about the whole thing.It seemed to me that the delightfully child-like Dr.Seuss qualities - lots of rhymes and word-play, funny, funny pictures, and huge comic exaggerations, are replaced with lot of adult sexual overtones, and the sort of gender-role messages that were the worst thing about the 50's.  When you translate from drawings to human actors, sometimes some unintended baggage gets added that is invisible at the time, but looks glaring later.I'm not merely complaining about datedness.  The evil artist is an effete homosexual. The plumber is clearly good because he has a deep voice and is manly, like Beaver's Dad. The mother, the only female in a cast of hundreds, is a zombie and sexual slave, who cares nothing for her son.  (Too often in the 50's and 60's, females are invisible except as objects of men's needs. Their efforts in other directions are represented as ugly, ridiculous, or sinister.  That's clearly the case here.)  The necessary resolution is for the boys (no girls among the 500 children) to destroy the piano with baseball bats instead of playing the song.Anxiety about manliness seems to pervade the film, with sex and violence lurking right beneath the surface.  The confrontation between Terwilliger and the plumber can't decide whether it's a whimsical dance, or a bar-room bare-fisted face-off.  The mother's breasts in her topless gown are incredibly cow-like.  The male musician dancers have sweaty torsos like a revue at the Copa.  The sinister bearded pair suggested evil Hasidic Fagans.Don't get me wrong.  I think off-the-wall, subversive stuff can be great in a kids' show.  I love Soupy Sales, and Pee-Wee Herman.  Although the sets are cool, and Hans Conried is charismatically amusing, I thought this show was really profoundly conservative - with the message that art subverts manliness, and males must act violent to preserve their self-respect. "}]