[{"Title":"Great then and still great","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"57 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw It Came from Outer Space on DVD today. The last time I saw it was in 1954 in a small town theaters on the Saskatchewan prairies. I was ten years old at the time and my world did not extend a hundred mile radius. I still remember that film until today. Beautiful Barbara Rush, calm, cool,intelligent Richard Carlson. Joe Sawyer could have been one of my neighbors. Full of suspense, intrigue, and mild fear, this movie was indeed a classic. Not knowing what the It looked like added to the mystery and wonder. Surprisingly no one was ever seriously hurt. Wearing those 3_D glasses and watching those rocks coming at you was pretty cool in those days. I was glad to see it again and relive those 50 years that have gone by. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and creepy","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all let's get rid of that absurd notion that science fiction films of the fifties were merely a sub-conscious attempt to personify the threat from communism - this is a hackneyed idea, and far from the truth.This is a thoughtfully crafted film, which like other good science fiction films of this era starts out portraying the aliens as monsters, only to reveal that they are benevolent and superior (how does this fit into the Red Menace theory?).The screenplay was penned by Ray Bradbury and is full of very good dialog and ideas, especially the notion that we are not ready to meet such advanced civilizations. The scenes in the high desert are very atmospheric and creepy, and although the renderings of alien technology at first seem somewhat adolescent, there is a genuine sense of wonder when the internals of the alien ship are revealed. Something missing from today's, blase, computer generated, over the top, excesses.The 3D is a useless appendage, and not worthy of discussion.If you like science fiction pre-scifi channel and post-golden age, rent this movie and enjoy the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"One of Arnold's best (even though it's not his favorite).","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jack Arnold directed this screen version of Ray Bradbury's short story, `The Meteor',  about a crashed spaceship in the mid-western desert.  The alien crew kidnaps several inhabitants of the local  town and assumes their form.  A writer of science articles (Richard Carlson) who lives on the outskirts of the town witnesses the crash, although he thinks it's just a meteorite.  When he goes down into the smoking crater, he sees the open hatchway of the spaceship and an alien creature within it, but when the alien closes the big hatch it starts a landslide in the crater which covers the ship.  Afterwards none of the local authorities will believe Carlson's story about a buried spaceship filled with alien invaders.A moody and beautiful movie, with fine music by Henry Mancini.  Many fans of Jack Arnold's sci-fi films consider this one his best (although personally I prefer `The Space Children' -- and so did Jack Arnold, according to his own statement).Charles Drake (`Tobor the Great') is the skeptical sheriff.  Russell Johnson plays both a human and an alien (a treat for genre' fans).  The supporting cast includes Joe Sawyer and Kathleen Hughes.  Special effects by David S. Horsely and the great Clifford Stine.  Makeup by Bud Westmore, of the famous Westmore family who contributed much to all the `Star Trek' spin-offs.Originally released in 3-D.  A 3-D tape was available a few years ago, but the quality was not good . . . sad to say. "},{"Title":"Holds Up Well","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is director Jack Arnold's first science-fiction effort and one of the earliest to use a desert setting. Richard Carlson is very believable as an astronomer who, along with his fiancee, witnesses a meteor crash-landing that turns out to be a spacecraft. No one in the small town believes him until they start disappearing. Arnold uses theremin music to great effect, the photography is eerie, dialog (by Ray Bradbury) poetic, and the alien a terrifying large crawling mass with one bulging eye that leaves a snail-like trail in its path. The aliens are not bent on destruction - an interesting precursor to Steven Spielberg's expensive Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977)- even its main titles are at the End. This is low-key, intelligent, satisfying drama. Co-starring are Barbara Rush (she's a babe), Russell Johnson (likewise), Charles Drake, Joe Sawyer, Kathleen Hughes (who's tantalizing in a cameo). "},{"Title":"Good story for the 1950s","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught this movie in 2D and b/w, on the AMC channel this Halloween weekend.  Prior to now, I'd never seen nor heard of it.Set in and around a small town in the Arizona desert, it tells the story of an amateur astronomer who was trying to get to the truth behind a large, fiery object that fell to earth in the desert.  Was it a meteroid, as the Army had proclaimed after its investigation, or a crashed space ship? Though he caught a glimpse of the latter, the evidence was buried in a landslide in the crater before anyone else got there.Ray Bradbury's believable story is the now-common question of how we deal with things we don't understand, or are ugly.I thought it played well, had decent special effects, etc., for a film made for 1950s audiences' sensibilities and movie-watching sophistication.One scene included a shapely, flirty young woman who really had nothing to do with the story.  It wasn't until I heard this was a 3D movie that her presence on screen made any sense.  "},{"Title":"One of the creepiest and best","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It Came From Outer Space is possibly Universal's best 1950's sci-fi and one of the best of the decade.It stars sci-fi regular Richard Carlson (Creature From the Black Lagoon) and Barbara Rush (When Worlds Collide) as his lover.  They both play good parts.This is also one of the creepiest sci-fi movies of the 1950's.  The desert setting is very eerie, as is the score.  Director Jack Arnold often used desert settings for his movies.  The alien monster looks quite impressive and the special effects are good too.  I enjoyed this movie very much and is a must for 1950's sci-fi lovers.  Enjoy!Rating 5 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Sci-Fit Thriller With Style, Good Acting and a Thoughtful Script","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This modest science fiction film from Ray Bradbury's short story The Meteor is perhaps the most-imitated film in the history of cinema.. The screenplay for this feature was written by Harry Essex, with direction by veteran action-film expert Jack Arnold. It is set on the edge of the desert, and involves in its storyline the crash of a mysterious meteor. Investigating it, a scientist living nearby discovers it is an alien spacecraft; he glimpses an ugly amoeboid creature like an octopus with a giant eye. Its next efforts cause a landslide which hides the spacecraft under a landslide, so no one else can see what he saw. The next development, when no one believes him, is that local people, law-enforcement and others, start acting like zombies; his wife believes him, but when the folk start coming into town he knows he needs to do something. Heading to the site again, he contacts the alien minds who tell him they only wish to escape Earth, where they do not belong. He gives them the help they require and the ship takes off the next day, heading home and leaving hi,m, and us, with a genuine mystery and an important question about parochial attitudes and out fitness to extend man's reach into the Galaxy when this urge has not been conquered. The production in B/W is a very good one for a B film, I assert., Joan St. Eigger did the hairstyles, Rosemary Odell the costumes, Russell A. Gausman and Ruby R. Levitt the sets, with Bud Westmore handling the unusual makeup challenges. The very fine art direction was done by Bernard Herzbrun and Robert A. Boyle, with luminous cinematography by Clifford Stine. In the solid cast are Richard Carlson, Barbara Rush, Charles Drake as the Sheriff, Joe Sawyer, Russell Johnson and Kathleen Hughes. it is arguable that Richard Carlson talks too much about the mysteries of the desert in this film, as n allegory for the dangers of the unknown, the wild, the as-yet-untamed--for space itself; but the dialogue is good-enough, the situations genuinely eerie and the style of the film, its crisis and its and pacing far-above-the-expected. In lesser hands, this production could have been less effective; this has become a classic example of how to handle several sci-fi situations. It earns the stature of being fundamentally scary; yet it is also thoughtful and interesting at the same time, by my standards. This is sci-fi noir of a very high sort. "},{"Title":"Effective Chiller About Psuedo-Friendly Aliens","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An astronomer-stranger realizes that what is believed to be a meteor is in reality a space ship.  No one believes him.  Richard Carlson plays this laughed at John Putnam with conviction and integrity.  Carlson tries to discover the truth, with the aid of his girl friend, and slowly they learn that indeed an alien presence has landed in the desert.  The story has many similar plot elements found in Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and some new twists all its own.  For the most part, the plot is pretty cohesive, and the acting acceptable.  Charles Drake as a no brain lawman might be the one major exception.  Russel Johnson, the professor of Gilligan's Island fame, has a small part as well.  The alien presence seems to not want to harm humanity but only to leave, but is willing to harm to meet its end.  All in all a pretty good atmospheric sci-fi chiller from the Golden Age.   "},{"Title":"a creepy and honorable classic.","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE is unquestionably on my top 3 from the many sci-fi movies made in the 1950s. I review many sci-fi films from the 50s, both B-movies AND classic. THIS film would definitely go down as one of the all-time classics. Even more rich with every viewing, IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE is about a couple who live in a desert, one a scientist. One night, the scientist and his girlfriend are stargazing when they see some strange thing crash into a crater. When they go there, the scientist decides to go down, and sees a strange ship right before an avalanche falls over the specimen. Soon those two are the only ones who believe it is a ship from outer space, until strange things begin happening. The scientist must solve the mystery of why the aliens have arrived, and what they want. A science fiction classic worth buying on DVD. (Don't be fooled...the alien looks nothing like the one on the DVD cover.)Grade 9/10MPAA Rating GMy Rating Ages 7 and up (some scary images) "},{"Title":"Love the atmosphere","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll admit I'm a sucker for the atmosphere of old SF B/W movies and B/W movies in general - something that can't be reproduced with the special effects heavy movies of today. This movie is wonderful. It may have a simple plot, but it is effective at generating suspense and is well made. And the scientist/intellectual protagonist attempting to warn others of the menace from outer space is classic SF. The locations are also great. The isolation of the Arizona desert...aliens could have landed there a million years ago (and still be there) and we'd have no idea. Definitely worth a look. "}{"Title":"Another Delightful Sci-Fi from the 50's","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Arizona desert, the writer and amateur stargazer John Putnam (Richard Carlson) and his girlfriend, the schoolteacher Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush), are in his house planning to get married. Out of the blue, they witness a meteor crash in the desert. They fly to the location with their friend Pete in his helicopter and John decides to go to the bottom of the crater to investigate. John sees a spacecraft but there is a landslide and the ship is covered by earth. John discloses his discovery to Sheriff Matt Warren (Charles Drake), who is his rival and is also into Ellen, and to the inhabitants and they believe he is a daydreamer. John wants to prove his finding and meets his acquaintances Frank Daylon (Joe Sawyer) and George (Russell Johnson) repairing telephone cables on the desert and they find disturbance in the cable. The workers follow the cable and meet an alien that takes the form of George. Soon John and Ellen note that a group of dwellers are acting strange and they believe they have been possessed by the aliens. When Ellen is also abducted by the aliens, John contacts them and discovers their intention. Are they friend or hostile invaders? It Came from Outer Space is another delightful sci-fi from the 50's with a story of Ray Bradbury. Years before Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind, the writer John Putnam has an encounter with aliens that explains that we are not ready to contact them. The low budget of It Came from Outer Space is not a problem since the story is very well constructed. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Ameaça Que Veio do Espaço (The Treaten That Came from Space)Note On 23 August 2015, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"Where it all began...sci-fi that is.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I always find it hard to judge films like this when I wasn't even relatively close to being born when this film first came out and how different films are of today compared to then.  You can't really give it an objective review because we've been spoiled with superb, more-contemporary science fictions films.  But nonetheless, I try to be as objective as possible and while I watch a film like this I try very hard to keep in mind when this film was made.With all that said, I'll get on with the film review.  I thought the story in this film was pretty interesting and well done.  The story really does have some cool things in it, although it is a very simple plot.The special effects are very light in this film, which shouldn't be that surprising, being made in the early 1950's.  But, when they do use them, they're pretty good and somewhat impressive.The acting in this film is nothing terribly great, but it certainly isn't bad either.  The acting is pretty much what you'd expect from a 1950's sci-fi movie, lots of screaming, scared looks and what not.  But all in all, there's nothing really to complain about.I wouldn't recommend this film to everyone, but I would recommend it to anyone that truly loves the sci-fi genre (like myself) or just wants to compare this film to sci-fi films made today.  I think it's good to see a film like this so that you can appreciate how far we've come with film making and special effects and all that great stuff.  Anyhow, if you do see the film I hope you enjoy it for what it is.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"It came from outer space","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was such an interesting sci-fi movie. I can't imagine how it would look in 3-D, wish I could see it that way. I enjoyed it very much. Jack Arnold has done some really great movies. I really think that he has created true master pieces and this is one of them. I really like the way you could see trough the eyes of the aliens. The script was really clever. At the beginning you couldn't be sure who is the bad guy and who the good. The story takes place in a quite small town where everybody knows each other and nothing can be kept a secret for very long. Everybody knows what the people next to him are doing. A meteor falls in this town and a writer and his girlfriend are the ones who discover it. From here on things are starting to become strange...and the story starts. It has to do with the fight inside each of us not to judge the others by their appearance. Is something which is unknown always bad? Is something that looks really horrifying bad? And when someone does things that we don't understand does that mean that he wants to hurt us in anyway? Well you just have to see it to find out. Don't forget though that this is an old b/w movie when you see it. If you get pass that you will see that is really quite nice and interesting. "},{"Title":"Because you don't understand it, you want to kill it.","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An alien ship crashes into the desert, at first it's thought to only be a meteorite, but small time scientist Richard Carlson gets to view the stricken ship before it is totally buried beneath the collapsing crater it created on its crash landing. Nobody believes Carlson, but soon the aliens start taking on human form and it's then that everyone else must sit up and take notice before it's deemed too late.It Came From Outer Space stands as one of the better sci-fi pictures to come out of the Cold War 1950s. Based on the Ray Bradbury story The Meteor, the story leans heavily on anti-conformist themes and confidently trumpets something different to ourselves actually having the damn right to be different, and that is something I can personally truck with. As with most of the other films from the sci-fi/alien genre, It Came From Outer Space perfectly captures the paranoia of the people, the sense of mistrust befitting the atomic age, the fear of the desert never more evident than it is here.Directed with some style from Jack Arnold This Island Earth/The Incredible Shrinking Man, the film was originally shot in 3D, and tho sadly I have never been able to see the picture in that format, I can certainly imagine greatly the impact of certain scenes here. The picture is also notable for it's use of POV shooting from the alien perspective, all fuzzy focus from a spherical single eye, it works real well and would be something that many other film makers would use from here on in. This is not a film that relies on its creatures to see it home safely, in fact we barely glimpse the creatures here, but we don't need that to be the case, because they make their mark regardless, all of which leaves It Came From Outer Space as a very knowing and quite often intelligent piece of work. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Sci-Fi film from the 1950's","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's amazing what one can do with a movie containing minimal effects and solid acting. Richard Carlson(Putnam), Barbara Rush(Ellen) and Charles Drake(Sheriff)are outstanding in their roles. The story is simple An astronomer sees a spaceship land. He investigates by searching in the crater it made on impact. He sees an alien but nobody believes him. I won't go any further because I don't want to spoil the story-line concerning some of the characters or the ending. The effects are decent for 1953. The sets are good and the story moves at a nice pace. The landscape is beautiful as well. I can see this movie over and over again and enjoy it each time. A must-have film for your Sci-Fi collection. "},{"Title":"Great Ray Bradbury put on film!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had never seen this film before last night. At first I thought (yawn)another sci-fi movie... But I watched the film with awe. For it's day the make-up was a piece of art work! I am pretty sure the studio didn't allow a ton of money to make this movie, but there are some well known names starring in it. I won't give my usual anti sci-fi speech here because this film doesn't deserve it. This is probably the best film of it's era to make it to 2006, and still be relevant. I saw the 'McCarthyism' in it and if you don't know what that means look it up! It(McCarthyism) was one of the worst witch-hunts of our time, until now, possibly. Watch this movie and think about what congress was doing at the time! It's right there like a scoop of ice cream that's fallen out of the cone, splat! I couldn't help but see the similarities, and you won't either. I hope this isn't considered a spoiler, I would never spoil a movie for anyone, knowingly. Just check it out,look for the similarities, and see if you notice them too! I am still not a sci-fi fanatic but I will admit this film helped to change my mind! I hope you get a chance to watch this soon, I saw it on TCM on September 1st, 2006! It's available at any hip video stores, and maybe a chain store if they have a decent sci-fi section. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Above average sci-fi","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was surprisingly good for the period!  The story was intelligent and engaging.  (I like one-man-against-the-majority type stories anyway.) I loved the eerie atmosphere.  And the desert setting accentuated this eeriness.  The alien effects were a little on the corny side (big eyeball, etc.), but I'm biased by today's standards and it didn't really detract from the story or atmosphere.  The only weakness was the relationship of Putnam and his girlfriend--it seemed sort of tacked on.All in all, I rated this a 9 of 10;  Mostly because some thought went into its creation--unlike many other sci-fi movies of the same era.It's in black & white (originally 3D I think). "},{"Title":"Don't See This In A Theatre With Aussies!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Between about 1975 and 1986, three 1950s sci-fi films were held in very high regard by me - It Came From Outer Space, Forbidden Planet and The Incredible Shrinking Man. All three were liked so much I constantly listened to them on audio tape. They were regarded as solid sci-fi movies to be taken very seriously. Then in the late 1980s I made the mistake of seeing these films in Sydney theatres with people who were not really in tune with 1950s movies. These films became comedy to them.ICFOS begins with the male and female lead getting all romantic with eachother. This cinema crowd almost laughed this scene off the screen. Too corny for them. Later, one character desribes Richard Carlson as a man who thinks for himself, the laughing was louder this time. And again, Carlson looks into space and starts talking to himself, out loud, about aliens. The laughing was getting stronger. And so it went on. What was once great mystery and suspense, such as Russell Johnson looking into the sun, was now comedy. They had good reason to laugh as it was funny. But this crowd destroyed a childhood favourite of mine. I did'nt like this film being laughed at. I did'nt want to know the funny side. Other cinema screenings of Forbidden Planet and The Incredible Shrinking Man were given the same reaction. For a while I wondered if all of my 1950s/1960s sci-fi favourites were just ... bad in the eyes of the public. Or was it just the Australian sense of humour?I will rate this film by my 1970s reactions. It is a classic. The music score is dated but everything else is fine. The desert creates such mystery. Great sci-fi.  "},{"Title":"It Came From Outer Space - A DVD Movie Review","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek's Dr. Leonard McCoy, aka Bones, always said it best when confronted with a new and unknown alien, Why do we always call it it or that thing?Universal Pictures has made some great horror and sci-fi pictures during the twentieth century. One of the most original was the 1953 sci-fi film adaptations of the famous author Ray Bradbury's story of the xenophobic and paranoiac from both sides of the point of view of human and alien It Came From Outer Space.This was a 3D film, of course lost on the TV and DVD transference. It would be awesome to see the original 3D film in the theater. Regardless, this relatively new DVD black and white transference is very good, atmospheric, dark but not muddy, and silver when it counts.The story is about an alien space craft that crashes accidentally on Earth. The aliens want to repair their ship and leave. To further their cause, the aliens kidnap humans and take over their physical likeness to aid in the repair of their space craft.Interwoven in this theme is the typical sci-fi romance, a macho confrontation, and the town posse sent to destroy the aliens.Regardless of this typical contrivance, most of the script is literate, with Bradbury's unique introspection, woven within poetry as prose.In the ending, the aliens do leave Earth somewhat peacefully, and we humans are left with a sense of wonder. This is the stuff of future Spielberg's E.T. and Close Encounters type films, which are the ultimate alien encounter movies. In these stories both human and alien are xenophobes (fear of the outsider), not understanding each other, always with early mutual mistrust, and then with communication comes an understanding.A word about the cast. Richard Carlson portrays the dreamer and stoic astronomer that first meets the aliens and believes in them in this play. Carlson is somewhat known for his cast in The Day the Earth Stood Still as a heel, and his scientist cum tough guy performance in The Creature from the Black Lagoon.His girlfriend in this film is cast with such breathtaking femininity, by the incredibly beautiful Barbara Rush, who is the hero's rock, and lioness in belief of her man. Barbara Rush is one of the 1950's almost forgotten but unforgettable women. She was so lovely, and when ever I see her on the silver screen, my heart always skips a beat. And like all sci-fi heroines of that age she gets wide eyed and SCREAMS really well when terrified.This movie is intelligent, well written, aptly acted, with eerie score, and filmed in the lonely desert with the adept eye of the macabre.Highly recommended as one of the really great sci-fi films of the the golden age of the genre, the 1950's.I give it four stars out of five. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was cruising the cable and found this, got engaged in it and couldn't stop. It first I thought it was one of those many low rent 50's BW sci-fi/monster flicks, but as I watched I realized that it was quite thoughtful. Making the aliens into reasonable but scared accidental visitors to a primitive planet, wanting to leave but needing to cobble together stone knives and bearskins to fix their vessel really works. I'd like to see it in 3D. I wasn't too surprised to see in the closing credits that it was written by Ray Bradbury. This is a gem among the rocks of that era. It's up there with The Thing and The Day The Earth Stood Still. "}{"Title":"Jack Arnold  classic","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people will wonder why I've rated this 9 out of 10 ? The answer is simple , Jack Arnolds direction is spot on , the script by Harry Essex , based on a Ray Bradbury story , The Meteor , is well above average for 50's sci-fi , the special effects are excellent , for the period , the acting , particularly , by the leads , is excellent , the music is genuinely spooky , the camera-work showing things from the aliens point of view is very effective and it has some original ideas . For example , it was the first movie to have aliens replicating humans and , in an era where the alien was invariably a man in a rubber suit , there was a genuine attempt at making the alien original and scary . All on a budget of less than a million dollars , which for its day was a decent amount and was definitely not a b picture budget ! Comparing it with todays mega bucks films with their CGI special effects is not being in the least bit fair . I note that a lot of reviewers are of the opinion that Space Children was Jack Arnolds favorite movie and his best . I have seen all of Jack Arnolds films and consider Space Children his worst . Even Monster On The Campus was better ! I have looked everywhere and can find no reference to Jack Arnold referring to it as his favorite movie . I suspect it falls into the urban legend category . In my opinion Jack Arnolds best sci-fi movie was The Incredible Shrinking Man , thanks to a superb script by Richard Matheson and what was the most incredible thing about that movie was that the studio heads allowed that ending . "},{"Title":"Intelligent sci-fi","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A meteor crashes out in the desert near a remote town. John Putnam (Richard Carlson) and girlfriend Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush) see it and investigate. What John finds is an alien spaceship...but an avalanche covers it up. Over the next few days townspeople start to act very strange...like an alien mind is controlling them...This was originally shown in 3-D. I was lucky enough to see it that way in a theatre back in the 1980s. There was real restraint of it--it didn't come up much. My favorite was when Carlson swung a telescope to the audience--I actually thought it would hit me! And the aliens POV shots had them looking through a bubble--cause it looked good in 3-D.3-D aside this was a well-made and deadly serious movies about aliens. The script was pretty intelligent--for its era. Also this is the rare sci-fi movie where the aliens were NOT evil. Still they looked pretty gruesome (gave me nightmares as a kid).Carlson is surprisingly very good--he has some difficult lines but pulls them off. Rush isn't given much to do but look beautiful--which she does well!) And there's a very funny sequence with Kathleen Hughes playing a blonde bombshell. Also it's fun to see Russell Johnson in an early role before he became The Professor from Gilligan's Island. Nice eerie music score too.Considered, quite rightfully, as one of the top sci-fi films of the 1950s. Recommended. "},{"Title":"It is nice to look at .....","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beautiful long shots of barren desserts. And of cars going down empty American highways. Barbara Rush was easy on the eyes. Richard Carlson was sort of an all American leading man. He plays the only sane person in a small desert town which intensely fears the space ship that has landed in the desert.The bubble like creatures from the space ship were good enough for the time this film was made, I guess.Like other sci-fi movies of the time (eg. The Day the Earth Stood Still in 1951) the film portrays base human instincts as negative and violent. Even the background score is quite similar to The Day the Earth Stood Still. The movie is based on a story by Ray Bradbury.(6/10) "},{"Title":"Interesting and entertaining","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It Came from Outer Space is one of the more interesting sci-fi movies to come out of the 1950s, no doubt because the story was from the always interesting Ray Bradbury. It was one of the first sci-fi movies to present aliens that were not really evil. And it has the intriguing argument that mankind, at least in this present day, is not ready to deal with life from another world, even if that alien life doesn't mean any harm. It's interesting to see how that last argument is presented throughout the movie. Certainly, the sheriff and his posse are a real threat, but the lead character (the astronomer), while an intelligent man, makes several foolish decisions that show that even he doesn't have the stuff to deal with aliens properly. That's not to say that the messages in the movie prevent the enterprise from being entertaining. The movie's main purpose is to entertain, and it does it pretty well. Kudos also to the filmmakers for while making the movie in 3-D, not hitting the viewers over the head with stuff flying into the camera lens. Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"It Came from Outer Space.","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That old adage of we kill what we don't understand can be applied to It Came from Outer Space, another solid classic bit of sci-fi B-movie from director Jack Arnold, with a screenplay inspired by Bradbury's The Meteor. Supposedly a meteor lands in the Arizona desert near a small town, but in fact it is a space ship carrying an alien race quite repulsive to humans. With a smart script that questions our inability to wait before pulling out our guns and firing, and telling us that the aliens aren't always a threat to humankind, It Came from Outer Space tried to provoke our thoughts away from believing that those from outside our world land here to hurt us. Richard Carlson is kind of a B-movie icon for many of us, mainly due to his association with Creature from the Black Lagoon and this film. He is the lone scientist (a star gazer in this film, considered by the papers who mock his claim that it was a space ship that landed in the desert, not a meteor as suspected) who tries to speak for the aliens, hoping to convince the sheriff (Charles Drake) that using guns won't solve anything except perhaps hurt those taken captive by them in order to use their likenesses in town to secure hardware needed to fix their vessel (and produce a weapon to protect themselves). With Barbara Rush as Carlson's love interest (and eventually kidnapped herself, naturally), and Russell Johnson (of Gilligan's Island fame) as the employee of an electrician (Joe Sawyer) in the cast, this is actually a respected sci-fi film, not relegated to the cheesy conversation of many of its ilk. There are some imaginative first-person perspective shots seen through the eye of the alien as it descends upon and spy on humans. The special effects aren't the bright spot of this one its budget is obviously low as the alien is a rubbery monstrosity that could have been made by Paul Blaisdell, and the ship is basically a ball (probably inflatable). I always find myself engaged in the presentation, though, as it has that Invasion of Body Snatchers meets Day the Earth Stood Still feel to it. Carlson was always reliable and interesting, and he conveys the frustrations/dismay of being dismissed for his claims of the spaceship/alien presence, conflicted, agonizing anxiety at if he should believe in what the race of aliens are telling him regarding peaceful non-threatening motives on earth (just repairs and accidental crash on the planet, not willing to confront the earthlings due to our shoot first, ask later response to beings unlike us), and struggle to maintain a posse led by the sheriff when it appears the townsfolk are being kidnapped and possibly in harm's way. The setting in Arizona (actually shot in California) is quite refreshing (THEM also has that, as does Arnold's own Tarantula), and it is used expansively. One good scene I like has Joe's electrician listening to strange noise through the power lines with Carlson getting an ear of it, commenting on how the desert has its own voice. The Joshua tree even gets a good bit of ooga-booga use as Rush screams when it is shadowed in darkness, as she believes it is the alien. The zombie-like movements of alien clones of the human locals is quite pod-like, and the simple small town rural sense of place within the enveloping desert landscape does create a bit of perfect cover for aliens needing to get their ship in order&#x85;or else. The reliable scores of these kinds of 50s sci-fi shows itself effectively here in this film as well. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While not in the class of Them or The Incredible Shrinking Man, It Came From Outer Space is close to the top of the 1950's Science Fiction heap. This was only the second film that Jack Arnold directed and his experiments and innovations here would serve him well four years later when he made the his Incredible Shrinking Man classic.In this film, Arnold experiments with the genre, not showing his monster until the very end (an unintentionally hilarious scene where Richard Carlson recoils in stunned horror despite being warned in advance). This idea works because he also experiments with point of view, showing much of the action from the POV of the monster, with some kind of membrane attached to the camera lens. This is interesting because the viewer immediately begins to identify with the monster, even though the monster does not speak and there is no attempt to do a voice-over of its thoughts.It is always interesting to watch a 3D movie in just two dimensions because you have to try to imagine the effect. Plus there are scenes that seem strange until you realize that they were constructed and filmed for their 3D effect. For example, at one point Carlson returns home and finds a dust trail that the monster leaves behind. To a rising suspenseful score he opens his closet to reveal the horror of horror-empty coat hangers. As the door is opening Arnold cuts to a shot from inside the closet, looking through the hangers at the horrified Carlson-which must have looked very cool in 3D. The monster's theft of his clothes was not an essential plot element but it made for a good effect. Barbara Rush (who would later play villainess Nora Clavacle on Batman) was a real dish and she gets some good scream queen moments, the best one when a local kid in a spaceman suit surprises her. "},{"Title":"(POSSIBLE SPOILER)...Ray Bradbury story given the '50s treatment...earnest and absorbing...","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although some of the time it seems like watching a one hour TV teleplay of the sort popular in the '50s, this interesting early sci-fi story by Ray Bradbury has earnest performances (especially from RICHARD CARLSON in the lead) and taut direction with great help from a theremin-flavored musical score for the alien theme.The special effects are the problem. They seem crude and primitive by today's standards, and yet the film survives this drawback. The B&W photography is stark in portraying a desert setting where a scientist and his girlfriend (BARBARA RUSH) first experience contact with the alien from outer space. For plot purposes, no one in town believes them until the thing starts taking over some of the townspeople, a la INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS a few years later.The chilling background score by an uncredited Henry Mancini is an added dimension that gives the alien menace a much needed grip on the audience. Richard Carlson plays it all straight and gives a convincing and heartfelt performance as the scientist struggling to make others believe.Carlson gets nice support from Barbara Rush, Russell Johnson, Charles Drake and Joe Sawyer.Considering when it was made, this is an interesting early start to the sci-fi films that followed. Bradbury fans won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Amateur astronomer John Putnam (Richard Carlson) and his girlfriend Ellen (Barbara Rush) witness a meteor crash in the Arizona desert. John investigates closer and sees it's not a meteor but a spaceship. Before anybody else can see it, a rockslide buries the ship. Naturally, nobody believes John's story but he sets out with Ellen to prove it's true. Soon, some of the townspeople begin to act strange and John comes to the realization they are really aliens from the ship.The credit for the script to this film is a matter of debate. Ray Bradbury is only credited with a story idea and the official line is that he did a story treatment and Harry Essex did all the scripting. However, legend has always persisted Bradbury wrote a first draft script complete with dialogue that Essex simply changed some things and took full credit. Whether this is true or not I don't know. But I do know there are distinctly Bradburian lines of dialogue in this film that don't fit with Essex's other films. So take that for what it's worth. Regardless of who deserves the credit, the script is excellent and one of the best of the alien invasion films of the '50s.This was legendary director Jack Arnold's first sci-fi film. Arnold would go on to direct such classics as Creature from the Black Lagoon and The Incredible Shrinking Man. He imbues the film with a great atmosphere and makes terrific use of the 3D technology in ways few other directors have, then or now. The wonderful score was composed in separate parts by Irving Gertz, Henry Mancini, and Herman Stein. The cast is really good, with Richard Carlson and gorgeous Barbara Rush giving particularly effective performances. Also of note for fans of Gilligan's Island, the Professor himself Russell Johnson has a dual role. Really a phenomenal sci-fi film. A classic everybody should see. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Aliens","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Missed the whole idea of aliens with some depth of character. I saw this picture when it first came out and I was 11, so I excused myself. But then, as now, I thought the whole idea that aliens could assume the identity of humans was pretty creepy. We can watch friendly, chipper people reappear completely devoid of emotion after undergoing an encounter with the huge, gelatinous eye of a space creature. What a startling contrast in aspect, I remember thinking.These aliens, however, are different from those in other sci-fi movies, because these don't want to do us harm and they are not just one-dimensional - and they just want to go home. In addition, they articulate their intentions clearly, and state that They, too, have souls. Remarkable concept, and I didn't pick it up the first time. The literate script was adapted for the screen by the author himself, Ray Bradbury, which should come as no surprise.Good acting all around. Richard Carlson is the hero of the piece and is earnest and sincere. He also wears a Harris tweed jacket in the blazing Arizona sun, leading me to believe he is hiding a paunch. Barbara Rush is his girl friend and she is beautiful - and she is in short sleeves. Several other recognizable character actors also appear to round out the cast. Good movie, good story, good suspense. "},{"Title":"Not Like Us...Then They are a Threat","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There were many outstanding 1950's Sci-Fi films as well as many not so outstanding. This is one of the former. It is profound at times but some of the dialog can be clunky. Yet, there are some thought provoking themes here and it is at its best fictionalizing and chronicling the Flying Saucer craze that was emerging and grabbing some headlines in real life.Adding to the mirroring of public awareness at the time is the notion of perceived outside threats, such as Communism, and the Movie asks us to step back a bit and be a little less paranoid and reactive. One line that can be read as an ominous Eisenhower era conformity plea...after witnessing and reporting his UFO sighting the Man gets this reaction from an authority figure...he's an odd one...he's more than odd, he is an individual, a Man alone, a Man who thinks for Himself.That seems to be a threat to the establishment. But the irony is if everyone was so conforming and acted as a collective, that could be called Communism. But weren't they the enemy. So while deriding the Reds, we are told we should shut up, and walk in step. That's the hypocrisy.This is a creepy Movie and is a lot of fun at the same time. It has a number of glitzy looking sets with some futuristic designed apparatus. There are parts that are darkly lit with eerie shadowy figures and some piercing Music. Some cloned Zombie-Men and an effective use of SFX that try, and mostly succeed at being otherWorldly. While this is an excellent Movie, it can be seen as a precursor to a Great Movie, Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956). "}{"Title":"Classic Sci-Fi Gateway Drug","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (contains spoilers)Older films, unfortunately, aren't as respected as they should be. In a perfect world people would need to be convinced to see the new stuff, and simply make every effort they could to see the old ones, trusting the opinions of those that came before them. But unfortunately this is not a popular sentiment. But take my word for it, It Came from Outer Space is one of those older films you should see, in particular if you're a sci-fi or genre fan to any degree. It's got a campy element going for it as well, as was just about anything made in Hollywood in 1953 (the Best Picture Oscar that year was given to The Greatest Show on Earth, probably the worst film awarded the prize in the history of the Academy, well besides Crash anyway).None other than the great Ray Bradbury wrote the story to It Came from Outer Space. It tells of a couple, astronomer/author John Putnam and teacher Ellen Fields, that witness a great meteor crash outside the small town of Sand Rock, Arizona. Once they reach the impact site, John comes to realize that it was actually a crash landing by aliens. Unfortunately, due to circumstance beyond his control (a high-sterical natural disaster), the people in Sand Rock do not believe John's story. But soon folks in town begin to disappear. When they return, however, they behave in a strange zombie-like manner, much like those who wander around up and down 16th Street around 3am &#x96; shall we say remote and detached. Thankfully the sheriff sees the light, but not in the way that our hero John, nor us, had hoped. Soon, chaos ensues. Panic all around. What do they aliens want? Are there even aliens? Are people truly behaving strangely? And what about the poor little owl? And is a peaceful solution really part of the vocabulary outside of the Bay Area?Directed quite skillfully by Jack Arnold, It Came from Outer Space is arguably the great '50s sci-fi invasion-panic film, along with Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Day the Earth Stood Still. Arnold is one of the unsung American directors of genre-filmmaking, having also made the still-formidable Tarantula, Creature from the Black Lagoon, and The Incredible Shrinking Man. All of these films, including It Came from Outer Space, have atmosphere for days, and most importantly they have scripts that aren't inane, but rather urbane, and intelligent. The performances are a hoot as well. Richard Carlson, also the star of Creature from the Black Lagoon, is such the poster-boy for '50s clean-cut and forthright heroes, and kinda cute to boot. Adorable Barbara Rush, however, steals the scenes away from Dick with her a-mazing portrayal of Ellen Fields. Believe it or not, she was awarded a Golden Globe for her turn in this movie.It Came from Outer Space is truly a fantastic time to be had. It's campy, it's fun, it's fast- paced, and it's moody. And for you cine-philes out there, it's a fascinating document on the evolution of sci-fi film. "},{"Title":"An Alien aircraft crashes in the Arizona desert is the intriguing premise of this classic Sci- Fi movie","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fifties sci-fi classic deals with John Putnam (Richard Carlson) as an aficionado astronomer who along with his beautiful girlfriend (Barbara Rush) during an evening in Sand Rock ( Arizona ) watch a fiery ball fall from the clouds into the desert . They investigate and John observes a ship and is convinced something is inside. Some stones fall burying the saucer before any one else can see it and now no one will believe him . After that , he becomes the aim of jokes and giggles from local townspeople when the newspapers publicize the story and Sheriff Matt Warren (Charles Drake) thinks he is nutty . When two locals, Frank Daylon (Joe Sawyer) and George (Russell Johnson), start to act rarely ; John is convinced that they have been taken over by an alien being that assume their identities. He can't convince anyone of the UFO crash he sighted and the aliens who have taken human form while repairing their ship aren't making it any easier.Excellent adaptation of Ray Bradbury's story with smart , thoughtful screenplay by Harry Essex who distinguish with snappy pacing, a genuine heartfelt enthusiasm for the genre, and plenty of scary atmosphere and eerie events. The picture contains supremely suspense , thrills , tension , spooky scenes and acceptable special effects by that time . It deals with outer space creatures taking over the bodies of earthlings and was the first time to utilize this issue , subsequently ordinary theme on the science fiction genre . Moody black and white cinematography by the cameraman Clifford Stine . Solid acting by Richard Carlson usual actor in sci-Fi genre and a gorgeous Barbara Rush . This exciting Sci-Fi results to be a classic picture of the golden age of the 50s along with ¨Them¨ , ¨Forbidden planet¨, ¨Invaders from Mars¨ , ¨War of the worlds ¨ ,¨Destination moon¨ , ¨Earth vs flying saucers¨ and ¨When worlds collide¨, among others . The motion picture is well directed by Jack Arnold in his first foray into the Sci-Fi genre. He reigns supreme as one of the greatest filmmakers of 50s science , achieving an important cult popularity with classics as The Creature from the Black Lagoon, and its follow-up titled Revenge of the Creature that was a nice sequel . Tarantula was likewise a lot of amusement . The Incredible Shrinking Man attained his greatest enduring cult popularity , it's a thought-provoking and impressive classic that's lost none of its power throughout the years . Arnold's final two genre entries were the interesting Monster on the Campus and the outlandish The Space Children¨ . And of course ¨It came from outer space ¨ that still hold up today . It's followed by an inferior remake (1996) for TV . "},{"Title":"Superior storytelling...","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Extremely effective thanks to some very literate writing (by Harry Essex and Ray Bradbury) and some exceptional, textbook direction by the John Ford of '50s sci-fi films, Jack Arnold. The eerie score sets the mood perfectly and there are some great POV shots from the myopic e-ts perspective. The performances all around are outstanding, particularly those of Richard Carlson as the astronomer nobody will believe and the breathtakingly beautiful Barbara Rush as his school teacher companion. The explosive opening almost belies the thoughtful approach to the rest of the story (which could be likened, almost, to a Val Lewton approach); nor does the couple's shortly thereafter close encounter with the wandering eye e-t herald any sort of fx showdown. IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE, whose critters from the crater later actually contemplate mass suicide, is one of the very BEST of the body-snatcher movies of its Era. While the e-ts incognito make what amounts to a stopover for repairs (after Carlson talks them out of committing suicide), it's Carlson's final, wistful statement that lingers long after the aliens are gone They'll be back. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this last night (New Year's Eve) on TMC, immediately following The Thing -- and IMHO, this is a much better film. The photography is excellent, and the Mojave desert scenery provides a slightly surreal, creepy atmosphere. The print they showed on TMC was crystal clear, and Barbara Rush is a stunning beauty. While not a great movie by any means, It Came from Outer Space is fairly thoughtful, with decent dialog. The creatures are shown only momentarily, but they're reasonably well-done and even a bit scary. I bet they were even scarier in 3D!My only quibble Why would the aliens assume human form to work on their damaged spacecraft? Since it was designed and built for use by them in their normal form, that just doesn't make sense.Overall, this is definitely one of the better sci-fi movies from the '50s. Not up there with best (Incredible Shrinking Man; Invasion of the Body Snatchers) but well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Classic 3D Sci Fi Horror from the Early Days","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The classic days of 3D sci fi horror are in this film. The days of the red scare, and the non-red screen. Later clumsily imitated by films like Space Children (which got ripped by MST3K) this film ended nicely with the aliens leaving and no one having died. A nice fallback for classic sci fi horror fans, who grow weary of the lets see how much blood we can splatter on the screen approach. Well worth the watch to all those who are die hard science fiction fans. "},{"Title":"Polaroid 3D, not red/green 3D, was great in 53","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen it in red/green 3D and found it extremely hard on the eyes, but as a 10 year old, seeing it in polarized 3D was great.  That was the era when anything jumping out at you (frogs, rocks, heroines) almost made you drop your popcorn.  Maybe we need to wait for color hologram movies to re-experience the thrills of true vision.  Youngsters watching this movie now naturally laugh at the puppet special effects, but the few poetic lines of Ray Bradbury still evoke wonder.  Well, Barbara Rush too (my age is showing). "},{"Title":"The willingness to believe that there are a lot of things that we know nothing about.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a thousand ways that the desert can kill says Richard Carlson after witnessing what he first believed is a meteor and later discovers to be space craft from an unknown planet. That is just one of many poetic observations made in this above average classic from the golden age of science fiction movies that is made on a reasonable budget yet is rather impressive in its ideals.After jumping in shock after mistaking a Joshua tree for an alien, Carlson's wife Barbara Rush becomes alternately cynical and very aware of the presence of something creepy from beyond. The alien, with an obvious telescopic eye, is able to transfer itself into human form, and they do just that with Russell Johnson. So with aliens running around as clones of human beings, the obvious question is what are they up to? The alien in Johnson's body promises not to steal his soul or his mind, but how do you trust obvious invaders from the beyond?What makes this a step above the average science fiction film of the 1950's is the way that it remains serious without taking it so seriously. Compared to others of this genre, this is a masterpiece and up there with War of the Worlds and The Day the Earth Stood Still. It isn't even marred by Rush's recurring screaming. Some questions do arise, such as how do the aliens know how to drive? But the key emotional scene is when the alien warns Carlson over seeing what they really look like because of how ugly they are. By presenting the visitors to earth as emotional and thinking beings, the writers make them relatable and remind us that perhaps we are not as reasonable as we claim and perhaps reason is something that other species excel at beyond our comprehension. "},{"Title":"Strong Outing From Jack Arnold","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spaceship from another world crashes in the Arizona desert, and only an amateur stargazer and a schoolteacher suspect alien influence when the local townsfolk begin to act strange.The screenplay by Harry Essex, with input by Jack Arnold, was derived from an original screen treatment by Ray Bradbury; screen legend says Bradbury wrote the original screenplay and Harry Essex merely changed the dialogue and took the credit. Unusual among science fiction films of the era, the alien invaders were portrayed by Bradbury as creatures without malicious intent toward humanity.No doubt helped by Bradbury's script, this is a strong outing in the career of Jack Arnold, who made many memorable (but cheesy) science fiction films. This one seems more serious, more intelligent, and even the alien (when finally shown) looks excellent by 1950s standards. "},{"Title":"Aliens Arrive.","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold directed this Ray Bradbury story that stars Richard Carlson as astronomer John Putnam, who, along with his girlfriend Ellen Fields(played by Barbara Rush) witness a meteor crash in the desert of Arizona. They go to investigate, and John discovers that it is a spaceship, not a meteor that has crashed, along with a strange-looking alien. Unfortunately, he's the only one that does, and the suspicious local sheriff(played by Charles Drake) is highly skeptical. When two local telephone pole workers(played by Joe Sawyer & Russell Johnson) are replaced by alien lookalikes, John knows that something sinister is happening, and must be stopped... Early science fiction tale is rather good, though does show its age in some ways(a bit melodramatic at times!) Overall though, entertaining and thoughtful. "},{"Title":"This Is How the Message Ran","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In small-town Sand Rock, Arizona, amateur astronomer Richard Carlson (as John Johnny Putnam) and pretty schoolteacher Barbara Rush (as Ellen Fields) are ending a date. She's a Scorpio. He's a Sagittarius. They ready to kiss, but are interrupted by a bright object crashing by a nearby mine. Thinking it's a meteor (sic), they set out to investigate. Judging by its appearance, Mr. Carlson believes It Came from Outer Space and contains some form of alien life. Everyone in town thinks Carlson is crazy...Reporters make fun of Carlson with the headline Star Gazer Sees Martians and he can't prove his story. Some suggest he's seeking publicity for a new book. Sheriff Charlie Drake (as Matt Warren) appears willing to move in on Ms. Rush, but she sticks with Carlson. After telephone linemen Russell Johnson (as George) and Joe Sawyer (as Frank) have a close encounter on the road, townsfolk begin acting possessed. Beautifully proportioned blonde Kathleen Hughes (as June) makes a pointed appearance...From writer Ray Bradbury, this is one of the more literate science-fiction films of the 1950s. While silly in some respects, the basic story holds up well. With the fact that the movie will be seen in 3-D on their minds, director Jack Arnold and photographer Clifford Stine create an Earthly desert that looks like another planet. Objects could jump into your seat. The soundtrack music is perfect. Film critics have a political reading for many of these movies, but aliens interrupt sexual thoughts with alarming frequency.******** It Came from Outer Space (5/25/53) Jack Arnold ~ Richard Carlson, Barbara Rush, Charles Drake, Russell Johnson "}{"Title":"Early Effective 3D","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw It Came... at age 11 in 3D. It was at a time when a spat of films were being released in that format. We were into horror films and there was little else to watch but film, as TV was offering Howdy Doody and Beany and Cecil to stimulate us. Howdy and Beany were great and stimulating but... The horror and Sci-Fi films really captured our attention and this film captured our attention about UFO's and alien invasions. Well, now we're still gnashing our teeth about Alien Invasions and the center of that is Arizona. All I can say is that this was and (in many ways) still is effective Sci-Fi Hollywood fodder. "},{"Title":"Stranded Aliens In Arizona Desert Science-Fiction Classic","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the small desert town of Salt Rock, John and Ellen witness a flaming meteor crash-land nearby. They rush to see the crater, and John thinks he sees an alien ship inside until a landslide buries it. Unable to convince the authorities of what he saw, he is branded a crank until some of the townsfolk start acting mysteriously ...This is an imaginative, exciting, fun science-fiction classic, extremely well directed by Arnold. Harry Essex' script, based on a story by Ray Bradbury, is chock-full of clever and creepy ideas, and in many ways this is the lynchpin fifties sci-fi flick. It has the secretive aliens of This Island Earth, the replacement people of Invaders From Mars, the small-town takeover of Invasion Of The Body Snatchers and the desert setting of Them!, but it preceded all those excellent films. The Mojave desert locations in particular play an integral role in the atmosphere and the location photography is superb; the long shots of cars from the telephone-wire alien point-of-view are incredible, and Arnold plays with all sorts of clever techniques to show (and hide) the mysterious aliens. Most of all, this is the movie that put the fun into the fantasy boom of the fifties - it was originally shot in 3D and starts with the meteor ship exploding in your face. It may be a little silly and wooden in places but it's always intelligent and enjoyable, and races ahead to the next mystery or scare. The cast are likable, but watch out for the deliriously sexy Kathleen Hughes, who scorches up the screen in her one scene. Jack Arnold was a great director who never really got much credit, but in my opinion he was primarily responsible for the good-natured adventurous fantasy films of his era; he followed this with three other great movies - The Creature From The Black Lagoon, Tarantula and The Incredible Shrinking Man, all classics, and made many other brilliant films (The Glass Web, High School Confidential!, The Mouse That Roared, several others). His philosophy of imaginative and exciting entertainment has filtered on down through filmmakers like George Lucas and Peter Jackson, but he was the pioneer. Microwave yourself some popcorn, turn off the lights and catch this escapist classic. "},{"Title":"An excellent example of human behavior, and great science fiction!!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a gem of a movie! The story was simple, but strong. Excellent acting and presentation of the story, too.What I loved most was the way the creators captured the true heart of humans, and how they might react. What a great adaption of the Bradbury story.This movie is a perfect example of how a movie can be great without a big budget, special effects, or even color film. It flowed nicely, had a good pace, and provoked emotion.If you are a fan of science fiction, Ray Bradbury, or just good movies, you will like this movie.This one was special to me, personally, and rates as a GREAT movie with 8 out of 10.Desert-Buddha "},{"Title":"Is the alien good or bad?","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched It Came From Outer Space when it first came out in 3-D. I distinctly remember the spacecraft coming out of the screen. That scared me, but what frightened me most was the scene in town when the two electrical repairmen, Frank and George, appear as zombie-like following their alien abduction. Veteran actor, Joe Sawyer, and Gilligan Professor, Russell Johnson, are amazing in their transformation which involves no extra makeup or special effects. This shows that good actors can be creepy and ghoulish without any physical additives.Seems that John Putnam (Richard Carlson) and his lady love, Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush), he a scientist, she a teacher, see what looks like a meteor fall while they are gazing at the skies through a telescope. They drive to investigate. Putnam goes down into the crater and discovers what appears to be a creature from another planet. He returns to tell Ellen. She believes him though they can't convince anyone else of what was seen, including a nosy reporter and the sheriff. When towns people begin to take on a strange aura and behave oddly, the sheriff, the reporter, and others start to suspect aliens have landed in the desert.The Alien is shown several times during the movie and is truly eerie. The music which sounds similar to the later Twilight Zone's is extremely effective in providing the necessary background for the strange happenings.3-D comics were also popular at the time. Several of the sci-fi flicks such as The Man From Planet X were given comic book treatment. I recall one filler that was a page long in one of the comics. Using the 3-D classes, if you covered the right lens (red) the Americans welcomed the aliens. The aliens then proceeded to make slaves out of the humans. If you covered the left lens (blue), the Americans killed the aliens. In the hands of one of the aliens was a letter of introduction stating that the aliens wanted to be friends and teach humans all the technological advances that would end poverty and misery. Sci-fi movies of the day dealt with aliens in the same way. Watch and see if the alien in It Came From Outer Space is a friend or an enemy. "},{"Title":"Decent movie from the golden age of sci-fi","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a staple of late night television movies when I was growing up and I've seen this many times. Although not as good as some of the other sci-fi films from the fab 50's this is still a good picture. An object, thought to be a meteor falls into the Arizona desert and weird things start happening. This was the first Ray Bradbury adapted science fiction story to be made into a movie and was based on his story The Meteor. An early film from the career of director Jack Arnold who would go on to make some of the classics of the genre in the 1950's including Creature From the Black Lagoon, Revenge of the Creature, This Island Earth, Taranula, and The Incredible Shrinking Man. Even though Jack Arnold became well known with his sci-fi flicks they were still all B-movies and this is only the third film of his directorial career so it's truly a B-movie. amazingly it won a Golden Globe Award for Best Newcomer to Barbara Rush. Rounding out the cast are Richard Carlson, Kathleen Hughes, Russell Johnson and Charles Drake. Screewriter Harry Essex did some good screenplays in his career and wrote for some well-known films like Creature From the Black Lagoon and The Sons of Katie Elder. He had some good material to work with here in Ray Bradbury. I would give this a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Considering Budget and Era, Quite respectable","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The desert setting alone is sort of creepy. This movie was better than the average 50's Monster Movie. The concept of course is par for the decade. Aliens from another planet, a few folks know and most doubt. For a low budget the director got a lot out of it. There's not much in the way of scares really. However, if you like movies of this era I think you'll be pleased at the solid script, acceptable acting and the alien POV shots are a nice touch. The aliens? Come on, it's the 50's and rubber suits or paper mache were in vogue. I don't think that action aliens really are the point here. This is more of a how would we react if this really happened kind of film. In all truth the reaction would have been more negative in all likelihood. Who would I recommend this to? Young kids might get a scare, old sci-fi monster movie buffs will enjoy, modern horror film fans are going to be yawning, and only sci-fi fans who are fond of having a frame of reference for the genre are going to be entertained. Still I have to place this in the middle of the pack ratings wise. I'd give it 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Theramins & Carlson - pretty good stuff!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those sci-fi fans of 50's movies, this is one of the better ones.  My DVD player awaits its 3-D release (wouldn't that be nice!).  Anyway, dependable Richard Carlson puts in a good performance as the 'crackpot' scientist who no one will believe (as long as he's not making speeches a la Peter Graves).  You'll love the 'possessed' Russell Johnson & just the right amount of theramin & suspense.  Even the monster affects aren't bad, although the whole 'eyeball' affects were overdone.  Residents fans will like it.   Also, if the aliens are so smart, why was the Carlson character (Putnam) the only one to reason a solution to keep the approaching mob away from the aliens rebuilding their ship?  Oh, I digress.  Well, check it out - it's worth your time.   "},{"Title":"i noticed something odd in this film","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  watch this film,if you have it on Tape, and you will notice the fact that several times throughout  the movie, an actor, while delivering a line, will suddenly let his voice trail off, and not complete the sentence.I  hate to say this, but its seems obvious that Bradbury is writing to the social misfit nerd Im one when he portrays a hero that is lonely and at odds with the world because he  probes into things or something like that. and what's with this slam at marriage when ms. Rush saya no, when we are married I won't have to. That is, put   up with certain drawbacks in her relationship with Putnum. I like this movie just for Carlson's acting. Carlson's bit with Joe Sawyer on the phoneline is neat, as are a lot of things about this movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable 1950's sci-fi","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an intelligent, well-written sci-fi movie with likeable leading characters.  The plot of the story deals with a man who discovers a spacecraft, and the trouble he encounters attempting to get people to believe him.  Slowly several local people are kidnapped and duplicated by the aliens, who use them as cover while they try to repair their craft and leave.  The ending is also quite good and unique.  "},{"Title":"Superb example of the classic '50's genre","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A true spooker, with some genuinely frightening moments. An early example of electronic music used effectively to create mood. When we finally see him (her/), the critter's much more realistic than many contemporary sci-fi counterparts.Carlson's much better here than in Black Lagoon, and the minor parts are well acted. Remember, this is the 50's. "}{"Title":"Not As Creepy As It Tries To Be","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, we see the monster too soon. There's way too much screeching Theramin (I think that's the spelling of the Russian-made electronic gadget that creates this film's spooky music). The story's not very tight or suspenseful after the first 20 minutes. And the special effects, including the electronic distortion of the actors' voices after they've been taken over, are pretty hokey. When I saw this movie in 3-D in '53, it was a great movie, but at age 9 what the hell did I know? Some of the scenes are distinctive enough that I remember them clearly, but overall It Came From Outer Space doesn't hold up even remotely as well as, say, Them, which also took place in the barren Southwest but used the desert's lonely, windy and foreboding landscape much more effectively. Also, instead of shooting in a real desert town, the producers settled on backlot facades, which look like backlot facades--not a good idea if you're cutting between them and real desert. The terrain also doesn't match up half the time, the crater caused by the fireball doesn't look anything like a crater, and the landslide that almost kills Richard Carlson is simply black rocks being shoved off the top of a brown ridge. These are small things, you might say, but they consistently undermine the requisite suspension of disbelief.  "},{"Title":"A decent yet forgettable B movie","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For A Sci-fi B movie to be great it must be; Interesting, Have great looking aliens, have a good and original storyline and be original.Unfortunately, not all films are like this.This is my review on It came from outer space.The plot goes like this; A spaceship crashes on earth leaving a huge hole in the deserts of Arizona. Only one man,John Putnam, witnesses this and is sure that it is the first stage of an alien invasion. However, nobody believes his claims and he becomes obsessed with trying to prove his point. After excavating the site, John Putnam stumbles across the alien beings and their ultimatum becomes clear...Now don't get me wrong, it was a good flick. However it's flawed by a couple of issues.Firstly, the plot isn't really interesting and all the characters are as dull as could be. The main character, played by Richard Carlson, is very well acted, but lacks interesting qualities. His character seemed to spend most of the time trying to prove his point, which was alright for a while but slowly became monotonous. I know you only really watch B movies like this to see the aliens and, while they are interesting to look at, which I will move onto in a moment, They're plan is slightly boring. (Spoiler) They are only on earth because they just crashed and have no interest in invading the planet. I was expecting it was some sort of fake crash so that they would secretly crawl out and invade. I no, I'm making a plot line up, but I was sort of expecting something round those lines. The fact that it didn't live up to expectations might be part of the reason why I don't like the film as much as I could have.The Movie is very slow to start off with horrendous talk scenes that don't seem to add to the story what-so-ever, apart from how the ship got there etc.Now what was good about it. Although I said the alien's motives were boring, their appearance more than makes up for it. They are completely unique and they certainly stand high in my favourite alien list in terms of how they look. They are huge, rock-like monsters with one bulging eye and large tentacles sticking out. This alone makes the movie worth while.They do have some interesting scenes, especially when they first meet Richard Carlson's character, John Putnam. It's both suspenseful and fun to watch. It came from outer space also had a great ending scene with these aliens that made the film a lot better.Im not going to say the film was horrible, but there were a couple of unimaginative scenes in the movie that seemed either taken from another movie or just to dull to be any good. The film has lots of redeeming qualities that do make the film worth while but there is not enough of them to raise it above my final rating.Im giving It came from outer space a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining Even Without the 3-D","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No need to recap the familiar plot. I'm still ducking those falling 3-D rocks from 1953. Of course, that optical fad passed quickly, but the movie can still stand solidly without the depth effect. In short, the screenplay effectively anticipates many later themes of that popular sci-fi decade. Consider Putnam's (Carlson) paranoia when nobody believes what he knows to be true, much like Miles' (McCarthy) difficulties in Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956); or, the hideous alien monster like so many Z-grade specials of that drive-in decade; or the remote desert setting also like so many of these specials, especially director Arnold's. In fact, the more I think about it, the parallels with Body Snatchers are striking, including Ellen's (Becky's too) sudden transformation captured in jarring close-up.However, here, it's really humans who are dangerous&#x97;the aliens simply want to repair their ship and leave, but are canny enough to know how humans typically react to the ugly and unfamiliar. It's an unusually thoughtful plot twist. On the other hand, the effect of those subjective shots through the alien's bleary eye is probably lost without the 3-D depth. Now it just seems cheesy in an otherwise superior film. I missed it at the time, but the theramin woo-woo sound is meant to convey the alien traveling down the telephone wires, maybe the only time that cheesy effect served an actual plot purpose.Anyway, Arnold proves one of the best sci-fi directors of the period with his many got'chas that still startle. Also, I like the astute staging (e.g. Frank and George in sinister shadow), even though Arnold has to work with a rather obvious exterior set for the desert encounters. Then too, the cast is excellent. Carlson is outstanding as the embattled astronomer, while the lovely Rush is actually menacing in those skyline close-ups.I don't know if this early 50's entry manages to make the front rank of period sci-fi, but all in all, it's darn close. "},{"Title":"Aren't we our own worst enemies","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Don Siegel's mid 50's classic 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' scared audiences with theme of body snatching, a couple years earlier Jack Arnold's strange, but bright 'It Came From Outer Space' would use the same tool but with very different results. In which case makes it quite refreshing to how the story goes on to play out. Its not your basic aliens running amok/looking for destruction. This is a terrifically captivating paranoid Sci-fi / horror (done in 3D for interweaving the shocks) is considerably well written in effectively laying out its smart groundwork (humanely examining the habits of fear and confusion of the unknown), ably acted by the likes of Richard Carlson (as our idealistic astronomer hero), Barbara Rush and Charles Drake and Jack Arnold's direction is crisply tailored and tightly constructed making well of his minor budget extracting tones of menacingly eerie atmospherics from the dust-bowl locations and instilling few creepy images. Knowing well the bug-eyed alien was better kept out of view&#x85; well for most part. We get plenty of alien POV shots, like it's looking out of some fishbowl and a slug trail. The special effects stand up okay&#x85; like the flying space ship. Some moments become repetitive, and show its budget restraints but it's masterfully shot, moodily scored and the time goes by in no time. A fun, intelligent little starry, starry night item to the 50s sci-fi fodder. "},{"Title":"It wasn't the right time for us to meet.","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A strange fireball crashes in the Arizona desert and John Putnam and Ellen Fields are the only two who see and believe that it is an alien spaceship and not a meteor. But when the townspeople begin acting strangely, the sheriff and a posse decide to investigate an old mine near the crash site.It Came from Outer Space is one of the classic science fiction horror monster movies of the 1950's and, in my opinion is one of the better ones. It has some of the feel and some of the message of The Day the Earth Stood Still, and while the plot is simple, the story and the film as a whole, remains entertaining.It manages to create an atmosphere of suspense and paranoia and preys on fears of mind control and losing one's sense of self-very real fears during the Cold War.I'm a fan of these old sci-fi monster movies, but in my view, this one definitely stands up to repeated viewings and is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Clever if not dry","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got to admit I'm not a fan of Ray Bradbury, I find his stories drab and predictable for the most part and his view on real aliens is very narrow minded for a science fiction writer. But as for how this movie came out. I got to admit the creature effects are impressive, what we see of the creature, which isn't much. I also liked the fact the aliens were evil out to take the planet or eat us like so many other movies of the time period. Like THIS ISLAND EARTH and THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, the alien although never named was a good alien only wanting to fix his ship. So, as a whole I must give this movie a seven OUT OF POSSIBLE TEN STARS. "},{"Title":"Moody, evocative and suspenseful, this remains one of the better SF films of the fifties","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It Came From Outer Space is a nice example of what happens when the excesses of zap-zap whiz-bang science fiction are held at bay.  Played for mood and suspense, it has a twist in its tail that I won't spoil for those who have not yet seen it.The excesses of poke-yer-eye-out 3-D are also held at bay in this movie.While the movie surely shows its age today, it just as surely shows just how well a movie can age.  Whether in 3-D or flat, It Came From Outer Space has genuine depth. "},{"Title":"3-D or Not 3-D That Is The Question","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1970s I had the privilege of seeing IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE on the big screen in its original 3D format, and as such it was a visually fascinating film. But like all 3D films, IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE suffers in the translation from big screen 3D format to a standard television screen the special effects, which seemed so spectacular in 3D, seem only so-so. And that is truly regrettable, for in its original format IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE is a classic of 1950s science-fiction.The story, created by Bradbury, concerns an amateur astronomer who discovers that aliens have crashlanded in the desert--but no one will believe him. Although the basic premise has been done to death, at the time OUTER SPACE was released it was still fresh, and Bradbury gives the tale an unusual spin that lifts it out of the realm of later 1950s and 1960s teenybopper flicks. But shorn of its 3D effects, the film lacks impact, and the creatures that were so impressive on the big screen become literal and slightly silly. Viewers who have never seen the film in its original 3D will be apt to wonder what all the fuss is about.And this poses a question. Why can't we have 3D films--a roster that includes THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON, Vincent Price's WAX MUSEUM, and IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE--on DVD in their original format? Admittedly the glasses are cumbersome, and there might be some issues about including them in the package, but other (and considerably less interesting) films have been released to video in 3D; why not the great classics, so we can see them as they were intended to be seen--and enjoy such films as IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE to their fullest? The original 3D version deserves a 9 star rating, but in flat presentation it is worthy of only 5. I'm splitting the difference.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Lacklustre on originality.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although my summary may not be very charming, I did like this film.  Its McCarthy message, (hot at the time for the contemporary Sci- Fi flick), is unsurprisingly condemning of the Reds under the Bed paranoia of the time. I feel that not having seen it in three dimensions is probably a good thing, but again, the film was further a product of the time.An enjoyable film, but not without its flaws.Has screaming woman.  Ooh the shock. "},{"Title":"Early sci-fi from Ray Bradbury.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After learning of Mr. Bradbury's involvement, you probably expected better. No fault on the part of director Jack Arnold, but this film does not reach out and grab your attention. Originally done in 3D, the story line is a common one. An avid 'sky watcher' is witness to the crashing of a ball of fire. The fear of the towns people is natural, they have landed.Richard Carlson was very good as the town alarmist. The lovely Barbara Rush played the female sci-fi lead to perfection. Others appearing are Charles Drake, Kathlene Hughes, Virginia Mullen and George Eldredge.This movie was no real great shakes compared to others out there during this time. It does not matter if you see it in 3D or not, for you have seen it for what it is. And it is worth watching despite the so common story line.Question is the bullet bra a fashion statement or comic relief? "}{"Title":"A solid sci-fi with good score, cinematography and acting (aside from the mostly wooden aliens)","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a small town in Arizona, John Putman gently flirts with his girlfriend Ellen Fields, who in turn gently teases him. They are staring up at the stars one night when they see a meteor flash across the sky and slam into the ground a few miles away. The next day they use a local pilot to find the crash site and John goes down into the crater. He manages to escape the crater just as a rock slide brings the whole pit crashing down into itself however he is convinced he has seen some form of alien craft down there. Quick to jump to conclusions about it, John finds nobody believes him and he is dismissed as concussed at best or crazy at worst. He is mocked in the press and by the military but while he is, something is alive in the desert with motives that are unknown to anyone on Earth.Although it does have weaknesses and limitations in common with other entries in the genre from the time, this piece of sci-fi is well worth a look for many reasons. The motives for the alien arrival on Earth is unclear for most of the film and you are not sure what to think for the majority of the film. The most obvious assumption is that the alien has come to turn mankind in wooden and stiff b-movie actors (for indeed this is what it does) but there is more to it and, although it won't set the world on fire, it is more interesting than many films that simply bring enemies down. What makes it work as well is the solid delivery from start to finish. The eerie cinematography works well with the score to produce a constant air of something being out there and it does produce a tangible tension across the movie that is more that waiting for the creature to be shown. In fact the alien being shown so early in the film is one of the weaknesses as it would have been much better to build to a restrained appearance later in the film (particularly since their appearance is made out as so horrifying). That said it does hold back after this and it is the eye view of the camera that shows the alien presence, but it is the fear of them being all around that produces the best tension, particularly since we cannot be sure of what they are up to.Apparently released in 3D (but not the version I saw) the film looks creepy without it and the dead desert is well used as a place holding danger and secrets. The cast work well with the script which mostly avoids cliché and even produces some nice flows of dialogue. Carlson makes for a convincing lading man who is not a square-jawed hero type but much closer to a real person. Rush is cute and has a good chemistry with Carlson that makes her more than just a screaming sidekick. Drake is enjoyably tough and brings out tension well with his fear crossed with aggression. The way the alien people are so stiff and wooden was a bit of a problem for me since it was so obvious that something was wrong with them &#150; it would have been better to have had them only a few steps removed from the people whose form they have taken.No matter though, this is still a good sci-fi from the period. The narrative is solid but it is the delivery that makes it with a eerie score, good cinematography and surprisingly (for the genre/period) good performances. The 3D thing is a gimmick that tends to be discussed more than the film but without it this is still a great little piece of sci-fi from the 50's. "},{"Title":"Film defines the genre","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the better '50's sci-fi films to be seen, despite the efforts of Universal-International to butcher it. The 3-D effects are unnecessary and the studio insisted (against Ray Bradbury's protests) on showing the aliens in their true form, a farce even by the crude standards of the day. Still, Bradbury and director Jack Arnold team up to make a film that helps define the genre of '50's sci-fi and inspired other film makers. After all, Steven Spielberg credits this film with giving him the impetus for Close Encounters of the Third Kind. "},{"Title":"Good early genre flick.","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie from the early days of the science-fiction genre, in which aliens come to Earth to either conquer or just destroy us. The type of movie that perhaps is also being more of the monster horror sort and features flying saucers on string, fake looking studio sets, people in rubber suits and wooden acting performances. Yes, this movie also has it all but still I rate it to be a slightly above average one, since if features a pretty decent story in it.To be completely honest, none of these movies within this particular genre are great ones, not even the most classic ones, with the exception of just a few. But still these type of movies were and still are quite popular to watch. It's perhaps because they always play on our fears (remember, most of these movies got made during the height of the cold war period), feature an heroic main character that saves our world, or perhaps it's just simply because they are movies with a certain charm to them.This movie features all of the typical genre elements but the movie takes some good approaches with its story. It chooses to be not action packed or scary really. It tries to do more with its mystery elements, which makes this a pretty effective thriller.It's definitely not the most exciting movie to watch, so I can understand some people end up not liking this movie at all. However if you like, lets say, Invasion of the Body Snatchers or The Thing from Another World type of movies and stories, this movie might very well be worth your time.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Decent 50's Sci-Fi.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It Came From Outer Space starts one fine evening in the small Arizona town of Sand Rock where amateur astrologer John Putnam (Richard Carlson) & his girlfriend Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush) are passing the time by looking through his telescope at the point when a fiery object falls from the sky & crashes into the desert, before we know it John has got his mate Pete (Dave Willock) to fly them out there in his helicopter. Once there they find a huge crater which John ventures into to investigate, at the bottom he sees an alien spacecraft just before a huge landslide covers it with tons of rock. It goes without saying that no-one believes his stories about alien ships & he is ridiculed throughout the town, however little do the townspeople of Sand Rock know that John was right & huge one-eyed, shape shifting aliens are kidnapping people & taking their form. John knows the truth but can he convince Sheriff Warren (Charles Drake) to the potential intergalactic threat?Directed by Jack Arnold I thought It Came From Outer Space was a good, solid 50's Sci-Fi although I'm not sure about the title. I mean it's called It Came From Outer Space right? Well the word 'It' would suggest a single entity but throughout the film it becomes clear that there are at least ten aliens so a more factually accurate title would have been 'They Came From Outer Space', am I right or am I wrong? Anyway that doesn't really matter does it? The film itself is based upon a story by Ray Bradbury & the script was by Harry Essex who manages to turn in a decent effort, it could be described as a sort of Invasion Of The Body Snatchers (1956) but with friendly aliens The film moves along like a rocket & is never dull or boring. The character's are a little clichéd, the scientist, the gun wielding Sheriff, the love interest etc. but they all serve their purpose effectively enough. While many Sci-Fi horror films of the period had evil aliens (in fact alien invasion films War of the Worlds & Ivaders From Mars came out the same year '53) the ones in It Came From Outer Space are basically friendly & intend no-one any harm & the story shifts to a morality tale about racism & the way people are afraid of things that are different to themselves including slimy, body stealing, one-eyed aliens. I suppose you could make all sorts of deep meaningful analogies to todays society with people's intolerance to religion, ethnic minorities & other cultures so in a way you could say we haven't moved on that much since this film was made & that the filmmakers were forward thinking visionaries trying to spread an important message, then again you could just say it's an old creaky black and white Sci-Fi film with rubber aliens & no social relevance at all, the choice my friends is yours...Director Arnold (who would go on to make classic horror like The Creature From the Black Lagoon (1954), Revenge of the Creature (1955), Tarantula (1955) & The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957)) does a good job & it was originally shot in 3-D & some of the shots are obviously there to accommodate this process. The special effects are pretty decent considering especially the landslide although usually kept in the shadows the aliens themselves when fully seen look rather poor, they have bulbous heads with one eye but the rest of their body seems to be a square mass of rubber with some hair on it, if that makes sense. The desert locations provide a nice isolated atmosphere & the film has a nice feel to it & I particularly liked the alien POV shots.With a supposed budget of about $800,000 It Came From Outer Space is generally well made throughout, I quite liked the creepy music in it as well. The acting was OK, a lot of acting in these types of films are a bit stiff though.It Came From Outer Space is a good Sci-Fi film, it's a little bit different to the usual alien invasion film & has a pretty good central story that has some substance to it. A must for Sci-Fi fans & I'm sure a lot of people would maybe find something here to enjoy on a rainy Sunday afternoon. It Came From Outer Space II (1996) was a made-for-TV sequel. "},{"Title":"IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE (1953) - DVD Review","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had watched this, another of my latest DVD purchases, only once before - on Italian TV, many years ago - so I was very much looking forward to the way Universal had presented it on disc (particularly in view of their superb 'Classic Monsters' collection), and I am quite pleased with the result.The film's excellent and literate script (the debate still rages whether it was actually written by Ray Bradbury or Harry Essex) provides plenty of opportunity for suspense, shock and special effects - even when shown 'flat'. IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE's desert setting obviously made quite an impact when the film was released many sci-fi movies which followed in its wake made inspired use of such barren locations, such as THEM! 1954 and TARANTULA 1955.Under Jack Arnold's efficient direction, the whole fantastic concept of alien invasion and takeover becomes plausible - and, indeed, gripping. However, the alien creature should never have been revealed (a regrettable studio-imposed decision which also mars Jacques Tourneur's extraordinary occult masterpiece NIGHT OF THE DEMON 1957) as long as it's left to the audiences' imagination, the monster IS scary - we're afraid of what we can't see but which can see US (hence the many well-executed alien's POV shots)! As with many films of its ilk, the plot starts to fall apart once analyzed in detail (Tom Weaver does just this on the DVD Audio Commentary) but this fact does not detract from one's enjoyment of the film.The print used for the DVD transfer was of fairly good quality; the newly-prepared stereo soundtrack, on the other hand, was very impressive. While the DVD supplements were quite wonderful, I have a couple of bones to pick first of all, the film is only presented full-frame when it was originally filmed in Widescreen (1.851) and 3-D! Also, the Audio Commentary - on the whole one of the best in the Universal horror/sci-fi series - should have been planned a little better, because a lot of time is spent on the participants' biographies (which are duplicated almost verbatim elsewhere on the DVD) resulting in a frenzied conclusion, in which Weaver goes into overdrive in order to jam every last bit of info he had during these last five minutes of the film or so!  "},{"Title":"Old hat now, but a breakthrough then","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When it was first released this movie had two big selling points it was in 3-D, and it was real science fiction written by Ray Bradbury. The surprise ending that the aliens were as human as we (i.e. not monsters in the sense of the horror film genre) has become passe. It is probable that this will never again be seen in 3-D, which is a pity. It was well done. The movie is no more than a curiosity now. The cartoon which accompanied this picture is more interesting. It was a Bugs Bunny space adventure in which Marvin the Martian was first introduced. And it was funny. I think I'd rather see the cartoon again. "},{"Title":"Bad, and worse in 3D","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this in 3D, and it's pretty terrible. The only 3D effect they could think of is a hussy in a bullet bra who turns towards you for no apparent reason. If you see it in 2D, well, I'm sorry for you. Very predictable, unexciting, and yet another riff of the Red Scare-esque the enemy is among us theme.For a good 50's sci-fi flick, try Them, or The Day the Earth Stood Still. "},{"Title":"I hope that they respected The Professor's judgment.  After all, he did keep the other six castaways alive all those years.","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My 10/10 rating of course implies that only sci-fi enthusiasts are interested in It Came from Outer Space; to anyone else, it's just your average '50s B-movie. The plot is pretty simple aliens begin taking over people and nobody realizes it quickly enough. Main characters John Putnam (Richard Carlson) and Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush) look like the average man and woman in a '50s sci-fi film he always wears a gray flannel suit, she always wears a fluffy dress.That said, I would like to talk about why I take a special interest in TCFOS eleven years before he became The Professor on Gilligan's Island, Russell Johnson plays electrician George (who gets taken over by the aliens). Needless to say, I kept throwing out comments like You better trust this guy. He kept Gilligan, the Skipper, Mr. and Mrs. Howell, Ginger and Mary Ann alive all those years. It's weird to think about it. Many of the people who would later become famous on TV shows started out in movies that seem like they belong on MST3K (and some did get shown there). Russell Johnson starred in ICFOS and This Island Earth; Alan Hale (the Skipper) starred in The Crawling Hand; Frances Bavier (Aunt Bee on The Andy Griffith Show) starred in The Day the Earth Stood Still, Robert Reed (the Brady Bunch dad) starred in Bloodlust. Even Leonard Nimoy, several years before he became Spock, appeared briefly in Them!.Anyway, ICFOS is a treat both for sci-fi fetishists and for Gilligan's Island fans. "},{"Title":"Inarticulate dreaming","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two ways to watch this, in fact most any film. This is modeled after the way you 'watch' life, the way you perceive reality is life a set of images that you were brought into to 'star'? Do you make any of it happen? Is there a narrator in consciousness? Most people carry on living, satisfied by complete dramatic immersion in both their story and films they see. The ordinary way is that everything on screen is within hard walls of a single reality, everything clearly mapped. In our case, the monster from outer space is real, its powers real. Everything else of 'reality' will seem erratic and unbelievable, that is the converse effect. It was likely made that way, but there's no reason why you should let that limit you.Another mode is what I call being centered. You start with recognizing the film is not simply events that happen, but there's a narrator present. You center yourself to where life is believable enough to be your own, in our case young lovers mulling about marriage and future happiness in the comfort of their spacious desert home, everything ideal. And you let your eye float in the direction of the narrator's world expanding beyond his story.Sure enough, there is a narrator here - the film opens with the man narrating to us about a clear future, a clear story ahead of them.He is a journalist and amateur astrologer, a man obsessed with both the 'story' and 'looking'. She is a happy-go-lucky creature, dreaming of a blissful family life. The question that nags at both of them is, will he be able to settle down? Is it going to work between them?That is when he decides to give her through his telescope a glimpse of what his nightsky really is like, maybe he is unsure himself. What happens then? Fire rains down from the skies changing everything, the product of vision from inner space.He is the only safe witness that there's a ship and creature in the crater, obsessed with the 'reality' of his story which the military and locals wave off as 'science fiction'. The pragmatic sheriff worries that the girl has fallen for an unstable guy. And in spite of what she knows of him, pursuing the 'reality' of that story reveals him to be volatile and obsessive.So now there is a second self out in that desert, a second eye - you will note the monster in the early stages as a single hypnotic eye surrounded by fog.Compare to that effect the pov shot that opens the film, as our guy narrates about a happy life we crest a hill to a view of the sleepy small town, to the monster's pov that later similarly crests a hill to a view of barren desert. The contrast is between settled life and the wilderness of uncharted soul.More the creature can take on the appearance of any man, but in a way that wives and girlfriends complain to the sheriff that 'they are not the same'. They now have the sullen look of routine, as though drained from all passion. This may be the future of what is still an affectionate relationship between the two lovers.All these replicated story-selves are kept in a mineshaft, where the protagonist discovers both him and his girl have been replicated - she tries to kill him. He swaps the 'sci-fi' fantasy for the real persons, which he leads back into the light of day .This is good, more erudite than perhaps even Ray Bradbury knew. Forget any 'red menace' readings, the sci-fi trappings about 'making contact'. You will see here a narrator who succumbs into hallucination as he begins to tell his story about a happy life, and that sci-fi hallucination allows him to fulfill his wish of being both the independent-minded journalist and discoverer of new spaceworlds, but realizing this is at the cost of love.The only difference with something like Mulholland Dr. is there we have a filmmaker who is conscious about the fluid walls of reality, deliberate blurs and shifts between layers of dreams. This doesn't, which only adds to the charm; they had the same anxious dreams in those times, but couldn't quite put them to words.How smart seems Body Snatchers from '56 now the shift to inner space happens during sleep. "},{"Title":"Warning not another cheesy alien-invasion flick!","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rather unspectacular and tedious early 50's Sci-Fi effort, which is rather disappointing considering some of the names that were involved, especially behind the camera. It Came from Outer Space is based on a short story written by none other than Ray Bradbury and directed by contemporary monster-master Jack Arnold (Tarantula, Creature from the Black Lagoon). Judging by the exhilarating title and promising DVD-cover, this looks like another alien invasion movie, in which evil extraterrestrials target the earth and all of its mortal inhabitants for destruction, but actually this is more like one of them films that try to make us aware that we're not alone in this universe and that we certainly shouldn't consider ourselves to be the superior race. Somewhere deep in the state of Arizona, a writer slash amateur astrologist and his girlfriend witness the crashing of something that looks like a meteor. When heading into the desert for closer investigation, John Putnam discovers that it's actually a hi-tech spaceship, but before he can show it to the rest of the community, rocks and rubble come tumbling down and nobody believes him. That's what you get when you're a fiction writer, of course. One of the alien travelers managed to leave the ship before it got buried, however, and he &#x96; or it &#x96; goes on a rampage to body snatch several of the townsfolk. Not to drain their intellect or enslave their mortal bodies, mind you, but simply to temporarily take them hostage and repair the broken ship! It Came from Outer Space is primarily a sober, progressive and thought-provoking Sci-Fi movie that criticizes the typically human ignorance, sense of paranoia and fear of the unknown. At first, nobody believe Putnam's story about a crashed spaceship and they even mock the possibility of extraterrestrial life forms. Then later, rather than to inquire about the alien visitors' mission, the local sheriff immediately gathers a raging lynch mob complete with pitchforks and torches. I'm usually a big fan of intelligent science-fiction, for example The Day the Earth Stood Still, and I definitely would have appreciated this movie a lot more if I didn't so much anticipate a more exciting and suspenseful alien-attack picture. Perhaps I should have guessed this was a more refined Sci-Fi flick due to Bradbury's name attached, but I admit I was misled by the title and also the year of release. 1953 is too early for sophisticated Sci-Fi that questions humanity's underdevelopment, as the vast majority of genuine alien invasion flicks still had to be unleashed, like Invasion of the Body Snatchers, War of the Worlds, The Blob, Earth vs. The Flying Sources and many more. The design of the alien invaders doesn't exactly help, neither, as they look quite menacing with their single penetrating eye and enormously over-sized brain. Luckily they are aware of their own petrifying appearance and attempt to remain hidden in the dark as much as possible. Despite the overall lack of action and excitement, It Came from Outer Space nevertheless remains a very professionally directed and solid effort with one or two highly memorable suspense moments (the hand on the shoulder!) and impressive scenery (the crater!). The acting performances are wooden and stereotypical, but I wouldn't even want to see it otherwise in a 50's movie. "}{"Title":"As a representative of planet Earth, let me be the first to say ahhhhh!","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold was clearly responsible for several very good sci-fi films in the 50's. In addition to this, I've watched and enjoyed Tarantula and the excellent The Incredible Shrinking Man. This has the added benefit of the story having been written by the talented Ray Bradbury(Essex is only really responsible for the dialog, which is funny at times, but he'd claim he did the whole thing). The aliens here are not evil(if they are not entirely friendly, either); while that was not new at the time it was made, the anti-xenophobia is still greatly appreciated and noteworthy. There isn't particularly any sexism, either. This opens with a bang, and the FX are cool(if the shots of creatures do occasionally linger a little much). It was originally in 3D, and this aspect is rather well-integrated and unobtrusive. This makes solid use of lighting, and the POV stuff isn't bad. The movie is both creepy and exciting. I wish the leading lady had more of a role. Well, you can't have it all. The moral is important, if the delivery is a tad preachy. There is disturbing content in this. The DVD comes with a marvelous, informative commentary track by film historian Tom Weaver, a German dub(can't say anything about it, as I don't speak the language), a 32 minute featurette(which I will review on its own individual page here on the site), a 5 minute photo & poster gallery and a trailer. I recommend this to any fan of these flicks. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A question of maturity","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First Contact from the Star Trek series explores a lot of the same issues that It Came From Outer Space Does. Of course First Contact was made presumably in this century when the optimistic Gene Roddenberry felt that man would grow up and mature a bit. As opposed to those humans in this small Arizona town who except for Richard Carlson who is an astronomer and writer believe in the old west tradition of shoot first.It Came From Outer Space is set in the paranoid Fifties and Richard Carlson who is courting Barbara Rush along with sheriff Charles Drake is on an outing with Rush when what he believes is a ship crashes to the earth and leaves a nice deep crater hole as it burrows into the ground.Carlson has his problems first authorities don't believe him, second when people start disappearing, everyone goes into panic mode. What's a thinking scientist to do. Remember it's not the scientists who were working on making First Contact that the aliens will be dealing with.These issues are explored and most carefully by author Ray Bradbury who wrote the original story on which It Came From Outer Space is based. The special effects are outmoded and the issue at times is dealt with simplistically, but the message is as strong now as it was six decades ago. I suppose it comes down to will enough of us on both sides of the First Contact be mature enough to handle it and respond appropriately. "},{"Title":"A decent 50's sci-fi flick","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It Came From Outer Space is a 1953 sci-fi movie based on a story by Ray Bradbury. Set in the desert, astronomer Richard Carlson and his fiancée Barbara Rush witness a meteor crash into the earth. They become entangled in a strange series of events.My favorite scenes involve two telephone repair linemen out in the desert. They are extremely creepy, I think. The dialog is pretty good in the film except for some of Carlson's lines which are rather sentimental. He was also in the Creature From the Black Lagoon. Barbara Rush is good as his girlfriend.The FX are somewhat interesting in this film. The movie was filmed in 3D and you can see traces of them when the meteor is shown.This is not a great movie but it is one of the better sci-fi films from the 50's and if you are a fan of these films you should see it. "},{"Title":"What we don't understand we want to destroy","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Surprising effective and intelligent Alians from Space movie that is a couple of notches above the usual fare you got from Hollywood back then in the 1950's from these type of films. What looked like a meteor crashes into the open desert just outside of the town of Sand Rock Arizona and when a number of local residents went to see the crash site it was realized that is wasn't a meteorite but an alien space craft. Astronomer John Putnam, Richard Carlson, goes down into the crater and sees what looks like a spaceship. Before he can tell those with him on top there's an avalanche and whatever that there was down there is buried by the falling rocks and earth. Trying to tell the towns sheriff Matt Warren, Charles Drake, that there's something very strange buried in the crash site John is dismisses as a publicity seeking nut and ignored. Later there are a number of local residents who at first disappear and later when they do show up they look and sound like brain-numbed zombies. One of those Sand Rock residents is John's girlfriend Ellen Fields, Barbara Rush. Later looking for Ellen and the rest of the people taken over by the aliens John comes to this deserted mineshaft where at first he's told by the aliens, telepathically, that they mean no harm. They only wan't to repair their damaged space craft and will leave earth as soon as that happens.Sheffiff Warren who at first didn't believe John about the crashed alien craft now gets together a posse to find and kill the aliens which would force them to defend themselves and destroy the sheriff his posse and possibly even the entire town of Sand Rock. Working against the clock John gets to the aliens first and talks them into not retaliating against the threatening group of townspeople and try to leave as soon as possible after they repair their craft. Blocking the entrance to the mineshaft with explosives John gives the aliens the time they need to repair their spaceship and leave before their forced to destroy Sand Rock in order to defend themselves from the sheriffs posse and leave earth. Made originally in 3-D the movie is much better then those about invading aliens that were made back then in the 1950's with the aliens far more reasonable then the earthling. The aliens also show that there not only advanced in the fields of physics and interstellar technology but also in the field of common sense and logic as well. We do get to see a glimpse of the aliens in the movie and by the looks of them it's no wonder that they would shock and scare the hell out of anyone that saw them, like they did John, as they really were. "},{"Title":"Simple plot, but excellent 3-D","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE Aspect ratio 1.371 (Universal 3-D)Sound format 3-track magnetic stereo(Sepia)A small-town astronomer (Richard Carlson) witnesses an alien spacecraft fall to earth in the Mojave desert, but no one believes his claims that alien intruders have stolen the identities of several townsfolk.Archetypal 1950's sci-fi thriller, rendered all the more luminous in 3-D, which turns the bleak, endless desert into a thing of otherworldly beauty. Carlson is a bland but likable hero (essentially the same character he would play in another 3-D classic, CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON), and the plot is a typical mixture of eerie thrills and paranoid fantasy, with a neat structure and predictable outcome. But it's the imagery which lingers in the mind The huge spacecraft lodged in the side of a mountain, towering over Carlson just before it's buried beneath an avalanche (watch out for those flying rocks!); the humanoid figure which rises out of the desert gloom to flag down a car driven by heroine Barbara Rush; the telephone wires framed against the sky, transmitting unearthly sounds which betray an alien presence. The aliens themselves may induce giggles in today's audiences (they look like a one-eyed blancmange!), but no one can deny the visual impact of Clifford E. Stine's black and white photography (try to see it on the big screen) and Herman Stein's theremin-charged music score (try to hear it in stereo sound). Directed by Jack Arnold.NB. Projected at 1.851 aspect ratio in some venues, though the movie was clearly photographed with Academy 1.371 ratio in mind and screened that way in most theaters. "},{"Title":"False but gifted with a nice premise","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Putnam (Richard Carlson) is a writer, who has fallen back to the peace of the countryside near the town of Sand Rock in Arizona to search for an appropriate atmosphere to forward his work. One of his few acquaintances is schoolteacher Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush). When a meteorite crashes in the close vicinity of his home the duo are first to arrive on spot to witness what seems to be the remains of a crashed spaceship. After an explosion coves the craft with a landslide no one is left to believe their version, instead being ridiculed by townspeople, including the local sheriff (played by Charles Drake). Meanwhile someone (or something) is roaming the countryside and capturing unsuspecting town folk...Based on a story by the everlasting Ray Bradbury the basic premise still works well over time. Despite the overcooked acting - with the sole exception of Carlson - and outdated special effects the story itself stands the test of time, giving it a welcome poignancy, however dissipated by the ageing form of the movie. Never a true sci-fi classic it leaves too much to be desired in terms of realism, instead coming off like a staged production of the period, where certain traits acceptable then no longer ring nicely to modern day audiences. With a mildly sleepy pacing and some overly camp resolution the full potential of the Bradbury source material would need to be remade to become relevant. That said various movies have touched upon similar themes, which turn issues of us / them on their heads with much more astute delivery, thus possibly making the whole concept a less complex and equally fading product of the 1950s sci-fi saucer craze. Intent as not being as cheesy as many movies of the period it is ultimately let down by the acceptable norm of the time, despite its much more intriguing plotting. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll be damned if using footage from later in the film for the opening credits means anything else but cheap ass studio bosses. I thought the first half was poorly conceived and horribly unexciting. It got more watchable as the aliens take shape of human beings. The dialogue doesn't remind as much of 'Twin Peaks' as it seems like an enforced and unsuccessful attempt at being poetic and creating suspense. My favorite part was when the scientist tries to convince John that the big, hot object isn't a space ship but just a plain meteorScientist >There's no sign of any excessive radioactivity anywhere. Odd, wouldn't you say, for something coming in from outer space?< Right, and meteors grow out of the ground, or what? For me it's one the worst '50s Sci-Fi films of those that I have seen, at least out of the SF films that had a budget and that are not a total joke (eg. 'Attack of the Giant Leeches'). "},{"Title":"No suspense","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A meteorite crashes into the desert and John (Richard Carlson) and Ellen (Barbara Rush) along with friend Pete are first on the scene. John goes deep into the crash site and sees a spaceship buried in the rubble before things start crumbling around him and he heads back up to safety. The scene is now covered with rubble and no-one believes his story. Furthermore, he believes that some alien life-forms have escaped from the spaceship. They have. And they can take human form which they do. They take up residence in a disused mine-shaft before the finale....The problem with the film is that there is no suspense. It is never really very exciting. There is a good confrontation at the end between John and Ellen, who is really an alien, in the mine-shaft but that is the only real stand-out part of the film. The aliens are laughably bad when we see them.Its a film with silly creatures that's OK. It runs its course and that's that - not very interesting really. "},{"Title":"More Undocumented Aliens.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Does every SF movie made in the 1950s have to be an analog of McCarthyism? This is nothing more than a good SF movie made with a certain elan by Jack Arnold on a low budget. The desert, alas, is supposed to be in Arizona, which means that it should be Sonoran, with saguaro cacti. Instead it is clearly Mohave desert with its signature plant, the Joshua tree. The lizard at the beginning is right, though, a desert night lizard that looks like Xanthusia arizonae. Everyone plays his or her part with competence. There is no way in such a movie that any performance could be anything more than that. Now and again a car or truck pulls off the road and parks in an empty spot in the desert. Appealing images. The empty spaces are rapidly being filled with condominiums that use water taken from neighboring farmers. Joe McCarthy isn't looking over our shoulders. Some real estate developer is.Enough preaching. This is one of the better low-budget SF films to appear in the 1950s, oddly similar to, but far less complex than, Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Universal Studios ground out a number of these profitable little enterprises and Richard Carlson was in several of them. That's as it should be, because Richard Carlson has the blandly believable face of Everyman, a kind of Humphrey C. Earwicker of B films. In this particular movie, Barbara Rush is a magnetic presence. Her performance may be limited to worried frowns and frightened screams but she looks perfectly consumable with her tight skirts and impudent bosom. It's understandable that the aliens should want to engulf her in jelly and smoke. Charles Drake is the irritable, unbelieving sheriff, jealous of Carlson's bond with Rush. Less use is made of Dr. Snell, the professional astronomer, who is seen only once as another doubting Thomas. The scientific expert who is called in to consult on the case is a stock figure in these scenarios. So is the Army general who wants to bomb everything into submission, but his place is taken here by Drake's sheriff who organizes an armed mob to exterminate the undocumented aliens. Ray Bradbury's dialog has some musings on the mysteries of that rapidly disappearing desert. The dialog during the wind in the wires scene is his. (The music is by Henry Mancini.) So is some of the dialog by the two miners who compare the aging tunnel to an old man -- both need propping up. These add to the eerie sense of the unknown. That, it appears, was the central moral message of the film. What we don't understand, we fear. And what we fear, we kill. Does the movie have a message? I guess so. It's that, when you're faced with something that seems preposterous, why don't we try understanding what's going on before we try to destroy it? Is anybody listening? Good, typical, 1950s fare. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's funny","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just watched it in 3-D as part of Dartmouth's film society shows. This movie was so bad it was funny. Reminded me of the Seinfeld where he was going to a b-rated movie just to make stupid jokes about it (of course he never got there, but that's beside the point)Over-acted, with lame lines and a dumb plot. You can't help but laugh at this classic. 3 out of 10. "}]