[{"Title":"A Definite Thumbs Up.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Thanks to modern technology, another film noir classic has escaped from Hollywood's vault of too-often-overlooked or forgotten films. Albeit a minor classic, The Hitch-Hiker, directed by Ida Lupino, is a taut drama notable for it's realism, as well as a haunting performance by William Talman.Reputedly based on a true incident (Penned from the headlines), the story traces the movements of a hitch-hiker, Emmett Myers (Talman), who repays his highway hosts by robbing and murdering them. Initially, we are shown mere glimpses of Myers and his victims, which successfully sets the stage for the introduction of Roy Collins (Edmond O'Brien) and Gilbert Bowen (Frank Lovejoy), two friends on their way to a fishing trip in Mexico, when, unawares, they pick up Myers.What follows is a realistic depiction of what most likely would transpire when ordinary people are suddenly faced with such extraordinary circumstances. And the strength of the film lies in the fact that when Collins and Bowen are kidnapped, held at gunpoint and forced to do the bidding of their captor, they react and behave in a manner that is both consistent with their current state of affairs and believable. There are no feigned heroics or superhuman contrivances that allow the two captives to effect an escape; instead, the story plays out in much the way one would, in reality, expect in such a situation, which, when extrapolated, effectively drives home the true horror of Collin's and Bowen's circumstance.The lion's share of the credit for the success of this film must go to director Ida Lupino, whose almost documentary-style approach to the story lends it the necessary grit and intensity. She scores double points, as well, for not only delivering a memorable film, but doing so at a time in which few women were afforded the opportunity to perform at such a level behind the camera. Lupino's success no doubt helped pave the way for the likes of Jane Campion, Jodie Foster, Gillian Armstrong, Allison Anders and a host of other women who have since proved that gender alone does not equate to excellence and ability in the director's chair.In arguably his best performance, character actor William Talman turns in a memorable performance as the sociopath, Myers. Forget your Freddys and Jasons; Talman's portrayal creates the kind of character that nightmares are really made of. Myers is a guy you could pass on the street, or-- yes, even give a lift to if you saw him with his thumb out on the highway-- without giving him a second thought. And that's what makes him so scary; his disguise is that he doesn't have a disguise, and it's so much more effective than having a hockey mask or hands with steel fingers could ever be.O'Brien and Lovejoy also turn in credible performances, creating characters who, like Talman's Myers, are real. Watching them, you believe that Collins is, indeed, an auto mechanic, and Bowen a draftsman; two friends off together to do some fishing.The supporting cast includes Jose Torvay (Captain Alvarado); Jean Del Val (Inspector General); Clark Howat (Government Agent); and Natividad Vacio (Jose). The 71 minute running time is perfect for this film; rather than resort to superfluous filler, Lupino stays on task without ever straying, and in the end makes The Hitch-Hiker a ride that will leave you wondering what you would do in a like situation, and hoping that you'll never have to find out. It's the magic of the movies. "},{"Title":"Fascinating thriller with a terrific performance from William Talman.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Supposedly the only Film Noir directed by a woman (Ida Lupino of 'High Sierra' and 'On Dangerous Ground'), 'The Hitch-Hiker' is a fascinating thriller that holds your attention from start to finish. Edmond O'Brien ('D.O.A.') and Frank Lovejoy ('in A Lonely Place') play two buddies on a road trip who pick up a hitch-hiker (William Talman, best remembered as Hamilton Berger on the old Perry Mason TV show). BIG MISTAKE! He is actually notorious psycho killer Emmett Myers. Talman gives a terrific performance as Myers, a real nasty piece of work with a bum eye so you never know if he's asleep or awake. He holds the men hostage, bullies and provokes them, even uses them as target practice. We've seen many similar plots over the years but I thought this was a fresh and unpredictable. Lupino's direction really suits the material, the tension builds throughout, and Talman is unforgettable. If you like thrillers track this one down. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Buried Little Treasure!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"   The Hitch-Hiker is an excellent little independently produced film-noire thriller directed by Ida Lupino. It is essentially a three character story about two pals on a fishing trip (or is it?) who stop to pick up a hitch-hiker whose car has apparently broken down, What they don't realize is that the hitchhiker is a crazed killer. The two buddies are played by two of the best character actors of the period, Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy. The hitcher, in the role of his career, is played by William Tallman (of TV's Perry Mason fame). The story covers their trek across the desert back roads of Mexico in an effort to evade the law. Most of the film takes place within the claustrophobic confines of O'Brien's car as he and Lovejoy remain at the mercy of loose cannon Tallman never knowing where or when he might decide to shoot them. Lupino gives us a compact, tense and suspenseful thriller. Shot in black and white, it runs a brief 71 minutes and delivers an excellent drama on a limited budget. Rarely seen today, this movie is a buried little treasure.    "},{"Title":"Talman apparently impressed at least one viewer.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  William Talman once mentioned this film in a personal interview. He was driving in Los Angeles in an open convertible and stopped at a stop light. A fellow in another convertible looked over at him and asked, You're the hitch hiker, aren't you? Talman shook his head indicating that he was. The other driver then left his car and went over and slapped Talman in the face. Talman, when relating this story, said, You know, I never won an academy award but I guess that was  about as close as I ever will come to one. "},{"Title":"It actually COULD be you in that car!","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Usually when movies based on factual events start with a warning that it easily could have happened to you instead of to the characters, you don't pay too much attention to it, as it mostly handles about unlikely situations. Sure you'll wonder how you'd respond or randomly imagine what it would feel like, but in general the true events won't haunt your thoughts for long. In the case of Ida Lupino's The Hitch-Hiker, this is totally different! Chances are high that once in your life, or maybe even recently, you picked up a hitcher and, after seeing this film, you won't do that again any time soon. That's how much of an impression this excellent film-noir will make on you. This flawlessly acted & directed thriller sustains a uniquely tense atmosphere from start to finish, and this without reverting to explicit violence or dreadful clichés. Inspired by the real-life murder case of Billy Cook, the plot centers on merciless serial killer Emmett Myers, who hitchhikes on the quiet roads of rural America but coldly executes the people that are kind enough to offer him a ride. As the list of casualties dramatically increases and police forces get to close on his tail, Myers hijacks one last car to escape into Mexico. The unfortunate passengers are Roy Collins and Gilbert Bowen, two buddies on their way for a fishing weekend. Myers continuously holds them at gunpoint, even sleeping with one eye open, and makes perfectly clear they aren't supposed to survive the journey. Amazingly realistic in The Hitch-Hiker is the depiction of Roy and Gilbert's behavior. Even though they have nothing to lose, they always obey their hijacker and live in fear for him. Perhaps it's because the director is a woman, but there's absolutely no macho nonsense or tough dialogs going on here. Myers is the guy with the gun and certainly not afraid to use it, so you obey his every command. William Talman's performance as the maniac is simply perplexing! With his odd eyes, monotonous voice and overall nihilistic world perspective, he definitely makes one of the scariest villains in the history of film-noir cinema. Top recommendation, don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Cruelty and Terror in it's purest form","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Two old army buddies (Edmund O'Brien, Frank Lovejoy) take off on a fishing trip from California to the Mexican coast.  At the same time, a fugitive serial killer (William Tallman) is hitch-hiking and killing his way across the country.  They intersect in the desert, just before the Mexican border. He hijacks and holds them hostage on an odyssey into hell.  We follow them deeper and deeper into the beautiful, but hostile desert as Tallman seems to outwit the authorities time and again. They become more and more terrified as he becomes more and more psycho.  He displays a kind of pure malice and cruelty that makes your skin crawl.  Example  He forces one of the buddies to shoot the glass out of the other's hand.  His evil character has a drooping right eye.  While preparing to sleep around a campfire, he dares the captives to guess whether he is awake or asleep.  They guess wrong - he kills them.  The viewer takes this trip across the desert with them, all the way to their final destination, and the climax of this exciting film.  It is easy to see why Ida Lupino, was considered one of the premier film noir directors.  Her concept of the fishing buddies, courageous, proud, but terrified reaches right down into our guts.  But it is her balanced vision of the evil, intelligent, unpredictable killer that defines the film.  This is a keeper.  If you like it - and how could you not - try Split Second.  There is a curious coincidence between these two films.  Both were directed by famous and respected actors.  This by Ida Lupino and the other by Dick Powell.  "},{"Title":"A motorist's worst nightmare","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie recently for the first time on Turner Classic Movies. This is a tough and suspenseful little movie. The killer is a truly evil character; no ambiguity about his character as you might expect in a more recent film. It must have been considered a brutal film when it was made, though its mild by today's standards. The location setting in the bleak desert adds to movie's atmosphere and tone. And, it was directed by a woman, rare today, and even more rare in the 50s.Exciting, fast-paced, and never boring. "},{"Title":"Gem of a B-film-- brutal & creepy","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  THE HITCH-HIKER is based on a true story, which makes it all the more creepy. Well-directed by Ida Lupino; it was powerful without a lotta trappings. Simple story, inexpensive exterior shooting, and tight acting. Starred William Talman (the bungling D.A. of Perry Mason), Frank Lovejoy, and... Edmund O'Brien.Never was much a fan of the early O'Brien-- he doesn't pull off the toughness he tries for, so I was on-guard for some over-acting from him. No worries this time, for the most part. But TALMAN was the great surprise! Wow! What happened to his career after this film?? He was terrific in this role.His villain wasn't one of those super-intelligent, epitome-of-evil psychos. He's not an exotic, like Hannibal Lecter. Nor did Talman act like one of those oh-so-polite sorts. (As if it makes them more menacing to have nice manners when they threaten you. Think Goldfinger.)No, Talman was effective as a more true-to-life sort.. the kind that seems more menacing to me as a viewer, because you really might run into this bastard.  The only politeness he showed to his victims was to offer them a cigarette. And when he was feeling pleased with himself for nearing the end of his escape, he bought them a beer.Talman's character was a pushy sadist, but never tried to spice it up by pretending to be nice. His ugly game of target practice was evil-- he held one guy at gunpoint and made him shoot a rifle at his friend, who was forced to hold up a tin can. (I don't think this is too much of a spoiler.)He wasn't a Brainiac, just had a talent for staying in control, keeping a never-closing vigilante eye (his creepy-looking right eye wouldn't close when he slept, so his hostages never knew when to try anything). He invested all his energy into avoiding capture.Lovejoy and O'Brien worked well together as the Normal Joes who happened to pick up the wrong guy.  Again, because they're more true-to-life, you can identify with them better than a hard-boiled detective.Realistic location shooting also makes this simple story more powerful. Lupino deserves credit as a film-maker, and I'm glad she's being recognized more and more. "},{"Title":"Terrific creepy performance by William Talman","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  At one time actually thought lost, now this minor classic is on video (who says these aren't the good old days?).  William Talman, who is mainly remembered as Perry Mason's dullish adversary/stooge on the TV show for years and years, gives a powerful and creepy performance as an insolent psychopath who holds two men hostage through a long road trip around the desert southwest and Mexico.  Loosely based on a true story, there's not much more to it than that-- but it's tense and well-crafted all the way through, and deserves its reputation as Lupino's best movie. "},{"Title":"An excellent suspense thriller that works!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Directed by Ida Lupino, this tension filled suspense movie is absolutely outstanding. Edmond O'Brien, Frank Lovejoy and William Talman star in a story about two companions, O'Brien and Lovejoy, heading out for a hunting trip only to be side tracked by a sadistic killer. Bill Talman's performance is especially effective as the bad guy in this film. Good luck trying to find it in video or on television. I have not seen it since the early 1950's. It was tied up in legal problems for many years and may still be.  "}{"Title":"Never to pick up a hitcher","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  I never knew that William Talman could be such a killer. His character Emmett Myers, hitch-hiker killer is so opposite his most famous character D.A. Hamilton Burger from the Perry Mason series that I was fascinated. Meyers's right eyelid was paralyzed and could not close. When he was holding Edmond O'Brien & Frank Lovejoy captive in the Mexican desert late at night, as a human being he needed to sleep. Now, how could he hold his prisoners captive while sleeping? That is what O'Brien & Lovejoy were wondering. But, that eye could not close, was Myers really asleep or just pretending, after all, Meyers just kept looking at them with this eye. The first time it happen late at night, it wasn't worth the chance that he was pretending. Director Lupino does an excellent job of suspense with this scene. It happens a second time. This time it was worth a try, maybe he really was asleep? Would it be worth the gamble of my life? When you see this movie, you be the judge, is he pretending sleep or really awake? "},{"Title":"The Tense True Story of a Man and a Gun and a Car","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" While traveling in a fishing trip to San Felipe, the draftsman Gilbert Bowen (Frank Lovejoy) and his friend, the garage owner Roy Collins (Edmond O'Brien) give a ride to a stranger. Sooner they learn that the man is the psychopath serial-killer Emmett Myers (William Talman), who has escaped from prison and wants to reach Santa Rosalia in Mexico. The sadistic criminal also tells them that he will kill them in the end of the line.The Hitch-Hiker is a thriller that discloses the tense true story of a man and a gun and a car with two friends that intend to spend a couple of days together fishing. Ida Lupino is the sole female director in Hollywood in this genre and The Hitch-Hiker is the one of the seven classic film-noirs produced by a minor studio (The Filmmakers) that have been chosen by the National Film Registry that is the United States National Film Preservation Board for preservation in the Library of the US Congress. William Talman is very impressive in the role of a criminal that never closes his right eye. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Mundo Odeia-me (The World Hate Me) "},{"Title":"no melodrama","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Ida Lupino's The Hitch-Hiker is like a B-movie bullet coming at the audience. No fat. No melodrama. Nobody trying to get home in time to save the crippled kid. Just a lean and mean treat &#150; as the police-style narration promises us, 70 minutes of true crime suspense.The plot is as straight and narrow as they come. Two war buddies (Frank Lovejoy and Edmund O'Brien) decide to detour south to the Mexican border to make their vacation more interesting (possibly a nudie show or two) and get far more action than they bargained for when they pick up a psychotic prison escapee (William Talman) who holds them hostage. The film's big gimmick is the fact that the hitch-hiker has one paralyzed eye, so that the two hostages can't tell when he's sleeping or awake to make a break for freedom. Considering how cheap this device sounds it actually works extremely well under the direction of Lupino and Talman's performance. As he tries to make his way to freedom across the Mexican deserts, the hitch-hiker drags these two All-American types with him and engages in sadistic games for his own amusement like having one of them hold a tin can while the other shoots it out of his hand with a rifle. After trying to escape together several times the hitch-hiker makes the film's most profound statement by taunting the 2 friends you could have escaped if you didn't worry about each other (or words to that effect).Apparently there is some controversy over whether this film should be called a film noir. It's been in the public domain for many years and has been included on a lot of film noir collections sold at bargain prices, and presumably some viewers have been disappointed by this film's lack of the usual things you see in a film noir. Now first of all their complaints should be directed at the people who labeled the DVD instead of the people who made the movie 20 years before the term film noir even existed. Now is this just a semantic question? Yes and no. Ultimately it doesn't matter what we call the film. It's a suspense film, basically. In other words a film with a more or less set outcome where the audience spends the whole time worrying about how and not what. There seems to be a disturbing trend with this film and some others, that I've gathered over the years reading comments, to hold these movies to some kind of extrinsic standard, a set of values totally alien to the film itself. The film does not have a femme fatale. OK, it doesn't have any women period. It has no dark semi-Gothic melodrama. Perhaps most noticeably it does not take place in the dimly lit alleyways of urban America. Hence some film noir fans have chosen to deride the movie for its perceived deficiencies and to declare it lacking based on a strange confluence of out-of-control marketing (the chronic use of the word noir to sell videos) and narrow genre rules for a genre that never actually existed. Still others seem to stray in the opposite direction, considering any film noir that employs expressionistic photographic devices that were in common usage far back in the silent era. Instead of all this we should look at the film for what it is and only consider it in terms of noir as far as it helps us to understand the piece in relation to contemporary films of the 40s and 50s.The most unusual aspect of the film in my opinion is its total lack of dramatic pretense aka melodrama. The meat of the film is in the 2 men's relationship and the way that the criminal interloper throws that friendship into relief. Superficially speaking they are innocent while he is guilty. But what's interesting in the film is the way that the mere presence of this evil person brings out the weakness and corruption of the 2 friends. The hitch-hiker's comment about how the 2 men could have escaped separately but were held back by their friendship implies, as do many of his off-hand insulting comments, that the 2 men are soft and corrupted by civilization and that the hitch-hiker himself is a stronger man because he does anything he wants to do. However when one of them asks him have you ever had a gun pointed at you it's a subtle reminder that both of these men are war veterans and that they might have a much greater understanding of power and fear than the criminal could ever possess. In this way the film addresses broader issues of the post-war American man in terms of how he sees himself and how others in society may see him. It digs into the insecurity that the domestication and suburbanization of the post-war culture brought to many veterans. And as far as I'm concerned this is prime film noir territory.So if you're strictly interested in traditional tough guys like Mike Hammer and Philip Marlowe, or if you insist on the standard good girl vs. bad girl melodrama (aka femme fatale) then you probably won't get what you're looking for from this movie. But if you're interested in the broader themes of the corruptive influence of civilization that many noir films explore then this film is a novel way to see these themes expressed. It's a very well-made film &#150; although not hugely ambitious, when taken on its own terms the film does have something to say about modern life. "},{"Title":"A brisk and effective thriller","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Roy and Gilbert are heading to Mexico on a fishing trip together when they stop to pick up a hitchhiker. Too late they realise that the man has not really run out of petrol but is actually criminal Emmett Myers, who has killed his way across several states and is now using them to continue his getaway from the authorities. With Emmett holding the two friends at gun point, he forces them to drive deeper into Mexico &#150; all the time making it very clear that they are only alive while he needs them alive and not any longer.The opening caption informs us that this is based on a true story and also tries to engage the audience by pointing out how the couple in the car could have been you (or the people across the aisle). Really though it needn't have bothered with either because the caption doesn't add a great deal. It may be based on a true story but it didn't seem like it was interested in this beyond using the facts as a frame for the story and personally I didn't think it needed to try and put me into the car because Ida Lupino did that well enough by herself. The story is simple and it is to the director's credit that she holds it together so well. Yes it is short by modern standards but she should not lessen how well she has brought out a constant sense of tension whether it be in the tight confines of the car or in the desperate bleak openness of the desert.She is helped by a strong trio of performances from actors who appear to be punching above their weights. Although they haven't a huge amount of depth in their characters they do convince in the realms of tension and fear. The friendship between O'Brien and Lovejoy is solid and helps to support the slightly weak element of the script which is that they never seem to even considering leaving the other for even a second. Talman is memorable in the title role, easily building a screen of menace before allowing the cracks to show.A pretty good film then. It trades on atmosphere and tension, both of which Ida Lupino works with really well. The actors maybe don't have depth to trade on but they respond well to the tone of delivery and give suitably good performances. "},{"Title":"Ex-Convict Myers Suspect In Hitch-Hike Atrocities","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Out of RKO Radio Pictures, The Hitch-Hiker is directed by Ida Lupino and jointly adapted to the screen by Lupino, Collier Young and Daniel Mainwaring. It stars Edmond O'Brien, Frank Lovejoy & William Talman. Nicholas Musuraca photographs the film and Leith Stevens scores the music.This is the true story of a man and a gun and a car. The gun belonged to the man. The car might have been yours, or that young couple across the aisle. What you will see in the next seventy minutes could have happened to you. For the facts are actual.The above opening salvo from the film is not without merit, tho due to the Hays Office requirements Lupino had to tone down her initial plans for the film. The story is based on the true story of murderer Billy Cook, who in 1950 posed as a hitch-hiker and murdered a family of five and a travelling salesman. The film picks up with the aftermath of that, where Cook then kidnapped two friends out hunting and forced them at gunpoint to drive him across the border into Mexico. Lupino researched her subject well, even interviewing the principals in the kidnapping.Something of a cult favourite these days, The Hitch-Hiker is a brisk, lean and tight film showing how to get the maximum amount of suspense out of the simplest of set-ups. Practically a three character piece, the film thrives on claustrophobia and an impending sense of dread. Even when the characters come out of the confines of the car, we still feel stifled during the sequences that feature the men out in the desert. There's a sense of desolation in the landscape that marries up with the emotional state of our two kidnapped men. It's fine work by Lupino, who never lets the mood slip. She in turn is aided considerably by her writers and Musuraca's photography. The former cleverly only lets the kidnapped men's personalities unfold once they are seized by Talman's psychopath, the latter brings film noir agoraphobia to the Alabama Hills, Lone Pine, location A place that was often shown to be gorgeous in many a fine Western in the 50s.All three lead actors do good work under Lupino's direction, with Talman particularly menacing, all lazy eye and snarly grins. While Stevens' music sits nicely with the tone of the story. Credit Lupino, too, for not letting her male driven movie contain any machismo posturing, or heaven forbid, testosterone fuelled bravado. Where the film does fall down is with its rather anti-climatic finale. For although the real life finale involving Billy Cook was genuinely mundane, the film's ending is also a bit of a damp squib. It's one of those cases where some poetic licence wouldn't have gone amiss. Still, it's far from a deal breaker, the film remains a taut and moodily enjoyable experience. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Making the Most from the Basics of Fear and Helplessness","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The Hitch-Hiker (1953)Making the Most from the Basics of Fear and HelplessnessTruly low budget and yet a fully-realized, well acted, well directed drama. It's tense, the location work in Mexico is fabulous (and dusty and forlorn), and the basic plot is chilling.Director Ida Lupino proves that she, like Orson Welles, can make a top tier movie with the cards stacked against her. While not cinematically daring or original (like Welles), The Hitch- Hiker is tough, smart, stark, and compelling. It has no gaps, no gaffes, and except for one American cop seen a couple brief times, no sorry acting. And the end is a thrilling rush that makes the steady build-up of worry all the more necessary. There are three main actors involved, and all three play their roles with gritty realism. You want to shout at them sometimes to do something different, but you know that you might not if you were in their shoes. That things eventually go wrong is inevitable, but it makes sense. Cinematographer Nicholas Musuraca (Spiral Staircase and Clash by Night) deserves some of the kudos here for making an ordinary scenario work visually. And the tight script helps, too, so tight that many scenes have little or no dialog, and Lupino gets co-credit for the writing. It's interesting that such a male movie, dominated by men to the point that there are essentially no women in it at all, was directed by a woman. But clearly she knows what the threat of violence can bring to an innocent person, and how escape and survival is not easy at gunpoint. "},{"Title":"Sterling crime flick with lashings of suspense and terror","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Ida Lupino's The Hitch-Hiker, her own personal favorite, is a sterling crime flick with lashings of suspense and terror. Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy are fishing buddies heading to Mexico who pick up a murderous hitch-hiker, William Talman. As they are tormented and humiliated on the road by the ugly miscreant, the police attach themselves to their tail, insuring an inevitable confrontation. Lupino's film is dark and gritty, and boasts a lot of moody location shooting. O'Brien and Lovejoy are totally convincing as Talman's victims, conveying the complexity of the unenviable situation they find themselves in. Talman, who could have played the father of Arch Hall Jr. in The Sadist, fills his murderous, angry character with three dimensions, permitting us a view of his cold, uncaring backstory. Cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca is bold and atmospheric, brilliantly capturing the film's dark, dusty journey and the unpleasant aspects of endless desert. Not what I would call a horror film, it is a gritty film noir directed with amazing assurance. "},{"Title":"Tense film, increased by the passage of time.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Since this movie was made, all sorts of thrillers have been made.  A lot of these thrillers don't follow the conventional rules of the thriller.  You know - give a good scare and then put the bad guys away.  As a result, when I watched this movie, I had a hard time predicting what was going to happen.  At times, the movie seemed to be following the conventional route but then things happen that threw me for a loop (e.g. psycho William Talman using Frank Lovejoy for target practice).  This made for tense viewing.  I could only relax at the ending.  A word about the ending; very satisfying, a departure from the way most modern thrillers end.  The movie is mainly just three characters and director Ida Lupino makes great use of shadows, lighting and the Mexican countryside.  A good movie. "},{"Title":"Claustrophobic Noir - Road Movie Fusion","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Veteran actress Ida Lupino wrote and directed this exceptionally good, intensely tense noir road movie. The first scene involves a card which tells us what we are supposed to get out of the film and then what looks like end-credits roll. If you can get past these little annoyance, know that you are in for a treat.Gil and Roy (Frank Lovejoy and Edmond O'Brien) are off in Roy's Plymouth for a fishing trip and on a collision course with a serial killer - Emmett Myers (William Talman). Once Myers is in their back seat, their lives, or whatever remains of them, will never be the same.Though classified as noir because of the cinematographic style and the overall feeling of inevitability within the story, The Hitch Hiker is also a really nicely made early road movie.The story is told with a nice, literary, narrative pacing and style. Each scene is well thought-out and brilliantly executed - producing ever-mounting apprehension, tension and suspense. And it is all quite believable. The acting is award-worthy. The three principal actors are consistent, evocative, and wonderfully interpreted.My rating of 9 is not meant as a criticism of this more or less flawless film. The directorial decisions that brought this to the screen were made for very good reasons and in no way detract from the film. Because of the necessities of the narrative style chosen, the film does not, however, live up to noir standards of perfection with regard to visual art. In no way a detraction - but worth noting.Highly recommended!!! "},{"Title":"Evil thumbs a ride.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Roy(Edmond O'Brien)and Gilbert(Frank Lovejoy)are fishing and hunting buds off on vacation; and on their way through California desert headed to Mexico the travelers's are hijacked by Emmett Myers(William Tallman)a psychopathic killer, who has a right eye that never closes...even when he sleeps. Myers proves to be recklessly evil and sadistic having Roy and Gilbert fearing for their lives. This flick is tautly tense and the suspense is smothering. Actress Ida Lupino directs this dusty drama of cruelty and terror. Talman is excellent as the hitch-hiker that deserves your fear. Others in the cast Sam Hayes, Clark Howat, Wendell Niles and Jose Torvay. "}{"Title":"Thumbs Down On This Hitch-Hiker","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Being a film noir fan, I was looking forward to seeing this film but wound up disappointed.The story a serial-killer hitch-hiker is picked up by two family men driving into Mexico. The killer, played well by William Talman, forces the two men to drive him to a city. There, the police catch him. That's the story....and it drags. The film just has too many parts in which nothing happens and the plot has too many holes in it to sustain credibility. For instance, the killer had this creepy droopy eye that was always open, so they couldn't tell if he was sleeping or not, but when he did go to sleep, he still held on tightly to his gun as he held it out pointed to his captors! Anyway, to its credit, there were some tense moments and the acting was good. (The two good guys were veteran actors Edmund O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy) and the photography was decent. But, overall, this hitch hiker wasn't worth picking up. "},{"Title":"Sleeping With One Eye Open","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This cautionary tale about the dangers of picking up hitch-hikers was famously the first film noir to be directed by a woman (Ida Lupino) and its story is remarkably tense and gripping throughout. The fact that it has a short running time, a lively pace and a no-nonsense style of delivering the action, adds to the urgency of what's happening on-screen and emphasises that the events taking place have a momentum all of their own and that they're propelling the hitch-hiker's helpless victims towards a dreadful fate that they have no hope of escaping.Roy Collins (Edmond O'Brien) and Gilbert Bowen (Frank Lovejoy) are a couple of guys from Arizona who plan to enjoy a short fishing vacation in Mexico but en route they see a man at the side of the road and offer him a lift. Almost as soon as he's seated in the car, the stranger, who is Emmett Myers (William Talman), pulls a gun on the men and wants them to take him through the Mexican desert to Santa Rosalia where he intends to catch a ferry. It soon becomes apparent that Myers is a serial killer who's on the run from the police and a radio report that they hear during their journey confirms that the police don't know his current whereabouts.When night falls and the men settle down to sleep, Myers informs his hostages that, due to a deformity of his eyelid, his right eye remains open when he's sleeping and so they should forget about trying to escape because he's likely to see and kill them if they attempt anything like that. Knowing what a ruthless killer Myers is, Roy and Gil don't make any attempt to escape that nightThe journey across the desert becomes increasingly difficult and Myers gets very agitated when the car horn starts to blast continuously and is upset again later when one of the tyres is punctured. In his more composed moments he shouts orders at his terrified captives and tells them that they're soft and that he's superior to them because he simply takes whatever he wants. In the rare opportunities that they get, Roy and Gil try to discuss an escape plan but this causes disagreements between them. Because of this and Myers' promise that he's going to kill them as soon as they arrive at Santa Rosalia, their need for some way out of their predicament becomes increasingly desperate.This movie is intended to create an atmosphere of fear and this is successfully achieved because-1. its story is inspired by real-life events. 2. the ruthlessness of the killer is powerfully portrayed at the very beginning of the film.3. Myers' shooting skills are demonstrated to his victims at an early stage of their journey. 4. his practice of sleeping with one eye open is extremely creepy.Furthermore, locating the victims' ordeal in the claustrophobic confines of a car and the isolation of long empty desert roads highlights the fact that there's no easy escape from Roy and Gil's hellish ordeal.Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy are very convincing in their roles as a couple of ordinary middle-class friends and William Talman is absolutely sensational as Myers, who is the personification of pure evil. With its punchy dialogue, moody visual style and intensely threatening atmosphere, The Hitch-Hiker is an incredibly strong, riveting and memorable crime thriller. "},{"Title":"Little Johnny Red Ryan & Dad saw this in 1953. He was 7 years old.  It scared him then and it still scares him now, at age 62! UNDERRATED & HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" DURING the post World War II period of the late 1940's and early '50's, the movie industry found itself in an extreme position of flux. Newly found competition from the Small Screen world of Commercial Television was making inroads into the iron grip held over the American Public's viewing habits. Many who would have previously gone two or more times weekly found their Movie Nights cut severely; in deference to the likes of Sgt. Joe Friday in DRAGNET, a young up and comer named Jackie Gleason on CAVALCADE OF STARS and Groucho Marx's YOU BET YOUR LIFE.LOCAL Neighborhood Movie Theatres, which had previously changed their playbills up to three times weekly cut back to twice weekly and ultimately once; with perhaps some variant Juvenile Western, Cartoon & Serial laden Saturday Matinée programming for the Kiddie Trade. The production of so many of theB Films series, short subjects and newsreels were seriously cutback; with the leftover studio space & time, ca$h funding and producing efforts put into the filmed TV Series.UNFORTUNATELY, many a fine film and virtuoso, career defining performances were not seen nearly as widely as movies produced in the previous decades of Hollywood History. Peter Graves, for example, made reference to his pivotal role in Billy Wilder's STALAG 17 (Paramount). He related in an interview during his hey days of the MISSION IMPOSSIBLE TV Series (CBS) for TV Guide that in an earlier day, that role would have earned an Oscar Nomination; but people just weren't going to the movies as before. (We have obviously paraphrased him here.) CAUGHT up in this cinematic tumult was Director Ida Lupino's THE HITCH-HIKER (The Filmmakers/RKO Radio Pictures, 1953). The combination Crime, Latter Day Horror, Noir, Thriller film would certainly have been received and reviewed as being on par with the likes of THE NAKED CITY, TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE and WHITE HEAT.ANOTHER casualty of the crunch was the proper recognition of the Directorial prowess of Ida Lupino. The very lovely (Woo,woo,woo,woo!) Miss Lupino was one Movie Star whose beauty matched-up and compared most favorably with her other talents as Actress, Writer and Director. After a relatively small number of Theatrical Films, though, she channeled her efforts to direction of TV Series Episodes; no doubt at least in part due to the 1950's Silver Screen Doldrums.OUR STORY&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;.In THE HITCH-HIKER, we have a straight forward telling of a modern day Post War Horror Story. Two business men buddies, Gilbert Bowen and Roy COllins (Frank Lovejoy and Edmund O'Brien), while on a fishing vacation in Mexico, are confronted by a sociopathic serial robber-killer & escaped convict, Emmett Myers (William Talman*); who is posing as a disabled motorist by the roadside, when he is spotted by the pair. Once gaining their confidence and entrance as a third passenger to their car, he quickly brandishes his revolver and takes over.THE rest of the film deals with the three's journey to a Mexican town called Santa Rosita; where the Psycho plans to take off on his own to another destination; across the Gulf of California; traveling alone of course. That's it and that's all.BUT never think that there's no substance to this movie, for that is far from the truth. The storyline follows the machinations of the demented mind of the killer and his delight in torturing his captives in just about every way that was permitted on the 1950's screen. Unlike a true, purebred Film Noir feature, there is a happy resolution to the story. True to Life, the Killer is exposed as a yellow-bellied coward of a pathetic excuse for a human being in the end.AND that, my friends, is almost a universally true fact concerning all of these tough guy, Bad Assed types; right down to today. Isn't that right, Schultz? NOTE * The trio turned in top flight performances, with William Talman (best known for his role as L.A. District Attorney, Hamilton Berger on the PERRY MASON Series.) would certainly have to be considered for an Oscar Nomination. Mr. Talman did perhaps his greatest and most selfless performance in a minute public service spot for the Anti Smoking cause in 1968. In it he narrates the happenings and the family members around his own household and how he would regret never being able to see them again. At the end of the spot, a title card announced the date of William Talman's death, due to lung cancer; contracted largely from cigarette smoking.NOTE In addition to the fine interplay between the three principal actors (O'Brien, Lovejoy and Talman), the movie is stocked with a phenomenal number of great supporting players, such as Wendell Niles, Clark Howatt and Natividad Vacio (the personal friend of George Reeves.) The one Mexican uniformed Policeman looks like the lead Bandito, whose gang and him all get gunned down by payroll guards Butch & Sundance in BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID (20th Century-Fox, 1969); but we cannot find him listed in either films' credits. Anybody got any suggestions? POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"As long as he needs us will stay alive","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Photographed in stark and heavily contrasted black and white and skillfully directed by actress Ida Lapino The Hitch-Hiker is among the best of the 1950's film noir suspense-dramas. Its almost total focus is on two people Roy Collins & Gilbert Bowen, Edmond O'Brien & Frank Lovejoy, involvement in a kidnap and escape attempt across the US/Mexican border. With death in the person of serial killer Emmett Myers, William Talman, riding in the backseat of their automobile.Based on the true story of serial killer Billy Cook who during his short but deadly reign, 1950-51, of terror on the California highway system murdered six unsuspecting motorists who were unlucky enough to run into him and to give him a ride. Captured in Mexico and extradited back to the US Cook was tried and convicted of multiple murder and sentenced to death in the San Quentin gas chamber and executed on December 12, 1952; some five months before the story of his violent and criminal life The Hitch-Hiker was released in the US movie-houses.Driving down at night to the Mexican/California border on a fishing trip Roy & Gilbert Pick up a stranger on the highway hitching a ride. Before they can ask him where he's going he, wanted serial killer Emmett Myers, pulls out a gun introduces himself as a wanted and dangerous murderer and has the two startled men take him toward the Mexican border. Myers not only plans to make his escape but, when Roy & Gilbert are no longer of any use to him, murder them.Driving through the almost empty and broiling desert it's Mayers plan to reach the coastal town of Santa Rosalia. From there Myers is get a ferry ride into Mexico proper where he can disappear from the perusing California state and Mexican police. At first going along with Myers thinking that by doing what he tells them Myers will spare their lives Joe & Gilbert soon realize that he'll murder them as soon as he's free to make his escape. The two then try to somehow storm and disarm and even, if they have to, kill the clever and cunning fugitive. Myers in fact has all the bases covered with not only his smarts and his ability to keep the two at a safe distance from him but also give them the impression that he never sleeps! Myers' right eye, due to some kind of birth defect, never stays closed even when he's out cold and nearly unconscious.Driving for days and avoiding the police roadblocks take a toll on Roy's car where it has to be abandoned in the desert and thus have him and his friend Gilbert and Myers travel on foot to Santa Rosalia. It's here where the movie gets a bit confusing when you start to realize that Myers by now didn't really need both Roy & Gilbert to make his way to Mexico. Myers even had Roy, who was his size and looked somewhat like him, change clothes with him to make the Mexican police think that Roy was really him the fugitive serial killer. Couldn't Myers just have murdered both Roy and Gilbert and take their money and then go to the Santa Rosalia ferry himself? Without having them be forced to tag along with him and put himself, like he eventually did, in danger of being caught?The ending of the movie was about the only flaw in it with Mayers totally losing control of the situation and having the Mexican police get the drop on him. This all happened when the cops saw his wanted poster and the fear on the faces of both his victims. In a wild shootout on the docks as Myers is gunned down as he tried to make his escape masquerading around as the innocent and almost hysterical Roy Collins. 38 year old actor William Talman looking his age, even though he was supposed to be ten years younger in the movie, and chillingly effective as the cold-blooded and unblinking eyed psycho Emmett Myers easily stole the acting honors in The Hitch-Hiker. It's hard to believe that he would later be playing the cool calm genteel and very law minded district attorney Berger, who almost never won a case, on the popular TV court show Perry Mason. "},{"Title":"Hitch-Hiker","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" One of the best films made about the misfortune of picking up the wrong hitchhiker. Ida Lupino's tough little programmer about two men, Roy Collins & Gilbert Bowen(Edmond O'Brien & Frank Lovejoy)who pick up killer Emmett Myers(William Talman, who is really intense and creepy in this role;very effective portrayal of a remorseless monster). He holds them captive with a pistol always in his hand. Control is his drug and wielding his weapon brings a rush he often parlays through mind-games..especially with Collins who is more fragile than tough-minded Bowen who is able to keep his mind centered on their freedom at the right moment of surprise. This film follows them through the Mexican desert and mountainous plain(the location work is as much a reason why this film is so successful as the very good leads)while we wonder how our unfortunate captives will or will not survive. A little eerie touch to the film is that Talman's Myers has an eye that doesn't shut so at night it makes it harder for our heroes to determine whether or not he's asleep.Above everything this film is a psychological thriller between psychopath and his hostages. He relishes having them under his power with no real way to escape without harming one or the other. Collins and Bowen could easily betray each other's trust and run for it, but this film shows the character they have. They are flawed people(as Myers often pokes at them..why didn't they go to Arizona like they were supposed to?)who are faced with this ever-growing knowledge that at anytime he could kill them. That tension is really what makes this film so very good. The trials of the place they inhabit is also a major theme as that harsh sun and dust beats down on them after their car goes on the fritz. They are always having to elude capture because of that blasted gun aiming for their bodies.We also see how the Mexican police cooperate with US authorities to find Myers..that is also showed by Lupino is great detail. The film is thrilling to watch..Lupino really made a humdinger of a film here. The three leads really only bring an added professionalism to this film making it more than just a cheap B-film. "},{"Title":"You stink, Myers! You smell! Just like your clothes!","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Two friends on a fishing trip (Edmond O'Brien, Frank Lovejoy) pick up a hitchhiker (William Talman). That turns out to be a huge mistake as this guy is a psycho who's left a trail of bodies behind him. Now he holds the two men hostage at gunpoint and forces them to drive into Mexico.Based on real-life hitchhiking killer Billy Cook, this is an excellent film noir thriller directed and co-written by Ida Lupino. It might be the best movie she directed, although I'm partial to On Dangerous Ground. Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy are both fine but Lovejoy gets a little more to work with. Which is funny since O'Brien was the bigger star of the two. William Talman, best known as the district attorney who always lost to Perry Mason, is great here. There's a creepiness to his performance that separates the character from just another thug with a gun that was commonplace in movies, even in 1953. It's a taut thriller with fine performances and excellent direction. Short runtime is a plus. Years of more graphic movies with similar plots may dilute the impact of this some but I think it's still a strong film. "},{"Title":"There's a Killer On the Road - His Brain Is Squirming Like a Toad","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" For some weird reason this low-budget, b&w, psycho-killer movie from 1953 seemed to drag on forever even though its running time was only a mere 70 minutes in length.With one dead eyelid that won't close, 28 year-old, Emmet Myers is the Hitch-Hiker's murderous maniac.As the title suggests, Emmet likes to hitch-hike and because he's such a certified looney his way of repaying anyone's who's kind enough to give him a ride is to cold-bloodedly shoot them dead and then rob them of their valuables.From Seattle to Mexico it's Bang! Bang! Bang! all of the way for Emmet until, of course, he gets careless, and, then, sure enough, the law closes in on him.Need I say more about this disappointing piece of mediocrity? "},{"Title":"opened eye","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Road trip films are a very powerful genre because they convey a deep sense of oppositions merged to create a vision of unity. This something that, apart from this sub-genre, maybe only western can create so aptly, but with western we are always attached to the meaning of the films western film is viscerally linked to a certain American vision of values, moral and ethics, and its Italian connection, to cinema itself, meta-narrative.But the road-trip is free from so many conventions. They come in all shapes and sizes. So you can produce a road-trip movie in anyway, without being forced to obey the laws of a genre, because in the end, it's not one.So we have the Bonnie and Clyde, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, My blueberry nights. Each a very shiny light in its own cinematic galaxy. Each creates its own rules.But what works all the time as a key element in these films, and what it shares with western, is how it invites the filmmaker to shoot wilderness, wide spaces, infinite roads, to portrait solitude, inner voyages, personal dramas. That's the one thing that makes the film live or die.This one lives. I have a growing admiration for Ida Lupino. A woman in the job mostly done by men. Giving us new versions of masculine genres. Feminine intimate calculation placed against (and over) men's intuitions and symbols. This is a film with no relevant female characters. She delivers, I think, a kind of deeper version of this genre, specially compared with the generality of films done in these days, when the medium was not so developed as to allow emotion to be shown from such an inside point of view.So here we have a film of tension, instead of violence. The promise of the next thing that will happen is always superior to the perspective of actually seeing that. And that's what builds the shape of the film the next thing. Talman gives us a very fair version for his typical character, more remarkable if we think it was still given when Brando hadn't broken the rules for cinema acting. And naturally, a film like this necessarily depends in important parts on the performance of the actors. So this is a film of sketched but unfulfilled actions, tension as opposed to realizations. The promise of the next landscape, the next town always mirrors the evaluation of the situation by each of the 3 characters. That's why our bad guy keeps one eye always apparently opened, even when asleep. My opinion 3/5 "},{"Title":"Taut noir directed by Ida Lupino","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Ida Lupino, a talented actress, also pursued a successful directing career, and 1953's Hitch-Hiker is one of her best. Based on a true story, it stars Edmond O'Brien, Frank Lovejoy, and William Talman. O'Brien and Lovejoy are buddies, Lovejoy away from his family for the first time, and they're on route to Mexico on a fishing vacation. Doesn't quite turn out that way, as they pick up a hitch-hiker (Tallman) who is a notorious killer who has been robbing his kind victims and then killing them. The two friends never know when Tallman will decide to kill them throughout the long drive.This is quite a suspenseful and tense film, with good performances all around. Baby boomers will recognize Talman as the losing. complaining DA, Hamilton Burger, on Perry Mason. But he didn't just appear one day at the casting office; his career up to then had been character roles in film with some television. He gives an excellent performance as a terrifying, volatile killer. Definitely his best role; sadly, he succumbed to lung cancer two years after Perry Mason ended. O'Brien and Lovejoy, usually two tough guys in films, are great as ordinary men in an extraordinary circumstance. When Lovejoy sees a little girl, he thinks of his own daughter and hugs the child, crying Vaya con Dios, fearing that he will never see his daughter again.My only complaint is that there were endless long shots of the car driving down the road; you could almost predict when they were coming up. It's a small criticism of a woman who help to pave the way for what few film directors we have today. "},{"Title":"Don't give this man a lift","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The Hitch-hiker is a very creepy thriller direct by actress Ida Lupino. She has certainly done a good job here.Two men on a fishing trip to Mexico pick up a strange man who has been hitch-hiking. What the two men don't know is that this man is a murderer and is wanted by the police. He threatens them at gun point and makes them drive across the desert and head for the coast. They eventually reach the destination, the hitch-Hiker is caught by police and the two men are safe at last.The Hitch-Hiker is certainly a nasty piece of work and even sleeps with one eye open.The cast includes Edmond O'Brien (D.O.A.), Frank Lovejoy (House of Wax) and William Talmon (Perry Mason) in the title role.This movie is essential viewing. Fantastic.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"above-average take on the unraveling of a situation, with noir meeting the Western","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" It's a little ironic to think that a sort of 'guy' movie, one with only one bit part played by a female (a little Mexican girl of all things), and loaded with men filled with either the desperation of being held at gunpoint or the overwhelming sense of getting caught, was directed by a woman. But Ida Lupino, in one of her earlier, smaller works as a film director, is really keen on getting this story told very tightly, and she makes it lean and exciting for the 70 minutes it unfolds. Very simple set-up a serial killer, played by William Talman, kills the people that pick him up as he hitchhikes, and when he gets picked up by two guys (Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy), he thinks he's got it set to head on deep down into Mexico where no one will catch up with him. In the meantime, he forces everything on the men by gun-point, is paranoid even when things should be looking good, and because of one eye that never closes all the way, the tension and suspense is always on high for the two men in the night as they can never tell if their hitch-hiker is asleep or eying them like an all too trigger-happy hawk.What unfolds then is material that could just as easily be found in a western of a similar fold, despite it being claimed that it's based on a true story (the 'loosely' term more so applies, even with the naturalistic impulses of the director). But it's this very simple edge, the kind that makes up the better B-movies, that is interesting once seen under the film-noir scope of things. Some of Lupino's shots are very creative in the mood she's trying to convey, like when Meyers first gets into the car and he's completely in shadow, and then for the first time we see his face it's after the gun comes out, and it's kind of frightening. In fact, one of the bits of genius Lupino had was to use Talman as Myers- he has one of the best villain-noir faces I've seen, with hair usually askew, his crooked eye, his face always as grim as can be but always determined to have his way. It's interesting too to see how the simplistic psychology- of Meyers being basically abandoned and on his own as a child and always taking things instead of having them given to him- is laid out at times when in the little moments with his two men. One scene I really got intrigued by was when Meyers had Bowen (Lovejoy, who is probably the more emotionally charged of the two, if not overall the better actor) hold a can up out in the desert to shoot at, and the demand that Collins shoot at the can. The mind-games aren't raised very high, as Myers is too neurotic and pathological to stay on one thing for too long, but it's little moments that strike up the best parts of the picture.Sure, the procedural moments are sort of routine, like seeing how the police dish out the disinformation about Myers whereabouts to keep him on the move, and the ending is only satisfactory in really getting some extra grit out of the prediction. But the atmosphere and the interplay and performances of the three main men of the Hitch-Hiker is what's always absorbing. I loved seeing the wide-open vista shots of the desert, and the little asides with the close-ups given to Myers. Lupino grabs what she can with the picture because she knows what it is- but more importantly knows how to put some individual touches to the framework. It's assuredly not the work of a usual craftsman, but a professional trying for that extra bit of tension, that extra bit of style, in whatever budget she had. And if anything I'll try and seek out not only more of her work- particularly in the male-dominated noir world that she somehow seems to operate in so well- but for Talman too in villainous roles. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A superb, gripping and suspenseful 50's film noir thriller gem","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Gilbert Bowen (finely played by Frank Lovejoy) and Roy Collins (the equally excellent Edmund O'Brien) are a couple of pleasant, personable working class family men who are out on a fishing trip driving across Mexico in a Plymouth Fury. The two good lifelong friends make the fatal mistake of picking up Emmett Myers (a chillingly flinty and implacable performance by rangy, gaunt-faced character actor William Talman; the DA who inevitably lost every case to Raymond Burr on Perry Mason), a mean, sadistic, cold-hearted on the lam psychopathic criminal who takes the pair hostage and makes them transport him across the border with the specific intent of killing both men after they prove to be no longer useful. Gilbert and Ray's friendship gets put to the ultimate test by Myers they either will pull together to defeat him or both wind up dead.A truly tense and gripping low-budget vintage 50's stripped down to the scrappy bare essentials film noir thriller which delivers 71 minutes worth of sweat-inducing white-knuckle tension, this danger on the road classic greatly benefits from Ida Lupino's trim, focused, unflashy direction (Lupino also co-wrote the compact script), the nervy interplay between the three outstanding leads, the lean, but richly textured characters, Leith Stevens' marvelously booming'n'bombastic all urgent horns and fraught strings score, a starkly plotted narrative which stays on a steady, unwavering course throughout, Nicholas Musuraca's gorgeously crisp black and white cinematography, no needless pretense or sentiment to speak of, and a hard, grim, steely tone that's firmly rooted in a quietly unsettling evocation of a fragile, all too easily ripped asunder everyday tranquility and banality. The film's marrow-freezing plausibility no doubt derives from the fact that the story was inspired by a horrific real life incident In the early 50's a hoodlum fugitive named William Cook posed as a hitch-hiker and killed several people who gave him a lift before the police caught him. "},{"Title":"When this-guys-a-thumbin', don't-start-a-stoppin.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  Two buddies, Roy and Gil, take a fishing vacation in the southwest (and perhaps indulge in a little hanky-panky with women of ill-repute). Along the way they pick up a guy, thumbing for a ride on the roadside. Unknown to them, but assured once he pulls out a gun less than a minute after being picked up, this man is Emmet Meyers, wanted killer across the southwest for murdering the people who have been giving him rides. Meyers systematically tortures the two buddies throughout the trip, which is to drop him off at a ferry station in California and which Meyers assures them that's where he'll kill them both unless Roy & Gil can find the chance to turn the tables on their captor. Talman is excellent as the psychotic killer, oozing out every ounce of evil and villany to his role from first scene to last. O'Brien & Lovejoy just sit around for the ride (literally). Lupino's direction doesn't allow for anything else to happen than what you expect, which is probably the film's biggest flaw, but still a good job. Well lit film especially with the night scenes and Meyers' lazy eye which won't close. Rating, 8. "},{"Title":"Almost a film-noir","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  It is a suspenseful movie that has likeable characters (except for the killer).  William Talman is extremely good.  I would never have thought he was so capable especially since he never had the opportunity to show his true acting abilities in Perry Mason.  There is no femme-fatale, so in my opinion the movie does not quite fall into the film-noir category.  One of the hidden themes of the movie is said by the killer.  He tells his hostages you two would had been able to escape if you did not care about each other.  "},{"Title":"At Gunpoint","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Two fishing buddies unwittingly give a lift to a serial killer who forces them to drive across the border at gunpoint in this compact thriller directed by Ida Lupino. A former film noir star, Lupino brings several interesting directing touches to the film such as the initial obscuring of the hitchhiker's face until he produces his gun, but it is William Talman's unhinged performance as the hitcher that really makes the film. He has a creepy calmness to him as he holds the two men hostage like something that he has done millions of times before, and his face more than his gun oozes menace. Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy are, on the other hand, dull as his two victims; the film momentarily brings up something about them lying to their wives about their trip, but the most part, their function in the script is simply to (unsuccessfully) attempt to escape and evade again and again. The film grows a tad repetitive as it goes on, and with constant cutaways to the US and Mexican police investigating the matter, it never really maintains any tension that it builds. The film is also a less thrilling experience since we constantly know that the police are on top of things and have a plan of what to do, and the despair of the fishing buddies never really resonates since the movie provides a strong sense that everything will work out. Still, the film is certainly worth a look for Talman's performance. His big screen career was curiously short, spending most of his years in television; one can only wonder what may have been had 'The Hitch-Hiker' been more widely seen in its day. "},{"Title":"The test of endurance, loyalty, and courage.","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" When Roy Collins (Edmond O'Brien) and Gil Bowen (Frank Lovejoy) pick up hitch-hiker Emmett Myers (William Talman) the first thing Myers does is he pull a gun on them. Myers forces Roy and Gil to drive him to Mexico whilst mentally and physically tormenting both of them along to way. He mocks their loyalty to each other and eventually Gil starts lashing out. The best part of the film is when Myers gives Roy a hunting rifle and tells Gil to stand on the opposite end of the gun holding a soda can. Myers then tells Roy to shoot at Gil. The uncomfortable feelings held by Roy and Gil are captured beautifully by O'Brien and Lovejoy respectively. Not to mention Talman is sadistically frightening as Myers. The Hitch-hiker is one heck of a ride. "},{"Title":"Not Film Noir","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the earliest film portrayals of a spree killer and the first film directed by Ida Lupino. Hence it has some historical interest. However, it is by no stretch of the imagination in the film noir genre, as many suggest. Classic film noir involves urban settings, a motley crew of criminals and their associates, a double and preferably a triple cross, a femme fatale, lots of rain and dark shadows, and a hero who enters into the underworld reluctantly and inadvisedly. Although no film noir classic has all of these conventions, most have a great many. This film has none. It does have great film noir cinematographer Nicholas Musuraca ( Stranger on the 3rd Floor, Cat People, Out of the Past, They Clash By Night, The Blue Gardenia) and he does use some of his sharp black and white photography to make this a very watchable film.Don't expect film noir, nor will you get much psychological analysis of the spree killer. The performances are good and the direction is taut, but there are far better films from this era, and certainly people like Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy did far better jobs in far better films. "},{"Title":"Taut Film with Ida Lupino at the Helm!","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy star in this taut little thriller about a couple of guys on a fishing trip, when they pick up a hitchhiker, despite the fact there's a escaped inmate loose. We know it, when it happens by the shadows, the music score, the sharp instincts of director Ida Lupino. In fact, despite the fact Ms. Ida Lupino directed several other films, this is considered to her best. This has everything a film noir should have strong characters, pace, the great use of black and white cinematography, suspense, and a scary bad guy. A femme fatale is good, but not necessarily needed, as there is not one in sight here. But who has time to think about that! With a guy in the back seat ready to slit your throat, this delivers a wallop of intense emotions and activity. Sure, there's a lot of talking between the three men, but you're never bored. The only critique is that the climax happens so quickly and rather matter-of-factly. Then it's over, the end. You'll be entertained by this little but loud film, directed by actress Ida Lupino. "},{"Title":"IDA - Behind Her Camera!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" -The Hitch-Hiker (1953) by John VizzusiMarking the 4th Major Motion Picture for Superstar Ida Lupino as a Director, she paved the way for Females in a Industry dominated by men! Lupino also pens this strange and true tale of a serial killer on the loose. With a entire Male Cast, Ida sets forth on-loan by Warners to RKO, she shot the entire Picture on-location. Beginning to finish a breathtaking 71 minutes, Lupino comes in under-budget and several days early. Hollywood forgetful of its hugely successful past of Female Directors and Screenwriters such as the incredible Francis Marion (The Big House), Lupino is scorned upon and RKO acts like they are hiding from this production. A Limited Release does not help box office totals although the Movie does make its money back. She had a very slim budget of $400,000 and had to invent rotoscope camera movements for the Camera Automobile shots because of lack of equipment available. Surely influenced by the drama she herself displayed on the screen as the Star opposite Humphrey Bogart in High Sierra she Directs with complete confidence and a totally believable natural reality driven style and turns the killer Emmet Myers (William Talman) into one of the most vicious murderous monsters the screen had ever seen. But there is something else happening as well; -Ida gives the film a sense of purpose and sensitivity even with all the madness going on throughout...In an interview Talman recalled an incident that happened shortly after the release of The Hitch-Hiker (1953), in which he gave a chilling portrayal of escaped murderer and serial killer Emmett Meyers. He was driving his convertible in Los Angeles with the top down, and he stopped at a red light. Another driver in a convertible who was stopped next to him stared at him for a few seconds, then said, You're the hitchhiker, right? Talman nodded, indicating that he was. The other driver got out of his car, went over to Talman's car and slapped him across the face, then got back in his car and drove off. In recalling the story, Talman said, You know, I never won an Academy Award but I guess that was about as close as I ever will come to one.The Hitch-Hiker is instrumental is guiding the fantastic career of Ida Lupino whom was a beloved Star of the golden era of Hollywood's Silver Screen. And moved forward to Producing and Directing right into the golden age of Television. There was nothing Lupino could not do and do well. Ida Lupino was the first woman to Direct Film Noir although the word Classic here may not totally apply to The Hitch-Hiker but for a Industry that today only employs a tragic 1% of Females we should look closer of the Film's that early Hollywood based Women Directed, Wrote and Produced. You may be surprised at what you find! "},{"Title":"Forget The Hitcher...","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" ...THE HITCH-HIKER is the original, '50s-made hitchhiking nightmare film. It's a straightforward three-hander in which a couple of buddies (Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy) are accosted by a manic serial killer (William Talman), who forces them to drive him to Mexico in order for him to escape the authorities.This is a low budget, black and white suspense thriller that has more tension in it than a dozen recent movies. The low budget works in its favour, with tight camera angles making for a claustrophobic viewing experience. Actress Ida Lupino certainly knows what she's doing behind the camera as she rarely puts a foot wrong here the pacing is exact and the performances are excellent.While O'Brien and Lovejoy ground the movie playing the two protagonists, but in reality this is Talman's turn. He gives a pitch perfect turn as the creepy villain, one that would pave the way for later screen psychos like Robert Mitchum's character in NIGHT OF THE HUNTER. Talman's acting is the stuff of brilliance, and he alone makes the film worth watching. The rest of it is the icing on the cake. "}{"Title":"Thumbs Up for Ida Lupino","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" We are forewarned, This is the true story of a man and a gun and a car. The gun belonged to the man. The car might have been yours - or that young couple across the aisle. What you will see in the next seventy minutes could have happened to you. For the facts are actual. Then, director Ida Lupino sets the screen stage with the three murders out west, by Kansas psycho-desperado William Talman (as Emmett Myers). The established serial killer has a bum eye which remains open while he sleeps, which means you can never tell whether or not he's asleep or awake...Planning to escape through Mexico to Santa Rosalia, Mr. Talman kidnaps two middle-aged men looking for fishing and fun, far away from their homes around Arizona. They unfortunate victims are mechanic Edmund O'Brien (as Ray Collins) and drafter pal Frank Lovejoy (as Gilbert Gil Bowen)...This type of film has become so enhanced with surreal and supernatural elements, it's interesting to see an original and still highly effective older version. The Hitch-Hiker broadened Ms. Lupino's oeuvre considerably; she delivers extraordinary work. The shooting contest, liquor store scene and finale are intensely well done. Lupino receives fine assistance from photographer Nicholas Musuraca and elicits great acting from the three co-stars; in perhaps the choicest role of his career, Talman (future Perry Mason adversary) is especially memorable. Take this drive.******** The Hitch-Hiker (3/20/53) Ida Lupino ~ William Talman, Edmond O'Brien, Frank Lovejoy, Jose Torvay "},{"Title":"Unconventional Themes and Strong Simplified Expressionism","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Ida Lupino starred in about 50 films but also directed nine. The Hitch-Hiker is one of the first ones and it's actually the first film-noir directed by a woman - so the film has quite a lot of historic value. British for her descent, Ida Lupino had already some experience of film-noir she had starred in High Sierra (1941) with Humphrey Bogart and later on in On Dangerous Ground (1953) by Nicholas Ray. The Hitch-Hiker is very unconventional and daring, it borough up subjects many would've left behind but Ida Lupino was no coward. She openly and realistically dealt with themes like illegitimate mothers, twice married chumps, rapes and the consequences of it in her movies. In The Hitch-Hiker she took film-noir into her hands and shaped something of her own out of it.Two men are going out of town for fishing. During their journey to Arizona they pick up a hitch-hiker from the road, who quickly turns out to be a psychopath who is being searcher by the police. The agonizing journey starts in a narrow car when the men are forced to change their direction from Arizona to Mexico and realize that they're facing death. The only question is when and how.In 1950's film-noir was quite a phenomenon of the past and filmmakers had taken everything out of it that they were able to; at least that's what they thought. Private eyes, dangerous women and desperate men were characters everyone were familiar with. Big cities, cold streets, waterfronts and exotic milieus were landscapes all had seen. Desperation, loveless love, exploitation and moral complexity were themes filmmakers had dealt with for several times. In 1950's many brought something new to this amazing genre; Nicholas Ray gave us a chance to see it in a very different landscape, Orson Welles took the whole philosophy of film-noir to a new level in Touch of Evil (1958) and Alfred Hitchcock dealt with a true story in The Wrong Man (1956).Ida Lupino as the first woman to direct a film-noir obviously brought something new to it. The aesthetics, landscapes and milieus of film-noir were often related to big cities like Los Angeles and New York. In The Hitch-Hiker Lupino uses the claustrophobic place of a car brilliantly and the scenes outside the car take place in the deserts of southern states and Mexico. The whole film takes place in one car, the gas stations on the road and the deserts of unbearable heat. Only near the end the film culminates to one of the most classical milieus of film-noir a waterfront.The film was very untypical for its time. It portrayed two men in a true nightmare with no way out. The world view of it is incredibly dark and pessimistic, where the police is powerless against the world. In the beginning of the film it is announced that it is based on a true story, which could've happened to any of us. This of course makes the situation even more distressing and scary. What I know is that where I live, Finland this film was banned back in 1950's because of its darkness, psychopathy and pessimism.The Hitch-Hiker was made in 1950's - in the shadows of The Cold War so the themes of pessimism, disloyalty, paranoia, loneliness and psychopathy were current and hard for the people of the time. Ida Lupino reinforced the place of women as directors in Hollywood, which was seen (and still is) as a very masculine trade. The construction of the claustrophobic place is glorious and the simplified expressionistic images of the shadows of the characters and the endless roads are astonishing and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Loved It & Didn't Expect To","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" A man hitch-hikes his way across the U.S. robbing and killing everyone who picks him up. He eventually gets picked up by two fishermen on their way to Mexico. He forces them at gunpoint to take him to take him through Mexico to Santa Rosalita for him to catch a ferry. He plans to kill them once they arrive. He terrorizes them in different ways along the way. Once they make it the police are closing in for a showdown at the docks. A Must See! This film is way better than I was hoping for. William Talman is excellent in his role as the psychotic Hitch-Hiker Emmett Myers. He really is frightening even today over 40 years after this film was made. The mind games he plays on the fisherman are downright scary. For me he made this film fun. Both Frank Lovejoy & Edmund O'Brien are also excellent as the fishermen. My only complaint is that some of the night scenes were difficult to see but they were minimal. "},{"Title":"A nice long hike; completely mislabeled as a noir","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" As a director, Ida Lupino distinguished herself by a few notable feats, like adding an educative coat to her flicks (the movies she directed investigate social issues like the bigamy; the hitch&#x97;hike cereal killers), made as pieces of social awareness, and casting O'Brien as a lead (--my favorite couple of O'Brien performances are not in Lupino movies, but in DOA and in Siodmak's THE KILLERS; anyway, Mrs. Lupino at least handed O'Brien a piece of bread--). HITCH&#x97;HIKER is a suspenseful drama (--and, in more recent terms, a road&#x97;movie--), the subject being, like that of Polanski's KNIFE IN THE WATER, ideal for a sparse, low&#x97;budget treatment (--HITCH&#x97;HIKER being a much plainer movie than the Polish one--), the issue of the familial life is present&#x97;the two abducted fellows are married, decent family guys, 'soft' (Mrs. Lupino cosigned the script), the Mexican Policia is presented with respect. And it was labeled as a noir by people who don't know what a noir is, or what should it look like. (To pick another controversially labeled movie&#x97;I can see why SCARLET STREET is a noir, or at least how could it be argued; but such is not the case with Mrs. Lupino's cereal murderer road movie.) O'Brien looks great unshaved, unkempt and in leather; in fact he looked a bit like a childish and funny Bogart. He plays well, of course, but, like in the other role Mrs. Lupino cast him that same year '53, O'Brien tends to overact a bit, to be slightly over&#x97;explicit; anyway, he's always an enjoyable actor&#x97;like Duryea, Mature, Ryan and other male stars of the '40s&#x97;'50s. O'Brien tended to overact, but he tended to be very good as well. All three main performances in this movie are good; even Myers, notwithstanding the creepiness of his character, gives a straight performance. The direction is remarkable&#x97;sparse, terse, economic, straight, clear and robust&#x97;giving the road movie its note of dynamism and excitement. If her sympathies go with the two regular, soft, married men, there is a certain degree of fascination with the loner, the cornered murderer&#x97;but not so as to glamorize him or something&#x97;mainly discovering the sparkle of his evilness.In '53 Mrs. Lupino was a 35 yrs. babe, with the experience of having already directed a handful of other flicks&#x97;in '49, '50, '51, '52; The Bigamist and The Hitch-Hiker were both made in '53, and many years later one other movie followed with her at the director's helm.To retake the comparison with RP's KNIFE IN THE WATER, Lupino's movie is simpler, austere and almost abstract, of a codified realism, while Polanski's oozes with sexuality and involves hidden layers of the mind.Labeling THE H&#x97;H as a noir is begging the question, a _petitio _principii; what makes it a noir? It's not urban; no women, no femme _fatale, no double&#x97;crosses, no back&#x97;biters, no ambiguous, lying, cheating characters, no corrupt or incompetent cops, no wealthy oldster to hire a private eye, no intricate plot, no enigma, no tough and determined protagonist, no denouement, no special cinematography, no architectures of light, no subdued '40s glamor, even no underworld and no city bums. It's as noir as an episode of DALLAS. THE HITCH&#x97;HIKER is atmospheric&#x97;its atmosphere is one of suspense; but why should a cereal killer road movie be a noir? (The cereal--killer is a Green Jelly joke.) "},{"Title":"The eye","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not representative of Lupino's work.Most of her movies dealt with woman and the hitch-hiker is a man's movie,where women hardly appear.The hitch-hiker is a thriller and with the exceptions of Hitchcock ,Jacques Tourneur,Robert Siodmak and maybe one or two less famous directors ,Lupino is simply better at it than many specialists Had she continued in that vein,while maybe introducing her female usual subjects ,what great suspenseful movies she could have given to the world! Many users have already written about the screenplay.There are many brilliant scenes the two men ,at night,mesmerized by the killer's eyes,the tin can,the well,all these give goose flesh.A great road movie,done on a shoestring budget which is to be recommended to any thrillers buffs. "},{"Title":"Excellent noir dominated by Tallman's incredible psychopath","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" My continuing explorations of noir have brought me to this exciting low-budget affair with the unknown-to-me William Tallman giving a stunning performance as multiple murderer Emmett Myers, who kidnaps a couple of old war veteran buddies (Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy) in the desert and forces them to drive him to Mexico. This is superbly done, and along with the other Lupino films I've seen (The Outrage and The Bigamist) offers strong proof that she was one of the great directors of the early 50s; she builds suspense slowly and steadily -- it's hard to believe the film is only 71 minutes, and not because it is in any way slow -- and her eye for the landscape and for the psychology of fear gives even the obvious rear-projection sequences in the car a feeling of authenticity.Talman's performance and character -- the bum eye that causes a twitch in his face, the sadism, the sick sense of humor and the constant threatening of his companions -- is what is going to stick with most people, though O'Brien and Lovejoy are both fine in rather thankless roles; he is never so over-the-top that he becomes unbelievable, and he is given just enough depth through some vague comments about his past that you can practically trace his decline into insanity. We also are made uneasy enough that we never really are sure how things will turn out, as the captives become more desperate and their captor more crazy -- all the way up until the powerful climax on a pier in a port town in Mexico. Kino VHS rental. "},{"Title":"Great 1953 Film Classic","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The great actress Ida Lupino was the director of this film and also the screenplay writer who created this Classic 1953 Film Classic. Two great film stars, Edmond O'Brien, (Roy Collins) and Frank Lovejoy, (Gilbert Brown) play the roles of two good buddies that decide to go fishing and change their course into Mexico because they pick up a hitchhiker named Emmett Myers, (William Talman). Emmett is a killer who kills his victims after they give him a ride in their cars and he is a serial killer who is cruel and will think nothing about killing anyone who gets in his way. The film deals mainly with these three men who have to get along with each other with one man holding a gun at their heads all the time. This is a rather long and drawn out film, but it is still entertaining and full of suspense and surprises. "},{"Title":"More information on a great film co-written and directed by Ida Lupino","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" A perilous and grim film noir entry--noted as being the only one of the genre ever directed by a woman, Lupino--THE HITCH-HIKER offers three outstanding performances by victims O'Brien and Lovejoy and killer Talman. O'Brien and Lovejoy leave their families to go on a fishing trip and, en route, make the mistake of picking up hitchhiker Talman who suddenly threatens them with a gun and holds them hostage, forcing the two men to drive him through the southwestern desert and into Mexico. He is a wanted killer and intends to get to Baja California and leave by boat to points unknown. Talman has already killed a number of people; he is a sadistic and utterly cunning psychopathic killer. He toys with the men, first offering them opportunities to overwhelm him, then to escape. At every turn, he second-guesses their desperate moves and is waiting for them with a gun. Slowly, his background is revealed to them. He has been an abused child and early learned to hate humanity. Talman has a permanent affliction an eye which never closes. At a campfire site one night the men try to move in on him but he has been faking sleep and suddenly holds the gun on them, almost killing them both. Near the end of the film one of the hostages leaves his wedding ring on the pump at a Mexican gas station, alerting police who save the pair and capture Talman. Lupino's direction is superb as she slowly builds the tension, cleverly selecting her setup shots in remote desert areas. She was the only woman directing films at the time, and she proved her enormous talent as a writer and a director with this taut little thriller. Talman's role is based upon the real-life exploits of mass murderer William Cook who slaughtered six people in 1950-51 before Mexican police captured him; he was executed in San Quentin's gas chamber on December 12, 1951. The story, taken right out of the headlines, was written by Daniel Mainwaring who had written INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS. He did not receive credit because of his left-leaning politics during the HUAC witch hunts, and because Howard Hughes, then running RKO, refused to give radicals any credit for film work.----copy right TV guide listing 11-8-2007 "},{"Title":"The Facts are Actual","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Don't let that Awkwardly Written Opening from the Producers Dissuade You.The Only Women in this Film are Peripheral, but it was Directed by a Woman, Ida Lupino. Known as a Very Good, Edgy Actress that Played Smart, Tough, Good-Lookers, and Capable of Anything a Man could do. So Moving into the Director's Chair was Never a Stretch and in Character for this Groundbreaking Female.The Movie is Relentlessly Suspenseful to a Fault. Although it is Based on a True Maniacal Killer who Murdered Men, Women, Children, and Dogs, You can't Stop the Feeling that Somehow, Somewhere, Two Able Bodied Men could have Overcome Their Captor and Tormentor. So that Frustration becomes Increasingly Troublesome as the Film is Forever Showing the Killer Berating, Teasing, and Shoving Them around.It is Undeniably an Unnerving Story that is Carried by William Talman (My Parents were tough, they took one look at me and told me to get lost.)as the Killer and some Stark, Sharp, and Sprawling Cinematography. Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy are the Innocents.After a Killer Opening of Sleazy Nighttime Neon in Mexico and some Exploits of the Villain, the Movie does become more Conventionally Staged.The Ending is Quite Sudden and May be a Disappointment to some that Expect more Exploitation or Action, but it is in Keeping with the Subtlety of Tone in the Movie. Overall, Slightly Overrated, but a Gripping Thriller Throughout.Note...Beware Public Domain Copies that are mostly awful and diminish drastically the style and enjoyment of this well-crafted Film-Noir. "},{"Title":"He'll kill them when the time is right","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This film The Hitch-Hiker should serve as a warning not to pick anyone up on the road. You might just be picking up a mad dog killer like William Talman.Which is what good friends and fishing buddies Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy do on a fishing trip. No good deed ever goes unpunished as Talman uses their car for transportation and them for hostages. Talman was a real piece of work in this film. He bullies and taunts them for the entire running time of the film. He'll kill them when the time is right. As for now their plight serves as an object for his sick amusement. Talman is one terrifying and conscienceless human being.As for O'Brien and Lovejoy they're a pair of averages guys caught up in a bad situation. Lovejoy is the cooler of the two, but even he is close to breaking.The Hitch-Hiker is directed with crisp style by Ida Lupino. It's a terrifying film, as much horror as a Hitchcock effort without the froth. "}{"Title":"Mexicali Bros","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This terrific Ida Lupino noir thriller from 1953 has more than it's share of admirers and all for good reason. However, I felt there was a sub plot or subtext also slightly on view. The killer first kills a couple, then a single man, but when he picks up two pals going on a 'fishing trip' and realizes they are NOT going where they told their wives... he might just be in the sort of male company he was looking for... hence the reason why he sticks with them instead of just killing them as he did with the other false start pick-ups at the beginning of the film. This hitch hiker wants to be with a male couple. While it is not spelled out, it certainly is there in body language and in some emotional hints. The ring we see left at the gas pump is not a wedding ring, it is a fraternity ring. The Mexican police officer says this in Spanish. After WW2 and after The Korean War many many displaced and sexually confused men who had experiences intimate and grueling male bonding were tipped back into society. The rise of bike gangs is testament to these men who wanted male companionship in leather and uniform platoons began to get noticed in society. This film is a microcosm of that emerging subculture. The couple murdered at the start not the pick up he wanted; the man killed not the man he wanted. The two men going on a 'picnic' ... and the wives have been told a lie, THAT's the men he wants to be with, hence the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Good with a Fatal Flaw","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Two carefree young travelers make the mistake of their lives when they pick up a mysterious, and slightly psychotic, hitch-hiker who never closes his right eye -- even when he sleeps!Film Noir...why don't they make these kinds of flicks today. They are so cool.Anyway, supposedly based upon a true story.It's a relatively well done foray into film noir, with one major flaw that draws the film down half way through.If there are two strong guys and another guy with a gun and the guy with the gun tells you he's going to kill you no matter what, but not telling you when, then you really have nothing left to lose.So at some point don't you try to jump him? They have numerous opportunities. And related to this -- why does the bad guy even want the two of them around? Pleasant conversation? They are a weight to him and represent the possibility of doom for him, so why not put an end to them and go it alone?If you can put this lack of logic aside, it's a fun film. "},{"Title":"Classic Noir","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Two fishermen pick up a psychotic escaped convict (William Talman) who tells them that he intends to murder them when the ride is over.First and foremost, I should warn the viewer to avoid the version available from Alpha Video. Alpha has released many (public domain) classic films over the years in varying degrees of quality. I would say this is not one of their better ones, and to really get the right feel, you should pick up the copy from Kino.Beyond the tense plot and and skillful acting, what really distinguishes this film is the director, Ida Lupino. Lupino was a fairly well-known actress in her day, but her move to director is noteworthy. Even today we have few female directors, but in the 1950s it was almost completely unheard of. "},{"Title":"outstanding film noir","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" A blast from the past,film noir at its best,frank Lovejoy(house of wax)and Edmund o'Brien(white heat,1984)are two regular Joe's on their way to a fishing spot,along comes a demented hitch hiker played by;William talman. (tv's perry mason)who pretty much makes their life a living hell.i really enjoyed this taut thriller and to my surprise it was directed by none other than Ida lupino(actress from the forties most notable high sierra) this film was remade as the hitcher with Rutger hauer.but this movie is far superior.i recommend this to anyone who likes film noir and thrillers. i saw this on internet movie archives.they show many public domain gems like this.I'm giving this one 10 out of 10.it is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Hitch-hiker from hell!","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Ida Lupino is obviously best known for her acting; but the actress also had a directing career (impressively, the only female film director in Hollywood at the time!) and it's clear from her first noir flick, The Hitch-Hiker, that she took some notes from directors she had worked with in her acting career; including Raoul Walsh and Nicholas Ray, as this film is a fast paced, constantly interesting, and (for it's time) rather nasty little thriller. The film is supposedly based on a true story; whether that's true or not is anyone's guess, but the point that the events of this film could happen to anyone (although it's less likely these days after so many 'hitcher' movies!). The plot focuses on two friends; Roy Collins and Gilbert Bowen, who are on a fishing trip. They pull over to pick up a hitch-hiker; but didn't realise that they guy they've just picked up is Emmett Myers; a sadistic criminal on the run from the law. The trio then drive down through Mexico; while the fishermen try to plan an escape.The film this one takes most influence from is obviously 1947's minor masterpiece The Devil Thumbs a Ride (and indeed, the script even includes a nod to the earlier film). I do have to say that the two 'good' lead characters are rather lame; neither of them is particularly interesting and really are only there to allow William Talman to run riot in the villain role. It really is a great performance from Talman, who instills his character with a real sinister atmosphere and ensures that no human element is visible, which is what makes the character so frightening. The setting mostly consists of the open desert; and this ensures that we are always aware of the hopeless situation that the good characters have found themselves in; director Ida Lupino does a very good job of capturing the open planes. I do have to admit that the plot could have been more exciting; it's always interesting, but it could have used more flashpoints to really rev up the tension and capitalise on the unpredictable nature of the villain. Still, this is a tense and effective little thriller and a good way to spend seventy minutes! "},{"Title":"Its OK","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Roy (Edmond O'Brien) and Gilbert (Frank Lovejoy) are on their way to a fishing trip when they pick up a serial killer hitch-hiker Emmett Myers (William Talman). For the rest of the film, they are under his control as he dictates their journey and the routines that need to be undertaken. Emmett also likes to psychologically torture his two captives with Roy coming out the worst. Meanwhile, the police search is closing in.Emmett's paralyzed eye is used to good effect as he cannot close it and sleeps with his eye open. There are some good scenes but there is not enough suspense or tension. He has a gun but we are forced to think why he doesn't use it. Surely, he would have just killed the two occupants of the car and stolen the car for himself as he had done on every other previous occasion. Perhaps he liked Roy and Gilbert...??...At the end of the film, I thought it was OK but nothing more. The cast are good and I'll keep the film to watch again. "},{"Title":"Predictable but enjoyable.","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This film is more of a made for TV suspense drama than a theatrical release. It's only 72 minutes long. The moving background when they are driving is obviously fake.Nevertheless it was enjoyable. The acting and the dialog make the main 3 characters believable.One subtlety that is missed by some in the plot is that the two main characters are looking for excitement. They initially are going to the chocolate mountains in AZ and then change their mind and go to Mexicali to drink and womanize. Subconsciously, the hitch-hiker is providing excitement these guys were looking for and initially limits their initiative to escape.The cooperation and devotion to duty displayed by the U.S. and Mexican police is another drawback to the movie. The film would have been better served if there were some friction between the two police branches. Some antagonism between the authorities would have added to the suspense and made the ending less predictable. It would have been interesting to see how the politics would have played out. "},{"Title":"Insubstantial Kidnapping Thriller.","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Two ordinary guys -- Frank Lovejoy and Edmund O'Brien -- are driving to Mexico to do some fishing and they pick up a hitch hiker, William Talman, who later became Hamilton Berger on the old Perry Mason TV show. That was a big mistake. Talman, with a hideous and slightly deformed face and a voice like Jason Robards, is one of those psychopaths who goes on a murder spree for no particular reason. He pulls a gun and Lovejoy and O'Brien become his captives.Talman plans to take them through the sparsely populated desert of Baja California to the town of Santa Rosalia, then bump the two of them off as he hops the ferry to Guaymas, on the Mexican mainland, where he figures he will elude any police who might be in pursuit.That is, if he figures anything at all. Talman's plans are so ill reasoned that you have to wonder if the guy has any frontal lobes left. As it happens, the policia finally catch up with them and capture Talman, much to the relief of the other two who, by this time, are thoroughly browned off at having been humiliated and abused.Talman is enough to creep anyone out. One eye never closes. So, for the several nights they spend camping together, the others never know whether he's awake or not.It's not a very good movie though. The characters are all one dimensional. The sneering Talman is pure evil. Not engagingly evil either, like Hitchcock's villains. Just nasty and a little sadistic. Lovejoy and O'Brien, two competent actors, are stuck in their roles. We learn practically nothing about them except that O'Brien is impulsive and Lovejoy more thoughtful. Both are unrelentingly morose. With a pistol pointed at your noggin, that's understandable, but even in the first few scenes, before they get into trouble, neither of them seems especially enthusiastic about their vacation, and Lovejoy is positively cranky. The most animated performances come from the Mexican characters they meet, and there aren't many of them.The plot has so many holes in it that it seems cobbled together out of patches and things. Talman tells them that he needs them because he doesn't want to be connected with their car, but that when they get to Santa Rosalia he's going to bump them off. Why does he need them alive to drive to Santa Rosalia? Why not bump them off in the desert and just take the car? It doesn't make sense. It makes even less sense after the car is fatally damaged and they must walk the remaining miles to Santa Rosalia.I understand this is based on historical events and, to the extent that that's true, I'd have to guess that the kidnapper let the real guys live because psychopaths have trouble with impulse control. Circumstances waft their intentions this way and that. The kidnapper might have let them live because he enjoyed their chats or because he felt like having company or because he was too lazy to pull the trigger or because he liked having two plain-vanilla folks to boss around. Like most men who take hostages, Talman has created his own social world consisting of one king and two slaves. And as a poet once said, 'It's good to be da king. Ida Lupino's direction is sufficient -- no more than that, and sometimes less. Example. Lovejoy and O'Brien spend two nights in their sleeping bags while Talman watches over them. The scenes are clumsily staged. Lovejoy and O'Brien are wrapped up to their neck in their dark sleeping bags, as if in swaddling clothes, and they lie rigidly on their backs with their faces up. Who sleeps like that? It's worth seeing once but not worth coming back to. Everything about it seems indifferent. The photographer, Nicholas Musuraca, has worked on some fine noirs but this isn't one of them. Or maybe his work is better than it seems. I watched it on a 5-disk DVD set of Noirs. The quality stinks. "},{"Title":"Ida Lupino director of this fine film noir","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Hitch-hiker is a tense 1950s drama involving two sport fishermen in a car that is hijacked by a psychopath fleeing to Mexico. After already committing murders and with the police hot on his trail, the criminal is desperate to escape and becomes more unhinged. Using a gun from the back seat, he forces the two men on a fishing trip to follow his orders. The hitch-hiker Emmett Myers is played by William Talman, who also played prosecuting attorney Hamilton Berger on the Perry Mason television show. Here he shows what a great character actor he is in an earlier role as a psychopath. His acting is superb as he terrorizes and plays cruel games with the two human pawns. This movie was directed by film noir actor Ida Lupino, the first woman to direct a film in this genre. The story was pieced together from newspaper accounts. Edmond O'Brien as Roy Collins and Frank Lovejoy as Gilbert Bowen are well paired with O'Brien acting the hothead Collins and Lovejoy, the cool as a cucumber family man. The drive is one lengthy ordeal and is marked by a few torturous scenes the William Tell target practice; the psychopath's paralytic eye staying open; the walk across the desert when Collins has an injured leg. I am grateful that TCM brings back to the screen an underrated and well-crafted movie like Hitchhiker that could otherwise be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Good Taut Thriller","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I'm reminded of an early episode of TALES OF THE UNEXPECTED where each episode was introduced by Roald Dahl where he recounted a time when he gave a lift to a couple of young men with long hair . One of them pulled out a knife held it to Dahl's throat and told him to get out the car . Dahl complied and the men drove off in his car . He explained after that incident he never stopped to give lifts to young men with long hair and that it inspired him to write his 1977 short story The Hitch Hiker . You have to wonder how much embellishment there is to the story because if Dahl had seen this relatively unknown movie it'd be a warning to anyone picking up hitch hikers This has a simple premise of a raving psycho hitching a life from a couple of hard working regular guys and deciding to kill them when their usefulness is over . That's it , not deep psychological character exploration is meant and the characters and performances are decidedly one note , the psycho played by William Talman is a violent psychopath because the story needs a villain and Roy and Gilbert played be respectively Edmund O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy are likable guys because the film needs a victim THE HITCH HIKER is a melodramatic thriller . You can guarantee at every dramatic moment there will be a blast of very menacing music . It's a relatively low budget film and yet none of these things are in any way a criticism . What it does it does very well . There's not a lot of ambition but this is not needed or wanted in a very tight screenplay . There's a small element of having seen it all before but it's a fairly enjoyable crime thriller that deserves to be better known "}{"Title":"A lotta bang for the buck!","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" At the beginning of The Hitch-Hiker, it claims that it's based on a true story. Well, back in the day, Hollywood often claimed that films were based on real life and the truth was far different from the film. In this case, I sure hope this wasn't close to the real story, as it's very harrowing and I would hate this to have actually occurred! Two guys (Frank Lovejoy and Edmond O'Brien) are on an outing to Mexico. When they see a guy hitching, they stop&#x97;assuming he's had car trouble. Plus, they are in the desert and don't want to leave the guy. Unfortunately, the hitchhiker turns out to be a total psycho&#x97;one who's already left a long trail of bodies in his wake. And, unless they get very lucky, these two are bound to be next.While this film has a very simple idea and a relatively low budget, it's a wonderful example of a film which makes the most of what it has. The acting was great (especially William Talman as the nut-case), the script very taut&#x97;all working together to make a wonderful South of the Border version of film noir. Well worth your time&#x97;and a must-see for young filmmakers who need to know you don't need a lot of glitz and bucks to make a great film. Oh, and by the way, this film was co-written by Ida Lupino. "},{"Title":"When noir flees the city for the back roads...","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This taut little thriller is many things a treatise on the whimsies of fate, the depravity of sadism, the benefits of maintaining one's composure under duress, and the ties that bind us together.What a happy surprise to find this dark fable on the TV channel of the City University of New York! Two friends, a draftsman and a garage operator, are out on the dusty roads of Mexico for a weekend of fishing -- or whatever it is they set out to accomplish. They stop to give a hitchhiker a lift and that's when things get difficult.The man with the gun in the backseat immediately gets a reading on this pair. The draftsman's the smart one. Yep, it was the grease monkey at the wheel who opened the door to Emmett Myers, wanted by the cops for the double-murder of the last couple who gave him a lift.Myers toys with the men like a cat with mice, devising sick games and ordering them to cook and drive for him. As long as he's got the weapons, he has a place in the world, people have to pay him heed. The draftsman indeed seems better able to play along, as his buddy starts to crack.The story resolves inexorably. It's not the plot that startles at the end, but the characterization. Frank Lovejoy as Bowen makes a gesture to come to Myers's aid once he's in the hands of what we cringingly suspect are brutalizing and maybe corrupt Mexican cops.I sat somewhat stunned through the film's final sequences. Its conclusion was powerful yet I wanted something more. To me its utter abruptness didn't quite satisfy. In addition, the version of the film that I saw lacked subtitles. C'mon, Spanish ain't an official language here yet! But this is a minor quibble.I'm tempted to watch this film again to pick up on more of the psychological nuances. Whoever said character is all was on target, and this is a movie that proves it. "},{"Title":"Solid Seven","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" So... this one is the second film on the second DVD in a 3-disc Classic Film Noir collection I'm going through. Following on the heels of The Strange Love of Martha Ivers as it does, I was prepared to be let down a notch or three from that true classic. But...I was not! Hamilton Burger's...I mean, William Talman's... performance was VERY good. They must have had him tied down pretty tight in his role on Perry Mason, because he's not just OK in this one, but really quite good. He carries the film's action almost entirely by himself. Lovejoy and O'Brien seem flat in comparison, but they really aren't. You can see each of them go through separate cycles of comprehension and response and, for my money, I thought they were very much like real persons in their circumstances would be. I would say this...if you liked The Petrified Forest, then you should probably like The Hitch-Hiker. TPF had characters and major film stars. TH-H has guys you might know being played by guys you might know. So, in that sense, at least, the leader at the start of the film is right on. Give it a try and I think you, too, will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The gun belonged to the man. The car might have been yours...","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" As a sucker for oldies and film-noir I searched for this Ida Lupino's classic, almost masterpiece thriller. I'm saying almost masterpiece only because supposedly it had much darker ending than the final film. The Hitch-Hiker is fast paced suspense film that reminds me that movies aren't like they used to be. The tense scenes in the car have the claustrophobic feeling. You see, no you feel helplessness of the two protagonist under the terror of the psychopath. And those empty desert roads only deepens the feel. Acting was top class as all the three main actors did superb job. William Talman's Emmett Myers is definitely one of the most terrifying villains in the movie history. Many critics acclaim that The Hitch-Hiker is the best film Lupino has ever directed. I might even agree with them. It's real shame that she directed only six movies. "},{"Title":"Not as compelling as I wanted","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This movie opens up with This is the true story of a man and a gun and a car. The gun belonged to the man. The car might have been yours _ or that young couple across the aisle ... For the facts are actual. It reminds me of those industrial educational film played for high school students warning them of drunken driving or smoking weed. Roy Collins (Edmond O'Brien) and Gilbert Bowen (Frank Lovejoy) are driving off to have a good time away from the kids. They pick up psycho hitchhiker killer Emmett Myers (William Talman) who pulls out a gun. He forces them to drive.This is a strip down 71 minutes movie. Talman is over the top creepy with the wonky eye. It's the expected look of a psycho killer at the time. I didn't find it compelling. And I can't figure out why he kept both men. On the surface, there are a lot of compelling facts about this production. The dark subject matter puts it away from the big studios and solidly into the indie B-movie camp. The fact that director Ida Lupino is a woman makes this one of a short list. It also allowed her to work with blacklisted writer Daniel Mainwaring. However I didn't find neither the victims nor the killer that compelling. The movie just felt like dragging from one scene to the next. I find myself liking the production artwork a lot more than the movie. "},{"Title":"paralyzed eye","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Other than the unusual fact that the psychotic killer who kills people who pick him up hitch hiking has a paralyzed eye, a plot trick that another viewer points out doesn't work since how could the gun still be perfectly held and aimed if he was asleep? Any way other than that creepy eye detail there was little to startle or frighten you in any way in this film.The plot seems so full of holes to me. Why does the hitchhiker need the two men? We know he knows how to drive since he drove the car immediately before the hunters picked him up? Why doesn't he kill them and take off in their car full of gas? He is pretty clever though and doesn't believe the radio reports and switches clothes with the hunters (to no avail) he is shot dead. End of movie.Pretty dull and boring...not near as much fun to watch as say Wages of Fear where there are long segments of suspense.3 stars is generous. Don't rent Block Busters Noir Classics the set included this movie and DOA which was far far worse. "},{"Title":"Not as gripping today with the advent of much more graphic crime stories...","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" One would never suspect that IDA LUPINO was in the director's chair for a movie about two business men on a fishing trip who have the misfortune of picking up a hitch-hiker with a penchant for violent crime. The two men are well played by EDMOND O'BRIEN and FRANK LOVEJOY, and you have to wonder if there is a sub-text to their relationship when the killer (WILLIAM TALMAN) tells them You could have escaped if you didn't want to leave each other. But whatever suspense and intrigue the film has is due to the way the plot slowly evolves into a tense cat-and-mouse game between the two men, who desperately want to survive, and the man with one eye that doesn't shut (paralyzed eye) whom they suspect is still watching them around the campfire while he sleeps.The acting is standard for this type of story but neither O'Brien nor Lovejoy is able to dig any deeper than the surface for their characterizations of men anxious about their fate. Based loosely on a true story about a killer who had already done several murders before taking the two men hostage in the desert near Mexico, it's got a certain amount of suspense but is nowhere as tightly structured as it should be for a film that runs a mere 71 minutes. I found myself checking my watch to see how far along the story was when it seemed to drag along with no chance of escape. "},{"Title":"Underrated mini-masterpiece...","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" Seeing SEVEN MEN FROM NOW was a revelation to me and I immediately hunted down everything I could find by Budd Boetticher. THE HITCH-HIKER, directed brilliantly by Ida Lupino, was an even greater revelation. THE HITCH-HIKER manages, in just over an hour, and with an economy of motion that Boetticher himself probably appreciated, to tell a terrifying tale of kidnapping and murder. The stage is set early on, with the serial killer Meyers (William Talman, in an outstanding performance) murdering half a dozen people before hitching a ride with O'Brien and Lovejoy. It's clear from the moment they pick him up that their days are numbered, and in a GREAT dramatic scene late in the going, O'Brien beseeches a search plane with arms uplifted, pleading for them to land and save himself and Lovejoy. It's an unusual scene in that it shows a man in fear for his life doing what I've actually seen people in life-threatening situations DO he begs for his life; loudly, and unashamedly. Another fascinating aspect of this movie is Talman as the killer, whose right eye never closes his defective eye makes for some tense and even genuinely funny moments. My favorite is the scene where the two victims stare at him for quite some time trying to determine if he's actually watching them or not before eventually trying to make a run for it- only to have him open his other eye and grin as he watches them run. THE HITCH-HIKER has been ripped off a thousand times over the years, but nobody ever- EVER- did it as well as director Ida Lupino. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" I never understand the whole concept of hitch hiking. If you are the hitcher, you run the risk of getting some crazy driver.Or, like this movie, if you are the driver, you run the risk of getting some crazy hitcher.This is a classic case of terror at the wheel.It's a relatively tight and well done movie that has been re made though out the years.Yes, part of it are not believable but overall it's a very very satisfying film.The Plot. Two friends on a fishing trip pick up a stranded motorist who turns out to be a psychotic escaped convict. This sociopath has already murdered other good Samaritans in his efforts to evade authorities. He sadistically taunts and threatens the two men and perversely delights in telling them that he has them both marked for death sometime before the end of the trip. His destination is a ferryboat in Baja, California, which he hopes will help him get to the mainland. The hostages hope to stay alive long enough to escape or be rescued by Mexican authorities. "},{"Title":"It's a true story. Deal with it!","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" The story of the sadistic hitch hiker here is based on a true story, and it's very obvious that Ida and company stay as close to the facts as they can, with minimal artistic license.And that seems to bug some of the modern day rich kid crowd, particularly the bubble boys who think the only way to survive a hostage situation is to be a movie hero, either a Billy Jack or a super con artist.When this film was made, there were fewer bubble boys. The fact that we have so many now does not mean this film doesn't survive the test of time. It only means it's going to be a hidden asset for a while.What is remarkable is the reality of the characters. And yes, this really happened. The people involved were interviewed. Oh, a few liberties were taken, probably to make the film longer, but the characters were very credible.Although they don't go into movie heroics, our kidnapped victims keep their dignity for the most part. The scenes where they lose their cool are perfectly believable.And that's why the film wouldn't be made this way today, which is sad. First of all, these were real actors. Imagine one of the prima donnas of today being told to debase himself the way Edmond O'Brien did? And there probably aren't more than a dozen actors today who are as big a name as O'Brien was then (and still is).O'Brien, Lovejoy, and Talman are nothing short of fantastic, which makes our director and writer nothing short of fantastic, because this is a team effort. The story flows along much quicker than many of the slasher movies of today, with far less action. Why? Clever directing, and all the little things that go into a great film.I felt more akin to the character of O'Brien, who wanted to call the shots for when to make a break, because I didn't think much of Lovejoy's idea of waiting till the maniac made his move. Of course, that's the thing. If you're not there, you really don't know which character you would be like.One could rationalize that it's good that we live in a safe world, where people don't know what this experience is like first hand, where they can fantasize that they could talk or fight their way out of it.I, however, don't think a false sense of security is healthy. If a person sees this, and doesn't see the reality and credibility of the characters, that person is a sitting duck when peril really does come.This is a top film on every level. Still relevant today. And if this film was never seen, and just released today, I'd want the actors, director, and writer all nominated for an academy award. "}{"Title":"Keep Driving","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" A couple of men on their way to a fishing vacation pick up a serial killer. It sound like a good premise for a suspenseful film, but it falls flat due to a weak script lacking in tension and incompetent direction. The script is so anemic that it drags even with a running time of 71 minutes. Lupino, directing her third feature, seems really unsure of herself and the film looks drab and low-budget. The two good guys are so poorly sketched and so uninteresting that one doesn't care what the psycho does to them. In fact, it's never explained why the psycho, who has already killed a number of people, doesn't kill the two boring guys instead of holding them hostage. "},{"Title":"Gay Subtext?","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":" This film is a great example of some of the low budget independently produced films of the film noir movement. At first you may wonder where our femme fatale is in this noir film. However this is one of many such films of the noir movement that show that you don't have to have a woman that causes you to enter the twilight zone of despair and doom.The film demonstrates some of the essential elements of noir and even hints that the wrong turn that our main characters take, this time two men, not one, is because they are really attracted to one another. Noir is one of the best types of film produced at the height of the Hollywood Production Code to heavily encode its material. Read between the lines of this movie and see if the undoing of our main characters is not really caused by the fact that they are having an illicit romance. "},{"Title":"Average thriller with predictable ending from the '50s","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Film-Noir, Thriller","Review":"  The premise of this film seems great A psychotic con escapes from prison and flees through California and Baja Mexico by hitching rides with unsuspecting citizens -- whom he then kills. Anyone who's seen 1986's The Hitcher (with Rutger Hauer and C. Thomas Howell) might think this film from 1953 is the grandfather of all such films.But The Hitch-Hiker is predictable from start to finish.  Two buddies (O'Brien and Lovejoy) decide to head out for a little hanky-panky away from their dreary lives (and wives).  Predictably, they're punished for their straying ways. Before they can begin drinking and fooling around with some hookers, they pick up psycho-killer Emmett Myers (Talman). From that point on (this occurs about 15 minutes into this 70-minute picture), the film is a repetitious series of scenes in which Myers forces the men to get gas, get food, turn on the radio, turn off the radio, stop for the night, etc.The psychological torture of being constantly under the watch of a gun wielded by a madman is the focus of the film. But other pictures have done this better. The Hitch-Hiker doesn't have Myers torturing, beating or humiliating his victims as a lesser film would. But then, the film doesn't make me particularly believe that the things Myers does would make his victims break down the way they do, either.The film's tenor changes about midway. The repetitiveness of the scenes stops, and Myers becomes a much more cunning, clever psychotic -- forcing one of his victims to exchange clothes with him (so the police will shoot at the wrong man), and deciding to avoid the ferry at Santa Rosalia (his point of escape from Baja California to the Mexican mainland) by hiring a boat from a local fisherman. It makes for a more interesting picture.Talman is a fine enough actor, but he isn't given much to do as the evil Myers. The film's moral point (aside from crime doesn't pay) is that the friendship between O'Brien and Lovejoy is what keeps them alive and gets them through it all. Only, neither actor is given much to do or say that would convince the viewer of the bond between them or that it deepens during their ordeal.Much of the dialogue seems stilted (especially Myers' prison/street lingo). Some of the plot elements -- such as they trek through the Baja desert to reach Santa Rosalia -- are downright silly.  But the film's main trick -- Myers' inability to close his bum right eye, which means he can sleep and his victims can never know if he's awake or not -- actually works.In the end, The Hitch-Hiker is a pleasant enough film. But compared to the better noir and suspense films of the 1950s, it is merely a fun diversion. "}]