[{"Title":"Great film, but not lost","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will not go into the film as many already have said how it is a great work of art despite its troubled filming history.This film is now advertised and available as a restored dvd of a lost Welles film.  But DO NOT be deceived. Whereas the 1998 cut of Touch of Evil was restored using a Welles memo as guidelines, Othello was restored by presuming many things. First, dialogue was put in sync and unintelligible diaglogue was voiced over. And second, the original score was redone, but not exactly as the original. You could almost say a new score was used in the restored film. The original cut was Welles' 1952 European version which has only ever been availible as a (OOP) 1995 Criterion LaserDisc. As Welles' daughter owns the rights to Othello, that's the 1992 restored version which she also helped on, it is the only one currently availible for purchase in the US (as she receives no money for the 1995 CR laserdisc, she forced Criterion to stop making it.)While many casual fans will not notice or care about the little changes, don't be deceived into thinking this is Orson's intended version. Also DO NOT be deceived into thinking this is a lost film. It was only lost in the sense that it had no distribution until the early 90's.  "},{"Title":"Welles brings it !","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The power of Welles performance should make anyone not already an admirer stand up and take notice. The dark, brooding nature of Welles character sets the tone throughout this film. Each of the prominent characters seems to feed off this intensity, making each the better for it. The spartan sets and excellent use of lighting add to this powerful delivery making the words feel true and soul wrenching. I think this production could have been played out on a bare stage and still be regarded as a fine work, the dialogue and delivery is of such fine caliber. The Moor of Venice is a fine example of Orson Welles vast talents as a performer and director and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Welles' indomitable spirit in the face of penury shines in yet another Wellesian Masterpiece","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE TRAGEDY OF OTHELLO THE MOOR OF VENICE/ US/France/Italy/Morocco 1952 (3.5 STARS)The recent restoration of Othello brings to cinematic space the magic of another masterpiece from Orson Welles. To think that a whole master negative of this film (which won the Best film at Cannes in 1952) was lying abandoned in a New Jersey warehouse, was discovered by accident and is the reason for this print that we now have access to, is enough to send shivers down the spine of any Welles-phile. . Mise-en-scene Like with many of his other works involving especially Shakespeare, be prepared for Welles' licenses and personal interpretation of subject matter pertaining to Othello.  Yet at the end, we are left with a feeling of deep tragedy and loss for Othello, played by Welles himself, and though we feel that Othello was quite an idiot, we at least feel that he was a very unfortunate idiot at that! . The problem may have been that the critical scene where Iago poisons Othello's mind and fuels his suspicion is scrappy and left unexplored. This may well have had little to do with Welles' artistic choices, and more with his monetary situation at the time. Welles' penury through his European sojourn is widely known and the passion with which he would invest into his films, every penny earned through moonlighting his booming voice and above-average acting skills is legendary, and should put this in context.. The figure behavior of Micheál MacLiammóir is utterly convincing as the detestable Iago who is consumed by jealousy and rage at being overlooked as the second-in-command. But the person to steal our hearts is Suzanne Cloutier who portrays the fair-dame Desdemona. She is every bit as dainty as we would have imagined her to be. . The stripped down set design works wonderfully for the film and even though budgets may have been the driving force, Othello's barren palace is preceded only by the barrenness of his blinding jealousy and irrational actions. . Cinematography As we have come to expect, Orson Welles has a unique cinematic language, through which he creates a Wellesian world of skin-burning close ups, dutched crazy world-frames and low angle shots to create a tense atmosphere of foreboding. But there is no better example of exploring and using frame depth than in Othello. Time and again Welles plays with foreground element to reveal psychologically subjective and meta-diagetic moods while cleverly using the depth in the frame to forward the narrative and plot the next progression. The title shots of the film are harrowing in their effect, with the interplay of high-contrast earth and sky contours that at once establish the mood for an intense cinematic experience. . Sound & Editing The restored version has a brand-new soundtrack mentored by Welles' daughter, and while it enhances the experience to telling effect, it is irony to note that just the new soundtrack cost much more than what Welles assembled the whole film for. The fact that parts of the film were shot MOS and other parts used ADR is distracting due to the obvious lack of lip-sync, but in the final analysis, we watch Welles with reverence almost as if on a visit to Sunday Mass, paying homage, never once forgetting that were are witness to a filmmaker stripped of resources, devoid of many essential tools, but one with indomitable spirit who refused to be cowed-down. Othello is magical in its story telling and another worthy showcase of the genius of Orson Welles.  "},{"Title":"Welles' images match the beauty of Shakespeare's language","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Considerable controversy has surrounded the 1992 restoration and re-release of Orson Welles' Othello. First, the film was wrongly labelled a lost classic - not technically true, as Welles aficionados will realize. More seriously, the restoration crew (under the aegis of Welles' daughter, Beatrice Welles) re-synced the dialogue and re-recorded the musical score - an abomination to Welles purists. While it would have been preferable to adhere to Welles' vision for the film, such an endeavor becomes extremely difficult when no written record of Welles' intent exists (as it did with his famous 26-page memo to Universal regarding Touch of Evil). So it's true that the restored version lacks a degree of authenticity, but what are the alternatives? Grainy, scratched, poorly synced public domain prints (c.f. Mr Arkadin and The Trial)? Or, worse, no available copy at all (c.f. Chimes at Midnight)? Anyway, on to the film. Othello's existence helps disprove the charges of profligacy and fear of completion that plagued Welles' career after Citizen Kane. Shot over four years in Morocco and Italy, and financed largely by Welles himself, Othello manages to avoid a low-budget look, thanks largely to virtuoso editing that masks the incongruities of time and space. Welles' powers of invention are on full display here, most obviously in the famous Turkish bath scene (an improvised set necessitated by a lack of costumes). Set designer Alexandre Trauner's astute choice of Moroccan and Venetian locations instantly establishes a geographic authenticity; Welles initially exploits them for all their stark beauty before retreating into noirish interiors, underscoring Othello's descent into darkness.Aside from Michael Macliammoir's chilling Method performance as Iago, the acting in Welles' Othello has been criticized as too restrained and modulated for Shakespearean tragedy. Such criticism is largely unwarranted, for this Othello is as much for the eyes as the ears Welles' bold framing and expressionistic camera angles free the play from its theatrical moorings (pun intended), undermining the need for stage elocution. Indeed, the camera is the true star of this film, as Welles generates images that match the grandeur and eloquence of Shakespeare's language. "},{"Title":"Great movie from Welles","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always been an admirer of Welles movies, starting with citizen Kane and the other masterpieces. Considering Othello, I highly admired this movie since the first shot, when the face of the dead Othello appears suddenly in the dark, and then the other details begin to appear, revealing the awesome funeral of both Othello and his murdered wife. In fact the best thing about this movie is the synchronization of the camera movement and angles with the state of mind and moods of characters especially that of Othello. Sometimes we are actually looking at the world through Othello's mind, the images are bizarre and grotesque, this is accompanies by wonderful acting of the cast. For any Welles fan this is a must see, considering the beauty of picture and creativity of interpretation. It's a pity that Welles didn't have a sufficient financial support to surpass some technical problems although the final effect and meaning of this masterpiece is not affected at all! "},{"Title":"One of the great Shakespeare films.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must be one of the few who saw this film (more than once!) before it vanished in the 60's.  I saw it on TV in the last 50's, and later brought it to the small college where I was teaching 63-65.  Though heavily cut and more than a little rearranged, it is one of the very finest of Shakespeare films. Performances are generally excellent and unified in style and diction.  Welles, or course, is magnificent.  Anyone who thinks he was never anything but a self-parodying ham has not seen this film.  One could wish than MacLiammoir had had more overt FUN as Iago, who does what he does, in part at least, in an attempt to stimulate himself out of his blunted affect. The film also has some of the finest black-and-white cinematography of all time, and uses architecture in a unique and effective way. "},{"Title":"Has its weak points, but some strong points make it a worthy Welles film","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Orson Welles' Othello is certainly not to be counted amongst the director's best films, which are, of course, amongst the very best ever made, but it's good. The opening is gorgeous it begins in medias res, with Othello and Desdimona being carried away, corpses, and Iago being suspended from a castle turret in a small cage. Unfortunately, the adaptation falters all the way until the very end. I can't say that I am any kind of expert on the play, but I know that there is a lot missing. The film moves at the speed of sound, when it really shouldn't. Suspense has no time to brood. The play loses a great deal of its power through most of its run. It's simply dry of emotion for about an hour or more of the 93 minute running time. Most likely, this wasn't Welles' fault. There were a lot of problems on the production, and it took many years to complete it (the credits list no fewer than five photographers), and it's probably the case that not everything was completed by the time they edited it all together. The pace is the biggest problem. The actors, too, are not strong. Welles himself is great, of course. Unfortunately the character of Othello really doesn't have all that big a part in the original play. Well, he begins to come in more nearer the end, but, as far as the main character, Iago is it. Until the very end, the play is told from the point of view of Iago. The actor who plays him is decent, but decent isn't nearly good enough. Many of the other actors are weak, too. Cassio, heck, I didn't even know which actor was playing him most of the time. Desdimona is played by a truly beautiful young actress, but she isn't worthy of the role, sadly. To tell you the truth, the only character besides Othello who has a worthy actor in the role is Emilia, Iago's wife, who really, like Othello, doesn't have much to do for most of the film.So for most of the film's run, we're left to sate ourselves on Orson Welles' beautiful visions. They're great, of course. They are better, however, almost everywhere else in Welles' world. It only beats F for Fake, which can hardly count in this contest. Fortunately, the film pulls itself together by the climactic sequence. Welles is especially good, both as an actor and a director, in the bedroom scene. There is an absolutely stunning moment where Desdimona's white radiance fills most of the screen. Suddenly, Welles (in black face, of course) turns his face and reveals himself - mere centimeters above her head. I jumped.   "},{"Title":"Excellent version of the great Shakespearean tragedy, distinguished by fine camera work and powerful performances.","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Tragedy of Othello The Moor Of Venice was shot over three years, with several occasions when the shooting schedule closed down completely due to lack of funds (actor-director Orson Welles went away during these gaps in filming and made other movies, using his salary from those pictures to complete this one). Logic would suggest that any film made in such a disjointed way would surely be incoherent or at best rather lumpy. After all, if you're making a movie how can you get any sense of fluidity into the action and the acting if you keep stopping what you're doing for lengthy periods of time? Fortuitously Welles, who was an absolute genius of the cinema, somehow manages to pull all the disparate pieces of filming together, sewing three years' worth of interrupted footage into a fine quilt of a movie. For a film with one of the most disrupted production histories ever known, The Tragedy Of Othello The Moor Of Venice is a quite remarkable achievement.The film opens with Othello, the Moor of Venice (Orson Welles) being carried to his funeral in Cyprus alongside his beloved wife Desdemona (Suzanne Cloutier). Imprisoned in a cage high above this funeral procession is Othello's lieutenant - and once-trusted friend - Iago (Michael MacLiammoir). In flashback, we learn how Othello and Desdemona died, and why Iago is made to witness their journey to the grave from his undignified cage.Iago, an ensign reluctantly working under Othello, dreams of having Desdemona for himself. With the help of rich Venetian Roderigo (Robert Coote), he plans to become her suitor. But Iago grows livid when he learns that Desdemona has already courted Othello and is now his wife. Determined to have his revenge, the villainous knave sets about ruining their relationship. He plants seeds of suspicion in Othello's mind and leaves cleverly staged circumstantial evidence lying about that will lead the Moor to unpleasant conclusions. Ultimately, Othello finds himself convinced that his wife is a cheating whore, so he kills her. Later he discovers his error and kills himself, but not before Iago's part in the tragedy is exposed and he is imprisoned for his treachery.Welles the actor gives an impassioned performance as the titular character, while MacLiammoir is equally stunning as his jealous adversary. Welles the director shows tremendous resourcefulness, creating a wholly believable sense of authenticity in the sets and characters despite his limited funds and disrupted shooting schedule. The moody lighting and constantly off-kilter camera angles add to the film's considerable atmosphere. Evidence of this can be found in the famous Turkish Baths sequence, which may have been shot on an improvised set but contains extraordinary tension. The shot of Iago dangling in his miserable little cage above the funeral is also haunting and memorable. Critics have made much of the crackly sound quality and the amateurish playing of the supporting actors, and I must admit there is an element of truth in that. I have never seen the restored version of the film, which allegedly contains more audible sound recording. However, in spite of its flaws The Tragedy Of Othello The Moor Of Venice is still striking cinema, and testament &#150; if any is needed &#150; that Welles was a master of his art. "},{"Title":"powerful, compact version","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Orson Welles' short, low-budget, and in places fairly odd look at Shakespeare's play.  It suffers from some stage-bound performances which don't quite work (Micheal MacLiammoir as Iago, Robert Coote as Rodrigo) plus an undefined Desdemona from Suzanne Cloutier.However, this aside, Welles is marvellous as the Moor driven to jealousy and murder, his voice rolling through the meat of Othello's speeches, his bronze make-up creating a skin for the great general.  For this performance alone the film is valuable. And it looks absolutely fantastic, springing off from its financial limitations and adding a new dimension to the often-told story.  "},{"Title":"Concentrated Shakepseare","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Othello, Moor of Venice, loves Desdemonda. Unbeknownst to him, one of his lieutenants, Iago, seething with jealousy, plans to bring him down. Iago slowly builds a web of deceit and lies around Othello that leads him to question the faithfulness of his wife and men, ultimately pushing him to far...Many a time has a white actor portrayed black Othello. Thankfully, Welles excels in the title role, his hurt palpable. In adapting Shakespeare's play, Welles has done away with subplots he deemed unnecessary. His Othello boils down to the title character, his wife, Iago and bit players (and impressive numbers of extras). Fans of the text may regret the absence of a character or the significant reduction of his/her importance. It diminishes the play but enhances the film, giving it a tighter focus and a more fluid structure and running time. But as always, we expect more from an Orson Welles film.Orson Welles is mostly celebrated for reinventing the look of film. His pictures each possess a unique aesthetic and daring camera work. Othello holds its own even when measured against the impressive Welles oeuvre, a true miracle if you are familiar with the films' history. Shooting it over years and in different locations (Morocco, Spain, etc.) with variations, often within the same scene, Welles managed to create the watertight illusion of a coherent world, leading the viewer to imagine that lavish sets and locations were available. For anyone interested in editing or any other aspect of film-making, this is an indisputable milestone in directorial resourcefulness.Othello was Welles's second Shakespeare interpretation as star and director, soaring high above his very interesting Macbeth. He would return to the Bard one last time with his apotheosis, Chimes at Midnight. This trilogy is a gift. What a joy it is to see America's greatest director work with the world's greatest playwright... "}{"Title":"Dimensional Filmmaking","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Commenting on Shakespeare films is rather like admiring Easter Eggs.First the inside this was never a great play, relative to Shakespeare's other works. His great plays are about ideas, with characters as vectors to prod and activate them. This play is merely about characters, which makes it attractive to actors. That's certainly why Welles selected it.Welles is the Sinatra of dramatic reading, with phrasing mastered in his radio days. All else is acceptable (at least to my tastes) so far as the play goes.Now the shell, and here is what makes this film one of the most important. When Welles moved into film, he did so as an architect. He understood that great film constructs a space that includes the audience. So he worked with the most direct tools, buildings themselves. These sets are remarkable. I cannot imagine how he found them, how he could have seen the possibilities.Selection aside, how he uses the spaces! View this film at least once in silence. I rate Welles as one of the 20th century's great architects and predict that this film will be mined when we get around to really creating cyberbuilding. "},{"Title":"One of the best Shakespeare films ever made","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Shakespeare and learned to appreciate it from about aged 11. There are several fine adaptations based on his work, and for me this 1952 Othello is one of the best. The play is not my favourite from Shakespeare but it is a compelling one. The film does a lot of justice to the play and succeeds marvellously on its own merits. All the crucial scenes are done very well, especially the very intense and moving final scene, the dialogue is outstanding and the music compliments the film perfectly. Where this Othello really excels is in the superb direction from Orson Welles and the wonderful cinematography, costumes and settings complete with moody lighting. In terms of acting, Welles is extraordinary as Othello, Desdemona is appropriately poignant and delicate with evidence of intensity and Michael MacLiammoir is wonderful as the slimy and conniving irredeemable villain of the piece that is Iago. All in all, a brilliant film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Sometimes Visually Stunning, but the Heart and Soul of the Play is Lost","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot fault Orson Welles' Othello for not being visually striking. Its opening scene alone is a wonder. As haunting choral music rings out in a grim and mournful dirge, the bodies of Othello and Desdemona, regal and melancholy in death, are borne together to their final resting place by a procession of priests who seem like specters silhouetted against the brilliant sky. Suddenly, a harried figure bursts on screen and jars the elegiac mood. It is Iago. In a series of quick, violent, frightful shots, he is dragged through the streets by a chain about his throat, at last hounded by soldiers and the mob into a cage. As the music thunders, Iago is hoisted above the scene to behold his work. The funeral passes.This beginning is a brilliant melding of cinematography, music, and mise-en-scene. In other parts of the film, too, is Welles' cinematic genius evident. But his effective use of memorable and unorthodox camera angles and expressionistic lighting cannot make up for the crudeness and choppiness of his adaptation of Shakespeare's original work.Othello as portrayed by Welles is a mammoth presence, but he is perhaps the only character to which the film does any justice. While Othello's monologues usually remain intact, the lines of the rest of the cast are often whittled down to a few sentences apiece in each scene. For example, Iago's forbidding musings to Roderigo in Act I of the play are all but omitted in favor of a brief narration by Welles, detailing Iago's treacherous nature. Telling Iago's deceit instead of letting it steadily emerge on screen seems an awkward and lazy move which does not allow the audience to become involved with the character &#x96; and as Iago is the driving force of the whole story, this damages the film's narrative considerably. The inadequate performance from actor Micheál MacLiammóir &#x96; who spends most of his time merely looking devious, without any skillful penetration of the depths of Iago's soul &#x96; may be because he had so little to work with, but it certainly does not help matters. Likewise, Roderigo and Cassio are nearly non-entities. Desdemona fares little better; her greatest and most human moments have been stripped from her. Perhaps it is small wonder that the actress who plays her seems underwhelming in her role. For much of the running time, she appears in fleeting flashes here and there, unable to build up the emotion needed so that viewers might actually care for her. One might marvel at the stifling and nightmarish close-up of Desdemona's face being smothered in a sheet, for indeed, it is a masterful composition. But the technical brilliance outweighs all else. Due to her relegation and lack of development, one can never fully connect with Desdemona and her plight &#x96; not even on her deathbed.The chief good of Welles' finest interpretation of Shakespeare, Chimes at Midnight, was that it took the time to delve into the humanity of its characters. Here, humanity is eviscerated and everyone except maybe Othello comes off as just a shallow sketch of themselves. Thus, the audience becomes incapable of totally appreciating the tragic story. For what does it matter if this character dies or that character is wounded if one knows next to nothing about them, or doesn't care? The cinematography may indeed be excellent, but without developed characterization, the lifeblood of the film is missing. Its emotional core is hollow. "},{"Title":"Orson Welles As Othello","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The black and white photography is quite fitting with the theme of Shakespeare's play of a black man in a white society.  The art direction and the use of shadows is absolutely stunning.  The scene where Emilia reveals all that is shot with a huge giant gate as a backdrop is most memorable.However, some Shakespeare loyalists may be annoyed that the film does not try to follow the play exactly. As well, it takes a while for most people to adjust to the fact that Othello, that is Orson Welles, is not really black, but just very, very darkly tanned. Outrageous(Some will say)!  Couldn't they find a good black actor back then? Did they try?Overall, I would be quick to recommend this film over the (awful) 1995 version starring Laurence Fishburne (Even though Fishburne looks 10X better than Welles as Othello). "},{"Title":"Welles & Shakespeare Are a Fascinating Combination","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Orson Welles version of Shakespeare's Othello is a fascinating interpretation of this powerful story of jealousy and rivalry, even if it ends up being as much Welles as Bard.  Welles's fine acting and distinctive directing make this one of the most interesting screen versions of Shakespeare's plays.Welles has considerably abridged the original text, and has also filmed some scenes in a different order.  But the dialogue is still Shakespeare's, and the essentials of the story are the same, though perhaps with different emphasis on certain aspects of it.As an actor, Welles makes a good Othello.  He was always at his best in portraying greatness mixed with a tragic flaw.  His interpretation of the character makes us understand his agony even as we see how misguided he is in distrusting his wife.  Micheal MacLiammoir also makes a fine, villainous Iago.But it is Welles the director who give the film its distinctive touch.  The period setting and the emotional themes allow Welles to make full use of his talent for unusual camera angles and interesting use of settings.  Welles is especially indulgent with the camera angles in Othello, and they help emphasize the disorientation that Othello feels as he struggles to overcome his worst fears and suspicions.Any Welles fan, and any Shakespeare fan who will not mind Welles' re-arrangement of the play, will find this combination of Orson and Bard well worth the time to see. "},{"Title":"Moor, Moor, PLEASE!","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you would seek some kind of perspective on the Motion Picture industry you could do worse than study the career of old Awesome; a string of masterpieces - Kane, Chimes At Midnight, Touch Of Evil - and nearasdammit masterpieces - Ambersons, Mr. Arkadin, Journey Into Fear -which he either wrote, directed and appeared in, sometimes all three, liberally laced with the trash in which he deigned to act - The Black Fox, Ferry To Hong Kong etc - in order to finance projects like this one, which belongs right up there with the masterpieces. I note that much verbiage has been spilled under this title on IMDb debating and disputing the pros and cons of the 'restored' version and whether or not it was indeed ever 'lost'. This is surely academic at best; what matters is that we now HAVE a close approximation of what Awesome intended and frankly if it were any closer I couldn't stand it. The pre-credit sequence alone is worthy of one of the great Silent masters, Gance, Dreyer and like that and the first shot proper is magisterial. Time and time again Welles uses the landscape to compose startling images only to contrast this with key speeches like 'farewell the tranquil mind ...' which he shoots more or less straight and who else but Awesome could make such a virtue out of necessity as in the scene slated for conventional filming until the costumes failed to turn up; his solution, stage it in a bath-house with the actors wearing towels which were themselves borrowed from their hotel. It was Welles himself who made the finest Shakespearean film of all time in Chimes At Midnight and with Othello he runs it a close second. Unmissable. "},{"Title":"Good but Flawed","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Tragedy of Othello, The (1952) *** (out of 4) Orson Welles produced, wrote, directed and stars in the title role of this Shakespeare adaptation, which has had a mangled history over the years but I think in the end that the film works pretty well. I watched the restored 1992 version of the movie and while I know there are two others versions out there I'm really not sure which would be the one to start with. While it's rather obvious that certain scenes were shot years apart from one another, that really doesn't take away from the entertainment value and it's easy to spot that this baby is Welles' from start to finish. The technical side of the film is quite brilliant considering the director was constantly running out of movie. The cinematography is top notch as is the editing and the overall visual style. Welles is very impressive in the lead but it's Michael MacLiammoir as Iago that steals the show. "},{"Title":"What a shame.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Welles does Shakespeare with a few problems. The major problem being that this film was shot over a period of about 4 years because of financial problems and it shows in its amateurish battle scenes. The other is some poor editing that doesn't allow the intensity of the film to flow with its marvellous photography and art direction. Another near masterpiece by Welles. "},{"Title":"Great cinematography, a tragic but flawed story","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Right from the start, Othello has a striking visual style. Oblique camera angles (from low and high, close and far), nice use of shadows, a cool-looking castle. Really nice black-and-white imagery to look at.On the other hand, I wasn't as convinced by the story and acting (but they grew on me as the film continued). There are many parts where actors seem to rush or mumble their lines. Shakespeare is hard enough to follow and a good performance should draw you in and make the dialogue *easier* to understand. Characters are often facing away so we hear their lines but can't see their mouths or their facial expressions. What's the point of acting then? I can act if acting means reciting lines from a Shakespearean play.I have since learned that Welles was struggling with funds for the movie and that explains some of its short-comings. Especially with sound. He had to dub some of the lines himself and there remain parts which are clearly out of sync. It's hilarious to learn that he borrowed/took costumes from another movie to use on Othello. And that costumes weren't ready for one scene so he changed the location to a bathhouse with the actors in towels.I find the story flawed. Iago is single-handedly able to manipulate Othello to his will. Iago is unlikable because of his misanthropy but Othello may be even more unlikable in his stupidity. He never thinks to properly analyse or question what Iago presents to him as the truth. He barely seems to communicate with his wife at all and becomes consumed by his obsessions and assumptions. But I do somewhat admire Iago's patience and intelligence, he makes a good villain. And there is real tragedy to what happens. It's conceivable that some unfortunate coincidences could help a seed of suspicion grow into the full-hearted conviction that you're being lied to. And to desire revenge is all too human. It's just funny that nobody suspects Iago. Othello would prefer to believe that everyone else is against him.I found the ending climactic and meaningful. Some of it took me by surprise, other parts felt inevitable. I'm aware that Welles shortened the play a lot and may have taken liberties with it. At least I now have a rough idea of what Othello is about; I feel more educated. I liked all of the actors but Micheál MacLiammóir (a Dublin actor in his only feature film role) stands out as the antagonist. There's something about his eyes and calm indifference. Less is more.Summarising, Othello is rewarding for its villain, its believable tragic turn of events and the enjoyable, creative cinematography. Now if only Othello could learn the scientific method... "},{"Title":"The handkerchief! The handkerchief!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of the Shakespearean tragedy manages to be compelling despite its infamous and troubled production. Othello's majestic coat lined with mink fur is none other than the same one stolen from the set of The Black Rose. Whole sequences seems missing and compositions and edits are at times jarring and sparse; ADR is visible in many instances. The moor's impressive army had to be cleverly concealed or else the truth would have been evident; nothing but a rag tag bunch of extras. The crucial death scene of Roderigo is shot within a bathhouse because of the lack of costuming. And Suzanne Cloutier's Desdemona seems perhaps a little thin compared to Welle's screen presence - then again, she was only the third actress cast in the role. But it is compelling all the same. The soundtrack's troubled restoration process does not take away from its presence. In one particular moment, right after Othello's mind has been corrupted by Iago's lies, he seeks to confront his guilty wife. As Desdemona floats into the frame, a demure flute tune sets the mood, but as Othello demands her hand to check if it is moist, the strings suddenly chime in ominously. It offers information alongside Welles' glare. A heavy piano note suddenly drops onto the track when Desdemona seemingly innocuously brings up the issue of restating Cassio, not knowing how damning this statement is in her husband's raging mind. And then they spar, with her not budging up the issue, and him demanding the handkerchief. Oh it's wonderfully ironic how at odds their intentions are. But Shakespeare has to be given credit for this confrontation. Here Othello is asking a question he already knows the answer to, condemning her even before she gives that fatal answer. Anything short of magically conjuring the handkerchief to show Othello (even that in itself might have been refused and called an act of witchcraft that Othello himself is initially accused of) is just confirming his suspicions. Early on in the film there is a narrator who introduces us to settings and happenings as if any viewer would not already be familiar with the famous Shakespeare play, but Welles wisely does away with him and his obtuse dialogue (then again, Welles' also does not include any of Iago's soliloquies which map out his plan like a step-by-step guide). The lines are cut heavily; despite being one of Shakespeare's longer works the film only clocks in at 91 minutes, nothing compared to some of the line-by-line mammoth adaptations that leave no word behind. There are some weird editing choices that accentuate this; Othello and Desdemona embrace and he whispers that they have but an hour to consummate their marriage, before we cut and suddenly it has been weeks at sea and they are eagerly reunited at Cyprus. But the narrative's most important moments remain and that is sufficient. It is not purely theatrical and relying on its performances; the film is full of disconcerting cinematography that is appropriate for the addled mind of Othello. There is no flat theatre stage here. When he slips into his trance, we get a reverse bird's eye of sorts, where we are looking directly up at the sky, and the camera spins and spins and spins as the upside-down crowd look up in puzzlement. The same disorientating effect is used when he is trapped in the room of his murder forever - the walls are blurred and closing in. The original play might prefer Iago to take the soliloquy spotlight, but Welles' visualises contemplation in his own way, by forcing the confusion and agony of his face back at him through the mirror. In a clever shot Iago is talking to Othello out of frame; oh but he is there anyway, in the mirror and seized up in concentration. Desdemona stares innocently right into the lens and into Othello's soul, and he later does the same to Iago; this technique effectively characterises his growing distress and unnerve. The lighting also aides this process; from the natural sun bathed beaches, Othello is then slowly enveloped by the darkness, until only his pupils, as green as can be even in the black and white film-stock, can be seen in the sunlight. In that final speech where he implores the men to record this story in an unbiased manner (although he himself shows signs of bias), his entire body save his face is wrapped by complete darkness. He has been enveloped and corrupted by his absolute jealously. "}{"Title":"A Failed Restoration","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie starts with the scene after the events of the story. Without dialogue, we see the doomed Othello and Desdemona in a funeral procession, while Iago is placed in a suspended cage as punishment for his crimes. A powerful scene-but unfortunately the depiction of the story fails.The fatal error was the fact that while the dark visuals are impressive, I found the dialogue literally impossible to understand, let alone follow. This made the story genuinely impossible to follow- and the story did not even seem to much follow the original Shakespeare play. I cannot comment on how the original film might have been, but the restoration is a failure. "},{"Title":"A completed Shakespeare drama .","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Orson Welles with skillfully and with highly narrative techniques manages to give the viewer a comprehensive view of the tragic history of black Venice, Othello .Not many movies and even fewer directors can adapt theatrical masterpieces of Shakespeare on screen .Welles uses his directing intelligence to guide the audience through the story without being boring.Of course the experimental photography and daring choice of frames may confuse the viewer in some cases.Also Welles again shows his talent in acting , like other actors of course since the acting is over the top.In conclusion maybe film does not fit naturally to the mainstream viewer but can leave integrated anyone haven't yet tasted the works of Wells and / or Shakespeare,but the lovers of the kind and of the director will be pleased to add The Tragedy of Othello The Moor of Venice to their movie collection . "},{"Title":"Nicely Done.","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd heard so much about the troubles Orson Welles had in getting this movie finished that I was loathe to watch the thing, expecting something resembling a pretentious home movie. It took years. Actors came and went. The location shooting in Venice was done without sound and had to be dubbed later. The leading lady, Suzanne Cloutier, was French Canadian and needed to be dubbed. The important role of Cassio was dubbed by Welles himself, the actor not being available at the time. There were untimely interruptions, problems with money.But what came out of it all is pretty easy to admire. It's not Citizen Kane. It was assembled out of edited bits and pieces of different takes. The longest shot lasts about one and a half minutes. It's impressive nonetheless -- a black and white epic full of strange shadows, facades like the elaborate white frosting on a wedding cake, astounding compositions, and performances that hit the spot. And, after all, this is Shakespeare. He wrote a couple of clunkers, true, but everyone who has ever said that jealousy is a green eyed monster is quoting from Othello.As the story goes, Othello is The Man on Cyprus, and a black man, who takes Desdemona for his wife. His friend, Iago, for no particular reason, manages to convince Othello that Desdemona had been unfaithful. Othello's rage leads him to strangle her and then kill himself. Iago has a satisfying explanation for his machinations. His first line is, I do hate the Moor. And later, I am not what I am. Or, as the Bard put it elsewhere, Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly. The ending is a little weak. It amounts to pulling Iago into the bedroom with the two dead bodies and scolding him, as in, Aren't you ashamed of yourself. To give Iago credit, he does seem a little put out, at least in the play.Welles does Othello in blackface but the technology isn't what it would become. The dark make up shines whenever there's light around, giving the impression that Othello is constantly covered by a nice, even sheen of sweat. At least he doesn't jabber on in a Jamaican accent like Lawrence Olivier. Micheál MacLiammóir as Iago does a fine job. He doesn't look exactly evil. He looks like the kind of guy that would overcharge you a little if he fixed your computer. There is a striking action scene involving two men, one of them drunk, struggling in an ornate sewer. As Desdemona, Cloutier doesn't really have much to do but she certainly looks the part of the fragile, vulnerable, loving Renaissance wife, the kind of role Joan Fontaine would have handled expertly ten years earlier. "},{"Title":"Even a working clock gets it wrong sometimes","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This may actually be one of the worst productions of Othello I have ever seen. Cuts are made left and right to the original script to the point where not only is Iago's entire motive for his actions lost, but the character of Desdemona may as well have been played by an inflatable sex doll for all the impact she has on the production. I don't know how much of this to blame on Welles (I couldn't help but notice all of HIS monologues were pretty much intact, while poor, honest Iago's either lie on the cutting room floor or were never filmed to begin with), or the editor of the film. Whichever is responsible should have been ashamed of themselves for turning out this slap in the face to Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"return to the Middle Ages","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***User reviewer Abhijoy Gandhi (Welles' indomitable spirit in the face of penury shines in yet another Wellesian Masterpiece, Abhijoy Gandhi from Philadelphia, USA, 10 January 2004) has a nice summary and good background info. Also, Jonathon Dabell (Excellent version of the great Shakespearean tragedy, distinguished by fine camera work and powerful performances, Jonathon Dabell (barnaby.rudge@hotmail.co.uk) from Todmorden, England, 17 January 2007) also has a nice summary. Finally, EddieK discusses (Welles' images match the beauty of Shakespeare's language, EddieK from United States, 3 January 2006) the controversies associated with the restoration.***Othello (1952, Orson Welles) is an enjoyable trip back in time. The difficulty that Orson Welles had making it is another piece of his legend. It is low-budget and was filmed over three years. Welles took several breaks to act elsewhere in order to raise more money for the financially-starved project. When period costumes don't arrive in time he famously improvises scenes in a Turkish bath. When his actor playing Roderigo (Robert Coote) isn't available for post-production dubbing, Welles (capably) dubs the other man's voice himself.The result is very entertaining, clearly one of the greatest adaptations of William Shakespeare﻿ so far. There are many reasons to admire it. The most obvious is how it looks. The starkness of so many exteriors and the oppression that is felt with the palatial interiors is vintage Welles. Then there are the relatively quick jumps and fragments of Shakespearean dialog that are always spoken by quickly (without regard for whether a contemporary audience can decipher it in time before the next line). All of these details contribute to the sense that the viewer has been transported back to the Middle Ages.Welles in (very inconsistent) black makeup plays Othello the general, another leader in Shakespeare's canon who loses his sanity. Welles' familiar, rich baritone, so unique and pleasant to the ears, lends much gravity to the unwell Moor. (BTW, there is a funny moment when we see the back of Welles' neck and can see the makeup line between his artificially dark complexion and his natural skin color--woops.)The rest of the cast hangs with Welles. Suzanne Cloutier is a very beautiful and tragic Desdemona that serves to make Othello seem crazy in comparison. Some Shakespeare purists may object to Robert Coote's somewhat dim Roderigo, but the actor seems to be living the role. Doris Dowling, who must have been one of the prettiest actresses of that era, has a minor role as a GF/prostitute of Cassio (Michael Laurence. Also, Joseph Cotton apparently appears, but I missed him.) However, the essential figure in the cast is Micheál MacLiammóir as Iago. This Iago is depicted as a wretched, diminutive fellow incapable of charm. This interpretation of Iago may be controversial, as his treachery is always very obvious. However, along with Welles's Hellish direction MacLiammóir's grave delivery fits perfectly (making The Middle Ages seem a more difficult era to endure than the post-911 present).Desdemona's fate not withstanding, watching Iago manipulate Othello into the latter's downfall is fun. The little guy is quite the nasty bastard. The great Orson Welles is sorely missed today. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film from a capricious production","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Considering that Orson Welles's debut feature, Citizen Kane (1941), is often cited as the best film of all time in critic lists for the past few decades, his subsequent film career was erratic to say the least. From studio interference and in cases re-editing, to funding problems, his film output was sparse, but his status as a true genius in the medium has never dissipated. Othello (his second Shakespeare adaptation, after 1948's Macbeth), was shot over a three year period largely due to the forthcoming bankruptcy of the films Italian backers, which closed production, but extra funding came from Welles himself, who used money made from acting jobs. But with the capricious production a rich and beautiful film of the Shakespeare tragedy was brought to the screen.My knowledge and relationship with the work of the Baird is very limited. Outside of the cinema I have read 'Macbeth' and 'King Lear', and I saw a fringe production of Macbeth at the Battersea Arts Centre starring Corin Redgrave. Aside from these very narrow experiences, my other connections with the material is through film (which again mostly centre on Macbeth - Throne of Blood (1957), or Roman Polanski's version, - or Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996)). Therefore my knowledge of the text of Othello was set at absolute zero, resulting in a fresh experience of the intricacies of the plot, and the relationships between the characters.The story involves four central characters. Welles plays the title character, a Moorish General to the Venetian army, his wife Desdemona (Suzanna Cloutier) whom he secretly married, his lieutenant Cassio (Michael Laurence), and his ensign Iago (Michael MacLiammoir). After displaying his charm to the detractors off Othello and Desdemona's marriage, convincing them that he did not win her love through witchcraft, but through fantastical stories. A web of deceit builds within these characters, as they all tussle for control of both the situation and the affections of Desdemona. As the complexities of all the relationships begin to fuse, and the rage and jealousies of Othello erupt, Desdemona's want for individuality and freedom from male dominance leads to bloody conclusions.With the erratic production came some incredible choices of production design. Filmed in Morocco, Italy and Venice, Welles made fantastic use of real locations, giving the images some urgency and architectural splendour. Filmed in black and white, the images justify the filmic function as light and shadow, the bright whites contrasting with the strong and powerful shade and silhouette. In the opening scene, the funeral procession moves in stark contrast to the burning sun in the sky. It is beautifully shot, utilising the remnants of building and the weaving canals through the structures of Venice, it is (I assume) a wonderful introduction to this very elaborate and involving narrative. Now I think I need to read some more Shakespeare.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"World of  Othello","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Excinting labyrinth of desires, illusions and freedom's skin. Exploration of ambiguous universe and many questions about facts, gestures or games without end. Fall from artificial paradises and slices of original silence. Bones of old wars and innocence of long expectation.It is a cruel trip in a harsh way of life. Expresion of special search and everyday lost. It is interesting the relation of characters with Moorish memories. The image of run, the limits of refuge, the routine and the dialogs, the touch of disappointed and the hope of a chimeric future.In fact, the atmosphere of Othello is the same like in latest Romanians movies (Stare de fapt, Marfa si banii, Pepe si Fifi, Prea tarziu, Terminus Paradis). Same moral crisis, same disillusion, same stupid games, same torpor.But the essence of film is the search of Othello. Hero of William Shakespeare, he lives beyond the secrets or lies. He is projection of his personal discoveries and for him the dreams are more that fiction. He hopes. "},{"Title":"does what movies should often do move and excite about the medium","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know if Orson Welles' Othello will be the best adaptation of Othello - from what little I could bare to watch it's certainly superior than the turgid and offensive Laurence Olivier version, though perhaps not quite as well acted as the Branuagh - but it would be hard pressed to see another that was as great a *film* as this is. This is not simply a case of 'well, he did the best that he could work with'. While there is an element of this, as it is true that Welles made a real indie movie by financing the project himself over three years and had to make do with getting the footage he could and the actors he could (one of which wasn't there for the dubbing, Rodrigo), it is on its own terms a revolutionary form of Shakespeare because it eschews the static nature of a stage. For Welles, film should be alive and move one to see the world through his eyes, and it's through this that Othello, the always haunting story of a Moor's doubt of infidelity with his wife Desdemona by the prodding of Iago, is important.This isn't to say that it's always the easiest to hear (some of the dubbing is lacking in timing), and some of the acting from time to time isn't perfect. Yet its strengths are that of giving us a new way to look at Othello, and at film in general. Sometimes one looks at Shakespeare and it's hard to see it going at a pace that doesn't restrict certain movements of the camera. But Welles' Othello is first, before Shakespeare, an Orson Welles movie. And perhaps more than even The Trial one sees the director crafting this baroque world set in castles of Morocco and Italy with a claustrophobic, maybe even film-noir, sensibility. The eye on these characters is both stark and stilted, as if the high-and-tense emotions of the characters stretch out into the medium itself, like a nightmare inevitably unfolding. And the quick cuts make it move like a post-modern movie; I can't help but think that great films (Breathless, especially in cutting-down an original draft) and not-so great ones (Romeo + Juliet) took heavy influence from this.Knowing the story helps a little, but it's not entirely necessary. Welles delivers his Othello as a figure beguiled by his love, and disillusioned he's often seen in tight close-ups or turned away, ready to explode or perhaps burst into tears at any moment. It's intense work from Welles as an actor, and some of the others like the ones playing Iago and Emilia do deliver all that they can. But while some scenes have been cut, or sometimes whole sub-plots, they don't affect the cores of the characters, and the themes are not hurt by the cuts Welles made to the text. If anything this compacted version is like getting the greatest Cliff-Notes ever, and seen through a filmmaker's eyes that makes us rethink (or just re-asses) how we see this tragedy of Othello through this medium. Does tragedy and consequence, and the horror of a mind scathed by jealousy (or, for that matter, the evil intent of a malicious mind-twister like Iago) gain depth filmed like this? I would think so, by leaps and bounds. If anything, and hopefully this can be a compliment, the film might be a non-silent silent film of Shakespeare, on that level the most profound, as we see a story and conflict unfold all through visuals. Just as one example, watch the scene where Othello is told by Iago firm proof of Desdemona's trysting with Casius (the With her, on top of her bit), and then as Othello faints and how the camera spins out of control, seeing the buildings wobble, the world turned upside down, birds flying perpexingly in the air, and people also flipped around contemplating this man Othello, eyes wide open but fixed-frozen like a scarred statue. It's things like this that give Welles' Othello its uniqueness if you turn on the sound of the voices (sometimes dubbed odd and not totally in sync) one can appreciate the ragged, awesome poetry of one artist channeling another. "},{"Title":"The film is not excellent, but good.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know the Shakespearian play very well and was delighted to see a movie version. The actors are good, especially Iago, and little Desdemona is very sweet - but I had always thought that she should have dark hair. Orson Welles expresses Othello's fury and jealousy especially well, but I think Desdemona should always speak in a very delicate voice - in this movie she may even shout. And I couldn't understand why she didn't cry when Othello said she had no more lifetime left - after all, she is little Desdemona. However, the film is quite good, especially the beginning in which the men carry the dead Othello and Iago sees it from the cage. "},{"Title":"erratic at best","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The re-release in the early 1990s of Orson Welles' cut-and-paste Shakespeare tragedy was greeted by near unanimous critical acclaim, but all the belated comparisons to 'Citizen Kane' couldn't hide the desperate circumstances under which the film was made. Welles himself gave an impressive, suitably moody performance in the title role, but all his efforts were undone by too many budget restrictions (consecutive scenes were sometimes shot years apart), leaving only a flimsy shadow of what could have been another masterpiece. Visually, the film highlights all the trademark eccentricities of its director, including some ostentatious, imitation Gregg Toland cinematography. But the shoddy editing and poorly recorded sound track diminish the impact and beauty of Shakespeare's language, and the occasional flash of brilliance isn't enough to salvage yet another compelling failure from a wayward genius. "}{"Title":"Always leave them wanting Moor","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Orson Welles' film version of Othello opens with the arresting and atmospheric images of the caskets of Othello and Desdemona being carried down a hill it's a stark reminder of the tragic nature of what we are about to see, accompanied by the full affecting score that reappears throughout, and as visually striking as the rest of the film. What the making of this Othello was reportedly difficult as best by financial trouble, it looks lavish and extraordinary. The atmospheric black-and-white film-making on raging seaside locations, in a imposing castles, and at decadent festivals is brilliantly atmospheric, suspenseful, and almost supernatural. The celebrated tracking shot on the I like not that scene is very justly so.The flipside of this mesmeric and constantly fascinating composition and direction is that, in this very cinematic Othello, many cuts have been made, creating dynamic scenes but losing much of the subtlety in many of Shakespeare's scenes.The two impeccable things about this production are the ones directly under the control of Orson Welles -- the unforgettable look, and his performance as Othello. I was shocked to read he later doubted his casting if himself, since he's extraordinary in the part. He projects dignity, power, and good-fellowship, but also a kind of innocence and childlike trust. This really adds dimension to the play and is a missing piece in a lot of performances. Othello is a master at the warlike arts who is a little lost at sea he must deal face-to-face with other people, so his trust is all-or-nothing.While Micheál MacLiammóir seems a competent actor as Iago, I'm not sure I like his choices in the role. He plays up the sly, sinister, conniving aspects of Iago's character (at times even seeming to let Roderigo completely in on his malicious nature) without letting us see the charming aspects the explain how he is able to insinuate himself into everybody's affections. We are left wondering why all the other characters are being so nice to this obviously bitter and manipulative man. Robert Coote's Roderigo is also played as a little too dimwitted for my liking (though Orson Welles also subtly displays his acting prowess by filling in as Coote's voice,, doing well and without sounding obviously like Orson Welles playing two parts).This film has its flaws (including the much-publicized ones with dialogue on the soundtrack), but its strengths, especially the haunting way it is filmed and Orson Welles' masterpiece of a performance make this a film that shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"Rich, Emotional Shakespeare with Stunning Visuals","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw the movie in junior college in a special screening my film instructor gave. He showed a rather dark black and white 16mm print. Even in that dark form I could see it was one of the most beautiful b&w films ever shot. It has since been restored, the picture now bright and beautiful. It's worth seeing for the photography alone, but it has so much more. If you're reading this you may know at least something about the history of this film, but in a nutshell it was made across 4 years, from 1949 to 1952, because Welles financed the film himself and whenever he ran out of money he would go act in other films to raise the money to reassemble the cast and continue. Some conversations would have one character talking with the reverse shot of the other actor being shot three years later! You never notice it! It's just a stunning achievement considering the difficulty he had in making the film that it even got finished let alone be as excellent a film as it is. If you've never seen filmed Shakespeare, this is a great place to start. I'm sure purists would complain since the text is quite edited, but Welles uses his own narration in fairly modern English to make the story easy to follow. As Othello, Welles is believable, regal and in the end, chilling and sad. He brings the man to life. The rest of the cast is outstanding, including Micheal MacLiammoir as a cunning and wicked Iago, and Canadian actress Suzanne Cloutier, giving an absolutely heart wrenching performance as Desdemona. The deathbed murder scene between Welles and Cloutier has powerful emotional impact. I believe this version of the story outshines the 1996 adaptation with Laurence Fishburne and Irene Jacobs, even though the newer film sticks closer to Shakespeare's text. Kenneth Brannagh was a good Iago, and the film has a wonderful score by CHarlie Mole, but Welles version is better paced and it hit me more emotionally.This restoration of Welles' Othello was a labor of love for the people that had to track down the film elements and try and reconstruct what Welles originally intended. Unlike Welles' Touch of Evil, which was re-edited by the studio and compromised in the process, Welles' owned Othello so the version that got released was his. Unfortunately, he was severely let down by the sound department. The original track was muddy, some voices had sync problems, and the music was badly recorded. The restoration crew cut out the dialog line by line, re-cut it to match the mouth movements, redid the Foley and all sound effects, and rerecorded Francesco Lavagnino's bold score in the exact tempo of the original recording. The final result is pretty amazing. And though this is not really the definitive version since Welles is no longer here, it's probably as close as we'll ever get to what the film could have been, if Welles had more money and time. Even so, back in 1952 it won the Palm d'Or at Cannes in its original form. Orson Welles' Tragedy of Othello is beautifully filmed Shakespeare with a strong cast. I believe it lives up to its reputation as one of Welles' finest efforts. For fans of Welles and Shakespeare, you'll probably find much to appreciate. "},{"Title":"Amazing Shakespearean Film Noir","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What an incredible movie! There have been many brilliant directors -- Coppola, Huston, Pekinpah, Spielberg, to mention but a few -- but there is only one Orson Welles. In Othello, the Great Master towers above all others in an impressive tour-de-force. This sparkling production combines the greatest genius of literature and the greatest genius of film. The result... Shakespearean film noir. Amazing cinematography and editing that will take your breath away. One brilliantly composed shot after another. Tremendous acting and direction. Atmospheric drama so visceral and intense it creates the Wow! effect. Welles' artistry is pure genius and reminiscent of Michelangelo. A truly great masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Spoiler?  Muted Power","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know if you can give a Spoiler for a classic Shakespeare piece, but I just wanted to mention that when Desdemona's maid lies on the floor gasping with her last breath...She was chaste! She loved thee! She loved thee! I actually got chills.I've heard a much more knowledgeable reviewer here tell how great the revised sound track is but must say that as I viewed it on TCM I found it very difficult to understand at many points and the quality of the print (black and white and washed out) looked very dated. The experience was like looking at a diamond through tinted goggles. But there was enough still there to get me hooked and to let me know I was looking at a treasure.What really strikes me is the power of Shakespeare's writing to have come so far in so many ways and still be so powerful today, even when bent and darkened behind goggles. "},{"Title":"I prattle out of fashion","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some years ago I saw a comedy acting troupe called The Reduced Shakespeare Company, who would perform a series of sketches on the bard's work. This culminated with a three-minute version of Hamlet &#x96; a few key lines blurted out (plus a few they made up), characters hurrying on and off, but every strand of the plot just about accounted for. It was a good laugh. When I see this screen adaptation of Othello from half a century earlier, it feels like I'm seeing more or less the same thing. Except it isn't funny.This is one of a number of productions which star and director Orson Welles had trouble getting off the ground. As such it was filmed in bits and pieces, very much on the cheap. Perhaps Welles also had trouble getting permission to film in certain places, as every scene seems incredibly rushed, as if cast and crew were eager to wrap up. And the amount of editing going on suggests that perhaps Welles was using cameras that wouldn't hold more than two feet of film. There's a section of voice-over narration about ten minutes in where there is a cut every two words or so. It looks like a joke.Welles knew what he was doing of course, and there is some kind of method to all this. When Othello makes his first appearance (shortly after the aforementioned voice-over sequence) we do at last get a slightly longer take, which gives an air of power and dignity in contrast to the rush of what went before. But Welles gets the balances wrong. Most of the movie is too fast, too choppy. The actual images are some of the most breathtaking Welles ever shot (and that is saying something), beautifully baroque compositions of shadow and architecture, but a motion picture must be more than a series of pretty pictures.The principle victim of this hurried version of Othello is probably Shakespeare himself. Shakespeare's dialogue, for all its brilliance, can be hard going on an audience at the best of times and it takes skilled interpretation to bring it to life. By condensing the play and rushing the performances, Welles has actually made it more impenetrable. In short, this one is probably only of interest to the Welles fanatics. Don't see it if you want to know Othello. It simply doesn't do the bard justice. "},{"Title":"a great opening","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Welles' version of Othello begins with a very powerful opening scene where the bodies of Othello and Desdemona are being carried through Cyprus while Iago is lifted high above the buildings in a metal cage. In my opinion this is the most effective scene in the film. I feel that the film lacks tension and suspense, especially at the time of the deaths of Desdemona and Emilia, whilst the fight scene between Roderigo and Cassio lacks excitement and feeling between the actors, therefore causing us to forget the evil plans of Iago, to destroy the marriage of Othello and Desdemona. Despite the fact that the plot is lost through the film, Welles uses an impressive and beautiful setting for the play, with a powerful and original opening and ending to the film.  "},{"Title":"Sorry no making of.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a shame they did not add Filming ´Othello´ to the DVD edition. Or did they? Orson Welles tells the story behind, how he won Cannes with no production company behind him, no country of origin on the record, just one man with no script, but a vision. I love Othello also for the way Orson Welles made this film. "},{"Title":"A racist travesty of a tragedy","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Othello is one of my favorite plays by Shakespeare. It is amazing in its complex portrayal of a man struggling with whom he should trust, his friend or his wife. Also, it is not a racist piece. Othello is portrayed with more dignity than any other Shakespearian hero. That said, Welles' Othello does not get any of this across. The movie is blatantly racist, not only because Welles is in blackface, which I can sort of accept because of when it was filmed, but also because the original script has been trimmed to remove any line in which Othello shows sympathy for or remorse about what he does towards Desdamona. (This trimming probably cuts about 45 minutes of dialogue)This characterization POSSIBLE SPOILER makes Iago almost unecessary. One feels Welle's Othello is a dangerous evil man who needs no goading to kill his wife.  The acting is generally pretty good, though secondary to how the film looks. My one casting complaint was with Emilia, who I thought was too old for the part, and to be Iago's wife. She looked old enough to be his mother.This was a gorgeous movie. I agree with the comment that it should be watched silently, because it was filmed almost like it was a silent movie. However, when the visuals are the most impressive thing about a movie, especially one coming from one of the best plays of all times, something is wrong. It was like Welles fell in love with camera angles and shadows.  "},{"Title":"We Shall Sell No Wine, Before Its Time.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Huge Orson Wells fan, or is that a fan of the huge Orson Wells? Either way, I love his movies. I think an interesting film could be done about his life, since it contains many of the elements ironically of his great films. This one, however, I do not recommend. Its exactly the kind of vehicle that may well put people off of Wells and more dangerous, off of Shakespeare. It's very difficult to watch, and if ever a DVD wanted subtitles, this one did. The quality is such, that the magic language of Shakespeare is one garbled mess. The production values, as always with Wells are memorable. This is very reminiscent of Ingmar Bergman in style. But search, there's got to be a better version of Othello out there... "}]