[{"Title":"Bad Times for the Anzacs in Tobruk","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Before Australia and New Zealand were threatened with attack on the home front, they sent as they did in the First World War, an expeditionary force to help Great Britain protect the Suez Canal, the lifeline of the British Empire. Aussies and Kiwis made a great deal of the army that General Wavell was commanding from Cairo. They have always had a reputation as an informal people and it's with a bit of surprise that spit and polish Scots officer Richard Burton is put in charge of a batallion in a forward area of the defense perimeter surrounding Tobruk. The men and Burton don't take to each other too readily, but gradually the troops grow to respect Burton as a courageous fighting man.Burton as it happens gets a bit of assistance from an unexpected quarter. His old schoolmaster Robert Newton had immigrated to Australia and enlisted in their army at the start of World War II. When not focusing on the battle sequences, The Desert Rats is about the relationship between Burton and Newton. All the rules about army discipline and separation of officers and enlisted men go by the boards here. Burton who's been under a strain like everyone else under siege at Tobruk gets a safety valve in Newton. An old friend from the past, a father figure if you will, gives Burton someone he can confide his innermost thoughts and fears to. Sad to say the alcoholic Mr. Newton gives a refrained and dignified performance as a middle aged alcoholic schoolmaster. A role he could understand all too well from real life. He complements Burton's performance every step of the way in this film. Look for some good performances from Australian actors Charles Tingwell and Chips Rafferty. Though this is a film about the Allied forces at Tobruk in 1941 and no Americans were officially fighting, this is an American production. So these two guys made their American cinema debuts. Tingwell never made another American film, but Rafferty came back a few times and his presence makes every film he's in just a bit better.You might recognize Michael Rennie's voice doing the offscreen narration for The Desert Rats. The Desert Rats is a timeless wartime classic about the strain of command at every level of the Armed Services. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end for Rommel.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Interesting re-enactment of the desert campaign during WWII as seen through the experiences of one small company in the British army. They are a disparate group of soldiers. A motley band of commonwealth troops of mixed personalities led by  Captain MacRoberts played by Richard Burton. Through the fire and hell of battling the Desert Fox and his war-hardened troops MacRoberts by lifting their spirits and their morale eventually melds his men into a fighting fit group of warriors. Enough said.Although the story has neither the forced authenticity of 'The Longest Day' or the Hollywood panache of 'Where Eagles Dare' I believe it still manages to stand out in a special place on its own. Prior to a host of many other war movies it was the first to concentrate exclusively on the common soldier in the trenches, his anxieties for the present and hopes for the future. I also liked the side story of the young captain who is surprised to have under his command a favourite old school master, Bartlett played by Robert Newton. It causes some quizzical looks amongst the men, especially when he insists on continuing to address the old private as sir. Here the Desert Fox is played with dignity and respect by James Mason. The other german characters are also portrayed benignly, perhaps in view of the fact that very few atrocities were committed by Rommel's troops unlike their counterparts in Eastern Europe. History records accurately what eventually happened to Rommel in the aftermath of the plot to assassinate Hitler but here that is all in the near future. I recommend this b & w film to all war movie buffs of this English made genre but if you're looking for 'Saving Private Ryan' perhaps you should give it a miss. "},{"Title":"One of the most realistic and best  of the fifties war movies with excellent direction by Robert Wise","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 1941 Lybian desert, North Africa. German forces are pushing through to Suez, the key to the Middle East , only Tobruk is still holding out, there's a considerable unit there. With the British in full retreat, nothing stood in Rommel's way but the tiny garrison of Empire troops cut off in the fortress won of Tobruk.Meantime, Germans dropping leaflets captioning  Surrender! German forces have surrounded Tobruk, it is useless to try to escape. Single soldiers waving handkerchiefs will not be fired upon. Aussies..do not sacrifice yourselves needlessly. Lay down your arms. Surrender! . The picture is the story of Tobruk and the men who made up its garrison, of the fight they made against the pick of Hitler's troops and of the nickname they won with blood and bore with pride ¨The Deser Rats¨. British headquarter Cairo's ordered to take up defensive positions for two months ,reunited the officers(Robert Douglas, Torin Thatcher, among others) deal the Tobruk 's defense  the positions are the following, the first line of defense ,using the old Italian perimeter, the second line by Colonel White's supporting artillery and the inner fortification. The British plan of defense is based chiefly on the belief of a Bilzkrieg by Rommel(a splendid James Mason reprise his role from ¨The Desert fox¨). The general proposes to let Rommel's tanks come through here unopposed, leaving the tanks to proceed up this avenue alone. Colonel White will have moved artillery to line both sides of the avenue.Meanwhile the soldiers are already digging positions for the captured Italian field-pieces. So, the longer we hold our fire, the deeper Rommel's tanks will advance into this box and the easier they will be to destroy. The General assigns to McRoberts, an infantry captain with battle experience, twice decorated, he must put into the line.The crusty captain( a stiff but sensitive acting by Richard Burton) takes a charge of an Australian division formed by valiant soldiers and a kind-hearted schoolmaster alcoholic(sensible performance by Robert Newton steal the show as drunk turned reluctant soldier) fighting a desperate rearguard action against overwhelming German forces.This reconstruction of a phase in the battle of Tobruk(deeds also filmed by Arthur Hiller in ¨Tobruk¨ with Rock Hudson) is correctly based on true events, though excessive importance for the Aussies. The actual deeds are based on series of engagements between British and Axis forces over Libyan port. Occupied by Italy 1911, Tobruk was taken by Britain in Operation Battleaxe 1941.It was captured by Field Marshal Erwin Rommel June 1942 after the retreat of the main British force to Egypt, and this precipitated General Sir Claude Auchinleck's replacement by General Bernard Montgomery as British commander. Montgomery recovered it after the second of Battle of El Alamein and it remained in British hands for the rest of the war. "},{"Title":"A Very Realistic War Movie","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1941, during the World War II, Field Marshal Erwin von Rommel (James Mason) tries to conquer the city of Tobruk in Libya and the British battalion defends this location to avoid Rommel to reach the Suez Canal. The young, but experienced British Capt. 'Tammy' MacRoberts (Richard Burton) leads a limited number of inexperienced Australian troops in the defense of Tobruk, and uses raids during the night against Rommel forces to keep the balance between the strong German army and the reduced British-Australian forces, and MacRoberts' troops are called The Desert Rats. The Desert Rats is a very realistic war movie, presenting strategies, battles, action scenes and a great duel between James Mason and Richard Burton. I am not sure whether Robert Wise used footage of some real battle scenes along the film, since the realism in the black and white photography is amazing and sometimes it looks like a documentary. There are also excellent lines between Richard Burton and James Mason, and Richard Burton and Robert Newton, in the role of the former teacher of MacRoberts. The Desert Rats is a highly recommended movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Ratos do Deserto (Desert Rats) "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was the first movies I was ever allowed to stay up and watch on the old Saturday Night At The Movies show on NBC so it has always had a fond place in my heart. Although some might dismiss it as clichéd, it is a tight, well told story that some of today's films might do well to emulate. The realism, ambivalence, and irony of today's war films is definitely missing but one should remember that this was the good war. While the other reviewers may criticize its historical accuracy, as someone who grew up hearing war stories from American and Canadian WWI and WWII veterans, it does capture the feeling of a period without going overboard on heroics or far-fetched plot twists. "},{"Title":"Excellent look at British and ANZAC troops","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen this gem in almost 20 years and AMC presented it today. An excellent look at the British war effort against the Germans and Italians in North Africa. Except for the minor mistakes of weaponry (American made Thompsons in the hands of Germans, Colt M1917 water-cooled MGs for German MGs, etc) this was a realistic and rousing tale of the North African campaign. Of course Hollywood liberties were taken, it is a movie, not a documentary. The interplay between Richard Burton and Robert Newton was excellent, with Newton's performance the proper balance for Burton's sometimes hysterical scene-chewing. That is is based loosely on real events and in many cases ANZAC and British troops did hold back Rommel's attacks many times only enhances the story. Kudos to the makers and an excellent addition to any war movie collection. "},{"Title":"Unusually well done war flick - well worth a look","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a really enjoyable movie. Burton and Newton do a fine job, as do a cast of familiar British character actors. James Mason in his first outing as Rommel is especially fun. He reprised the role in a later Rommel bio-pic (titled The Desert Fox The Story of Rommel).Despite it's age, most of the attempts at special effects (artillery in the distance, explosions done via matte) come off well. As for the scenes where they really shoot off some pyrotechnics, they spared no expense! The overall portrait of the desert and army life looks very real and has the ring of truth. The plot is exciting and never drags.The only problems are the over-patriotic script (I guess we should cut them some slack here, this movie was made much closer to the war than we are today!) and as noted elsewhere, the inappropriate German weapons. It's amazing that they used Thompson machine guns instead of MP40's, when for the next 30 years everybody from The Man from U.N.C.L.E. to James Bond would use the MP40 all over the place. In summary I think this movie was a bit better than I expected and holds up well to repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"You can all but feel the rocks pounding down as each Nazi shell hits.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Desert Rats is a very enjoyable WWII film dealing with a portion of the war that may seem alien to those in America. Americans are accused, and sometimes rightly so, of thinking WWII began and ended with America's involvement. But it didn't. The Desert Rats is the story of the Allies last stand in Northern Africa at Tobruk. Rommel and the Nazis would have clear sailing to the important Suez if Tobruk fell. It's up to Capt. MacRoberts (Richard Burton) and his band of green Aussie replacements to stop the advance of Hitler's army.When you read comments about war movies, you always read complaints about historical accuracy. Is The Desert Rats true to history? I'm not a student of history, so I wouldn't know. Furthermore, I don't really care. To me, it's about the entertainment I get from a film and I've always found The Desert Rats entertaining. The authentic looking sets, the tremendous ground shaking explosions, the plot that focuses on a small band of men, and the action sequences are all highlights of the movie for me. Robert Wise's direction and Lucien Ballard's cinematography put the viewer in the middle of the action. You can all but feel the rocks pounding down as each Nazi shell hits. It's very well done.My only complaint about The Desert Rats is in the overall construction. I realize that it's a result of attempting to be historically accurate, but history doesn't always put events in the most exciting sequences. The film opens with its best moments. The battle scene between the dug-in Aussie's and Rommel's tanks is as exciting and well filmed as I've seen in a war movie. Unfortunately, the movie (as dictated by history) cannot keep up this pace. The ending, as the now battle-hardened Aussie hold a hill waiting for replacements, is anticlimactic. "},{"Title":"Burton on a roll","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Desert Rats is a 'good old stiff upper lip' yarn with angry young man, Richard Burton, putting in a blinder. The film is set in WW2, North Africa and Rommel has swept across North Africa. The film is about Tobruk and how the German Army were held back. Burton leads ANZAC troops through the trenches of warfare. Good fighters those ANZAC's it appears and the film is a real tribute to them. This is reinforced by the movie being in black and white and quite informative. The action is OK and I especially liked the black outfit Richard Burton dons for that gritty commando raid. There is also a top encounter between Burton and James Mason - Pacino and De Niro in Heat - but with Burton's angry young man act.I would recommend it if only for Richard Burton. "},{"Title":"A fine film that highlights an almost forgotten campaign in WWII.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Desert Rats is an unpretentious war film that tells a good story with economy.  The heroics come without drum-rolls.The most fascinating part of this film is to watch both the marvelous Robert Newton and the under-rated James Mason give Richard Burton acting lessons.Burton tends to chew the scenery when he snarls, Good-morning, as though he were the youngest in a large family, doing anything for attention.Newton counters Burton's unnecessary histrionics with a beautifully modulated realization of-himself in disguise as Prof. Bartlett, Burton's old instructor.  I think this is the most honest look at the REAL Newton on film.  The rueful man who clearly understands his inability to stay sober, but still has enough control to see his own and everyone else's situation clearly.  He is the kind, timorous, brilliant failure who, in one burst of glory, up-stages his more successful juniors.  Newton delivers a truly magical performance.James Mason also delivers a balanced and multi-layered Rommel.  Of course he practiced playing this brilliant German General in the better-known film, The Desert Fox.Burton comes across as pure ham in The Desert Rats, but there IS one scene he has where he is honest and effective.  He explains to Bartlett that the picture of the young woman in his wallet is his wife.  The picture actually IS Burton's wife, pre-Elizabeth Taylor.Otherwise, although Burton is billed as the star, the film belongs to Newton and Mason.  See it for the pleasure of their company. "}{"Title":"The incredible director Robert Wise, that he worked the genre horror, science fiction, war, musical ... a master.","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" During the WWII, a small group of brave and stubborn men managed to stop the advance of Marshal Rommel in North Africa. In 1941, Rommel had got the British began to withdraw. The only obstacle between him and the Suez Canal was the fortress of Tobruk, defended by a small detachment of Australia. McRoberts captain (Richard Burton), a brilliant strategist, is in charge of the operation. He knows his outnumbered and knows it only has the courage of his men and his own wits to defeat the enemy.The best thing about this movie is that from the first frame puts us in a situation. It's fast and dynamic. We must emphasize the interpretation of Richard Burton as an officer and demanding expeditious, without a doubt the greatest asset of the film. He misses more participation of James Mason as Field Marshal Rommel, it remains almost anything just to get testimony on the poster for the film. The two antagonists share a single scene, very well worked. Incidentally, we note that Mason had studied in detail the character of Rommel, and enjoyed it. It's a movie just for fans of war movies that are able to forgive its flaws. At least it shows the truth in Tobruk withstood the Aussies and the English.It's a good British film about the WWII, with good black and white photography, good cast, good pace and does not reach even a 90 ', which means that not long ago, and has no romantic scenes. In short, a good time for the movie that you like well-made war movies. Worth "},{"Title":"Tommy Guns factual not entirely true...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The factual about the Germans using Thompson sub machine guns is only partially true....While the Germans did not outfit their troops with the extremely popular gun of American origin....it is an indisputable fact that throughout the war in all theaters....and especially in a hotly contested battle ...which the first battle of Tobruk certainly was....captured enemy weapons were frequently used as is evidenced even within the film when the Rats turned the Germans guns on them....by the way in one case it was clearly an army surplus 50 caliber heavy machine gun also American made.....but these little nits and picks do little to detract from the overall flow of the movie. "},{"Title":"Tell it to the Spartans","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Richard Burton gives his usual splendid, stiff, explosive performance as Lt. Col. MacRoberts, an English (Pommy) officer put in charge of Australian and New Zealand troops at Tobruk. There is some natural resentment on the part of the colonials. On top of that, Robert Newton is in his company, and Newton was Burton's old schoolmaster, now turned into a semi-coward.Tobruk at the time was a crummy seaport surrounded by the Afrika Corps. Rommel was dashing all over the place more or less at will, except that his attack on Tobruk had failed. Rommel would eventually take Tobruk too, but by then the Allies had landed in Rommel's rear and he was now facing two front instead of one. To his further disadvantage, the German code had been cracked by the British, so they knew when ships with Rommel's supplies were to leave Italy. Few of the supply ships got through to the German and Italian troops in Africa. By El Alamein Rommel was losing two-thirds of his supply ships. It was not just an inconvenience. At times the Germans had to drain several tanks and abandon them, in order to fuel another. Not knowing the code had been broken, the Germans blamed the Italians for blabbing after they were taken prisoner. Rommel distrusted the Italians and their generals, one of the more operatic of which, Ettore Bastico, Rommel nicknamed Bombastico. Anyway, Burton is quite good and his support is too, including James Mason as Rommel. I admire Burton a lot and it may be heresy to suggest this but I wonder if he was the great actor everyone seemed to think. It was his voice that did it for him. My name is Richard Burton -- and I've bean through hell. His Hamlet was misconceived. During the famous soliloquy he shuffles back and forth like a plastic bear in an amusement-park shooting gallery and hustles through the lines.James Mason comes up with an absolutely unbearable German accent as General Rommel. Come now, MacWooberts, I shushpect dzat you alweady know dzah answer. A year earlier he had given us an unimpeachable Rommel in The Desert Fox. Rommel was so humanized that there were objections from the critics. Mason was TOO NICE. So here, playing the role a second time, he goes back to World War II stereotypes and plays Rommel as formal, condescending, and sneaky. He listens to Wagner while snapping out orders.This is still a good war flick within the limitations of the genre at the time. The action scenes are exciting. The dialog is crisp and believable, mostly. There are some chronological goofs. Planes attacking the German trucks in Africa are TBFs from the Pacific Theater. And the Germans seem to be using American water-cooled Browning machine guns. And makeup has failed. The desert rats don't look like desert rats; they look like sewer rats -- oily and pale. And instead of dust, dirt is indicated by a smear of grease on somebody's cheek. It's a retrogressive flag waver that commits an easily avoided sin; it doesn't even TRY to capture the majesty of a vast and empty desert. "},{"Title":"Comparing DESERT RATS with TOBRUK","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had the pleasure of watching this intense, small movie the other night and what a fine depiction of war and responsibilities of command it indeed is. Burton expresses most eloquently the burden that those who must order attacks, and order death, face every day. This is a timeless message. The action is gritty and realistic, particularly given the time it was made. Not one missed beat. It can also be called cousin to THE DESERT FOX, also with James Mason as Rommel, a very similar film with a broader and longer(time element) story. Interestingly, both films carry non-credited narration by Michael Rennie. So they are a pair and quite fine together.Next I put TOBRUK into the player, the 1967 Universal film with Rock Hudson, George Peppard and many others. This epic is entirely different from RATS and the feeling is very much the BIG SCREEN Hollywood film. And yet some things are similar - blown up fuel and ammo dumps. Lotsa trucks and desert. TOBRUK in particular has always had a spectacular explosive ending, indeed one of the largest in cinema history in my opinion.Given the comparison, THE DESERT RATS is more interesting film, certainly the more realistic. It is smaller and touches upon profound subjects and has Richard Burton at his best. You cannot ask for a better evening than the company of this great actor. "},{"Title":"This isn't a game for children","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the decade following the close of World War 2, there seems to have been a need to document on film every significant allied operation (at least, every successful one), to give every hero a movie they could identify with. A worthy aim, but the sheer volume of these pictures meant there was a vast variety in quality and approach.This one was produced at Fox and directed by Robert Wise, who had only recently joined the studio after having cut his teeth in the RKO B-unit. During the 40s RKO was making literally the darkest pictures in Hollywood, and much of that shadowy style seems to have rubbed off on Wise. He and cinematographer Lucien Ballard (who certainly knew a thing or two about shadows, having taken his earliest assignments alongside Josef von Sternberg) have created a war picture which is not exactly noirish in story, but is certainly full noir in looks. The gloomy, undefined edges of the interiors give a feeling of entrapment suitable to the situation of the beleaguered troops.There is little opportunity for darkness in a desert, but the outdoor scenes also carry on that feel of confinement. The landscape is often obscured by smoke or sandstorms. We see silhouettes that could be friend or foe, and glimpse enemies through gun sights. There are few clear shots of the action, more often just mid-shots of the soldiers which make it hard to tell their position in relation to the combat. The impression we get is &#x96; quite accurately &#x96; that in the heat of battle the ordinary foot soldiers can rarely tell exactly what is going on, whether they are winning or losing, or how to proceed beyond the execution of the latest order. It was things like this &#x96; a bit of lateral thinking to give us a feeling for the protagonist's plight &#x96; that Robert Wise was really good at.The post-war period had seen the rise of the UK film industry, and unsurprisingly the best British stars were being poached for Hollywood productions. So here we have Richard Burton, at his most inappropriately theatrical and unshakeably serious (how often have you seen Burton smile?), and yet somehow he is very enjoyable to watch. James Mason had gone in a few short years from dashing male leads to slightly sinister middle-aged types, but he could pull it off, and perhaps even enjoyed villainous roles like this a bit. Speaking of enjoying villainous roles, what have we here? Robert Newton, playing &#x96; of all things &#x96; an alcoholic ex-schoolteacher. He always showed some potential in his straight roles, but to be honest he is just a bit boring without snarling and eye-rolling.The original music is by ex-Disney intern Leigh Harline (he wrote When You Wish upon a Star, you know). Actually there isn't very much original music to be heard in the Desert Rats, the score being mostly snippets of Waltzing Matilda, but there is one interesting point about the music. Take a closer look at that opening credits sequence. At one point, you see a soldier with a trumpet pick up the tune. This kind of makes sense &#x96; sounding the charge and all that. Then, a shot or two later, a soldier dives into a shell hole and pops back up&#x85; playing a clarinet! What is going on there? I actually whizzed the tape back and forth a few times to check if any more of the orchestra appears, but sadly they don't. I would have liked to see Richard Burton come on at the end, playing a trombone.Anyway, enough of that. It's odd in a way that Hollywood put such a lot of energy into honouring the heroes of the recent combat, because by and large the veterans themselves stayed away from these pictures. The target audience was more often the younger generation who hadn't been old enough to fight at the time. Grim authenticity was becoming less of a priority (and while the Desert Rats is certainly gritty and respectful it does once or twice strain credibility and historical accuracy), and the anti-war mood had not yet caught on (although this picture is certainly far less gung-ho than was the norm a few years earlier). The most a war picture really needed to be at this point was entertaining, and the Desert Rats is victorious on this front. It is neither deep nor spectacular, but it is a good and easy watch for your eighty-five minutes. "},{"Title":"Old-skool War-film","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The North Africa Campaign, the Siege of Tobruk and the Desert Rats all have an important place in the British and Australian Psyche during and after the Second World War, and it took less then 10 years after the war for a film about the Siege to be made.In 1941 British and Australian troops had control of the fortress town of Tobruk in Libya. Tobruk gets surrounded by German and Italian troops as the Axis tries to take Egypt and the Suez Canal. The British high command order the Australian General Leslie Morshead to hold Tobruk for 2 months to disrupt the German supply lines. Morshead was a clever commander, trapping German tanks to make them useless and made his troops fight a tough guerrilla campaign. The main focus of the film is on a British officer, 'Tammy' MacRoberts who is given command of a fresh batch of Australian troops, including his former school master. He has to train his troops to get them ready for the battle and first the bitter war.The acting isn't that good, the Australian accents were awful and it would have been easier if their casted Australian actors. As well their seem to be an American officer with the British and Australians ones, I don't know why? What makes the film work is the war scenes. They are well done and you get to feel the action and sweat of battle. The film is also a short, tort experience. Also there is an historical inaccuracy; the Desert Rats was the name for the 9th Armoured Division of the British Army, not the 7th Australian Army. However Rommel did call the army the rats of Tobruk.Personally I would like to see a new film about the war in North Africa because their are many interesting stories and battles, from the Battle of El-Alamein, the story of Rommel and Montgomery, Operation Touch, the Birth of the SAS, etc... The Siege of Tobruk would also make an interesting story for a modern film. "},{"Title":"Study of Leadership .","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a very tight and compelling presentation of a heroic stand off. A classic story of so few against so many. While the movie is a good narrative,what is also captivating in this movie, is the study of different characteristics of Great Leadership. The various protagonists, Captain Tammy Roberts, the General , General Rommel and even the crusty old school teacher Tom Bartlett all display some of the characteristics of outstanding leadership. It also presents several dilemmas that leaders face and their varying responses to them.. ... Fascinating stuff! So much so,that this movie can actually be used as a 'case study' in Leadership Development programs ... "},{"Title":"Thanks, Fox","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie as a kid, one of the umpteen B&W WWII movies that were shown as late night TV movies. As our TV was B&W then, it fit right in.I just watched it again last night, this time on DVD. A very good period film, proving that Hollywood's current obsession with overpaid superstars and overwrought CGI special effects is no way to make a decent film.I want to thank Fox for releasing this and several other older films as part of their FOX WAR CLASSICS on DVD, where the picture and sound are for the most part excellent, and at a reasonable price. Most of these films will never be digitally restored, so these budget DVDs are a great way to enjoy them. "},{"Title":"A Forgettable War Film!","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am sure there were hundreds of films based on World War II. In this case, the Allies are in Northern Africa where they capture German Nazi Rommel. I just wanted to see Richard Burton act in this film. The location is in the desert with the oppressive heat. The Allies are fighting the Nazis. The film is a depiction of the battle of Tobruk. I don't know much about the Second World War in Northern Africa but Rommel was also known as the desert fox. The cast is fine but the story line appears to be slow moving too. James Mason is fine as Rommel. I can't compare his performance to anybody playing Rommel so he was fine to me. I hate to write that my ignorance fails me when it comes to the battlefields of any war. "},{"Title":"Come out of your holes you desert rats!","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Desert Rats is directed by Robert Wise and written by Richard Murphy. It stars Richard Burton, Robert Newton, Robert Douglas, Torin Thatcher, Chips Rafferty and James Mason. Music is by Leigh Harline and cinematography by Lucien Ballard.The follow up to The Desert Fox (it's not a sequel) from two years earlier, was in essence an attempt to readdress the balance after The Desert Fox annoyed certain quarters with its admiration for what a great soldier Field Marshal Rommel was. So here we have the battle of Tobruk orchestrated by the astute Robert Wise, the plot is simple, but the characterisations are most certainly not, with lead men Burton and Newton terrific.This important part of the war is given mature treatment, with the battle sequences realistically staged and the tactical nous of allied force leaders rightly given credence. Sadly Mason is barely in the picture, which is more frustrating when you witness the extended scene that is shared between Mason and Burton, a British film fan's dream right there. While elsewhere it should be noted that this is, perhaps inevitably, not an accurate history lesson, so students of Tobruk don't be basing your thesis on this telling.Still, a good quality war pic for sure. 7/10 "}{"Title":"More accurate than most","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are more than a few inaccuracies in this movie, starting off with the fact that 'The Desert Rats' was - and is - the nickname of the British 7th Armoured Division, and comes from their mascot, the jerboa. I wouldn't try to comment on the technical points of equipment, but, on the strategic side, the producers did a better job with their research than many other WWII movie makers.The garrison of Tobruk at the start of the siege in April 1941 consisted of 9th Australian Division (the 'Rats of Tobruk', not the 'Desert Rats'), 18th Australian Brigade and a British Army Tank regiment (equipped with infantry tanks). The artillery and anti tank regiments at this stage were all British, as the 9th's artillery was still training at Gaza in Palestine.Of Wavell's other forces, three infantry divisions were in Greece and one in Ethiopia. 7th Armoured was in Egypt, at only around half strength. Several independent regiments were also scattered around the Middle East.Rommel's forces consisted of the Afrika Korps - 15th and 21st Panzer (armoured) Divisions and 90th Light Division - and the Italian forces -one armoured division, one motorised infantry division and four infantry divisions. This force of around 100,000 men was all the High Command would allow him for most of the campaign, because of the supply problems.So, at the start of the siege, the allies were heavily outnumbered, just as the movie shows. With so little to hold Egypt, Wavell knew his best chance was to deny Rommel the use of the deep-water harbour of Tobruk, ninety miles west of the Libyan border. Without it, Axis supplies had to come overland from Benghazi, over two hundred miles further west. As the movie says, he asked for two months. True to his word, he launched his counter-offensive in June, but it was heavily defeated. It would be another five months before his successor, Auchinlek, could launch the successful Operation Crusader, which relieved the siege in December 1941. By this time, only a single Australian battalion, the 2/13th, was still in Tobruk. By October, the Australians had been on reduced rations for six months, and at the insistence of the Australian government they were gradually replaced by British and Free Polish troops.The film is also accurate in the depiction of the final engagement of the siege, with 2/13th holding El Duda, just east of Tobruk. Rommel made a final attempt to take Tobruk, which he nearly did before withdrawing on 5th December, 17 days after the offensive began.The battle scenes are fairly well depicted. The key to defeating Rommel's main attack on 1 May was for the infantry to hold the perimeter, allowing the German tanks through onto the anti-tank guns, but stopping the German infantry from following them. Not mentioned in the film, two weeks later Wavell launched a minor attack on the Libyan frontier, forcing Rommel to move forces east to garrison Sollum, Capuzzo and Halfaya. Also not mentioned is the role of the RAF on Malta, slowing down Rommel's attempt to build up forces and supplies for a new attack. Of course, the main reason he was not able to attack again before the Crusader offensive was the German invasion of Russia on 22 June, putting Africa a distant last on the priority list for supplies and reinforcements.Rommel did finally take Tobruk in his Gazala offensive of May/June 1942, at which time it was held by inexperienced South African troops. This allowed him to advance into Egypt as far as El Alamein, where the rest, as they say, is history. Nevertheless, the defence of Tobruk in 1941 was a bright light for the allies at time of general gloom and disaster, and well deserving of a film that I consider quite entertaining. Just don't get me started on the 'Aussie' accents of most of the minor characters! "},{"Title":"A good post ww2 film","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Desert Rats, 1953. A fictional account of a British officer in command of ANZAC Austrialian troops defending the North Africa city of Tobruk from Rommel's Afrika Korps in WW2.*Special Stars- Richard Burton, Robert Newton, James Mason, Torin Thacter, Robert Douglas, Charles Tingwell and Chips Rafferty. DIR Robert Wise. DIR Robert Wise.*Theme- Audacity in warfare can win battles.*Trivia/location/goofs- American film. Early film role for Richard Burton. James Mason played Rommel again in a 20th century Fox film two years before in 'Desert Fox'. One high British general officer staff member has an obvious American accent during a important briefing. The armor tanks in this film are really American due to the lack of historic panzers so soon after the war. Some German uniform items are clearly WW1 vintage.*Emotion- A good post ww2 film in which the Brits are patriotically but respectfully accounting their win over Das Afrika Korps. Satisfying and somewhat historical with very good casting.*Based On- Historic account of the Tobruk battle. "},{"Title":"Dull, uninteresting view of the North Africa campaign","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First, I must get this out of the way  Richard Burton is terrible in this movie.  Very few, if any, of his scenes come off as genuine.  Robert Newton, on the other hand, is simply wonderful in his role, and James Mason is marvelous as Rommel (though he is barely in the movie.)As for the movie itself - it's nothing special.  Almost more like a Western with a few names changed - our heroes are surrounded, and somehow manage to keep the enemy at bay until the cavalry (in this case, the Scots) show up to save the day.   "},{"Title":"Another WW II film","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is yet another of the seemingly countless films that deal with outgunned and outmanned Allied units prevailing against Axis forces. The story arc is so commonplace it has become a cliché. Still I admired Richard Burton's performance as the dedicated officer who is progressively pushed to the limits of his endurance. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"BORING","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  the 1 battle scene isnt bad for 1953 and for 2days standards , could of gone for longer , pretty fake how Macroberts destroys the tank with a damaged tank , the german tank could of just destroyed his tank easily he screwed around too long , but thats it. Its a drame the rest , then they go on spy missions and blow up a ammunitions factory which is boring , germans talk german without subtitles ,the last stand on the hill is boring too , they said they are taking heavy casualties but dont show us any battle , we only see them tired , pretty silly how nice Rommel (James Mason) was to MacRoberts (Richard Burton) , BORING4\10 - good battle scene , nice acting by Burton and the rest of the guys  "},{"Title":"Yeah right","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If one was to really believe this flick than the Germans had the Brits and ANZACs outnumbered and outgunned . Instead it was the other way around. The end is semi real with the armored relief coming through but unseen only after taking heavy casualties and to top it off the besieged port of Tobruk is captured later in the campaign by Rommel and his Afrika Korp after another lesson in mobile warfare.  It would be nice if a new version of the campaign in North Africa would be made minus the onesided heroics of movies like this.  "}]