[{"Title":"The older and wiser you get, the deeper this movie becomes.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this as a kid and thought it was an OK adventure movie.  But seeing it again in middle age just blew me away.  It really is the story of a man's life  looking back on lost opportunities, failed loves, and (as it's so beautifully described in the script) losing the scent in your life's direction.  Gardner is mesmerizing; Hayward is dynamic.  The Bernard Herrman score hits the mark again.  And the set decoration and cinematography are superlative examples of the studio system at its most artistic.Of course, the fact that jazz immortal Benny Carter plays tenor sax during a Paris party scene adds an enormous amount of cool points to this movie for me! "},{"Title":"Semi-Autobiographical, Often-Profound and Moving Story of a Writer's Life","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many critics and fans love this movie, the best of all Hemingway stories on film perhaps. I think this film is so because it is honest, somewhat autobiographical and derived from a splendid and mature short story of enduring fame.  The plot line of the film is simple.  In a fever because of an accident, Harry lies perhaps dying, tended by his third wife in a camp in Africa.  His delirium causes him, through a long night spent waiting for help to arrive, to relive in his mind the triumphs, disappointments, sorrows, loves and moments of his somewhat unsatisfactory life as an author. He is bitter and takes it out on his wife; but he does not KNOW that he is going to die--so he continues to pester, ask questions, make demands, and study the reverie in his thoughts--which viewers see as extended flashbacks. As Harry Street, Gregory Peck is mostly very good indeed, exactly right for the role not of Hemingway but of a man who had lived what the author describes in the storyline.  As the wives, Hildegarde Neff is cold, beautiful and skilled, showing us how she tried to control Harry and protesting that she had loved him as much as she could.  The first wife, Ava Gardner, plays her part admirably as a young, not-important woman who wants domesticity not excitement (as Harry does), wrecks their union to have a child and drinks herself to death. The third wife, played amiably and with intelligence by Susan Hayward seems almost the product of Harry's training. And if finally she has come to understand, accept and even want his way of life, we assume that finally all will be well at the end.  The medical help arrives; and Harry will live to write more; he wants in fact very much to live again. There are amazingly enjoyable scenes in this big-appearing film--bullfights, a wartime scene, Mediterranean yachts and villas, Paris, and Kenya; and more. it is beautiful, moving and often thought-provoking.  Also in the cast are veterans Torin Thatcher, Leo G. Carroll and Marcel Dalio, all doing superbly.  Henry King directed; Casey Robinson wrote the script; and Leon Shamroy provided stunningly beautiful cinematography.  Harry may feel in the film that he has compromised something to become a success; but he still talks about the snow leopard once found frozen on Mt. Kilimanjaro at 18,000+ feet. He wonders what the leopard was seeking at that altitude--Hemingway's and Harry's parable for human mental curiosity and the sometimes perverse desire to invest much to achieve eventual greatness.  The film may not quite measure up to this famous conception;  but it is grand in mental scale and interesting throughout. "},{"Title":"A big popular star film of its time...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gregory Peck plays Harry Street, a famous American writer, who lies dangerously ill in a hunting camp at the foot of the highest peak in Africa, Tanzania's Mount Kilimanjaro... His lovely companion Susan Hayward, who had arranged this hunting trip in the hopes of winning his love, takes care of him faithfully and prays for his recover... Peck, surrounded by vultures in the trees, is semi delirious and fears that he's going to die from an infected wound...His feverish mind goes back to his youth... He recalls his uncle Bill (Leo G. Carrell), who guided his life in those early years, Connie (Helene Stanley), the first girl he was interested in, and his travels around the world in search for something he never seemed to discover...We see him entering a charming bistro in Montparnasse, Paris, where he first meets the beautiful (Cynthia) Ava Gardner... Inspired by her love, he writes his first novel, making her the central character without conscious planning...'Snows of Kilimanjaro' is Hayward's third movie with director Henry King, and her second with Peck after David and Bathsheba. Hayward and Peck's scenes at the foot of Kilimanjaro are constantly interrupted by flashbacks and this, plus the fact that most of their sequences in France were left on the cutting room floor, made Hayward's part sort of 'evaporate' from everybody's mind&#133; However, she does have strong dramatic scenes at the end of the movie&#133; Ava Gardner appeared as the ideal Hemingway heroine&#133; The film celebrated the mastery of Benny Carter&#151;one of the most important and influential musician in the history of jazz, and got two Oscar nominations for Art Direction/Set Decoration and Cinematography&#133; "},{"Title":"Hemingway's life and lovers  , being  well  incarnated by Gregory Peck","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A successful writer (Peck) lies dying on the Kilimanjaro's skirts and remembers his past life and women through of severed flashbacks set in Paris (Montparnasse) , Spain (during civil war) and Africa (Kenya Kilimanjaro) . Peck's relationship with various lovers (Ava Gardner , Hildegard Nef , Susan Hayward) are the spotlights of the movie , while in a safari tent he is awaiting medical attention to save his gangrenous body and caring him Susan Hayward .It's a Ernest Hemingway's autobiography based on short tales , specially in two novels  ¨Fiesta¨ and ¨Farewell to the arms¨, the film creates a pastiche where is reflected the author's life . The main story about Africa makes an original structure that emerges other stories . The motion picture has spectacular sets and wonderful outdoors although there are some stock-shot from Africa . The warlike scenario is good , it's very well shot the Spanish civil war , we don't know if it's the battle of Guadalajara , Madrid , Teruel o Ebro , but sure that is referred to anyone those terrible warfare . The picture has a little bit boring and is slow moving in spite of different scenarios , thus it is developed in Africa , Spain , France and other European countries . Nice acting by Gregory Peck and Ava Gardner is attractive and enjoyable . Gregory Peck resisted taking the role because an earlier Ernest Hemingway adaptation he had appeared in, The Macomber affair (1947) had been a box-office flop . Leom Shamroy's cinematography is stylized and colorful , as is brilliantly showed in African landscapes and the episode of bullfights spectacle . The classic composer Bernard Hermann makes a romantic and agreeable musical score . The movie will appeal to romantic drama enthusiast and Gregory Peck , Ava Gardner fans. "},{"Title":"So-so film that is never as complex or as tragic as it should have been and is a lot less interesting for it","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having saved a young man from a hippo, writer Harry Street lies dying from an infection in his African safari campsite. As his unappreciated wife Helen tends to his wounds and ensures him everything will be alright, Harry sinks into feverish reminiscing about a life that he perceives as being a failure in terms of both writing and his love life. He recalls the one woman that he believes he truly loved which, helpfully for Helen, isn't his current wife but a woman called Cynthia Green whom he met in Paris. The more he recalls the deeper his depression and the more Helen watches him surrendering his fight and will to live.Taking a deathbed flashback structure we always know that things between Harry and his other loves didn't work out and the only question is why. On paper we are meant to be with a bitter angry man who is facing death with a superficial devil-may-care attitude but underneath carries a deep sense of regret. The first problem I encountered with the film was that the script didn't carry this off very well at all and I wasn't convinced about the supposed years of failure that are stacked on top of Harry &#150; people with such things have much more baggage than came out here. The flashbacks are reasonable interesting but are closer to melodrama than a searing tale of regret and loss, which personally I thought it should have been. The film does flit around the world which must have been a selling point for it at the time of release but it doesn't actually add much to the story or characters other than providing a different background for some scenes.King's direction is fairly workmanlike; he enjoys the locations but the mix of his footage with stock footage doesn't sit well together &#150; I know it is a limitation of the period but it still doesn't work. Peck is solid enough in the lead but he does the superficial things and doesn't get to grips with anything deeper or more complex. He gets no help from Hayward who is watching her husband long for women past but never appears to have any problem with this whatsoever. Gardner is pretty but again she doesn't convince in her character when asked to do anything more (seeing her in the middle of the Spanish civil war was pretty funny as well). Support from Leo G Carroll is always welcome but he doesn't have much to work with here.Overall this is a so-so film that never fulfils its potential or is as engaging as it should have been. Instead of being complex and full of pain it is melodramatic and soapy; instead of being about the tragic souls of the characters it seems to have as much interest in stock footage and global locations. The cast give solid but superficial performances in response to this and the film never really gets a handle on any of it. "},{"Title":"Interesting Characters & Some Good Performances","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The interesting characters and some good performances are what keep this adaptation of Ernest Hemingway's The Snows of Kilimanjaro going. Many of the story details reflect the movie's source, although it has a heavier, slower tone instead of Hemingway's own economical style of writing. The scenes of hunting, bull-fighting, and combat all fit in with Hemingway's fascination with vigorous action, and the screenplay does make some use of Hemingway's 'leopard riddle', but not with any significant depth. Instead, it does have a lot of photography of African scenery and wildlife, which is good in itself.Gregory Peck gives his usual effective performance in the lead role as Harry, a jaded writer who reflects on his past loves as he suffers through the effects of a dangerous injury. Peck fleshes out the character believably, alternating between the writer's energetic but flawed personality in the flashbacks and his increasing delirium in the present. It's a different kind of role for Peck, and he thus adapts his style somewhat from that of his more well- remembered roles.Ava Gardner and Susan Hayward, along with Hildegarde Neff in a smaller part, portray the women in Harry's past and present. Gardner's ethereal elegance makes a nice contrast with Hayward's stronger screen persona, and Neff's characterization is a believable depiction of the unsuitable woman whom Harry finds during a time of despair.The characters and the African atmosphere are the parts of the movie that work the best, and they make it worth seeing. It moves rather slowly, and occasionally expends screen time on less interesting material, or otherwise it might have been more compelling. It still leaves you with a thoughtful impression of its main characters. "},{"Title":"Classic Hemmingway On the Silver Screen","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Henry King is what keeps this movie from getting 10 stars. Yet, despite his poor cinematography, poor directing and failure to take advantage of scenic backdrops (yet they shine through occasionally), the cast and the story save the film.Peck portrays former Chicago Times journalist Harry Street, a fictional character penned by Ernest Hemmingway, portraying a strong glimpse himself . . . a bit ego-centric while feigning humility and modesty. Peck is superb at bringing Harry Street to life . . . and Hemmingway is always looming in the background of Street's character, like a phantom . . . the boozing womanizer, masking his insecurities with alcohol, egotism, aloofness toward other's feelings and needs. The beautiful, sexy, gorgeous Ava Gardner, one of the VERY few Hollywood starlets who could actually act, gives an excellent performance as the emotionally insecure, very dependent, sexually charged, less than moral, love of his life. Co-dependency could have been based on her character, Cynthia Green. Cynthia was too insecure to let Street live his life . . . Street was too self-centered and aloof to recognize Cynthia's emotional needs . . . very Hemmingway!As he lay delirious on a bed in Africa, from a thorn scratch infection, snow covered Mt. Kilimanjaro looming in the background, Street recalls the lost loves of his past years, with Cynthia dominating his memories, as his one true love. His current wife, Helen, portrayed by Susan Hayward, tries desperately to find her place in his life, always feeling herself in the shadow of Cynthia and a later love, Countess Liz, played by Hildegard Neff, a selfish and insecure socialite, desperate to hang onto Street. Feverishly, Street flows in and out of consciousness, the scenes from his memories playing out in his mind, as Helen compassionately wipes his sweaty brow and tries to care for him, as he pushes her away.This is a good film! Hemmingway fans should receive it well, as should fans of Peck and Gardner. "},{"Title":"Heavily inspired by the real-life exploits of Hemmingway,...yet amazingly dull and unmoving","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has been in the public domain for years and every copy I've seen on video or DVD as well as the ones I've seen on TV all feature a pretty lousy print. Perhaps there is a clean one out there somewhere, but I haven't seen it. And, after watching the film all the way through (something I have attempted unsuccessfully before on several occasions), I could see why no one bothered to protect the copyright on this film. While it isn't exactly bad, it's so dull and uninspired that I am sure nobody even cared to worry about royalties! Now think about it,...the film stars Gregory Peck, Ava Gardner and Susan Hayward and is based on the tumultuous life of Ernest Hemmingway and it still is very dull in places and at best an ordinary film (though I won't be that generous). So why is it such a disappointment? Well, the biggest problem was just how cheap the film looked. The location scenes clearly look like they were filmed by a second unit without the stars and the close-up scenes appear as if they were poorly staged in front of filmed footage. While I might expect this sort of sloppiness from an old one-reel comedy, I don't expect it from a big-budget film with top Hollywood talent. It really looked as if they spent too much on the stars and had nothing left to make the film! The other problem was that although Hemingway led a very adventurous life and traveled the world, once you dig beneath the exterior, you are left with a pretty rotten person who isn't exactly cuddly and endearing. While his devoted friends and fans probably will care whether Peck survives his injury, I found I just didn't particularly care--as the character Peck played didn't care--nor did I. And what you are left with are a long series of mildly interesting of flashbacks that tell about the author. The only way the film really works is as a psychological study--not as entertainment. "},{"Title":"A downer","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gregory Peck leads an all-star cast in The Snows of Kilimanjaro, a big 1952 film directed by Henry King and produced by Darryl F. Zanuck. With a cast that includes Ava Gardner, Susan Hayward, Hildegarde Neff and Leo J. Carroll, and a story based on a story by Ernest Hemingway, one expects something more - much more - than what is delivered by this plodding film.Peck plays a writer with a severe leg infection. As he lays in Africa waiting for a transport while his wife (Hayward) cares for him, he believes he's dying. He goes over his past life and loves - a girl he disappoints in his youth, then Cynthia (Gardner) the love of his life, followed by Neff, and Hayward, whom he mistakes for Cynthia when he first meets her.Henry King mixes some beautiful scenery with stock footage of Africa. Since it's Hemingway, the movie has a macho sensibility - a lot of hunting, drinking, implied sex, and a bullfight. It's only in the last couple of scenes that the film's energy picks up - but by then, it's too late. The performances are okay - strangely, Gardner's character seems the most fleshed out. That isn't saying much - one gets the impression a lot was cut, leaving holes in characterizations and the viewer completely detached from them. Altogether, a disappointing experience. "},{"Title":"Everyone's just wild about Harry","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Long and tiring movie that chronicles the life and times of world renowned writer and big game hunter Harry Street, Gregory Peck. We get the story straight from the horses, Harry himself, mouth as he lay dying on a sickbed in the African bush country from a gangrenous infection. This happened when Harry jumped into a river trying to save one of the natives who fell in that was a member of his safari. Harry if anything was more responsible then the herd of hippos that attacked and killed the native by having the boat go too close to the hippos in order for him to get some pictures. Helen, Susan Haywerd,Harry's wife who's on the safari with him could only hope and pray for help in the way of medical supply to arrive in order to save his life. As Harry goes in and out of consciousness we get to see his life story through his thoughts and feelings and how his cold and selfish personality just about destroyed every relationship that he ever had including the love of his life Cynthia, Ava Gardner. Harry met Cynthia Green in Paris when he was a poor and struggling young writer as they lived together in a one room flat that he had in the poor side of town.As Harry got famous through the books that he wrote he became more and more detached from Cynthia that left her hurt and dejected. Finding out from her doctor that she's with child Cynthia tried to give the good news to Harry hoping that it would bring them both back together. Harry was so cold and unfeeling and at the same time so in to himself when Cynthia was about to announce the coming blessed event to him that not only did she drop the whole subject but fell or jumped down a flight of stairs causing her to have a miscarriage! Harry, after recovering from the shock of Cynyhina's accident and loss of her and his unborn child, still treated Cynthia more or less like dirt being too stuck up on his own importance to the literary world in the books and article he wrote to really care about her. Cynthia became so disgusted of him and the way he acted toward her that one evening she just got up and walked out on Harry as he was munching on a bowl of veggies. Cynthia did that by leaving Harry for a dancer who was preforming at a restaurant that they were dining at. Harry went on his way to become more famous in the world of books and big game hunting and continued to have more and more affairs with beautiful women like Cynthia who were more or less one night stands to him. But the spark was gone from his life with Cynthia no longer being with him. Like joining the French Foreign Leagion Harry joined the fight against Fascism in Spain to forget what he did to Cynthia and it was there that Harry was to unexpectedly find her! Cynthia also joined the anti-Facists fighters there where Harry found her dying after she was crushed by the ambulance that ran over a land mine that she was driving as a volunteer! It in a way did bring out the best as well as human side of Harry when she forgave him for everything that he did to her and he showed real emotions for the first time as she practically died in his arms. Harry then forgot himself and ran the opposite way on the battlefield after the stretcher bearers who were carrying away his beloved Cynthia. It's then that he was shot and wounded by an officer in his unit thinking that he was a coward and deserting his post! By now nothing seems to be going right for him. Even though Harry later married he never forgot the beautiful as well as tragic Cynthia and never forgave himself, even though she did, for what he did to her. Back to the present in Africa in the shadows of the majestic 19,710 foot high Mt.Kilimanjaro Harry waits for the enviable and as all hope is just about gone for him surviving he still manages to pull a rabbit out of his hat. With darkness falling and Harry in all probability never to see the sunrise again there's still one more surprise that fate, or the script writers, have left for him in the movie that's coming Harry's way and this time for once it won't be all that bad. Very dull and boring movie that seemed to go on forever and ever more with Harry going through all the stages that one would go through from life to death as he's slowly dying right before our eyes. I myself felt as if I was attending his funeral without him yet being dead. The script writers just should have let Harry die peacefully instead of having the unbelievably ridicules ending that concluded the film. I don't know for sure, since I didn't read the book, that if the ending in the movie to Snows of Kilimanjaro was the same as the one in the Earnest Hemingway short story. But I do know that it was one of the worst endings I've ever seen in a film. "}{"Title":"What would Papa have said about this one?","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ernest Hemingway, one of the most admired writers of the last century, was alive when this movie came out in 1952. One wonders what did Mr. Hemingway think the creative 'geniuses' behind this film did to The Snows of Killimanjaro? Hollywood didn't do so well in adapting Papa's novels to the screen, but who knows, he must have been able to pay for another safari to Africa, or maybe another fishing trip with the old man in Cuba with the money he got after he sold the film's rights. As a novel, The Snows of Killimanjaro was not one of Mr. Hemingway's best works.God only knows that what director Henry King and his team had in mind when they undertook to do the film based on Hemingway's novel? Maybe Mr. King wanted to travel to all the places in which the action is set. The only thing one can say is that after more than fifty years this wasn't a good film then, or now.The acting is bad in general. Gregory Peck, an otherwise brilliant actor, does nothing to bring Harry Street to life. The Helen of Susan Hayward is at times horrible and completely silly. Ava Gardner's as a driver for the Republican forces in the Spanish Civil War? Give me a break! There is one scene in which Harry and Cynthia are dining and drinking in a Madrid restaurant which features a male flamenco dancer who bears an uncanny resemblance to Tyrone Power, and we wondered if this Richard Allan, who is credited with the dancing and charming Ava, was in reality Mr. Power performing an inside joke? Did anyone notice it, or was it me?At any rate, The Snows of Killimanjaro, is a film to watch at the viewer's own risk. "},{"Title":"Better then its inadequate lead and shoddy production values suggest","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps it's because I've always admired Hemingway and his works, but I found this glossy studio effort more enjoyable than it really is judging from other reviews. Hemingway's deceptively simple style of prose belied an understanding of human nature at odds with the macho exterior Papa presented to the world, and whether intentional or not, this film manages to capture something of Hemingway's style while largely failing in terms of dramatic content.Much of the blame for this lies in a treatment which is inadequate to the scope of the story it attempts to relate. Largely - if not wholly - based on Hemingway's own life experiences, the film fails to capture the bluff, larger-than-life essence of the man. This is largely down to a poor choice of leading man in Gregory Peck. For my money, Peck was never more than a pretty face, and possessed an extremely limited talent. He's certainly not up to the demands made of him by the character of Harry Street, world-travelling writer, lover and heavy drinker, whose material success is tempered by a feeling of failure, both artistically and emotionally.Also culpable, though, are the shoddy standards with regards to the location shooting - second-unit only, so all the actors travelled no further than to the Fox backlot in Hollywood. This means we see Peck, lying on his 'deathbed' on what is obviously a stage set gazing out at a group of vultures perched in anticipation on a tree in the shadows of the eponymous mountain. This is so distracting that it destroys all semblance of verisimilitude.Add to that possibly the world's worst death scene - Ava Gardner does her 'woman driver' bit in the midst of a Spanish Civil War battlefield and prays for the lost love of her life to come find her only for - guess what - the love of her life to find her. Her death, also, is badly botched, occurring off-screen and referred to only once in passing afterwards.Despite all this, the film still does manage to be fairly absorbing while never scaling the heights its producers were obviously aiming for. "},{"Title":"Easy to Not Care","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The director makes it very easy to not care about this film. True, the story is based on an essentially unsympathetic character...but there seems to be no message or point to telling the story of the wasted life of a writer who finally realizes how much frittered away his energy on meaningless definitions of success. But even that message is carried poorly in the film. The women are all one-dimensional and overly-devoted to Harry who basically drinks and throws himself into any adventure to distract himself from important writing. There is a lot of excess footage. Uninteresting and long takes of hyenas walking around. Vultures in trees. Musicians playing soullessly... the film is a sad waste of talent and time.The story... if you can call it that, unfolds as a plodding series of flashbacks while Harry lies fevered on a cot in Africa, suffering from gangrene.The fetid stench of his leg draws the attention of vultures which foreshadow his demise as well as a hyena that seems to laugh at his condition rotting from the inside out. The title of the film alludes to a riddle of why a leopard carcass might be found on top of a tall mountain with snow. But Harry's answer is some poorly recorded mumbling about getting back to the jungle, which makes no sense. It would have been simple to say that the leopard perished trying to travel where he is not made to go... achieving pointless heights. Or even a romantic justification could be offered; the leopard seeks his mate, but he cannot find her anywhere and begins to look in places where she cannot be in sheer desperation to quench his longing for her. But no. The filmmakers saved the literary license for the ending of the film, where a rescue is implied. The film suggests that he lives, but it is a delusion of Harry's that any plane ever arrives. "},{"Title":"extraordinarily self-indulgent schlock","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" if hemingway was really like this portrayal of him i have to wonder what i saw in his books as a young man. i am sure the makers wished to show him, as harry street, as a tormented man who, at the end of his days, lies questioning his life's direction, but they end up presenting the protagonist as a completely self-involved and puerile victim of testosterone o.d. whining his way thru a gangrenous fever. i can't believe this is the way hemingway thought of himself or wanted to be remembered. i always have some trouble with a film if i absolutely cannot identify with someone in it to some little degree. there was no one in this film to carry the load, no one that didn't strike me as so egocentrically self-involved and somehow wounded by 'fate' that i could even begin to feel a shred of empathy or understanding for them. the performances are wooden when not histrionic. i gave it a five because i did like the mountain. "},{"Title":"Big budget bloated bore.","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boring, talkative movie, too long, over-acted movie with dull camera work about a wounded, but dull Hemingway-like writer yakking away in an African plain, remembering his dead first wife, while fighting off death. Half way through you are yelling, Die Already. When the Hyena shows up, you are hoping that the beast eats the bore.Nobody shines in this movie.Peck is awful.Gardner's character is a cliché.Hayward isn't even interesting.King's direction is stuck in the mud.Big budget bloated bore. "},{"Title":"A much better movie could be made","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a great film to be made out of this great novel, but this isn't it. I was entranced by it when I was very young and it first appeared on TV, but it has not worn well over time. Just saw it again on TCM and was very disappointed by its shortcomings.Clearly, the stars never set foot outside of the sound stage or the back lot, and the beauty and scope of African and European scenes exists only in second-unit photography with stand-ins. Bad rear-projection work does nothing to help the film. Peck at his most actorish, and Ava Gardner still out of her element before she learned how to act. The sole savior is Leo G. Carroll, who commands the screen when he's on. Hard to believe that the overly slick, studio-style cinematography was by Leon Shamroy, who was known for evoking time, place and mood.Dull, plodding, unconvincing and lacking the reality of a broader world that Hemingway described so well. Somebody needs to do a re-make. For much better Hemingway, go to The Sun Also Rises, despite the hammy performances. "},{"Title":"Certain moments make it worth a watch.","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Snows of Kilamanjiro is a moderately touching story of a writer (Peck), who, close to death in Africa, tells his neglected wife of his past love (Gardner), who he can't seem to forget.The tone of the film is sometimes a tad over dramatic and the first time in Africa shows some technically bad shots of the animals and the rivers. However, if we look at this film from a technical aspect, it has a lot to recommend. I loved the colours in the film, especially the blues of the skies. They are bright and filled me with nostalgia.Furthermore, the way the story is told is great. We are told of Peck's love life through a series of flashbacks. The actual tale itself is drawn out, but some moments make it worth the ride. The tragedy of Peck's character is one many people can relate to; the artist pursues his art, but neglects the emotions he speaks so highly of.Peck and Gardner are great as the leading roles. Peck sometimes mumbles his lines, but that is part and parcel of his charm in the film. Susan Hayward is great as the neglected wife.This film does have moments of brilliance. It has some heart breaking moments, but it is fleshed out by some un-believable events and bum choices by the director. I couldn't help but feel that the THEMES (capital letters, everyone), were slapped on a little too heavily sometimes. Sure, we can be shown reasons of Harry's tragic downfall, but does it have to be spelt out for us? I think the director should have left some of the thoughts and memories for the audience to think of.Still, a good film, with wonderful colour and some great tear-jerker moments. Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Sermons On The Mount","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this one disappointing when I saw it first several years ago and now it's a freebie with a major newspaper I see no reason to revise my original opinion. All hands were above average and all made much better films before and after this one - Peck and King worked together six times and their first two At Bats produced two of the finest movies to come out of Hollywood (Twelve O'Clock High, The Gunfighter) whilst David and Bathsheba and The Bravados were strictly ho hum and Beloved Infidel woefully underrated. Similarly King made three films with Hayward, almost inevitable in the old Studio system with people as prolific as King and Hayward and yet for all the track records on the shoot this remains disappointing. I bow to no one in my admiration for Gregory Peck but like any major actor/star working consistently in Hollywood it was impossible not to become involved with the odd substandard product. In all Peck portrayed three writers in his career, one fictional journalist (Gentlemen's Agreement), one real novelist/short story writer (Scott Fitzgerald in Beloved Infidel) and one not-quite-so fictional novelist/short story writer in the Harry Street he plays here in an adaptation of a story Hemingway clearly based on himself - 'macho' writer not averse to big-game hunting, watching bullfights, heavy drinking and equally heavy womanizing (Hemingway married four times) - and this is by far the weakest of the three. Students of irony may note that 1) King directed Peck as both Fitzgerald AND Hemingway (albeit a 'fictionalized' Hem) and 2) Peck was far more effective as Fitzgerald whilst in real life Fitzgerald, though a finer writer, was overshadowed in his lifetime by Hemingway's PR. Peck does his best - as do the entire cast and crew - but somehow it all fails to gel; Susan Hayward for example is not one of nature's doormats, she is far too feisty and ballsy to play the downtrodden wife meekly mopping her husband's brow when her instinct is to cut his throat and of the three leads it is glamour girl Ava Gardner who is able to find the vulnerability beneath the feral woman. Not a great film, far from it but see it for what might have been. "},{"Title":"A kind of 'Best Of Hemingway', severely compromised but good in parts","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERSAn expansion of a Hemingway short story with bits of some other stories and his life thrown in, The Snows Of Kilimanjaro is a badly flawed film, but the basic idea of a dying man trying to figure out if his life had any meaning to it is surprisingly deep, and the sometimes stiff Gregory Peck gives a superb performance in a role that required a full range of emotions.As Peck's Hemingway-in-all-but-name lies dying in Africa remembering his life and loves, there are a few sections which drag such as the scenes with his father but some which work very well, especially most of the scenes with Ava Gardner's Cynthia, the love of his life,and the early ones with Susan Hayward, who is a kind of redemption for him. What really seriously weakens the film is the framing African scenes. The mixture of studio and real African scenery is clumsily done and the last 20 mins of the film are oddly dull. The possibly studio imposedhappy ending is also poor- the film would have been much better and quite moving if, having come to terms with his life and realizing he actually really loves his wife,he had than died. Cuts severely reduced Hayward's role in the film, to it's detriment.Still, there are a few striking scenes such as a drunken Peck encountering Hayward on a Paris bridge, or Gardner's moving death, there is some lovely cinematography and the score by Bernard Herrmann includes one particular theme which is one of the beautiful ever written for a film. The film never really becomes as good as one feels it ought to be considering some of the elements in it. Not at all a bad film, but a very uneven one. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and Powerful Romance","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Africa, close to the Kilimanjaro mountain, the writer Henry Street (Gregory Peck) is seriously wounded on the leg. He is waiting in a camping with his woman Helen (Susan Hayward) and the African safari expedition for a means of transportation to the hospital. While feverish, he remembers his life and the relationship with his three loves. In Paris, he met  Cynthia Green (Ava Gardner), his great love. He traveled with her to Africa and to Spain, where she left him due to a misunderstanding. In Riviera, the frigid Countess Liz (Hildegarde Neff). Then, back in Madrid, he loses definitely Cynthia. And finally in Paris, in a bridge close to Notre Dame, he meets Helen, a woman who resembles Cynthia. This romance is very powerful and beautiful. The solution of the riddle is also great. The story is not aged, the situations are not corny and there are excellent dialogs. Ava Gardner is extremely beautiful and her performance is wonderful. Two particular scenes called my attention. The first one, marvelous, when Henry and Cynthia light their cigarettes in the night of Paris, illuminating their faces in the beginning of their relationship. The other one, was the beautiful flag of my country in an arena. In Brazil, we have never had bullfights, which are common in Spain and Mexico. Therefore, I did not understand why the Brazilian flag was in the pole of the arena of bullfight. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `As Neves do Kilimanjaro' (`The Snows of Kilimanjaro')  "}{"Title":"Reflective Classic","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" An opening shot of Henry King's movie echoes the style of many classic films of the time whose source is literature wordy introduction of the ever present 'protagonist' of the story, this time it is the magnificent Mount of Kilimanjaro. Soon, however, we face a number of liberties taken with Ernest Hemingway's story and encounter the creative contribution of its director, Henry King, and the screenwriter Casey Robinson. Unlike many films of the early 1950s, SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO sets the tone for the 'in media res' approach with a protagonist and his memories, more to say, reflections on life filled with 'drama, tragedy, love, poetry.' Apart from many artistic and authentic 'sensations' of the movie, including its African locations, its footage of the continent's wilderness (note the hippopotamuses or rhinos), the striking cinematography that the New York Times reviewer Bosley Crowther called magnificent and exciting, musical score of rich suggestion (Crowther), SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO boasts its character, the writer Harry Street played with bravura and vitality by the brilliant Gregory Peck. He is the cream of the movie's entertainment and the center of our attention in spite of many beautiful women that turn up and leave. The thoughtfully slow exploration of an error filled life (Ace Black Blog) and the whole reflective power of the story bursts out thanks to Mr Peck.GREGORY PECK As a former writer to Chicago Tribune, Harry is placed in a situation (position) with plenty to think about. The centerpiece of his (an our) attention in all those reflections are the flow of romances (Crowther), the women he knew and the women he actually 'disappointed' Although he is still accompanied by his wife Helen (Susan Hayward), the most significant woman of his life, his memories is Cynthia (Ava Gardner), the woman who embodies an ode to essential love lost (Ace Black Blog). No matter to what extent Hemingway loses out to Casey Robinson, the protagonist's relations with the women are explored in an exceptionally modern manner. Harry's burning temper and melancholy moods (Crowther) make his an almost neurotic character, more easy to identify with and yet, more reclusive and pathetic at certain moments. He is changeable, wistful, nostalgic, unpredictable, thought provoking. Henry King, having worked with Gregory Peck before, appears to have cast him in one of the very best roles of his life. Although the action goes on slowly at moments, he is magnetic in the role gradually becoming 'a knight questing for Holy Grail.' The true highlights are the scenes with Cynthia.AVA GARDNER Although the opinions of movie scholars differ on her performance, it appears that she brings in the crucial aspects of her character and the key qualities sought by Harry throughout. In the symbolic 'cigarette scene' (that echoes the most subtle moments of old Hollywood...consider Greta Garbo and John Gilbert in silent classics), this essential 'touch' is manifested, the touch of chemistry between a man and a woman. In her role, Ava Gardner is given considerable freedom in exploring a woman with her own self and she does brilliantly in the task. Their scenes simultaneously stimulate the similarities and and differences between female and male, between her expectations and his expectations...'her normal thing is not his normal thing' In one of the most powerful lines of the film, after she has lost the child, the doctor utters Don't you, people, talk to each other? Yet, they are reconciled in the most unpredictable circumstances (here, the ever present anti-war aspect). A great performance.SUPPORTING CAST Although not much can be said about Hildegard Knef (or rather Hildegarde Nef) except for her looks, Susan Hayward does a fine job in more difficult scenes. She is constantly, like in his mind and so in ours, in the shadow of Ava Gardner's character. However, putting it justly, some of her scenes are played skillfully and memorably. A note must be made of the actor who plays the uncle of Harry not only because his role is crucial in the storyline but also because he utters certain edgy lines not easily forgotten.All things considered, SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO has stood a test of time not so much as a display of some 'visual marvels' but as a reflective classic made convincing by Gregory Peck forever associated with Hemingway's story brought to screen. Enjoying the movie now, I do not wonder its lasting impact on viewers, on my Grandma who saw it half a century ago. "},{"Title":"As hyenas cackle in the distance...","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was surprised to find most of this film version of Hemingway's short-story classic so tepid.Gregory Peck's character is a handsome devil concerned first and foremost about himself. His life has been a quest for fame, yet all his adventures as a writer have provided him with fodder that hasn't added up to much.The women he bedded along the way were mere pretty, powerless distractions. As the doctor tells Peck after Cynthia has miscarried Don't you people ever talk? When they do, they don't actually hear.The most meaningful part of this film was its portrayal of man as a self-deluded creature whose end can come suddenly and ridiculously, as hyenas and vultures lie in wait.Let's not kid ourselves, drawls the cot-bound Harry, who had fancied himself such an alpha male. A door can open suddenly into nothing. And death has been standing there all the while. Yet the characters fool themselves till the end.A very depressive view of the human condition. "},{"Title":"Travesty With No Dignity or Manliness.","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Papa Hemingway claimed to have a policy in dealing with Hollwyood. If they offered you enough money for the rights to a story, you drove to the California border and stopped. You threw the contract to those on the other side. They threw you back a check. Then you got back in the car and raced away.That must be what happened here. Well, if you don't know or admire the story, which is among Hemingway's best, maybe you won't find this abortion as troubling as I did.The short story open with a blunt, pregnant, italicized paragraph about the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard found near the snowy top of Africa's highest mountain. It's not posed as a riddle or anything. It just floats there and shimmers, unconnected to the narrative. Hemingway's story then briefly sketches in the professional quandary and love life of a promising writer who's gest for perfection failed and who now lies dying in a remote African hunting camp. The story ends with the writer hallucinating his departure on a rescue airplane. The hallucination is convincing until the surrealistic ending when the pilot turns and looks at his passenger with a bizarre grin and makes some remark about flying right into the sunrise.The writer of this screenplay, Casey Robinson, has Hollywoodized everything and the director, Henry King, hasn't helped. It's a soap opera with a couple of incidents in Africa to please those in the audience expecting some sort of adventure to go with their romance.I really can't go on about this tripe. I'll give one example, which has no more to do with the story than any other example would. Gregory Peck, the writer, is searching for his lost love, Ava Gardner. He tries to visit her in Madrid but the hotel is closed due to the Spanish Civil War. He finds himself swept up into one of the armies, with no tedious explanations of why or how. The war is being fought all over the country but Peck accidentally finds Gardner wounded, lying half under a spilled ambulance on a battlefield. Gardner has been praying, Oh, mother of God, please let Harry find me. But just as he's kneeling over her, finally confessing his deep love, the medics arrive and begin to cart her off. Peck rushes after them but an officer, believing him to be a deserter, shoots Peck in the leg. Last shot of this wretched scene -- a wounded Peck hobbling after the departing stretcher, shouting for them to stop, before falling to the ground, unable to continue.If you can sit through this, you'll really enjoy the rest of the movie. The script makes a great deal out of that scintillating first paragraph. It's become a riddle which Peck solves. He even spells out the solution in case you might miss it. And at the end, instead of Death flying him off into a blinding sun, the vultures fly away, Peck lives, and triumphant music swells on the sound track. Everybody is happy. Even Hemingway, who may have hated the way Hollywood sanitized his work but who happily cashed its checks. "},{"Title":"Susan playing second fiddle to Ava?","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" First, I found this movie, like most here, boring. Mainly a Susan fan, but i found her role was almost secondary to Ava's. I think Ava's part was more complex. I could not imagine why Susan chose to be in this one at all, until I read somewhere that she only accepted this role, cause Hedy Lamarr, her pal, was to play the Ava role, but Hedy turned it down, mainly cause of salary dispute. Hedy was in demand at that time because of her big comeback in Samson And Delilah. Unfortunately, Susan had to go through her commitment. Aside from that, I felt that the flashbacks were intrusive to the story line, and so I got lost along the way. BTW, Peck looked bored as well. "},{"Title":"Great actors in mediocre movie","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer Harry Street (Gregory Peck) lies injured with an infected wound on his leg in the shadow of Mount Kilamanjaro. He awaits for help with his wife Helen (Susan Hayward) by his side as he recalls his past failings and his first love Cynthia Green (Ava Gardner).This was nominated for Best Cinematography for that year. Certainly the widelife filming looks great. With the great actors involved, I had hoped for better. Peck and Hayward have a tough time establishing chemistry. They are in Africa with Peck dying. He's an angry drunk much in keeping with the Ernest Hemingway type character. It's a little bit against type of his usual nice guy persona. They fight more than they show affection. Peck and Hayward's story all happened in the past. All of it moves very slowly. The movie is very static and stiff. It's lucky for the movie that the characters are played by such giant stars. If they shone less brightly, this would truly be not worthwhile at all. As it is, it's nice to see these 3 stars in one movie no matter how good or bad it is. "},{"Title":" At 17,000 feet is a dead and Frozen Snow Leopard, but why was he there?   ","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on the memoirs of Ernest Hemingway and is directed by Henry King. In a nut shell the story arises from a injured man who's leg is infected from a thorn lodged in it. The dying man is Harry Street (Gregory Peck) who believes he is dying and begins to reflect on a wasted life. With his third wife (Susan Hayward) at his side, Harry recounts what he considers are the highlights of his writing career. Each segment illuminates the drama of Bullfighting in Madrid, participating in the Franco Spanish war, boating in the Mediterranean sea and on safari in Africa. However, despite all his adventures and having to write his personal exploits, he feels that none of them ever measured up to his real ambition or success. Further, none ever brought him closer to answering his uncle's riddle of 'the snow leopard on the summit of Kilimmajaro.' For fans of Gregory Peck, this movie is slow to excite or entertain as Peck is known as a man of action. Indeed, his cast members which include Leo G. Carroll and Torin Thatcher neither lend or detract from the film. As a result, Peck's death bed recollections are anticlimactically to his other screen roles. Still, his screen appearance is enough to warrant audience attention. Taken as part of his life works' this film is a must, to see or to put it on a shelf as a Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Simplified, but still with a flair of Hemingway","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you have read the Hemingway story you will be disappointed, because this is - surprise! -) - the Hollywood version of the story (much more simple and shallow and simple) with an altogether different ending. Also, the movie-makers have taken material from other Hemingway stories - about other characters - and mixed with the Kilimanjaro story. Still, it retains something of Hemingway as well.Gregory Peck is handsome as ever, and Ava Gardner is gorgeous as ever. The scenes from Africa are also unusually realistic for the time. One can see that not all of it is shot in a studio.As a woman, I can also relate very much to Ava Gardner's character. She wanted so much to have a child, to have something to hold onto in the world. But when the child she was carrying would have come between her and her lover - or this was what she feared - as it did not fit in with his life plan at that time, she got rid of it, masking the abortion as an accident. Very many women all through the ages, have been in the same situation. And very many men have had it on their conscience. "},{"Title":"He has to look good shooting that rifle","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" A man gets caught between Susan Hayward and Ava Gardner in this adaptation of Ernest Hemingway's novel by 20th Century Fox. There are, to be sure, greater problems in the world than having to choose between Miss Hayward and Miss Gardner. Though personally this writer thinks that Ava Gardner would win the coin toss each time in real life.Mr. Peck plays the Hemingway protagonist (a stand-in for Hemingway himself) with just the right combination of ease and dis-ease. There are some good outdoor hunting scenes, and through it all, Peck is perfectly groomed and dressed. Perhaps Cary Grant's tailor joined the hunting expedition. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually like old films and the title and cast of this one seemed a good bet. What a disappointment. Peck is grossly miscast - he's just not the gigolo he's portrayed, nor does he look like a man who's dying. Nor does 'Cynthia Green' convince me, even the name is too boring for the beautiful Ava Gardner. And the 'hunting' scene - sorry, standing in front of somebody else's adventure backdrop is again unconvincing as are the actual rhino shots, another time another place. The whole script is endlessly boring and I can't wait to get rid of it to the charity shop where I found it. And the 'Africans' - who are they kidding? 'What's he gonna do, sprinkle me with monkey dust? Oh Lord, somebody please put him out of his misery and dismantle the set. The 'natives' did try to sound as though they'd learned their lines and that unconvincing chant with the luckless rhino head on a stretcher PULEASE! i don't know how painful gangrene is but Peck sure is bearing up well considering he only had his bandage changed but once and did he utter a sound when Hayward lanced the horrid green swelling? Nope, just looked his normal handsome self. Perhaps Humphrey Bogart might have managed this ponderously awful script better..but even he can't do miracles. The only one who deserved an Oscar was the hyena sniffing around the tent with a view to his next meal. "},{"Title":"Truth at the top of the Kilimanjaro mountain &#x85;","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm ashamed to admit it, but I've never read Ernest Hemingway, I saw film adaptations, I'm familiar with Hemingway's tumultuous and adventurous life, his body of work, his monumental legacy on the field of literature, and it's out of respect to the writer, and to the Man, with a major M, that I start this review with a confession. If there is one thing I learned from Hemingway, and which The Snows of Kilimanjaro clearly states, is that no one should speak about what he doesn't know. I could use Wikipedia to establish some parallels between Gregory Peck's character as novelist Harry Street and Ernest Hemingway, about all the biographical elements of the story, but how could that ever replace the 'reading' experience?I've never been such a purist and if I had to read all the books before their adaptations, it would never end. But now, it fits both the author's and the film's spirits, which is that writing is not a profession, it's a condition, a choice a man makes to be the privileged witness of his world and sharing it with passion, understanding and humanism. You can call it 'existentialism', it might be even simpler than that, let's just call it honesty and sincerity. No one who hasn't faced the atrocities of war can ever write about death, no one who has ever lived an unfulfilled passion can write about love; no one who hasn't been jailed can write about freedom, no one who hasn't traveled around the world can ever give a universal dimension to his oeuvre. And when Harry decides to become a writer, the only encouragement he gets from his Uncle Bill (superbly portrayed by Leo G. Carroll) is a shotgun, to go hunting. It's only in hunting that a man can find the meanings of life and death, of danger and heroism, they don't mean anything special when you got them, but their lack is hugely insufferable. This is why 'Hunting' is what a writer's life should be in microcosm, a sort of quest to find a meaning that might never be given, a thirst to discover every place in the world, to challenge life and succumb to any of its temptations drinks, women, lust without abandoning such male virtues as courage and responsibility, before finally extracting from experiences stories' raw material. And the film opens with Harry's voice-over exposing what is perhaps the greatest enigma of life Kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain 19,710 feet high, and is said to be the highest mountain in Africa. Close to the western summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard. No one has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude.Thankfully, we never get the explanation. The riddle is only a metaphor about finding our own truth, by reaching the ultimate limit of our efforts. And as the movie opens, we find Harris, suffering from a thorn prick, his infected leg attracting both vultures and hyenas. The disillusioned Harris, with his girlfriend Helen played by Susan Hayward, contemplates what seems to be a true failure, for his efforts never allowed him to become the accomplished writer he dreamed to be, the 'leopard in the summit'.For the sake of adventures, he abandoned the premise of family life with Cynthia Nixon, played by Ava Gardner in a performance all in sensitivity and emotion, contrasting with her adventurous and wisecracking attitude in Mogambo. And after Cynthia, it's a cold but sexy European rich lady who introduced him to all the artistic European elite, anyway, Harris obviously lost his track and tried to find it out by reaching Cynthia who became an inaccessible Holy Grail, replacing an unclear dream, but ironically guiding him to a perilous trip during Spain's Civil War, before meeting Helen in Paris, the setting of his romance with Cynthia.Peck's performance is wooden and deliberately cynical, like a man who doesn't think much of himself, but it succeeds in embodying the tragedy of someone who never exactly knew himself, where he stood for, and perhaps, that is the worst failure an adventurer writer can ever make becoming an intellectual malcontent. On his deathbed, his Uncle doesn't talk much about hunting but rather leaves him the Kilimanjaro riddle, implicitly acknowledging that it's up to each one of us to meet with our destiny, and to understand our world, according to our own sensitivity. The Snows of Kilimandjaro raise very important question that might hit sensitive chords in the hearts of wannabe artists, but it also helps to embrace life in a more mature way, what is it that we seek success? money? Harris got them but he lost self-respect. Love and passion? Sometimes, they can undermine the very road to destiny, but lacking them is even worse. We all have to find out the remedy of our own existential malaise and pray for that they wouldn't be worse than the evil.On a more personal level, I learned from the film that only experience forges conscience and only conscience can guide the words the closest to truth. I love to write, but I never wrote anything significant in my life, however, I've never wrote as well as when I narrated my trip to the Toubkal, which is the second highest mountain in Africa. I could describe the effect the wind had on my eyes, the sensation of feet being mired into the freezing snow, and the exhilaration of being on the top of the mountain. I could because I lived it, and no one could get that experience off me.And oddly enough it was before I ever knew about that riddle, that I concluded the story with a quote from another significant author of XXthe century, Khalil Jibran who seemed to have his own answer to the Kilmanjaro riddle&#x85; and to life.&#x85;when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb "}{"Title":"Kilimanjaro-Nearly Flawed Me ***1/2","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" My only criticism of this wonderful 1952 film was that Susan Hayward did not get the Ava Gardner part. That being said, Gardner, for a change, gave a wonderful performance as the misguided wife of Gregory Peck. She was really a character out of Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises, as well.This terrific film explores life's meaning and generally those pictures are good ones, as we saw in 1946's The Razor's Edge.Peck plays a writer consumed with work and success. This provides tragic results with Gardner, as we see the Spanish Civil War again in Hemingway's writings.Hayward, for a change is rather subdued for Hayward. She plays Helen, his second wife, who always felt that she was in competition with his first wife. "},{"Title":"good  intentions","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" nice adaptation, inspired cast, beautiful images. but after decades, only thing real important is good intention. because the film seems be long story, too long, about nothing. the rhythm is slow, the gestures - ash of snow. and the feelings is to view a kind of Casablanca. Cizen Kane copy. sure, it is difficult to say than it is bad but it is vapid. or only good instrument to remember great names of cinema. but is it enough ? after its end, the impression is strange. a so praised movie and you are unhappy ? a unique adaptation and you expect more ? a so clever story and you do not a brilliant remark ? it is not reasonable. but, this is truth. old lance. and boring moments. and a lot of good intentions. a trip in past. and, sure, slices of a legendary title. "},{"Title":"Great Movie and Storyline","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have viewed this movie countless times. Gregory Peck, Uncle Bill, Haywood and Garner all make this film become real. The ideal of becoming a great writer is important to Harry Street. Therefore, in Harry's mind and heart, he has failed by not suffering alone on his life-long safari. Harry was lost between love and the safari.The novel indicates that Harry died in the book. Yet, in the film, Harry lives. Gregory Peck is a real man. He truly becomes Harry Street. I love this film. All three wives are strong in their own right. Also,great sax scene to set the mood.Overall, this is a great piece of work from Hemingway. Although, it my understanding that Hemingway was not particularly pleased with the film.I believe, Henry King should receive a great deal of credit for his body of work. Many of my favorite films are all directed by him. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Hey, that's not Charlie Byrd is it ?","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" No, it's Benny Carter playing the sax at the bar/party. The movie is nostalgic in these ways. It really looks like the time that has gone by, but because of its simplicity, appears more vivid.Harry (Greg Peck) the writer has very bad infection in his legs in Africa by the Mt. Kilimanjaro. He's delirious and has regrets about his past love life. The movie goes from scene to scene about his past life occurrences. His life is not so bad, but something critical is missing. Harry's wound is symbolic of the condition of his heart.The conclusion seems to be that if you don't know what's worth dying for, you don't know what is worth living for. This enigma is slowly killing Harry. In the end it seems that what he has already is more than what he needs to go on.The transition Harry goes through is written beautifully, and in a stylish way. Harry couldn't find what he was looking for in Paris, but seems to have found it in Africa. Sometimes you need the right setting to see things in clear perspective.Harry in a way serves as our alter ego, as we get to live life through his perspective. The movie is great in that we can see shadows of our own life through his story. "},{"Title":"Don't talk it all away","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the time he was writing Ernest Hemingway was regarded as one of America's finest literary assets, and virtually all his work was given a prestigious screen adaptation at some point in the 40s and 50s. Short on action but full of introspection, often set in exotic locations, his stories typically made for slow-moving but visually stunning motion pictures.Slow-moving and visually stunning could also loosely describe the style of director Henry King, who helmed this version of Hemingway's short story The Snows of Kilimanjaro. King was by no means dull, and he never got hung up on imagery, but he certainly encouraged a thoughtful style from his cast and had a love of natural beauty. His shots of the outdoors are unique; never expansive, empty landscapes but always layered, detailed compositions that show off shape and contour. There is always a sense of closeness and intimacy in King's pictures, evident from the first few shots of The Snows of Kilimanjaro &#x96; a close-up of Gregory Peck, the shadow of a tree branch sweeping across his face, cut with close-ups of him watching the flight of a vulture &#x96; a haunting and compelling introduction to the story.And Peck is very much the right man for this sort of thing &#x96; deep, serious, with an air of melancholy, but also handsome and charismatic. And of course, a very fine actor. He handles the lengthy stretches of dialogue well, putting character into Hemingway's words. And his women here are equal matches, especially Susan Hayward, who is all quiet confidence. From her voice to the way her arms lie as she sits next to Peck, everything says here is a strong-willed woman, every bit an equal partner in her relationship with Peck. And every bit an attractive woman too. One thing that The Snows of Kilimanjaro suffers from however is a lack of really outstanding supporting players.I haven't read the original Hemingway story on which this is based. Apparently the central theme is supposedly Harry Street's sense of dissatisfaction with his own writing. However, whether it is differences in this adaptation or simply my own impression of it, I was struck far more by Street's rocky love life, in particular the series of disillusioned women he leaves behind him. It is to me the epitome of 1950s melodrama, from the stabbing score of Alfred Newman to the searing shot of Peck and Ava Gardner kissing before the stark backdrop of a tree. And it seems this is how the American public saw it too. Despite its hard-going literary roots, it became the third highest-grossing picture of the year. "},{"Title":"Stunning Film","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why had I never watched this film previously? Because I have never appreciated Ava Gardner. Okay, I may need to reevaluate that prejudice. In this film she is not only beautiful, but plays her role extremely well. The other female lead -- Susan Hayward -- is also excellent, although you probably won't think so in the early minutes of the film. And in fact, that is the one real criticism I have about this film -- a lack of character continuity. For the most part, Susan Hayward's character's involvement is all at the same time frame -- while her husband (Gregory Peck) lies dying in Africa. Yet, in her scenes at the beginning of the film she is cold as ice, but just a couple of days later (albeit at the end of the film), she is dramatically different...brave, sympathetic, and in fact the heroine. Similarly, when the witch doctor visits the camp, first she hates him, then she is sympathetic to him, and then she screams at him and sends him away. Similarly, Gregory Pecks character is first totally unsympathetic, then fairly likable...even before his reevaluation of life. The African hunting scenes are stunning, especially for their time, and its too bad the film was made in 1952...a couple of years later it could have been wide-screen. But the color photography is impressive, and you'll be especially intrigued by the performance of the hyena near the end of the film. It is said that Hemingway was unhappy that in the film, Peck's character lives, while in the short story he dies. Well, Ernest, a film is a different vehicle than the written word, and thinking back to Ebeneezer Scrooge's question to the third spirit -- it can't be too late, otherwise why show me these things. Well, if Peck's character simply dies, what then was the sense of him finally understanding his own failings? Frankly, in my view, the film got it right. In addition to the Africa filming, other scenes in Europe are quite impressive, and I found the scenes in the Spanish civil war particularly effective. Supporting players include Leo G. Carroll (great, as usual) and Hildegard Neff (sorry, totally unlikable character...and a rather poor performance). In all, this is a beautiful film to watch, and despite Hemingway's misgivings, a great story line. Well done! "},{"Title":"The Importance of Being Ernest Hemmingway","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Producer Darryl F. Zanuck was great a putting projects together. You start with a great writer's story - in this case, Ernest Hemingway - and, since it's a short tale, add some exciting material from some of his other works. Hire exemplary veteran director Henry King for the film, and you've got the makings of a classic. Then, mix-up superstar Gregory Peck (as Harry Street) with two very powerful leading women - Susan Hayward (as Helen) and Ava Gardner (as Cynthia Green) - so, it's looking like everyone needs to dust off their mantles for the impending truckload of awards. Not so fast&#x85; Yes, those involved do well, and the picture pulled no punches at the box office, trouncing Mr. Zanuck's own just released Viva Zapata! But the story is a deadly bore, utterly and completely missing the point of Mr. Hemmingway's original story. We keep returning to Mr. Peck, as he supposedly lays dying from a thorn prick, relating the story of his lovers. The ever-present, and somewhat bored-looking, Ms. Hayward is obviously the one who wins his affections. It's too bad the Garbo appearance Peck mentioned was not done, but you do get beautiful substitute Hildegard Knef (as Countess Liz).***** The Snows of Kilimanjaro (9/17/52) Henry King ~ Gregory Peck, Susan Hayward, Ava Gardner, Hildegard Knef "},{"Title":"Dying author contemplates his past life and loves","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hemingway apparently wasn't too impressed with this film adaptation of one of his best known stories, but it's worth seeing at least once.The main problem is that Harry Street, the adventurous writer played by Gregory Peck, is an unsympathetic character for most of the film. As the story progresses, he gradually becomes more thoughtful and self aware, but he's so wrapped up in himself in the early part of the film, that one wonders what some of these lovely women see in him.The great love of his life was the beautiful and sensitive Cynthia,played by Ava Gardner in a heartbreaking and unforgettable performance. Harry's inability to understand and relate to Cynthia, and her inability to convey her deepest feelings to him, despite their love for each other, result in tragedy that alters their lives forever. Their unexpected reunion, in the chaos of a battlefield years later, is a powerful and deeply emotional scene that's probably the best moment of the movie.The bull fighting and big game hunting scenes are well staged, with some beautiful location shots of the African safari camp in the shadow of Mount Kilimanjaro. But most of the film isn't that impressive, visually. The characters, and their troubled relationships, are the core of the storyline, and the biggest problem is simply that Harry Street is a character almost impossible to like or care much about. "},{"Title":"Aimless classic","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tastes certainly have changed. A half century ago the Snows of Kilaminjaro was considered a romantic hit, maybe because of its all-star cast. But for all its classy cast and classic origins, one wonder why anyone -- producers included -- thought this was a great idea for a movie. With so little action, it would have been better as a stage production. As a person who views a movie solely for its entertainment value, I must admit I was drawn in -- but mainly in the hopes for some drama that would grab me. The message of the successful writer who views his life as a failure could be told in 15 minutes or less. I don't know if there is anything here that in the hands of a better screenplay and director could make this story worthwhile for the screen. Let's hope no one decides it's worthy of a remake. "},{"Title":"What were they doing at that altitude that made them make such a bad movie?","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the worst directed, worst written and worst acted movies I have ever seen. Everything about it shouts, I'm just too lazy to think of anything better to do with this material, and it really shows. With a story that cries out for subjective camera treatment and creative transitions to the lengthy feverish flashbacks, Henry King opts for the least inspired choices possible. He cuts awkwardly from past to present, with no unifying metaphor, no introspective ownership of the recollections or the triggers that brought them to the fevered mind of Harry Street. His camera is shockingly static. Entire scenes are filmed in locked-down medium distance two- shots, with nary a sympathetic reaction shot or close-up to give the actors a chance to do something up close and personal. Was he on too tight a schedule to afford the simplest of additional set-ups?The so-called beauty shots are nothing more than run-of-the-mill step off the tour bus and take a snapshot caliber. They do not deserve the accolades they fetched in 1952. National Georgraphic was already doing better. The nature sequences are shot in different light than the film's continuity, with different film stock, and seem to be stock footage which a cheap assistant producer purchased and edited in. The acting is clueless. Gregory Peck is badly miscast as the obnoxious, irresponsible writer Harry Street. He doesn't do cynicism or world-weariness well, and he plays a drunk very unconvincingly. Half the time, you get the feeling he can't wait for the take to be over. He was not having fun, and he definitely did not rise to the challenge. He had no clue how to portray a writer, and he had no idea how a writer might die under ironic circumstances.The script was laughable at times, dropping in Hemingwayesque lines that were at odds with the speech patterns the writer had established. It was a bad script. And it had the smell of badness. But the writer couldn't smell it. And he was a bad writer. But he wrote the move anyway. And it was a bad movie. And its smell was bad.The only redeeming scene in the whole movie was the portrait of Rue Mouftard, where Leonard and Betsy have their little apartment in Paris, and where H'way lived. It was lovingly portrayed by someone who knew the quarter and knew how to photograph it.So there you are. Don't bother renting this film unless you want to run a seminar on bad movie making. "}{"Title":"Self Involved","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Snows of Kilimanjaro gives Gregory Peck a privilege afforded only Gary Cooper previously, a second chance to be an Ernest Hemingway hero in a film. Just as Cooper had done A Farewell to Arms and For Whom the Bell Tolls, Peck had previously starred in The Macomber Affair. This was also his second film with both Susan Hayward and Ava Gardner. It's a pity that the film did not call for the two of them to be sharing any scenes, that would have made it a better film.Peck is novelist Harry Street, a man modeled by Ernest Hemingway on the character of Ernest Hemingway. Or at least some of the less attractive aspects of him. He's at a safari camp at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro in Kenya and slowly dying of blood poisoning while his second wife, Susan Hayward attends him and awaits for a plane that can do a medical evacuation, hopefully in time.Hayward knows that she's always come up second best in Peck's eyes to his first wife Ava Gardner. In his feverish delirium Peck's mind starts wandering back over his life and especially to his early days in Paris as part of Hemingway's lost generation. And the relationship with his first wife.The problem I find with this film is that Peck's character is so self involved that I can't see why these two beautiful women are falling all over for him. Maybe that's an occupational hazard with authors or artists of any kind, but it prevents The Snows of Kilimanjaro from being a first rate film or first rate Hemingway. Nevertheless the stars are just fine in their parts and another part you should look for is that of Leo G. Carroll who is Peck's uncle and mentor. It's a kinder, gentler version of Elliott Templeton from The Razor's Edge. For that reason I'm sure it must have been offered to Clifton Webb.There are some gorgeous sets and terrific color cinematography and not surprising that The Snows of Kilimanjaro was nominated for Oscars in both categories.If you want to see Gregory Peck as a Hemingway hero, check out The Macomber Affair before this one. And if you want to see Ava Gardner as a Hemingway heroine, check out The Sun Also Rises. As for Susan, this was her one and only shot with Papa. "},{"Title":"Like A Travel Guide of the 50's","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This low key affair starring Gregory Peck and Ava Gardner as torn apart lovers is set in France, Spain and of course Tanzania, Africa. With these gorgeous settings it's a shame the film doesn't quite match up to them as it is rather dull in some places by comparison. On the other hand, there are some very entertaining and moving sequences like when Cynthia (Gardner) and Harry (Peck) first meet, when Cynthia loses her baby, when she runs of with the dancer in Spain and when she ultimately meets her demise in the Spanish Cival War. Unfortunately, when Gardner is out of the picture the film just isn't the same. Peck is surprisingly dull as is Susan Hayward and the scenes with Hildegard Knef as Countess Liz are just plain annoying.But in the end the film doesn't match it's glamorous and exotic locations which is a shame. However, there is some enjoyment to be had and this isn't a bad film just an above average one in which Ava Gardner steals the show. "},{"Title":"Fourth time around.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this King movie four times,and its appeal has considerably diminished as far as I'm concerned.The main flaw lies in the fact that all the parts-present , past and even pluperfect- do not hang very well.It does not seem that Hemingway was King's fortea few years later,he adapted him again with the sun also rises which featured Ava Garner,the obligatoryFrench part and the trip to Spain complete with corridas as well.As users have already pointed out, Gardner's death is guaranteed to net nothing but horse- laugh,and Hildegarde Kneff's part is a pointless stupid one.What remains is interesting but not particularly memorablethe present ,with Susan Heyward as some kind of Gregory Peck's nurse (and latest love)-a handy woman,she mends broken hearts and is useful for abscesses.The best remains the splendid African pictures.And of course the two beautiful actresses that make the movie worth to look into all the same.But desultory best describes the screenplay . "},{"Title":"Beware of the DVD","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a big and colorful movie made for us by Darryl Zanuck and Henry King; two of the best. It was made just prior to CinemaScope and it still surprises me to see it isn't wide screen. The trouble is that the movie had suffered severely from poor preservation, and much of the excellent camera work on location in Africa suffers badly from neglect. So also the sound track is not good. Try to find this in VHS. Why the DVD wasn't made from a quality VHS is anyone's guess.Since 1952 I've read all of Hemingway's books. 100%; no kidding. Even his collected letters at 1000+ pages. I'd call this a very good Hemingway movie. Enough has been said by other reviewers. "},{"Title":"Great Cast For A Hemingway Picture","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gregory Peck is in prime form in this one. Susan Hayward & Ava Gardiner are too. While Himingway's book it is based upon is too complex to bring into the screen in great shape, at least this one makes the effort to do so quite well.One of my favorite character actors Leo G Carroll is here and prime in support as always. The story of a successful man who loses his dream is how the plot here nets out. He will go anywhere to find her but then loses her for good. In a way, this movie simulates some of the settings in For Whom The Bell Tolls but goes beyond that.Even though the film has shortcomings, seeing Peck performing near the top of his game with this cast makes it very worthwhile viewing. "},{"Title":"Let me help you push off!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Snows Of Kilminjaro is a movie of awesome awfulness I can't even fathom where to start. Gregory Peck, whom I'm beginning to believe To Kill A Mockingbird was a stroke of luck for him, plays an author with a passion for hunting (especially hunting stock footage animals) while he's not writing. Which&#133; seems to be a lot. The story starts while he lays dying from a wound he received from an animal attack, he reminisces about his life, beginning with a very strange episode with a would-be girlfriend, who is insulted by his Uncle. The scene has the Peck character shown in profile only during this scene, which is rather strange, I have no idea what that was all about. Pretty soon he's in Paris, where he romances Ava Gardner. They get married, until she's romanced by a hoochie coochie dancer in Spain (Oh I hate it when that happens). They meet soon after, get this, while she's pinned under an Ambulance truck! (Don't ask), more travels and women ensue, until we get to the present day where he acts and acts to show the effect of his wound while Hayward burbles lines like I'm going to cut open your swollen wound!. Will Peck survive? Will Peck Survive this movie? Tune in to find out. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Movie","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Snows of Kilimanjaro is a disappointing film which made it impossible to feel anyhting for its main characters.  Even  the wonderful Gregory Peck can't breathe any life into this corpse of a movie.  The director of this dull and silly movie had all the wrong instincts.  He managed to coax Gregory Peck, Susan Hayward and Ava Gardner into boring portrayals of their characters, which unfortunately is the only thing I find worth mentioning regarding this insipid film.  A much better Gregory Peck film is 12 O'Clock High.  He is terrific in that film.  The only other Ava Gardner film I can recall is The Barefoot Contessa, which is also a silly movie.  I can't think of anything else that I have seen Susan Hayward in, nor any other movie which Henry King directed.  I rate this movie 55/100, or a failure.   "}]