[{"Title":"A Film to Remember","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"48 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  When I was young I was probably the only kid in years who had checked out our library's copy of Walter Lord's A Night to Remember.  It began a lifelong fascination with the ill-fated liner.  I was home sick on the couch a short time later when I saw this film for the first time on TV.  Forty years later, I still remember how this movie touched me then.  Even then I was hooked -- not just because the film dealt with the Titanic, but for some visceral reason I couldn't put my finger on.  Still can't -- decades later. I'm not ashamed to say I continue to get choked up by the scene where Webb is on the slanting deck with his son, telling the boy he's never been prouder of him.  Fast forward several years and I'm sitting on the couch watching this film with my own son for the first time.  Sure enough, I'm having a tough time not losing it all during the Webb and son scene (especially poignant now) when I sneak a peek over at my boy.  I've seen him cry maybe two or three times in his whole life yet there he sat with unmistakably moist eyes.  What a moment to share.  I'm very happy to see so many other people here feel positively toward this movie. One of the defining movie experiences of my life.     "},{"Title":"You've seen Cameron/Leo's Version, Now See THIS!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" While I saw and enjoyed the current Titanic, I've always held a special place for the excellent 1953 version. Charles Brackett and Walter Reisch's Oscar-winning screenplay, deftly blending fact with fancy, tells the story compellingly in about half the time of the Cameron film. And what a cast! Barbara Stanwyck, Clifton Webb, Richard Basehart, the young Robert Wagner (looking positively DiCaprioesque, as it were!), the (unfortunately) near-forgotten Brian Aherne, and the underrated Audrey Dalton all give sterling performances. The special effects are equal to anything in the Cameron film. And it all comes together under Jean Negulesco's sure-footed direction. As I say, you've seen the Cameron film, now see the film where they got it right!To update these comments almost seven years after they were originally written, the DVD of this film is definitely one for any Titanic buff to have in their collection. It features TWO separate commentary tracks, one by critic Richard Schickel and stars Robert Wagner and Audrey Dalton, the other by Titanic historians. There is also the original theatrical trailer and newsreel footage of the film's premiere and Oscar wins. Most impressive of all, though, is a fascinating feature-length documentary, narrated by Victor Garber (ship-builder Thomas Andrews in the Cameron/DiCaprio film), about the sinking of the Titanic and how's it's been presented in films and on TV from the silent era to the present. All this on one DVD. "},{"Title":"A more poignant love story","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this version more than James Cameron's magnum opus. The focus of the movie was more on human drama than special effects, though the latter was pretty decent for a 1953 movie. Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck are wonderful as an estranged couple who finally reconcile just before they have to part. I reckon their story is more poignant because it's a greater tragedy to be parted when a couple has history together, as opposed to Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet's characters, who met aboard the ship. They only seem like they've known each other forever because the movie's so darn long.I guess it's a matter of which you prefer, plot or effects. It's interesting to note that this Titanic won a screenplay Oscar - its only one - whereas James Cameron's Titanic won 11 Oscars but didn't even get a screenplay nomination. "},{"Title":"A Fine Drama With an Outstanding Bonus Documentary","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Winner of three Academy Awards, the 1953 Titanic (dates are important because of the plethora of identically titled films about the great disaster), was recently re-released by 20th Century Fox as part of their important DVD Studio Classics series.Fascination with the fate of the huge and opulent liner is as strong as ever, especially since improved technology has led to more breathtaking visits to the ship's resting spot on the floor of the Atlantic where state-of-the-art robots with cameras explore the crumbling interiors of the still eerily majestic but rapidly decaying wreck.The first film dramatizing the fate of the White Star Line's greatest ship came out very soon after the 1912 sinking.  Since then there have been many movies and several Broadway shows about the loss of over 1500 lives (The Unsinkable Molly Brown and, of course, Titanic).20th Century's contribution to the genre came before the historically much more accurate A Night to Remember, based on Walter Lord's bestselling book of that title.  And of course it can't begin to match the special effects and wizardry, to say nothing of a cloyingly popular tune, of James Cameron's international top money grosser.But Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb bring a dramatic and impelling story to the screen that remains powerful and, really, very sad decades after the movie's release.  Directed by Jean Negulesco, Titanic has major (and what could have been easily avoidable) errors about the April 1912 collision with an iceberg.  That doesn't matter because this film is about the relationship of rich, haughty, upper class European (no nationality specified) Webb and his estranged American wife of some two decades, Barbara Stanwyck.  They have an ingenue teenage girl who is a Parisian snob and a younger boy who adores his dad.  The feeling is mutual until Stanwyck reveals that her husband, from whom she's fleeing so the kids can grow up in darkest rural Michigan as Americans, isn't the boy's father.  The ship is the setting for a family in dissolution with every first-time viewer knowing the matter won't be resolved when the ship docks in new York.Of course the tempestuous exchanges between Webb and Stanwyck, strongly and believably acted, must give way to the exigencies of dealing with a mortally stricken vessel. Stanwyck and Webb are at the height of their acting careers..  The last dialogue between Webb and his son as drowning approaches is among the most moving and heart-wrenching I have ever experienced in a movie (maybe it's just a guy thing).Barbara Stanwyck said in an interview that when her lifeboat scene ended she burst into uncontrollable tears, so strongly had she felt the experience of the survivors.DVDs frequently have extra features which can and do run from the inane to the outstanding.  I have yet to encounter a more valuable and fascinating extra than the documentary Beyond Titanic, a ninety-five minute film only a bit shorter than the movie itself.  While many Titanic documentaries focus on the causes of the maritime debacle or the exploration of the sunken ship, this film is about the social and cultural significance and heritage of one of the world's most consistently engrossing and endlessly studied tragedies.Beyond Titanic presents the cinema history of the voyage from the first silent reels emerging soon after the event to the most recent movies.  Authors of outstanding books on the Titanic are interviewed and film clips from movies and newsreels bring the story to life.While watching the movie before we saw the documentary, my teenage son turned to me and cynically asked why women and children should have had a right to available lifeboat seats before men were debarked from the listing vessel.  Beyond Titanic tackles the social mores of the time and quickly but clearly shows that the heroism of men who yielded the opportunity to get into the boats, and thus forfeited their lives, was a standard that those opposed to woman's suffrage applauded. Fighters for women's rights were embarrassed, indeed appalled, and many clearly felt that no such consideration should have been extended on the basis of gender.  Probably no one disputed that children should have been saved before adults (at least I hope so).There are more extra features including newsreels.And to think that this new release cost but $9.95.  For the movie, 8/10.  For Beyond Titanic, 10/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"     Just a precaution If you are expecting a completely accurate historical account of the night with all the scientific details neatly in place, look elsewhere. This film instead focuses (touchingly) on the human drama involved with the ship, with many of the elements of real passengers' accounts rolled into the story of Clifton Webb and wife Barbara Stanwyck (Both excellent; when Isn't Barbara Stanwyck excellent?) and their children. A few real characters are involved, but for the most part the drama surrounding the fictional characters is in the forefront. A beautiful and striking account, the film deserved a few more Oscars than it got, primarily for Miss Stanwyck and a supporting Oscar for Robert Wagner, who does wonderfully in his role. "},{"Title":"Webb and Stanwyck Excel","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This film has been overshadowed by the 1997 blockbuster, but this 1953 story of the tragic ocean liner certainly stands tall on its own merits, not the least of which are the star performances by Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck.Built around the domestic drama of a fictional family, the well-known story of the sinking of the Titanic unfolds in an unrelenting and straightforward fashion. Brian Aherne (as the captain) is the victim of delayed and incorrect information and sails the ship right into the iceberg. We get glimpses of the rich and famous who populated the doomed ship as well as the luscious interiors of the ship.The special effects are tremendous without taking over the film. The final scenes of the sinking ship are awesome. But the story of innocent passengers takes center stage here. Stanwyck and Webb are a squabbling couple with two children. The girl (Audrey Dalton) is a snob who is charmed by a college boy (Robert Wagner). Thelma Ritter plays a Molly Brown- like character addicted to loud jewelry and cards. Richard Basehart plays a defrocked priest. Allyn Joslyn plays the infamous coward who dresses like a woman to gain a seat on a lifeboat. Oh, and that's Mae Marsh the kid gives his seat to.The final scenes of Webb and son are superb. An excellent film. "},{"Title":"Taut, suspenseful and poignant film.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I am a Barbara Stanwyck fan first and foremost. I have never seen her make a false move on film. I could name several films that were Oscar-worthy for Barbara, this is definitely near the top. Titanic is an excellent film. It is taut and to the point. No fluff, just substance. Knowing that all of the family won't survive is heart-wrenching. The ending is poignant and ironic and the life lessons are clear. There are surprises at every turn. Everyone in the film turns in top notch performances. I was just simply blown away! They definitely don't make them like this anymore. Rent it, buy it or check it out at your local library, but see it! "},{"Title":"Strangely modern or simply timeless.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" If you're unfamiliar with Clifton Webb (3 Oscar nominations, 1 Golden Globe award -- all for other work) just think Campbell Scott and you'll not be far off. Webb carries this film. but Ms Stanwyck as his wife, and Robert Wagner and Audrey Dalton as the young couple are all remarkably good. Stanwyck is rarely this on, imhb.The set up is all about the people, not the ship, and it works because when the iceberg strikes, it's as if we never saw it coming, and now these good folk mean the world to us.The pacing is superb, and I can assure you that you will wish the film were longer. Never mind the barely adequate sets they don't slow or offset the action. The B&W photography is strangely modern in the ratio of closeups to long-shots. At least enough of the crowd is constantly moving and filling the screen expertly for us not to notice that the camera is usually stationary.This film was unusually successful on television. It was one of the first of those shown in the late 50's when the networks began showing prime time full length feature films of fairly recent vintage on weekend nights. It was an event. Who knew television could entertain showing prime time movies? "},{"Title":"Holds Its Own","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Although not as honored as the 1997 Leonardo DiCaprio-Kate Winslet story about the Titanic disaster, this version of Titanic starring Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck can definitely hold its own. In fact it got an Oscar itself in 1953 for Best Story and Screenplay. Although there was a lot more sociology in the 1997 blockbuster, people do remember most from it the story of ill fated young love between DiCaprio and Winslet. In this version we're dealing with an older married couple whose marriage is on the rocks. The old story of staying together for their children's sake is what's holding them together. But Stanwyck isn't having any more.It's her children, Harper Carter and Audrey Dalton, that she's most concerned about. Though American from the Middle West, due to their father's influence they're taking on old world and very haughty airs. And you can't get more haughty than Clifton Webb on screen.Brian Aherne is the foolish, but brave Captain Smith whose eagerness to do the bidding of his employers and set a record crossing led to the disaster. Robert Wagner has a nice role as the young college kid who Stanwyck tries to match up with Dalton to wean her away from her father's fascination with titled nobility. Also look for good performances by Thelma Ritter as the Molly Brown in all but name role, Richard Basehart as the defrocked priest and Allyn Joslyn as the eager social climber.It's Webb and Stanwyck who carry the story. Webb who originally is an snob, shows in fact some real character during the disaster. And Barbara Stanwyck's last moments as the film ends are some of then best in her long distinguished career.It's your father's Titanic and a good one too. "},{"Title":"The BEST 'Titanic' Movie..","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The 1997 version was very pretty and had some pretty stunning effects, but this 1953 version had, by far, the best storyline, far better actors and was more engrossing all around.  Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb made a fine team and their story added so much to the tragic environment.  The excellent acting made up for the dated special effects, though the long shots of the ship going down are quite good, even by today's standards. "}{"Title":"Spectacular it isn't, good film making it is","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The first I ever saw or heard of the sinking of the Titanic, was one Saturday evening, when my family sat to watch this film on the old Saturday Night at the Movies.  I have been captivated by the subject ever since.  Of course, since seeing this version,back in the early sixties, I have read Walter Lord's book A Night To Remember, saw the movie A Night To Remember based on that book, painfully sat through two terrible TV movies on the subject, was incredibly bored by the fictional, Raise The Titanic, and totally enthralled by James Cameron's definitive (for me) version. This movie remains, on it's own terms, solid big studio Hollywood entertainment.Right at the start we're given a good fictional story, with Barbara Stanwyck taking her two kids on The Titanic, to get them away from her snooty husband, wonderfully played by Clifton Webb in one of his best roles.  In order to get on the ship, Webb must pay a steerage passenger a great deal of money for a ticket, and agreeing to make sure that the steerage passenger's wife and kids make the voyage okay.  This set's up a great scene later on, as the ship is sinking, but it is also about as much of the people on the lower decks that you'll see in this version.The scenes between Clifton Webb and Barbra Stanwyck are outstanding, There is  one scene in particular, when they are arguing about the fate of they're children, that she tells him a long kept secret, that though brief in nature, is played to perfection.    As for the supporting cast, they are not wasted either.  Thelma Ritter, one of the truly great character actors, is excellent as usual.  A young Richard Basehart, as a priest questioning his faith, is not on the screen a lot, yet is quite convincing.  A young Robert Wagner does just fine trying to win the hand of Audrey Dalton who is equally as good as Clifton Webb's snooty daughter.  There are several real life passengers portrayed, such as Isador and Ida Strauss, and their big scene where she refuses to leave her husband behind, is touching and heartbreaking.If you are looking for a realistic account of the sinking of the Titanic, you won't get it here.  What you do get, is excellent acting, tight drama, and some heart wrenching moments that you won't ever forget.  Spectacular it isn't, good film making it is.     "},{"Title":"The Fine Movie That Gave Me Nightmares","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I think I saw it on Saturday Night At the Movies on Channel 4 in New York City in 1962 - some fifty years after the disaster. I was only eight, and the name of the Titanic was not unknown to me, nor her fate. But I was watching the film, and followed much of the actions in it. But then came that conclusion...I was horrified by the last noisy moments of that purported model of R.M.S. Titanic as it plunged to the bottom.It was not until I read Walter Lord's A NIGHT TO REMEMBER about two years later that I began to realize how that Oscar winning script was full of errors. Some of them (the passengers and crew singing Nearer My God to Thee is a good example) are moving, but did not happen. The fate that awaited most of those 1500 people still on board at 220 A.M. on April 15, 1912 was so apparent that to sing a mournful him regarding approaching death would have caused a really panicky across everyone (already with their nerves stretched too far). But I also read that the ship went down with no explosion, and no huge displacement of water. Actually it went down fairly quietly (since then we know it broke in half, but the passengers were all on the part that was the last to sink), and it went under with a mild gulp. In the film it goes down with a pair of roars, and displacing enough water to send a tidal wave or geyser into the sky (if it had happened in real life it would have flooded Newfoundland!). Silly about that, but for me, for years, I was nervous looking at pictures of the Titanic going down (this has changed since Dr. Ballard found the actual wreck), and in a strange way it effected me - I actually had nightmares about the shipwreck, one triggered by the sound of crickets which my subconscious turned into the clanging of the warning bell on the ship.In SLEEPING IN SEATTLE a scene involves Tom Hanks and his sister and brother-in-law talking about the effect of AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER in making the sister cry (and Hanks and his brother-in-law are equally affected by the film THE DIRTY DOZEN because of the accidental fate of Triny Lopez). But none talk about films that caused nightmares.TITANIC (1953) has a lot going for it. The performance of Clifton Webb (from typical Webb social snob into cuckolded husband into strong father figure at the moment of crisis) was possibly his best dramatic performance in terms of one where his heart came out. Only parts of MR. SCOUTMASTER, THREE COINS IN A FOUNTAIN, and CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN are as critical or moving as this, and in them there are scenes that are far more funny than anything in this film. Here the screenplay enabled Webb's Richard Sturgis to show what he really had inside him. He was more than a man who could lead a cotillion or know what a first rate suit from Saville Row is like as opposed to a White Star liner evening suit.Barbara Stanwyck is equally good - and at a disadvantage. Except for her two children, she is not able to rely on any male opposite Webb. Usually she could rely on one to be there to help pick the pieces at the end. Not here - she rediscovers the man she loved, but she has to reveal the greatest secret of her life and witness the greatest sea tragedy of her time. Quite a price to pay to see what she did have.Brian Ahearn is fine as Captain Smith, who tries everything he can think of to buy more time for his passengers, and finds he can't. Richard Basehart is very good as the disillusioned priest who rediscovers his faith in time to comfort the doomed (including himself).Another poster mentions Thelma Ritter's Molly Brown clone - a dandy performance, but the best is Ritter's quiet wisdom, as she suspects the friendly overtures of so-called manly Allan Joslyn. Her suspicions are paid off. Joslyn last moment in the film is a slight shocker, based on the story of one of the men who fled the ship, rather shamefully.Not as factually correct as A NIGHT TO REMEMBER or TITANIC (1997), but more tolerable (except for that...brr...conclusion) than the Nazi TITANIC (1943). But moving and sturdy in it's own way. "},{"Title":"Compelling, emotional version of the famous sinking","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I just saw this film again. The only other time I saw it was probably 40 years ago on Saturday Night at the Movies, when it made a powerful impression. It still does, in part thanks to the marvelous acting of Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck, who looks particularly lovely in this movie. They and their young son and daughter are the focus of the story. Both wonderful actors, if they seem an unlikely couple at first, you probably won't think so by the end of the movie, they are so superb.In this version, Stanwyck is actually leaving her husband (Webb), unbeknownst to him, but when he realizes what's happening, he bribes the father in a lower class for his ticket. Webb is a social climbing, superficial man, and his American wife wants more for her kids than snobbery, arranged marriages, and a series of hotels instead of a home, so she is going back to her family with the children. What happens to Webb and Stanwyck's relationship during the voyage is powerful, touching - and, alas, too late.While on board, a young, gorgeous Robert Wagner plays a college student suitor to the daughter, played by Audrey Dalton. Webb's last scene with Stanwyck will leave you in tears, and if it doesn't, there's also the poignant scene on deck with his son, Norman, which is beautiful.I don't pretend to be an expert on the Titanic - however, I know a little more than a friend at work who, announcing she was seeing the Cameron version when it first came out, said, Don't tell me how it ends. I realize that the Fox script drew a good deal of information from the navigation reports of the ship; however, I saw a documentary which showed footage of this film while it demonstrated that in this telling, the underwater scene shows the iceberg hitting on the wrong side.I have also seen A Night to Remember, which I also remember as being a very emotional experience. Perhaps it's the story that tugs at our hearts, or the site of that huge vessel sliding beneath the surface. Whatever it is, this is a truly engrossing and heartwrenching film. "},{"Title":"A more personal sort of Titanic story....","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" There have been several stories about the sinking of the Titanic. However, Titanic (1953) is a bit different because it really doesn't focus on WHY the disaster occurred but instead focused on one particular fictional family and how this horrible tragedy impacted on them. This is NOT at all a complaint--just an observation on the style of film this is.The Sturges family is very wealthy--but they also are a mess. The mother (Barbara Stanwyck) is unhappy about her sterile rich life and its impact on her children. Her marriage is loveless and her daughter, in particular, has become spoiled and somewhat soul-less. So, without telling her two children, she is embarking with to a new life in America--back where she grew up with simpler values. The husband (Clifton Webb) apparently has just learned of her plan to leave him and he desperately works to get aboard the sold out ship. He is determined to bring his kids back to Europe and make them American royalty.When Webb and Stanwyck eventually meet up on the ship, she announces that she is leaving him. She doesn't love him and, in a final slap in his face, tells Webb that his son is NOT his biological son but another man's! At this point, Webb becomes VERY cold towards his wife--which is understandable. But, seeing him turn his back on the young boy is painful--and something the kid doesn't deserve--especially since he practically worships his father.As far as the daughter is concerned, despite her haughty and socially conscious manner, she meets a nice young man (Robert Wagner) and they slowly start to fall for each other. It NEVER goes as far as the romance in Titanic (1997) but is much more innocent and sweet. Yet, you know that their relationship is most likely doomed.So far, this is quite interesting and well acted. However, when the film ends, all these things come together so perfectly. It culminates with a marvelously tragic ending--one that really pulls at your heart. I thought the writing really took me by surprise--and when the boy and his father's stories cross, I felt myself trying to hold back the tears. It really packed a nice punch.Now as far as the special effects go, this film, because it's more about a family, aren't as important. Now I am not saying they are bad--by 1953 standards they're very nice. It just isn't the amazing spectacle that the 1997 film is--and could be because of improved movie making technology.Exceptional and so good that I want to see the British version, A Night to Remember. I have already seen the newest version and the 1943 German version (which is amazing in MANY ways--especially in its anti-capitalism bent) and want to be able to see the full spectrum of films about this disaster. "},{"Title":"Restrained but yet engaging melodrama","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The media is full of reports of the maiden voyage of the unsinkable Titanic and all are excited about the prospect, whether it be the third class passengers travelling to a new life or the first class passengers travelling to continue the good life they have. Richard Ward Sturges is not a passenger but he buys a third class ticket off someone else then makes his way up to first class. He has done this because his wife has taken his son and daughter on board the Titanic. Tired of an uncomfortable life among the British upperclasses, Julia Sturges is seeking a normal life for her family back in her native America, and if that means being away from the stiff and very English Richard then so be it. As their marital drama is played out, the Titanic sails on ever faster, with bigger problems just over the horizon for all of the passengers.Many decades before James Cameron delivered Titanic as a disaster movie with a dramatic relationship at its core, someone else had already done it with this 1953 disaster melodrama. The main difference in the narrative is perhaps a note on the difference with our time because the story is not about romantically intertwined young people but rather an older married couple and their romance. Aside from this difference the approach is similar because the majority of the film is a melodrama driven by the characters, which then is fitted into the bigger drama of the ship sinking, taking many with it. Unlike the effects-heavy modern version, this film puts the focus on the family drama happening.This works well in making for an engaging film as we see the very English Richard clashing (in an English way) with the more modern Julia in their relationship. Of course it all comes good in the end (well, in a way) but up till then this centre-piece held my attention well. The emotion during the actual sinking of the ship is well received as well, it is restrained and very much the stiff-upper-lip type of thing of the period. Compared to the manipulative use of music and sweeping expressions of emotions in the remake, I must admit I found the changes in the characters played out with restrained emotions of the disaster. The cast work well with this. Webb is strong in his character, retaining what makes the man while also softening towards the end. Stanwyck does likewise, convincing in her early character but yet able to find the love inside her character from the past. The rest of the cast are solid enough but do not really have the same material as the two leads; Dalton, Aherne, Wagner, Basehart and others are all good enough for what is asked of them and, as normal, Ritter is entertaining in her usual character.Overall then, an engaging melodrama that maintains a very British sense of emotion but yet is still quite moving. Those who have not yet seen the remake for what it is should perhaps take a pass at this and see if they prefer this version for being shorter and more restrained. "},{"Title":"Better Than Cameron","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  While this movie can't hold a candle to the telling of the real story in A Night To Remember, it is still much superior to James Cameron's bloated travesty.  The original Titanic only won one Oscar but it was for a critical category that Cameron couldn't even get nominated for screenplay. What the original Titanic lacks in accuracy it more than makes up for in a better fictional story with a more positive message of how disaster ultimately brings the warring elements of a divided family back together again, and allows them to see life in perspective with death at hand.  A far cry from the shallow exercise of self-centeredness that is Rose's story! "},{"Title":"Ominous","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" One of the most fateful and foreboding stories ever committed to film, this version is by far the best cinematic treatment of the epic ocean disaster of 1912. A fictional but plausible story of the breakup of a marriage and the effects on a wealthy family overlay the real-life cataclysmic end to the unsinkable boat, the largest moving object ever built at the time. This blatant irony is unnerving.The fictional story is well written with good plot flow and transitions. Characters are well defined and interesting. What I like here is the contrast between the personal pettiness of Julia (Barbara Stanwyck) and Richard (Clifton Webb), against the ominous and overarching doom toward which they are unknowingly moving.Similarly, Captain Smith (Brian Aherne) goes about his ship duties in a most nonchalant manner, just one more voyage among countless others. Arguably, the ship itself is the main character, majestic, stately, grand, and luxurious, matching its first-class passengers, the focus of this story.The script is terrific but the production may be even better. Production design and costumes are detailed and seem authentic for that era. Photographic effects of the ship sinking, combined with that mournful wailing sound, magnify the drama. Absence of score enhances realism, and songs are appropriately melancholy. Casting and acting range from acceptable to great; Thelma Ritter gives an unusually good performance.Some Titanic films convey a semi-documentary look and feel; characters in these films are mere props, lacking humanity. By contrast, Titanic (1953) has heart and soul. After all, the epic event was first and foremost a story about people, individuals with personal problems and dreams for the future. That's what makes this film so emotionally rich.With its poetic script and terrific execution, Titanic (1953) gives us a timeless story of ominous fate, a poignant humanistic story of misplaced trust in technology, and the dramatic contrast between short-term pettiness and misfortune so dire as to overwhelm those affected for the rest of their lives. "},{"Title":"For God's sake, I'm am going down there!","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The first Hollywood telling of events of that cold clear night back in April 1912 and it chooses do so with a family drama as the lead, which actually thanks to strong scripting and superb leads works remarkably well.Fair enough there is little in the way of historical accuracy, skip to 'A Night To Remember' for that, but the 'human side' is handled brilliantly. Most of the main characters are completely fictional, even more so than 1997's Titanic, but this is a good thing in that you're not putting words or actions into the mouths of real people.The family at the centre of the story are the result are being torn apart, not least by certain major revelations, but as the ship goes down disaster at least brings redemption and forgiveness.Whereas the 1997 movie has the stunning effects, the 'event' feeling, few would say it was well scripted or acted, and rightly so. This 1953 effort however is packed with underrated actors excelling with strong material.Not least the leads Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck, Webb delivers an infectious discerning charm. Credit to must go to the drunken priest played by Richard Baseheart (his last line is my summary) and Brian Aherne's captain is a believably honourable if ultimately responsible captain. As the young 'love interest' couple Robert Wagner and Audrey Dalton are more believable and wholly less irritating than 1997's Jack and Rose.Many mentions have already been made about the father and son ending, and they're right, it is genuinely moving, the son clearly worships his father like a hero and makes the brave gesture of giving up his seat on a boat to 'make a swim for it' Enough to make any father proud.It's clear to me as a longtime (pre 1997) Titanic fan that if you want the best film re tellings of this story, you are best off with the two films of the 1950s. "},{"Title":"This Titanic keeps on sailing","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" What a surprise to see this 1953 sinking of the Titanic after the long and expensive James Cameron version. To say that Jean Negulesco's version is better is saying only half of it. In fact it is much, much better. The whole story told in half the time with a scrumptious script by Charles Brackett and Walter Reisch and superb performances by Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb. The 1953 special effects are as effective as anything in Cameron's film but, I believe, that the secret of the older version is that the heart and mind of the filmmakers were on the human drama and the effects came to be part of it and not its center. It was also a time when stories were told thinking of an adult audience. The poignancy of of the tale is thought out by thinking people for thinking people. In the modern version, Leo teaches Kate how to spit, remember? Just look in Negulesco's version the power of the unfolding. Two disasters, one natural, irreversible, the other, human with unexpected twists and turns. Thelma Ritter plays Molly Brown with extraordinary little touches. Look at her eyes when she witnesses Webb shabby treatment of his son. Young and gorgeous Robert Wagner is a delightful plus. I advise you to rent it, you'll be amazed. "},{"Title":"Forever a classic","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  A powerful film that has it all. Watching this film seems to put you there, on the ship, as it happens. The characters are truly believable, not wooden or modernized as in other movie versions. Also impressive were the c. 1953 special effects. There are times when the huge model used in the movie looks more real than the effects featured in movies made about the disaster to this day. It seems unfair that someone can step in and make a new film of the same name (and, you will see, ideas) and seemingly pretend as though this great film never existed.    "}{"Title":"better than the 90s Titanic","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Rather average Hollywood attempt to tell the story of the 1912 marine disaster, the sinking of the Titanic, this one focuses on Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck as an unhappily married couple reevaluating their union and their children surrounded by the splendour of the most wonderful (and unsinkable) tub ever launched.However, when compared to 'A Night to Remember' and to the occasionally-shown documentary which speaks to the survivors of the disaster who were children at the time, it pales into insignificance. It is well-done, reasonably written, believably cast - but just doesn't touch the viewer in the way the real stories can.Compared to the Di Caprio version in the 90s ... it is a classic. That just misfired on every level and put spectacle and special effects before the telling of a real and true story. 'Titanic' with Webb and Stanwyck doesn't hit the spot either, but at least it packs a punch without resorting to Celine Dion on the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A fine version of an epic tragedy","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Compelling, excellent version of the tragedy. While there was much to like in the more recent version I've always found this one to be the superior of the two. Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck are perfectly cast as a wealthy couple whose marriage is disintegrating. They seem completely natural in their surroundings and their performances could not be bettered. The love story is sweet and unlike the newer version makes sense since both characters are from the same class, the only way in that era that they would mingle, class division was too ingrained at the time for people to move freely about the ship. A dolled up Thelma Ritter is a hoot as the unsinkable Molly Brown even though she is called Maude Young here. Not as technically sophisticated as the James Cameron version but much more emotionally resonant. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning and with very few special effects","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Titanic (1953)Visually stunning and with very few special effectsIt's hard to be any other Titanic movie than the whopping colossus of 1990s, but once upon a time the best movie about the event was A Night to Remember (and still is in many of our eyes). This is the first of three well-known American versions (there are a number of others, including a slew after Cameron's 1997 Titanic). The 1953 movie not a classic, but it's interesting, with enough subtlety, drama, and really fine beauty to hold it up. For one thing, the photography by Joe MacDonald is stunning, rich and filled with light and shadow without being distracting. Director Jean Negulesco draws out the beauty of the ship less with details than with ambiance. A whole slew of great actors are included, namely Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb. And it clips along in well under two hours, so never flags.While the story details are largely fiction, the basic framework is of course not. And this bears on how you watch. At the start, for example, when the snotty Webb character Sturges convinces (for selfish reasons, of course) an idealistic young immigrant couple to separate, leaving one of them ashore, we know they might never see each other again. The impending doom of the ship appears again and again in little ways, and it's a fabulous backdrop for drama, if a tragic one.For awhile, the plot seems almost inconsequential, with the usual upper crust intrigues, sophistication going awry, glimpses of human feelings here and there (the defrocked priest is an untapped resource). If Webb is his usual brilliantly annoying (and amusing) stuffiness, Stanwyck is stately to the point of iciness, no pun there. If her upper crust poise is real, it's also not so interesting, though she does melt a bit by the end. Thelma Ritter is Thelma Ritter, wonderful and purposeful (a counterpoint to the others). There is partying and cardplaying and bickering, the usual cruise ship socializing. There is some singing by a collegiate male choir that is hard to stomach, but it might have been reasonable for the time. And there are iceberg reports, inobvious warnings of trouble. We wait for the event, and then everything tips toward survival, toward reevaluation. The first hour before the iceberg justifies itself in the thirty minutes when all hell breaks loose. There is little romance, cloying or otherwise, and almost no laboring over the unfair deaths of those in steerage. In fact, if there's a retrospective flaw to the film, it's that it had no qualms telling the story only about the rich, and of their oblivious separateness, and of the false security implied by ponderous wealth. If you are a true fan of Cameron's Titanic and you really enjoyed the astonishing special effects in it, you might find this tame and stiff and unbearable. If you loved A Night to Remember this one is a good comparison, and if obviously weaker, still an interesting film and visually powerful. "},{"Title":"Titanic movie on a budget that outstrips the blockbuster","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Far superior to the excessive Cameron version in every way outside of special effects. Since this movie dates from 1953 that is hardly something to flog the studio over however. Considering that they technically had much less to work with and did it on a budget that even in todays money was a fraction of the budget Cameron had, they did a pretty good job.Give me THIS story, with THESE actors on Cameron's sets and that would be one terrific movie! It's actually amazing how many themes of the later movie, beyond the obvious similarity that is, seem to have been mined from this film. You can call it homage of course, but I would use another word...Watch this one for top notch work by professionals who truly understand their craft. "},{"Title":"Good quality cinema","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  After being engaged in a Titanic-athon (a friend and I have watched every Titanic film we know of - yes, including Raise the Titanic) I have to say that this rates very well. That isn't to say that it doesn't have it's faults, but they all do. What this classic has that nothing made after 1958 has, is that vague thread of authenticity. It is not on a par with A Night to Remember, but it is a good story (and let us all pay attention to this next phrase) and a GOOD SCRIPT. As a writer myself, I appreciate the intelligent use of plot devices, rather than the saccharine-dusted tedium found in the '90s stories (except of course, the singing on deck - a big flaw)Watch this and ANTR , forget CGI and spitting like a man - and pretend you're an intelligent human being. "},{"Title":"Great Script with Performances to Match","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The special effects are lacking compared to the superior, more finely detailed A NIGHT TO REMEMBER, but it's the snappy dialogue and superb performances by Stanwyck, Webb and Thelma Ritter that keep this soap- opera-at-sea afloat. Story-wise, it's superior to James Cameron's version. Stanwyck is Julia Sturges, a socialite wife on the lam from her controlling husband Richard, played to prissy perfection by Clifton Webb. She has decided to take their children, Annette and Norman (the Liz Taylor clone Audrey Dalton and an uncredited Harper Carter) back to America, as she has grown weary of the international social circuit she has married into. Richard follows her, but can only get a third class ticket (one of the films many inaccuracies), and sneaks into first class to force Julia's hand and bring his family back to Europe, where he can hopefully marry his daughter off to a titled nobleman. He manages to convince his daughter to return with him once the ship docks in New York, but before he can do the same with his son, Julia has a high trump that she plays to chilling effect, that will change all of their lives forever. Of course, the ship sinks before the chips can fall, but I like how the tension builds toward that moment in their cabin before they head down to the captain's table for dinner. Stanwyck plays it for all that its worth as only she can &#x96; bitter, world-weary and sad. Thelma Ritter is Maud Young, a character clearly based on the real-life Molly Brown who sailed onboard the real ship. She's a loud, brassy, slightly vulgar delight as she challenges the male passengers to a marathon poker game that only ends when the ship makes that infamous rendezvous with a certain iceberg. Also sailing with them is Robert Wagner as Giff Rogers, a healthy corn-fed All-American college student who falls for Annette. Brian Aherne is a rather dapper Captain Smith, Edmund Purdom (a Fox contract player best known for THE Egyptian) is the Second Officer Lightoller. Director Jean Negulesco maintains a proper amount of drama, humor and tension, but the screenplay by Frances Hackett and Albert Goodrich, despite its snarky dialogue, plays fast and loose with the facts of the disaster in the name of those aforementioned elements. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Richard Sturges (Clifton Webb) buys a ticket from a passenger about to board the Titanic at Cherbourg. He does this so that he can be reunited with his wife Julia (Barbara Stanwyck) and children Annette (Audrey Dalton) and Norman (Harper Carter). Julia has run away from him with the children to start a new life in America and they are all already on board. The film follows their story, in particular the fighting and revelations between Richard and Julia. We are introduced to other characters around this main story, eg, college boy Giff (Robert Wagner) who falls in love with Annette and sacked priest George (Richard Basehart) who has an alcohol problem. With 30 minutes to go, the emphasis shifts to the iceberg trouble and the inevitable outcome..... who survives...?...Its very well acted by the 2 lead characters. Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck match each other in their games of one-upmanship and the positions in which they find themselves. Webb comes across as cold and rigid in his views for the children's futures, while Stanwyck, equally determined has an ace up her sleeve........Webb reacts in a typically cold fashion. However, things change when the iceberg strikes.The film is good yet sad. I welled up about 6 times in the last 20 minutes or so and I'm the toughest man on the planet. We all know the story of the Titanic and this film doesn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film with Stanwick and Webb at their Best","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is indeed high-melodrama. But this film is written, directed and acted to perfection. Altho sparse on many of the real facts of the sinking of the HMS Titanic; you couldn't bring more pathos, humor and wonderful acting than this version. Even the special effects hold up quite well to this day.Clifton Webb was a great choice for the male lead. Webb was a fine character actor who finally had a chance to play the lead and he brings so much panache, wit, and intensity to the role of the cuckolded husband, Richard Sturgis.Barbara Stanwick is at her terrific and moving best as his wife. She is on the doomed ship to try to escape her domineering husband and make a better life for her children. The great Thelma Ritter all but steals the film as a character based on Molly Brown. There are also a number of other fine performances in this great ensemble cast a young Robert Wagner, Allan Joslyn (who originated the part of Mortimer Brewster of Arsenic and Old Lace on B'way) as the cowardly Mr. Meeker, Brian Aherne in a very idealized but well-played role as Captain Smith, The young Harper Carter as Norman Sturgis and the very under-rated Richard Baseheart in the most moving portrayal as the defrocked alcoholic priest.To this day the end scenes with Clifton Webb and Harper Carter on the sinking ship with a hysterical Barbara Stanwick on a lifeboat hysterically screaming for her lost son still make me weep. Also Richard Baseheart's heroic exit down to the engine room to try to save the trapped men is powerful.Sailor For God's Sake, you can't go down there, man! George(Baseheart) For God's Sake I am going down there.High class melodrama at it's best. Don't Miss it! "},{"Title":"For the love of God,I do","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Another group that i belong to was discussing Richard Basehart today and I mentioned his small but powerful performance as the defrocked(we assume) drunken priest in the 1953 version of Titanic. I am sure that most people don't even realize that there is more than one film version of titanic having been overwhelmed by the 1997 version. Basehart's performance as the priest who has been sent packing by the church is one of the lynch pins that hold this remarkable film together. Maybe it doesn't have the special effects of the later version,but the characters are much more clearly drawn. I much prefer this to the 1997 one.And its only an hour and a half long.(give or take a few minutes) "},{"Title":"The BEST Titanic","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I saw this when I was very young but it always stayed with me. Though the story has been told many times and the movie remade several times, this edition sticks with me as the best as the characters and cast are unbeatable. The Stanwyck / Webb duo is one of the best match-ups a film could ask for. The special effects are surprisingly good for its time and this, combined with a good storyline make it my favorite rendition of this sad tale. We see a very young Robert Wagner and the ever brash Thelma Ritter as vital supporting characters. Though the James Cameron version got more hype with some better graphics, our 1953 films far surpasses it for story and character substance. It's a winner all around. "}{"Title":"Melodrama on Ice","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I watched Titanic when I got back home from the hospital, and cried. I knew that my IQ had been damaged. - Stephen King There are many films about the HMS Titanic and her tragic sinking, but the main 4 are Titanic, a German propaganda film released in 1943, Jean Negulesco's Titanic, released in 1953, A Night To Remember, released in 1958 and regarded by many to be the definitive Titanic movie, Raise The Titanic, a ridiculous movie released in 1980, and 1997's Titanic, James Cameron's box office juggernaut.The 1943 film was directed by Werner Klingler and Herbert Selpin, and eschews historical accuracy in favour for some hilarious German propaganda. The film portrays the crew and wealthy passengers of the Titanic, as well as the chairmen and managing directors of the White Star Line, as being slimy and despicable, concerned only with winning awards, profit, setting records and making money. Everyone in the film bullies servants, makes terrible decisions and is corrupt and incompetent, except for Hans Nielsen, the ship's German First Officer. Nielsen is not simply the only righteous member of the Titanic's crew, but the only person in the film who realises that the actions of those around him will lead to certain disaster.And so the film treats the HMS Titanic, her collision with an iceberg and subsequent sinking, as an allegory for western capitalism, which, like the titular ocean liner, is bloated, accelerative and heading for crisis. The film makes this most explicit by using the upper and lower decks of the ship to highlight social stratification (the rich hobnob on the upper decks while the poor live in steerage compartments), whilst the Titanic's sinking, which was due to the ship travelling too fast in order to break naval records, is shown to be the result of businessmen who were using the ship's lunge for the record books to drive up stock prices.The film ends with the words The deaths of 1500 people remain unatoned for, an eternal condemnation of the English quest for profit, and then mourns the fact that the underprivileged died whilst those responsible for Titanic's crash escaped Scott-free, fleeing on lifeboats and buying their way out of subsequent law suits (the film is structured as a flashback within a courtroom), a salvation akin to the financial crisis of 2007-2010 and the ensuing bank bailouts (in real life, economic lifeboats are given innocuous names like Emergency Economic Stabilization Acts).Ironically, the film was quickly banned in Germany, German propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels deciding that the ship's sinking too closely mirrored the fall of the Third Reich. Director Herbert Selpin was himself executed for expressing anti military sentiments.Unlike the German version of the tale, the 1953 Titanic has little to offer modern audiences. The film focuses on an estranged couple who are journeying to America. She wants to escape the confines of his high society life in Europe and he gradually learns to let her go. Of course the ship then sinks, putting an end to their petty squabbles.In contrast, A Night To Remember, released five years later, holds up really well. A mosaic of short scenes, the film is a near documentarian account of the Titanic's launch, maiden journey and sinking. Director Roy Baker offers us glimpses into the lives of a myriad of characters, the film stressing the collective rather than the individual nature of the experience.Like most Titanic films, Industrial Age hubris is a big theme, but unlike most of these flicks, the film is more preoccupied with the ship's class divisions. This is made clearest during two sequences, the first in which we jump to and from characters of varying economic standing, and observe the various ways they journey to the ship itself (horses, trains, mules, cars, foot etc), and the second in which the different classes mingle or are forced into lifeboats together, the sinking of the Titanic symbolising the collapse of structured society and the crumbling of the British class system.Unlike the 1953 film, in which almost everyone is American, this is thus a very British film. It's a British production with British actors playing everyone including the Americans, and is one of many early post war British films to react to decolonisation and the dismantling of the British Empire.Social conscience is exactly what 1980's Raise The Titanic lacks, the film mostly interested in gimmicks and spectacle. It's a worthless film, notable only for its shots of submersibles, submarines, underwater camera drones and its plot which revolves around a group of salvagers who attempt to resurrect the Titanic, raising her barnacled carcass up from the ocean depths.James Cameron's 1997 Titanic is, of course, the big Titanic film which everyone is familiar with. What's interesting is how Cameron pulls subplots, scenes and whole sequences from all the previous Titanic movies. Cameron's bookends with the salvagers, treasure hunters, submersibles and camera drones comes from the 1980 film, whilst the love story, blue diamonds, jewels, villains, accusations of theft, bossy parents, arranged marriages, class constricted heroine (and the fianc she doesn't love) and free-spirited hero come from the 1958, 53 and 43 films.All those memorable individual shots in Cameron's film of praying characters, ship-builders fine-tuning clocks, children and mothers on beds as the water rises, lovers separated by lowered lifeboats etc etc, are also all pulled together from the previous films.Pretty much the only unique thing about Cameron's film is its spectacular climax. Made after research dives ascertained that the Titanic broke in two before sinking, Cameron's film is the only Titanic movie which details how the ship sank in sections. And while the other films simply show the ship sinking from afar, Cameron's is a very spatial movie, treating us to a range of complex shots and staggeringly elaborate action sequences as the ship sinks.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Misses on history, but captures the essence of Titanic","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" All the comments I looked at thus far favored this version over Cameron's 1997, and I don't blame them. While Negulesco is nearly the equal of Cameron for silliness on the history, he's less pretentious than Cameron on that front. The acting, dialogue, and screenplay are strengths here where they're flaws there. I liked Cameron's movie (see review if you're interested at this late date in time), but most viewers while find Negulesco's 97 minutes much more agreeable than Cameron's 200+.The story within a story is crafted as an allegory in hubris (a word not in general use then but that certainly seems to fit now) and tragedy, much as is the story of the Titanic itself. Clifton Webb's Sturgis is the character Billy Zane's Hockley should have been born to aristocracy, wily, ruthless, and apparently heartless. He expects always to come out on top, and for good reason as the plot develops. But his kids do love him as any that Hockley might ever have had surely would not.The heart of the movie is Stanwyck's Julia, who wants to return to something like basic American values and is effectively kidnapping the children to escape Sturgis. She has a secret that was probably much more shocking in 1953 than it is now, the revealing of which is the climax (speaking in terms of drama as an art form) of the movie. The effect on Sturgis is something like that of the Titanic hitting the iceberg, which comes later.All the supporting players are quite good, but Stanwyck and Webb are the movie. Julia and Sturgis as played here emote in whatever good senses there are of that word, overcoming the potential schmaltziness piled on at the end and communicating the agony, pathos, and heroism that attended the sinking of the unsinkable ship, were indeed the essence of that event. No small feat for Stanwyck and Webb.The overall consensus seems to be that Night to Remember in '58 is the best Titanic movie, but I have to say that I found it rather on the (pun intended) dry side. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is a drama set aboard the titanic before it sank and it focuses mostly on one family. This was directed by Jean Negulesco and stars Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Wagner. Webb and Stanwyck play a married couple who's marriage hasn't worked out that well and Stanwyck is leaving Webb and taking the two kids. Wagner is a young college student who falls for their daughter, played by Audrey Dalton, but she doesn't care for him but changes her mind. The first hour of the movie is focused on these characters and they don't hit the Iceburg until the final thirty minutes. This is much better than the vastly overrated movie in 1997 and i would watch this version any day then the other one. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of Miss Barbara Stanwyck. I love everything she has ever done. I also find the stories of Titanic very fascinating. I have see this film and have it on video. It is a very interesting story. Like Titanic (1997), it tells the story of a tragic young love set against the sinking of the famous ship. Clifton Webb has also been a wonderful actor. Robert Wagner has always been sexy to me. "},{"Title":"Cameron's pays homage to this one.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I think James Cameron's TITANIC is one of the best films ever made.  It is epic in scale, grand in storytelling and will have more than an ephemeral grip on films and audiences to come.  If there is ever another film made about Titanic, it will most certainly get compared to 1997's version before the 1953 version or before A NIGHT TO REMEMBER.  But having said that, let me tell you that Jean Negulesco's version is very well done.  There are even quite a few similarities between the two films.  While A Night To Remember was a very well done film concerning more with the factual events, Titanic (1953) and Titanic (1997) are factual films against the backdrop of young love and love in general.  Having a fictitious romance blooming on board was smart and both films play well because of it.  It enhances the peril and imminent danger that one feels when the ship is going down.  We know and are a little familiar with some of the people on board and we sympathize with them as the ship heads imminently to Davey Jones locker.  While Cameron's film is in a class by itself, this film starring Barbara Stanwyk and Clifton Webb holds its own quite nicely.Stanwyk and Webb play an unhappy married couple who are heading to The U.S from France.  With them are their two children.  Norman is the impressionable son and Anne is the snooty, country club destined, caviar eating, don't touch me I'm too beautiful for you, daughter.  She looks and acts similarly to Rose did in the 97 version of Titanic.  Also along for the ride is a young Robert Wagner, who plays Giff Rogers, a DiCaprio look-alike with a soap opera name who falls for Anne.There are some obvious similarities with the two versions, one of course being the young lovers but there are some other interesting and amusing resemblances.  One of them being the comment that Molly Brown and Richard Sturgess ( Webb) both make concerning the dinner call.  They are almost said verbatim and it is nice to see Cameron tip his cap in homage to some of the films that inspired him to make his billion dollar baby.Why is it the British always have to make the announcement for dinner like a damn cattle call?I enjoyed subtle touches like this.As for the film itself.  It is quite well done.  I was very surprised and impressed to see the inside of the ship looking the way it did.  The dining halls were filled with large banquet tables and lavishly dressed patrons and there was always music playing joyously somewhere in the background.  The director and set designers went through great pains to ensure the authenticity and design of the ship.  Also well done was the story between husband and wife.  There was some real turmoil with them and I could feel for both of them.  The conflict between Norman and his dad was very emotional as well.  I don't want to include a spoiler here but when you think of Rose and her loyalty to Jack in the modern Titanic, it actually pales in comparison to how father and son play out their last scenes together.What could have been done a little better was some of the tragedy that Titanic stood for.  There was ample time given to the convivial parties of the rich and famous but not enough was elaborated on with the lower class.  Most of the people on board were shown as wealthy and prosperous.  I knew that JJ Astor and his young wife Madeline were on board but I would have liked to see more about the young Spanish mother and her children that would have lost their husband had he boarded the ship at the beginning.  I also would have liked to see some more of the festivities that were below in the third class passenger area.  The one thing that this film forgot was that there was more than affluent people on board the Titanic.  There was a plethora of different classes and races and different cultures on board the ship.  This film would have you believe that only the rich occupied the ship.  More also could have been done with the actual sinking of the ship.  The act of the sinking was well done but in terms of the facts and figures, I wanted to know more.  The writing team of Charles Brackett and Richard Breen could have done a little more to edify us with facts about what happened when the ship was about to sink.  Maybe it is unfair to compare the two, but in Cameron's version, there were people swimming in the frigid waters, people hanging off the back of the ship and more than just flocks of passive passengers going down to their death without some pandemonium.  I wanted to see more.  I think there would have been more of a bucolic thrashing about to try to find something, anything, to save themselves.  I don't care how stoic and virile you are, when faced with death, you would panic.  I don't buy the narration that over 800 people sang their way to their graves.  The screams of the dying and the freezing would have been ubiquitous and that is something that Titanic is missing.  Again, unfair to compare but since I was spoiled enough to see 1997's version before 1953, it is an inevitable comparison.This Titanic is however, quite the accomplishment.  There is enough emotion in here to convey at least some of the lugubrious scenes of the night, and if you can watch this film without comparing the two Titanics, then you will see a very well done film.  I enjoyed it quite a bit and was even surprised to admit to myself that most of the acting wasn't all that one dimensional the way it is in most classic era films.  I could feel real emotion in the passengers and crew.  And that is an achievement unto itself.7 out of 10-- If you have seen Cameron's Titanic, then this one should be mandatory viewing.  It is quite interesting and ominous to watch the ship sink and know that nearly 800 people were going to die on that ship.  It's a true account of a horrible event in our history and for that it should be witnessed by young and old.  It is quite a film.   "},{"Title":"A sterling performance by Webb!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Of all the Titanic films, this is my pick!  Clifton Webb is superb as the snobbish husband, and Barbara Stanwyck plays the long-suffering wife.  The heroism of the tragic passengers of the Titanic is well depicted in this film. "},{"Title":"Great and sad movie!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pretty sad. I mean, its all quiet and all of the sudden everyone starts singing a hymn. And people were crying. Unlike the Titanic (1998), this one has everyone singing and there is a bigger band playing. And it's a lot better when there aren't people who are pushing and shoving and men on the ship with guns (No offence on the people who like action movies). "},{"Title":"The disaster material is good, but it's a long old wait before you get there","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" One of the three big Titanic films made over the years, alongside A NIGHT TO REMEMBER and James Cameron's TITANIC. TITANIC (1953) loses points for being more than a little dated. Instead of focusing on the nitty-gritty details of the famous disaster, for much of the running time TITANIC is content to offer turgid melodrama and worst of all, romance. It's hardly gripping stuff.The viewer is required to wait a full two thirds of the running time before we get on with the disaster itself. When it finally takes place, it's admittedly exciting, shocking, and moving as you could hope for, but it's that first hour which really tests the patience. The likes of Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, and Robert Wagner are fine actors, but you're not watching to see the husband and wife bickering or to watch the young guy fall in love. You're here for the disaster, and everything else feels like a distraction. This is why A NIGHT TO REMEMBER remains my all-time favourite retelling of the Titanic story. "},{"Title":"TITANIC (Jean Negulesco, 1953) **1/2","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Knowing that the definitive cinematic depiction of the tragic events &#x96; Roy Ward Baker's A NIGHT TO REMEMBER (1958) &#x96; was only a few years away, always seemed to me an indication that this major Hollywood studio version was a redundant production. It has been shown a few times on Italian TV over the years but I never bothered with it, and I had even recorded it on VHS off a Saturday night local TV screening; seeing it being given the prestigious Fox Studio Classics treatment on DVD made me prick up my ears somewhat (though still not enough for me to purchase a copy!) but, chancing upon it as a DVD rental, I eventually relented. Still, it has taken this month-long Oscar marathon to arrive at an actual viewing; incidentally, this is now the fifth screen retelling of the historical nautical disaster that I have gotten under my belt apart from the aforementioned British classic, there were the archaic Atlantic (1929), the propagandist 1943 German version, S.O.S. TITANIC (1979; TV) and the undeservedly Oscar-laden 1997 romance. Tellingly, while this version of TITANIC did emerge an Oscar winner, it was not in the expected Special Visual Effects category &#x96; for which George Pal's THE WAR OF THE WORLDS was the sole nominee and eventual winner that year &#x96; but the soap opera-like screenplay courtesy of producer Charles Brackett (Billy Wilder's former collaborator), Walter Reisch and Richard L. Breen! Learning that Vincente Minnelli's THE BAND WAGON and Anthony Mann's THE NAKED SPUR were also competing in that category, makes TITANIC's win all the more ludicrous (the Leslie Halliwell Film Guide opines that it was an excellent example of studio production is squandered on a dim script which arouses no excitement!); for the record, the film also received a deserving Oscar nod for its production design and director Negulesco an unaccountable one for the Director's Guild Award. Indeed the all-important shipwreck takes up less than a third of the film's typically lean 98-minute running-time and, for the previous hour-plus, we are regrettably treated to the class- conscious disintegrating marriage between common Barbara Stanwyck and snobbish Clifton Webb and the blooming romance between 'common' Robert Wagner and snobbish Audrey Dalton (the legitimate offspring of the Stanwyck-Webb union &#x96; there is also much eye-rolling emoting over the younger son's attachment to a father who has chosen to disown him!). A measure of the film's ickiness is having the latter repeatedly calling her father angel(!) and the former teaching his newfound girlfriend the newest American dance craze The Navajo Rag! Apart from the obligatory lush production values, what remains to tickle the viewer's flagging interest is the fine cast assembled to impersonate the fated vessel's crew (stolid captain Brian Aherne and concerned second officer Edmund Purdom &#x96; who is surprisingly uncredited despite the amount of screen time and the importance of his role!) and passenger list (defrocked alcoholic priest Richard Basehart, indomitable Molly Brown stand-in Thelma Ritter and cowardly cad Allyn Joslyn); the film's concluding morose statistical narration is provided by a similarly unacknowledged Michael Rennie. "},{"Title":"James Cameron Did It Better","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The drama Titanic is directed by Jean Negulesco and stars Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, and Audrey Dalton. The film takes place in 1912 on the famous Titanic.We all know the story of the great ship the Titanic and how it was the biggest ship ever built and then of course it sadly sank to the bottom of the ocean. But we do not all know the stories of the passengers of the Titanic and what it was like to be there as the Titanic was making it's voyage to the endless depths of the massive ocean. There wasn't enough lifeboats for everyone, only enough for the women and children. This film centers around a family on the ship, the Sturges family, and the battle in the family between the mother, Julia (Stanwyck), and the father, Richard (Webb). The family is extremely well to do and Richard wants their children to live a life like royalty while Julia wants them to be kind, humble people. Well they do not know yet that those problems will sink to the bottom of the list after they spend a few days on their trip to America.The screenplay for this film was decent but it would have been much better with more characterization. By the time the film ended I really did not know who the characters were at all, and that could have been improved if the film was lengthened in order for more dialogue and plot could happen. I do like it when films have a small plot within a much larger plot, I always find that interesting. Other films that do the same type of thing is In Old Chicago with the great Chicago fire and Apocalypto with the Europeans discovering the Americas. The main flaw with the screenplay was the fact that all the characters weren't well developed and also the ending should have had much more drama to it.The direction of this film was poor and this film could have been much better if it wasn't so. This is a majorly dramatic event and yet the film never makes it feel like it is. Negulesco never does any camera movements to make me feel like a ship in sinking and many people will die. She films it the same exact way she films the beginning of the film which is much more lighthearted. It could have been monumentally better but unfortunately not.Even though Negulesco wasn't the greatest behind the camera at least she was able to get decent performances from the actors in their single dimensional roles. Clifton Webb played the part of a gentleman fine and he really did not need to do much more than that because even as the boat was sinking he was still a gentleman. Barbara Stanwyck is one of the great actresses but this film is not the reason why even though she also did a good job, just nothing extraordinary due to the limitation of her character by the writing. She did everything in her role very well though. The same is to be said about Audrey Dalton and all the other actors in this film, most of it centered on Webb and Stanwyck's characters though.Now I would like to compare this film to James Cameron's Titanic which is far superior. The reason why the more recent Titanic is so much better is because it is a three hour film instead of only an hour and a half. For the first two hours we learn about Jack and Rose and grow to know them while we are not able to do it in this film. Then for the final hour is all the drama of the ship sinking, instead of a mere twenty minutes. I felt for Jack and Rose while I did not really at all care for anyone in the family in this film. Sometimes it is better for a film to be longer so the audience can grow into it.Overall I give this film a 6/10 because even though I've said mainly negative things about the film it isn't bad. I would recommend James Cameron's Titanic to you much sooner than this though. It is very interesting to see an older film do something of such large proportions though and I would recommend it to anyone who likes classic films and also drama about true events. "}{"Title":"Steady as she goes...","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" 1953 version of the real-life Titanic tragedy, as passengers aboard the luxury liner's maiden voyage in 1912 face their mortality after the ship scrapes an iceberg not long after leaving England for America. Academy Award-winning screenplay by Walter Reisch, Richard Breen, and producer Charles Brackett does not introduce the many characters smoothly, and the technical detail involving the crew's shipboard regimen is mechanical as well. We get the standard upper-crust crowd, the music-playing, life-loving lower-class poor, and a captain who behaves rather cavalierly upon being warned of a late-arriving message regarding icebergs in the vicinity. Barbara Stanwyck is a runaway wife and mother of two whose crafty husband (Clifton Webb) sneaks aboard, only to get the news from her that their son is not his descendant; meanwhile, Stanwyck's snooty daughter is wooed by a gregarious youth (Robert Wagner) who teaches her how to loosen up and do the Navajo Rag. Thelma Ritter is a salty type involved in a high-stakes Bridge game, while Richard Basehart plays a tortured poet and alcoholic. The melodramatics get rather thick, however all is forgiven after the ship starts to sink and lifeboats are scarce. The special effects at the finale are genuinely good, and the emotions displayed are harrowing and moving, as they should be. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Disaster at Sea, 50's Style","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" A doomed ocean liner is perfect fare for a big-budget studio like Fox, whose production unit gives the real life tragedy the conventional Hollywood treatment. Wagner and Dalton charm as the attractive young lovers, while Stanwyck lends a formidable presence as the matron with a past. However, Webb is an unusual choice for the lead, given his rather brittle personality. The script makes good use of his aristocratic demeanor by squaring him off against his estranged commoner wife Stanwyck. He's all stuffy rules and European airs, while she's taking their two kids and returning to her practical American roots. There's a subtext here about Webb coming to realize a human side buried under layers of snobbish pretensions. It's an interesting idea, but I wonder how many viewers were able to warm up to Webb's basically cold personality. Fox took a chance here and I doubt that it helped at the box-office.Nonetheless, Ray Kellogg's special effects are outstanding, especially the liner as it lists headfirst into the water that became a spectacular logo for the movie's ad campaign. Note, however, the general absence of noisy panic surrounding the evacuation, the opposite of what you would expect given the life and death circumstance. Generally, both passengers and crew react efficiently as if executing a fire drill. I suspect anything more realistic would have risked unsettling 1950's audiences and dampening box-office appeal, but whatever, the general absence is noticeable. Also, I'm not clear on what happened to the women and children in steerage. These are the poor folk presumably responding to America's give us your huddled masses yearning to be free. Maybe I missed something, but the class segregation aboard the liner is made unmistakably clear and we do know the ladies and children of wealth made the cut. But what about those huddled masses since the movie is based on fact? Still and all, not to worry since they're all going to heaven anyway as the final choral overlay assures us.Speaking of class struggle, too bad the screenplay doesn't exploit the lively potential of a Clifton Webb-Thelma Ritter face-off. They're two extreme ends of the refinement spectrum &#x97; the earthy commoner and the waspish aristocrat. Yet no one was better at delivering sarcastic barbs than these two. Squaring them off against one another would have produced great verbal fireworks and social contrast. All in all, the movie is entertaining with some good moments, but fails to hit the dramatic high points inherent in the real life tragedy. Ultimately, the screenplay reflects the extreme cautiousness of its time period. "},{"Title":"It could have been better","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Whenever the subject of movies regarding the sinking of the Titanic comes around, it seems that this movie gets little to no discussion. Why has this Titanic movie been all but forgotten? Well, probably because it's for the most part a mediocre enterprise. There are some good things about it. Some of the sets and special effects are pretty good (though some floating ice is clearly Styrofoam). The acting is acceptable. It runs a lean ninety-eight minutes. However, two-thirds of that running time is spent on stuff BEFORE the ship actually hits the iceberg. The movie then rushes its way through to the end, which is EXTREMELY rushed. The main problem I had was with the human drama. While the opening of the movie states that they took care to accurately recreate the crew's actions and words, the parts of the movie concerning the passengers is clichd and very familiar. This is not a terrible movie, but as I said, it's pretty mediocre. For a more interesting Titanic movie, watch instead A Night To Remember or even the Titanic movie the Nazis made during World War II. "},{"Title":"Floats my boat","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I've seen most of the dramatisations of the tragic maiden voyage of the Titanic including the recent 100th anniversary TV production but found this version of events the most satisfying and moving. Of course the whole point about any Titanic film is how to fill the space until the iceberg hits, which naturally means concocting fictional dramas amongst the passengers and on this occasion, slightly melodramatic as they were (an alcoholic priest, a tug-of-love between an American townie and her high-falutin' husband...), with sympathetic writing and strong playing, they certainly engaged my interest and by the bitter end, emotions too.Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck make an unlikely couple at first, but one comes to believe in their story, especially after Stanwyck makes her shock revelation to Webb as she desperately tries to maintain the loyalty of their two young children against the high-life allure of Webb's nomadic lifestyle. Their last scenes in particular have a rare poignancy as Webb at last shows the sacrifice and devotion that as both a father and husband he's sorely lacked before.In the lesser tales, we get to see Richard Basehart deliver a good performance as a fallen priest, who again rediscovers his vocation at the hour of greatest need and a young lantern-jawed Robert Wagner as the freshman suitor of Webb and Stanwyck's somewhat stuffy daughter. A singer and dancer he isn't though!While the special effects of the day are naturally and obviously based on a ship's model, these aren't too distracting. Occasionally you feel there aren't that many people on the boat itself and it's noticeable that there's very little coverage of the below-deck drama as the ship fills up with water, but the final scenes, especially the largely non-judgemental treatment of the captain and crew, seemed about right to me; there's no doubting the valour and devotion to duty of this particular captain in going down with his ship unlike a certain Italian captain in the modern disaster of the Concordia.This feature succeeds therefore in the quality of its writing (which was Oscar-nominated) and sensitive direction and acting rather than the special effects, which surely is as it should be. "},{"Title":"Great Job","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I watched the 1953 Version with Babara Stanwyck on You Tube. According to the opening credits all the nautical dialog was supposed to be accurate.In a lot of ways this production is very well done. We have a young Robert Wagner on the ship doing some heroics. The Iceberg hit while not as thrilling a spectacle as later versions, is done accurately. It is as technically correct as there was knowledge of in 1953.There is a lot of music in this one including everyone on board singing Nearer My God to Thee as the ship goes down. The whole thing is handled well and not over length. If flows very very well.Thelma Ritter is very good in her supporting role as Maude Young, with her usual brassy type of character. "},{"Title":"Cameron's pays homage to this one.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I think James Cameron's TITANIC is one of the best films ever made.  It is epic in scale, grand in storytelling and will have more than an ephemeral grip on films and audiences to come.  If there is ever another film made about Titanic, it will most certainly get compared to 1997's version before the 1953 version or before A NIGHT TO REMEMBER.  But having said that, let me tell you that Jean Negulesco's version is very well done.  There are even quite a few similarities between the two films.  While A Night To Remember was a very well done film concerning more with the factual events, Titanic (1953) and Titanic (1997) are factual films against the backdrop of young love and love in general.  Having a fictitious romance blooming on board was smart and both films play well because of it.  It enhances the peril and imminent danger that one feels when the ship is going down.  We know and are a little familiar with some of the people on board and we sympathize with them as the ship heads imminently to Davey Jones locker.  While Cameron's film is in a class by itself, this film starring Barbara Stanwyk and Clifton Webb holds its own quite nicely.Stanwyk and Webb play an unhappy married couple who are heading to The U.S from France.  With them are their two children.  Norman is the impressionable son and Anne is the snooty, country club destined, caviar eating, don't touch me I'm too beautiful for you, daughter.  She looks and acts similarly to Rose did in the 97 version of Titanic.  Also along for the ride is a young Robert Wagner, who plays Giff Rogers, a DiCaprio look-alike with a soap opera name who falls for Anne.There are some obvious similarities with the two versions, one of course being the young lovers but there are some other interesting and amusing resemblances.  One of them being the comment that Molly Brown and Richard Sturgess ( Webb) both make concerning the dinner call.  They are almost said verbatim and it is nice to see Cameron tip his cap in homage to some of the films that inspired him to make his billion dollar baby.Why is it the British always have to make the announcement for dinner like a damn cattle call?I enjoyed subtle touches like this.As for the film itself.  It is quite well done.  I was very surprised and impressed to see the inside of the ship looking the way it did.  The dining halls were filled with large banquet tables and lavishly dressed patrons and there was always music playing joyously somewhere in the background.  The director and set designers went through great pains to ensure the authenticity and design of the ship.  Also well done was the story between husband and wife.  There was some real turmoil with them and I could feel for both of them.  The conflict between Norman and his dad was very emotional as well.  I don't want to include a spoiler here but when you think of Rose and her loyalty to Jack in the modern Titanic, it actually pales in comparison to how father and son play out their last scenes together.What could have been done a little better was some of the tragedy that Titanic stood for.  There was ample time given to the convivial parties of the rich and famous but not enough was elaborated on with the lower class.  Most of the people on board were shown as wealthy and prosperous.  I knew that JJ Astor and his young wife Madeline were on board but I would have liked to see more about the young Spanish mother and her children that would have lost their husband had he boarded the ship at the beginning.  I also would have liked to see some more of the festivities that were below in the third class passenger area.  The one thing that this film forgot was that there was more than affluent people on board the Titanic.  There was a plethora of different classes and races and different cultures on board the ship.  This film would have you believe that only the rich occupied the ship.  More also could have been done with the actual sinking of the ship.  The act of the sinking was well done but in terms of the facts and figures, I wanted to know more.  The writing team of Charles Brackett and Richard Breen could have done a little more to edify us with facts about what happened when the ship was about to sink.  Maybe it is unfair to compare the two, but in Cameron's version, there were people swimming in the frigid waters, people hanging off the back of the ship and more than just flocks of passive passengers going down to their death without some pandemonium.  I wanted to see more.  I think there would have been more of a bucolic thrashing about to try to find something, anything, to save themselves.  I don't care how stoic and virile you are, when faced with death, you would panic.  I don't buy the narration that over 800 people sang their way to their graves.  The screams of the dying and the freezing would have been ubiquitous and that is something that Titanic is missing.  Again, unfair to compare but since I was spoiled enough to see 1997's version before 1953, it is an inevitable comparison.This Titanic is however, quite the accomplishment.  There is enough emotion in here to convey at least some of the lugubrious scenes of the night, and if you can watch this film without comparing the two Titanics, then you will see a very well done film.  I enjoyed it quite a bit and was even surprised to admit to myself that most of the acting wasn't all that one dimensional the way it is in most classic era films.  I could feel real emotion in the passengers and crew.  And that is an achievement unto itself.7 out of 10-- If you have seen Cameron's Titanic, then this one should be mandatory viewing.  It is quite interesting and ominous to watch the ship sink and know that nearly 800 people were going to die on that ship.  It's a true account of a horrible event in our history and for that it should be witnessed by young and old.  It is quite a film.   "},{"Title":"Titanic is an uneven melodrama, that sinks just as slowly as the maiden ship did","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Review for Titanic (1953) The Titanic has had an interesting place in cinema. It has been chronicled in silent films (1912's Save the Titanic), as the basis for a Nazi propaganda film (1943's of Titanic), a historical drama (1958's A Night to Remember), and most recently a romantic epic drama (James Cameron's Titanic). Jean Negulesco's 1953 version of Titanic tries to be like a historical drama and fictional drama at the same time, succeeding in some areas, but failing in most areas.Rich, upper-class married Julia Sturges (Barbara Stanwyck) separates from her stuffy and uptight husband Richard (Clifton Webb), wanting to bring up her teenage daughter (Audrey Dalton) and young son as middle class Americans in Michigan. Richard doesn't want his kids to have such low lifestyle, so after buying a ticket from a steerage passenger aboard the Titanic, is set to stop his wife from taking his kids. Aboard the ship, the daughter strikes up a romance with an American college student (Robert Wagner), a defrocked priest (Richard Baseheart) is running away from his own problems, and the eventful April 15 sinking of Titanic will change everyone's lives forever.Let me start off with the positives. As a historical drama, this movie does pretty well in most areas. The sets are pretty awesome in scope and detail. You get the sense of the vastness of the Titanic from the many rooms and wide shots throughout the film. While it is normal for Hollywood to take artistic license with anything that has historical significance, the things that I know beforehand and know are historically inaccurate, I can't let fly by. There was no explosion on board the Titanic as it would've been impossible, right before the Titanic sank in the ocean the passengers didn't stop and sing a Welsh hymn. Those two things that happened in the movie really bothered me as anyone who is not familiar with the Titanic should know that stuff never happened. Hollywood can take artistic license as long its believable to some degree.Now the movie as a drama is so uneven I may not have the right words to get my point across, but I'll try my best. The actors are for the most part great. Barbara Stanwyck has yet to fail me. Clifton Webb as well. He is very good as unhumorous, spoiled man who wants to do things for his benefit and his ways. They both have a sincere love and understanding for each other as characters, yet still have a true yearning to do things their own ways for their own reasons. This was my first Audrey Dalton film, and she gives a well enriched performance as an arrogant, stuck up, spoiled rich girl, who knows that the one thing she can't buy is love and wants it from the right person. Thelma Ritter who plays a Molly Brown like character is fantastic as usual. She delivers lines like she was born to say them. Another one that has never failed me. Richard Baseheart is also very good, and quite possibly the best actor in the film, as the priest who is running away from his own demons. There is a scene with him and Barbara Stanwyck in his cabin and she finds out he was priest. The monologue he gives about his family and his reasons why he left the priesthood is so poignant and heartbreaking. The one who has though in this film, is Robert Wagner. I personally feel his character is so out of place, like he is from the wrong time period. His dialogue, actions, and overall conduct seem too 1950's for me. It seems more that he should be more in a 50's sitcom as an older brother like in Leave it to Beaver. His romance with Audrey Dalton works, mostly because Dalton isn't so upfront with her emotions. I could believe more that she loved him, and not the other way around.While having good actors is a plus, the writing and direction are another story in there own ways. Jean Negulesco unfortunately doesn't seem to know pacing because the movie at many times just seems to stop, with characters just talking. The actors are great to watch, but even a great speaker should know when to stop talking and take his seat. I understand this is a melodrama, but even melodramas should have their own distinct pacing. The writing is probably the worst, which surprises me as there were three of Hollywood's most adept screenwriters writing on this film. Charles Brackett wrote another great melodrama with Billy Wilder, Sunset Blvd., but I have no idea what went wrong here. The dialogue ranges from good to acceptable with the actor's delivering the worst lines in the best way they can.Titanic is a movie not for people looking for history of the Titanic. It is for people who like Hollywood melodramas. If you want to see the best film about Titanic in my opinion, see A Night to Remember. "},{"Title":"Drama on the high seas before and during disaster","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" It may seem hard to believe today, but three films were made about the Titanic within six months of its sinking on April 15, 1912. Of course, all were silent films and shorts. The first was made just 29 days after the incident. Saved from the Titanic was a 10-minute short that featured a young actress, Dorothy Gibson, who survived the sinking. A 30-minute German film followed on Aug. 17, and a 23-minute French film came out in October.By 1929, sound films were being made, but this 1953 film was the first full-length Hollywood feature set on and about the Titanic. Even with some musicals, other films, and very good docudramas that followed well into the 21st century, the 1953 Titanic remains one of the best and most enjoyed films. That's because, unlike most films that have looked for the cause and the details of the disaster, Titanic is more about people. It's focus is on one family, a few other individuals, and some of the crew who just happen to be on the maiden voyage of the world's largest and most luxurious ship.We see the ship as it leaves Southampton, England on April 10, 1929; then when it stops near Cherbourg, France, and then at Queenstown (present day Cobh), Ireland. At each stop it takes on passengers. When it heads toward the open sea, it has about 1,300 passengers and a crew and staff of about 920 plus. A lot of things are at play in the inability to determine precisely the number of people on board the ship. An Encyclopedia Britannica article explains that in detail.Then, the film hones in on the Sturges family, around whom the rest of the drama unfolds. Clifton Webb plays Richard Ward Sturges, Barbara Stanwyck is his wife, Julia. The Sturges children are Annette (played by Audrey Dalton) and Norman, played by an uncredited Harper Carter. Other major characters we see are Gifford Rogers, played by Robert Wagner; and Thelma Ritter as Maude Young, Richard Basehart as George Healey, and Brian Aherne as Captain E.J. Smith. A number of actors play smaller parts, mostly of prominent people or key figures. Thus, we encounter John Jacob Astor and his wife, First Officer Murdock, Chief Officer Wilde, Isador and Ida Strauss, Benjamin Guggenheim, and Second Officer Lightroller.What we are treated to in this film, is a drama of life that takes place on board a huge ocean liner; and then the excitement, fear, worry, and tense scrambling to survive a disaster at sea. All of the cast perform it superbly.I have enjoyed all of the five or six films about the Titanic that I have seen. Each has its own special appeal and value. But this film, made just 40 years after the event, has a greater feel of reality. It may be in the more natural ease of early 1950s manners, customs, style, talk and peoples' looks to mimic those of the earlier period. The people in more recent films set in a more distant time are further removed from the culture and society. So, they don't seem as natural or real, but more like people in a play or movie.The beauty of this film is that one can fit in and feel as though you are a passenger on board the Titanic with the Sturges family and others. This is a wonderful drama on the high seas, before and during a disaster. "},{"Title":"Cast shines; as good as Leo's version, just from a different era","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I remember first seeing this film on Saturday Night At The Movies on NBC. I enjoyed it then, and still enjoy it today. I don't really try to compare this and the Leonardo DiCaprio version...too many years in between and a different approach to the story, but I like them pretty equally.I am reviewing this film based on the recent Blu Ray edition. Sometimes it is very obvious that a Blu Ray edition of an old film is a significant improvement, this time it is not. That is not to say that it isn't a good transfer. There's little to complain about in this edition in terms of clear picture, other than a bit of graininess that may just be a result of 63 years.First off, this film is not about the Titanic. The Titanic is the setting. The story is actually about one family that is disintegrating, and their final act happens to occur on the ill-fated journey. The warring man and wife are Clifton Webb, in what is probably his finest role, and Barbara Stanwyck, in perhaps her best later role. The dialogue between two is about the best you'll find of a man and wife at war; top notch writing and delivered with real sting. The daughter is siding with the father and is quite bitter toward the mother. The younger son is left adrift by the father when he learns that he is not the father.Robert Wagner plays a young college man with romantic attention toward Webb's daughter...not unlike Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in the later film...though here their romance is secondary to the failing marriage of the parents.Audrey Dalton plays Webb's daughter and is quite unpleasant about it. Harper Carter (still living as of this writing) is quite good as the young son.Filling out the cast is the wonderful Thelma Ritter, here -- I'm assuming -- representing the real Molly Brown, though named Maude Young in this story. Brian Aherne is the Titanic's captain. Richard Basehart has a very good role as a defrocked priest who is an alcoholic. Allyn Joslyn -- more often a very good comic actor -- plays an average guy who tries to latch on to the rich passengers on the ship, and turns out to be the coward on board.I have noticed in a couple of posts that reviewers said that the special effects were poor. Come on folks...this was made in 1953. For that era, the scenes here are darned good. There is one spot -- when the son is trying to find his father after the Titanic begins to list -- where it's obviously just a drastically tilted camera, because people are walking and climbing and descending stairs too normally. Ah well.I've actually watched this Titanic more often than the Leonardo DiCaprio film. I don't try to compare them. They're both excellent in different ways. "},{"Title":"Forget about blue necklaces, ships splitting in two and Celine Dion songs.","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Of course, this is not the first version of the story of the Titanic. It has been the subject of movies since the silent era, making appearances as important settings and being mentioned as part of history to reflect the passage of time. The passage on this maiden voyage focuses on a troubled American family who has been traveling abroad for years-estranged parents, a daughter caught up in European society who is slowly becoming a pretentious snob, and a young son so devoted to the man he assumes is his father. The battling parents are Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb, both admittedly not nice people, but Stanwyck's character is, even if she has a bombshell to dump on the uppity Webb that will rock his world just as much as the collision of the Titanic with the iceberg.Having kicked off the start of that popular film genre known as film noir, Stanwyck (as Phyllis Diedrickson in Double Indemnity) and Webb (as Waldo Lydecker in Laura) went toe to toe in 1944 for who was the greatest film villain of the year. Together, they seem an odd couple. He's rather prissy (as always), with his nose so high in the air that he can smell the atmosphere on the moon, so determined to raise his children among the elite of European society that he's furious that Stanwyck (whom he considers a failed Pygmallion like project) would take them away from him.Of the two children, Audrey Dalton's 18 year old daughter is the most like him-determined to remain among the elite rather than return to her mother's home town in Michigan. She cruelly announces to her mother that upon their arrival in New York, she will return to Europe with her father. Pre-teen Harper Carter (greatly used in the film but unbilled!) is closest in easy-going manner to his mother but greatly adores his father. When Stanwyck and Webb bring out the weapons in their battle for the children, Stanwyck's dagger inflicts the greatest wound, leaving the usually ready to fight Webb standing there with invisible egg on his face.Among the others on the ship is a handsome college athlete (Robert Wagner) who falls for Dalton in spite of her initial rudeness to him. A scene between Wagner and Stanwyck actually has more heat between them then their on-screen partners which reflects why in real life the two of them were involved in a heated affair. It is obvious even with a name change that Thelma Ritter is playing a character based upon Molly Brown. Richard Basehart gives an intense performance as a troubled priest defrocked for alcoholism. Veteran leading man Brian Aherne is dignified as the ship's captain.Real-life Titanic passengers Isadore and Ida Strauss, John Jacob and Madeline Astor, and Benjamin Guggenheim are also seen in snippets. William Johnstone, the wise Judge Lowell of As the World Turns, is very elegant in his few moments on screen, much like Eric Braeden (the ruthless Victor Newman of The Young and the Restless) was in the 1997 epic version. Allyn Joslyn brings total disgust to the role of his social climbing passenger who hangs onto Johnstone's every word and seems ready to shine (or kiss) his boots at any moment. Try not to hold back in the scene where Ida Strauss makes her determination to stay with her husband public. It is a heart-breaker.Barbara Stanwyck said that when she was filming the scene on the lifeboat that with the life jacket on and the set freezing cold, she began to emotionally feel the pain of what had happened 40 years before. The character at this time is dealing with a tragic acknowledgment in regards to one of her children, just having had an emotional farewell with a husband whom up until now she has come to think she despised. Every version of the this film has been successful in bringing in some new element, even the 1997 T.V. mini-series and the much overrated Broadway musical of the same year. Frankly, I would like to see the story involving the Astors and the Strausses dramatized for historical purposes. But in the end, it is the tragedy of the lives who were lost that counts and the emotional impact it had on the people who witnessed it. Lucky to survive yes, but certainly a memory that would remain a nightmare. Neerer my God to thee, indeed. "}{"Title":"No, Britney, this is NOT the one where the old lady drops it into the ocean in the end","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Fine telling of the story of the doomed ocean liner, focused on one family in particular on board. Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb play an unhappily married couple. He's a rich snob and she doesn't want her kids to grow up spoiled. So she boards the Titanic with them bound for America, where she boasts they will walk to school. The couple's differences seem irreconcilable, especially after one painful revelation. Then, of course, the ship sinks. Hope that's not a spoiler!Despite some unlikely casting, Stanwyck and Webb do a good job of selling themselves as a married couple. Their final scene together is especially well-done. Big kudos to Webb for one of his best dramatic screen performances here. Brian Aherne plays the ship's captain. Robert Wagner appears in an early role. Having met on this movie, he and Stanwyck would have a four-year relationship, despite the huge age difference. Richard Basehart, Thelma Ritter, and Allyn Joslyn are solid in small supporting roles. Obviously not the Titanic most people are familiar with today but very good and worth checking out. Unless you're an iceberg, the ending will have you in tears. "},{"Title":"The Original Titanic","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Not everything that's made about the Titanic needs to be or even should be looked at in relation to the James Cameron film of 1997. However, realistically speaking, the 97 film was such a blockbuster that it's probably impossible not to do some comparison whenever you watch any story about the Titanic. This was the Cameron film's namesake - 1953's Titanic. It's the third movie account of the sinking of the ship that I've seen - along with the Cameron film and 1958's A Night To Remember - and it's actually, as far as I know, the earliest film version made. The '58 version was very bare bones and to the point - it was quite a contrast to '97 and it worked very well, probably at least in part because of that. This '53 movie is more obviously what impacted James Cameron more. It uses much of the same technique of weaving fictional story lines among the passengers around the historical event of the sinking. Not surprisingly, it isn't as ornate as Cameron's version, and the actual mechanics of the ship's sinking is inaccurate, but when this was made no one knew that the ship had broken in half. Some of the historical names are changed. In this version, for example, there's no Molly Brown, although there's a Molly Brown-like character, played by Thelma Ritter.Most of the melodramatic content revolves around the Sturges family. Fed up with her posh life in Europe, Julia Sturges (played by Barbara Stanwyck) is leaving her husband and taking her children to America to start a new life. Her husband Richard (Clifton Webb) manages to get on board the ship to convince his children to go back to Europe with him. His wife he couldn't care less about. That was a reasonably well developed storyline.Some of the historical details seem inaccurate as well, although the basics are covered. There's no one from the White Star Lines, though, on board, pushing Captain Smith (Brian Aherne) to increase speed, and the strict polarization between first class and steerage doesn't seem as strict as it should be. This is a far shorter movie than Cameron's, and as it approaches the end the emotion does build, especially as Richard finds his son Norman, who suggests that they can make a swim of it together. The actual sinking - long and drawn out in '97 - happens fairly suddenly in this, and the movie ends, I thought, rather too abruptly, with no attention to the survivors afterward and their rescue.I saw this movie many years ago and was impressed with it. It's still quite good, and it has an obviously very impressive cast. People will inevitably compare it to James Cameron's movie. That's all a matter of personal taste I suppose. I liked both - and I liked A Night To Remember as well. To be honest, though, I'd probably rank this one as #3 out of those 3 - but #3 out of 3 very good movies. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Convergence of the Twain","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" There have been many films and TV dramas about the sinking of the RMSTitanic, a story which ever since 1912 has gripped the human imagination, far more than other, similar, maritime disasters. (I cannot, for example, think of a single film about the sinking of the RMS Lusitania in 1915, even though it caused nearly as many deaths). There are several reasons for this, primarily that the Titanic can be seen to symbolise the vanity of human wishes, the inadequacy of human technology and human powerlessness against a hostile Nature. (The Lusitania was sunk as a deliberate act of war, so its loss carries no such symbolic meaning). As Thomas Hardy wrote in Convergence of the Twain, his poem on the disaster-In a solitude of the seaDeep from human vanity, And the Pride of Life that planned her, stilly couches she. This American film was one of two versions from the 1950s, the other being the British-made A Night to Remember. There was also a notorious Nazi propaganda version (which I have never seen) but the one everyone knows today is James Cameron's from 1997. Jean Negulesco's Titanic from 1953, however, has one advantage over Cameron's grand epic- a better human interest story. Whereas Cameron just had that clichd love-story of Kate and Leo, Negulesco's film has a plot which could almost be something out of Henry James. (It won the Academy Award for Writing Original Screenplay, although it was fortunate in that many of the big films of 1953, such as From Here to Eternity, Julius Caesar and Shane, were adaptations from other media and hence not eligible for that award). The film centres upon a wealthy estranged couple, Richard and Julia Sturges. Julia is from Mackinac, Michigan. (I understand that the name of the town is correctly pronounced Mackinaw, but in the film it is always pronounced as it is spelled). Richard's nationality is something of an enigma. He is played by an American actor, Clifton Webb, but speaks with a British accent. There are, however, hints that he is not an Englishman but a Europeanised American, possibly an East Coast blue blood, who has fallen in love with European high society. This has caused his estrangement from his wife, who regards this world as snobbish and artificial, and has booked a passage to America on the Titanic with her children Annette and Norman. Julia has kept her plans a secret from Richard, but he has somehow found out about them and, determined to persuade the children to return to Europe with him, buys a ticket from a Basque immigrant. (Despite his only holding a steerage ticket, nobody attempts to prevent Richard from using the first-class facilities). Julia privately despairs of being able to influence the seventeen-year-old Annette, whom she regards as being as great a snob as her father, but hopes to rescue young Norman from European decadence. On the voyage, however, Annette falls in love with Gifford Rogers, a young college student who, although wealthy, is exactly the sort of non-decadent sun-tanned, crew-cut, All-American male whom Julia would want as a son-in-law. There is also a sub-plot about George Healey, a Catholic priest defrocked for alcoholism. I found the story of the Sturges family so entertaining that I wished that these characters had been created in the context of some other film where they could have worked out their own solution to their problems rather than having a solution forced upon them by the iceberg. I never felt like that about Jack and Rose. In other respects, however, Cameron's film is superior. It is obviously superior in terms of its visual effects, but it might be unfair to make comparisons in this respect; the makers of the earlier film did not have either the modern special effects technology or the budget (even allowing for inflation) that were available to Cameron.The other respect in which I feel the newer film is better is in the way in which it portrays human reactions to the disaster. Although the older film was made four decades after the loss of the Titanic, it suggests that in some respects social attitudes had not changed very much between 1912 and 1953, certainly much less than they were to change in the next four decades between the 1950s and the 1990s. If the film-makers of the 1910s had had the benefits of more modern technology, including talking pictures, and if they had decided to make a movie about the sinking shortly after it took place, I doubt if the resulting film would have been very different to Negulesco's.The prevailing atmosphere after the iceberg strikes is one of Edwardian stiff-upper-lip heroism, with all the adult males (bar a single coward who disguises himself as a woman) unquestioningly following the women and children first policy, helping their wives, sweethearts and children into the few lifeboats then stoically standing on the decks to await their inevitable deaths while singing hymns. The ship's captain, Edward Smith, portrayed in the 1997 film as a weak character unable to stand up to the bullying ship-owner J. Bruce Ismay, here becomes a gallant hero whose decisive leadership and self-sacrifice saves the lives of many others. Cameron's film, by contrast, does show some acts of heroism, but also shows that not everyone was a hero and that chaos and panic were more common reactions. That film may have been unfair to certain individuals, particularly in its calumny of the ship's First Officer William Murdoch, but overall I felt that its picture of the disaster was not only more accurate but also more moving, presenting it is the tragic waste of life it really was rather than sentimentalising it as some sort of noble and heroic martyrdom. Not every remake is inferior to its original. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing compares to Cameron, but this is pretty good","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Since James Cameron made his epic, nobody has remembered the three or four other Titanic movies of the 20th century. They have have almost 'sank' into oblivion. I thought it would be interesting to see another version of how the unsinkable sank Some may find this film hard to approach having seen Cameron's. In order to judge it effectively, you will have to (As the Chinese say) empty your cup of standards which you may have judged Cameron's film with. While this movie is still no match for his, it is nonetheless pretty interesting, and not bad at all.Although there are plenty of historical inaccuracies, There is a better sense of history to this version of Titanic. The story is presented much more objectively. If Cameron's film could be called a roller coaster of an epic, this one is more of a merry-go-round. It is much stiffer/slower but it feels more mundane and less extraordinary. The things people say here, are probably indistinguishable from Edwardian era talk.There are two reasons why this Titanic is inferior to Cameron's. First of all, it's not very involving. Like I said, it is stiff, humorless, occasionally charming, but there is a feeling of distance between us and the characters. Secondly, there is no sense of peril. The way the second half plays out is far too torpid, to generate suspense. Cameron was able to show the array of suffering (both physical and emotion) which grew stronger as the water level rose higher and higher, and the boats became fewer by the minute. One thing that this Titanic addresses (something that Cameron barely touched on) is the nature of Captain Smith. He has a bigger role here. Cameron presented him as a kind of weakling, too scared to do anything once tragedy struck. This Captain Smith is a bit more heroic, fighting to save as many lives as he can. Knowing that he is one of the reasons why the ship sank, it's hard to know whether to be symathetic to him here or not. It would be foolhardy to even think of downgrading this movie on account of special effects. Only an idiot would do that. Unfortunately, every movie that Cameron does seem to break special effects barriers making peoples expectations higher with each passing year. As a result of Avatar, the ratio of 2D screenings to 3D screenings of other movies, is getting more one sided.Anyone who loved Titanic (or even just liked it) should try this film if you can find it. It is a long way from greatness, but it truly does make you think not just about the disaster but about cinema, and how far it has progressed in the years leading up to 1997. "},{"Title":"Good Film, well acted, directed and edited","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This was the first of many Titanic movies made before James Cameron's masterpiece. Made in 1953 and shot in black and white to keep detail clean and well paced. The movie stars Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert Wagner and Brian Aherne plays Captain John Smith. The film is directed by Jean Negulesco. The basic story is about a family trying to start a new life in North America trying to escape their rich life they had back in London. The story has lots of drama, theater, but action is kept to a low. THE TITANIC The Titanic in this film was a model which you clearly tell in some shots due to the water touching the sides of the model but overall it has good detail. The sets inside the Titanic however look different to the real ship. If you know the Titanic well, you know that it didn't have clothes shops etc.SPECIAL EFFECTS The special effects in this movie were well done for 1953, you see the iceberg slice open the ship, water busting through walls, exploding ships, icebergs falling into the water.The only down fall is the sinking of the ship, it's very quick and all over in about 20 minutes also it shows the Titanic exploding as it's sinking. The ship sinks intact in this movie, this movie was made before they discovered the real Titanic and nobody knew for sure if the ship really did break in two when sinking. But over all this movie is well acted, directed, edited and it did terrified people back in 1953. "},{"Title":"Welcome aboard... and the voyage of terror awaits","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This was the first movie to deal with the Titanic disaster and although not the best version, it is very good.The unsinkable RMS Titanic sets sail from Southampton on its maiden voyage, the passengers not aware of what lies ahead. Its passengers include an unhappily married couple and their two children, a group of students and a drunk. During the voyage, Titanic hits an iceberg and starts to sink. The Captain orders everyone to abandon ship by the lifeboats, women and children first. Problem is, there are not enough lifeboats, so Titanic finally sinks with many still on board.A couple of things to note about the sinking the passengers certainly didn't sing when it went down although the band kept playing and the other point is that Titanic broke into two when it sank but this movie was made before that was discovered. It is also interesting to note how calm everybody seemed to be as it sank too, unlike the other Titanic movies I've seen.This movie has an excellent cast Clifton Webb (Laura), Barbara Stanwyck (The Two Mrs Carrolls), Robert Wagner (Hart To Hart), Thelma Ritter, Audrey Dalton, Richard Basehart (Voyage To the Bottom of the Sea) and Brian Aherne. Excellent parts from all.This movie is certainly a must see, even though the ending is a little inaccurate.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Another Titanic Oscar winner","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This version is definitely worth a look, if for no other reason than to watch Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb go at it like a dog and a cat. The script, which won an Oscar, is better written than James Cameron's 1997 version. In some ways, this movie also takes you there better than Cameron's movie, special effects notwithstanding. This is not surprising; Stanwyck and Webb were both alive when the Titanic sank, so their snooty countenances are much more authentic than those of the society types from the 1997 version. Eye-popping cinema? No, but as I said, it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"If you must watch a fictionalization of the sinking of the Titanic...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" ...this is the one to see.As fictionalizations of the sinking of the Titanic go, this is the best one. While very much a product of its times, it scores over Cameron's travesty on every point save scenery, so if you prefer a superior story over $1000 replicas of dinner plates, you will enjoy this film.Webb & Stanwyck's faltering marriage makes for a more engaging story than DiCaprio & Winslet's barely breathing crush. The sense of loss is felt every time the couple appear on screen together.No phony suspense is added here, as none is needed. The sinking itself is enough. "},{"Title":"Very good but bad ending.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This film had a much better storyline then the James Camerson version. However, this version has a very bad ending. It ends very quickly and I would have liked the see what had become of those who had survived and how they dealt with everything.  "},{"Title":"A very good film, for its time","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  After seeing James Cameron's Titanic, I found this one and thought what the hell, I may as well buy it (it became the first of 5 so far). I was impressed with the effects for the time and the storyline even impressed me as maybe the background for Cameron's Titanic. The one thing I thought was a bit off, and I don't normally like picking, but this one was too good to miss, was that Madelaeine Astor, who was only 18, appeared to have been cast wrong. The lady playing her looked too close to 30 to truly pull it off. Other than this I found the realism and the emotion was extremely good, especially Barbra Stanwyck at the end of the movie with her husband. It was impressive for the year it was made. "}{"Title":"Gripping story-telling","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful cast recreates the events surrounding the tragic voyage of the  great ship. Like the more spectacular James Cameron version, this one focusses on a  fictitious story with the historical people and events as a backdrop. The  FX are quite good -- far better than those in the British A NIGHT TO  REMEMBER which was made five years later. If you see this one and Cameron's version, you may notice parallels an  upper-crust girl falling in love with a boy who is beneath her, a  disapproving parent (the mother in Cameron's version and the father in this  version), and the boy telling the girl that he wouldn't have missed the  voyage for anything in the world. The young Robert Wagner even looks a bit  like Leo DiCaprio. This is definitely a powerful film. "},{"Title":"The Ship Hits the Fan","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" In the cruel month of April 1912, the luxurious Titanic has begun its maiden voyage across the Atlantic Ocean. Movie viewers of all generations will know how it ends. For this story, the focus is on one particular family - headed by wealthy husband Clifton Webb (as Richard Ward Sturges) and his exceptionally well-dressed wife Barbara Stanwyck (as Julia). Unfortunately, their marriage is on the rocks. Aboard ship, the pair battle over who will win custody of young son Harper Carter (as Norman) and pretty daughter Audrey Dalton (as Annette). He is ready for long pants and she is ready for romance...The main supporting passenger is exceptionally handsome Robert Wagner (as Gifford Giff Rogers). He appropriately performs Oh! That Navajo Rag, a contemporary hit song. Others characters of note include alcoholic priest Richard Basehart (as George Healey) and the unsinkable Thelma Ritter (as Maude Young). Producer Charles Brackett, who won an Oscar as co-writer, corralled a fine team for this version. While falling a little short of A Night to Remember (1958), Titanic (1953) hits all cylinders successfully and remains a fine example of Hollywood-produced product from the 1950s.******** Titanic (4/11/53) Jean Negulesco ~ Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert Wagner, Richard Basehart "},{"Title":"Still the Best Movie on the Cursed Big Liner !","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" When I saw this picture back in the middle 50's I thought it was a very good cinema. I was also attracted to the Titanic's history although it was a very short one. That's why I also went to see every other movie on the ship that came across including Ome Night to Remember, S.O.S Titanic and James Cameron's huge Titanic too.One Night to Remember (1958, I think) is supposed to be the most accurate regarding actual facts, but it lacks tension because of a weak plot until the sinking and even Kenneth More looks bored and too calm during such a terrible disaster; a documentary film would have been better if historical accuracy was the target. S.O.S Titanic (1979), which starred David Janssen, is also dull and lacks impact and emotion. Finally, Cameron's version (1997), is certainly a big budget film but has undeniable major flaws such as Billy Zane chasing and shooting with a pistol at Leo Di Caprio and Kate Winslet with the water above his knees and at the precise moment everybody else was trying to save their lives with the ship nearly down.On the other hand Jean Negulesco's 1953 version is a simple movie that narrates interesting and credible situations involving some of the doomed passengers. The main one being the permanent confrontation between husband Richard Sturges (Clifton Webb) and wife Julia (Barbara Stanwyck) about their daughter and son's future life. He wants them to stick to their high society and somehow superficial living status and she wants them to live as more common persons as she was before marrying Richard (in fact Julia was heading with both youngsters too America without her husband's approval). A terrible confession about the past Julia makes to Richard during one of the usual discussions changes the man completely and from then on he avoids her mere prescence. That's the situation when the ship hits the iceberg.Clifton Webb is perfect as the sophisticated and sarcastic husband and Barbara Stanwyck renders a great performance too. The supporting cast which includes a young Robert Wagner, Thelma Ritter, Richard Basehart and the always reliable Brian Aherne (as Captain Smith), is also very good.The crash and the sinking sequences are very well done even for special effects of 1953. The drama and desperation atmosphere all over the sentenced liner is also perfectly managed.If you just consider that Negulesco's film gives Cameron's version more than 40 years of handicap in film technology there can be no doubt that the first is a far better movie.The opening scene where you can see the iceberg cracking out of an ice mountain, fall into the ocean and start its voyage to meet the Titanic is an intelligent idea that puts you into the matter right from the start.In all a very good dramatic movie based on actual facts, not matched yet by the numerous cinema and television versions that came later. If you didn't see it go and get it, you won't be disappointed at all. "},{"Title":"Playing It Straight","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This is the other Titanic, one of the last pre-CinemaScope films Fox produced, nicely photographed in fittingly hazy black and white by Joe MacDonald, and directed by Jean Negulesco. Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck play a quarreling American couple on what is supposed to be their voyage home, after years in Europe, and how the sinking of the great ship changes them; for the better, as things work out, though with tragic consequences.Stanwyck is not at her best in this one, but Webb is splendid in a fine dramatic performance in which for once he plays it absolutely straight. As he had specialized in playing snobs, it's fitting that he was cast in the part of the snooty husband, to which he brings a mixture of understanding and at times remarkable depth. Here is a man without qualities who, up till one cold April night, discovered in himself astonishing reserves of heroism, love and warmth, which surprise us, though not, apparently him, as he remains very much in character, unfazed by it all,--which is exactly right. By gad, sir, what an actor he showed himself to be! "},{"Title":"O.K. for its time, but badly dated today.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this film on T.V. many years ago, and the basic story of the legend is powerful enough that I thought this film was gripping. Unfortunately, it's badly dated and you don't have to watch James Cameron's masterpiece to pick out the faults. While Nearer My God To Thee WAS probably played as the ship went down, does anyone believe that the remaining passengers on board would sing the song in unison? (What you see in Cameron's version and A Night To Remember is more realistic--the rest of the passengers are panicking as the band plays on.) Furthermore, I think what the real priests did on Titanic is more heroic than Richard Basehart's character. Basehart rushed to the boiler room to help a trapped passenger. In real life, two Catholic priests (travelling in second class) went to steerage to hear confessions and console the remaining passengers. In Cameron's film you see one of them quoting Revelation as the stern rises higher into the air.Still, if you can ignore all that, the acting is surprisingly good--especially from Barbara Stanwyck. "},{"Title":"Good but 1997 Titanic spoiled me","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Cameron's epic several times I decided to compare it to the 1953 version. I did notice a number of parallels, most obviously the upper-class-girl-falls-in-love-with-poor-boy theme (with the uncannily Leonardo-like Robert Wagner playing the poor boy). While some details missing from the Cameron epic were included here, such as the wireless radio operator's role in the tragic events, as a whole I was disappointed. This version seemed too sedate and lacked suspense. Perhaps in these days of impressive SFX and larger-than-life characters, I have simply become spoiled. For the time it was made, it's not bad. I just feel there could have been more suspense and that the roles were under-acted. (I would think on a sinking ship, people would not seem so calm and collected). It just wasn't believable.  "},{"Title":"Nothing that A Night to Remember doesn't far surpass.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The Titanic story obscured by !stars!.  The film is not bad per se, but amazingly, it provides little tension for its characters or suspense for the viewer. It is pale on its own and certainly so in comparison to A Night to Remember (1958).As the voyage begins, Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck are in a shattering marriage, held together only by their son(*) of about 12 years; this is the central theme.  Oh, by the way, the Titanic strikes an iceberg, is sinking, and there aren't enough lifeboats for all.  This motivates Webb and Stanwyck to rethink their lives and to reunite just in time to be permanently parted by the sinking.Other stars appear as real or composite characters whose various life situations are revealed as the disaster unfolds. (Included is Thelma Ritter of oh-so-many movies, with her same old penetratingly-voiced, wisecracking character.)This story formula---a disaster envelops fictional characters whose life stories unfold and resolve as the crisis plays out---is a standard, e.g., The High and The Mighty (1954), the later Airport movies, et al.     (*)apparently omitted from the foregoing credits. "},{"Title":"First Titanic Movie is Better","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This is Hollywood's version of Titanic and it is very good but mostly fictionalized.  Seeing Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb as a fighting married couple makes the story interesting.  The ending will break your heart. For drama purposes, this is the best of the Titanic movies. The producers put a young Robert Wagner in for the love interest of Barbara Stanwyck's snotty daughter (Audrey Dalton).  It works.  You root for both love stories.  Of course the movie also dwells with real characters of the Titanic disaster, such as, the captain (Brian Aherne), Molly Brown (Thelma Ritter), and the Astors.  Candice Bergen's mother plays Mrs. Astor.  "},{"Title":"It tells a lot!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie tells a lot about what happened on the Titanic! All the actors are good in this movie! It's sad like most Titanic stories would be. "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I like this Titanic-film very much, but I can see that they used a model when they made the movie.The directing by Jean Negulesco is very good. He can make a special atmosphere in the film and the actors acts very realistic and Robert Wagner have a really good acting in the film.When I saw Titanic crossed on the iceberg, I could see the sky didn't was so real that I think.I been surprised when Titanic exploded while her sank intact.I can see that they make very easy for themselves when they made the movie, also when Titanic sank. "}{"Title":"Melodramatic version of Titanic, that for its time period is a pretty good one.","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" You always have to watch movies in the perspective of its time and for '50's standards this is a pretty good genre movie.The movie is not very heavy or effective with its emotions. The movie tells a story but without much sense for the right emotions, except with its soapy dramatic elements in the beginning and the middle of the movie. The sinking itself is nothing too powerful or even spectacular looking, though the final sequence in which a large group of people, including some of the main characters are all going down signing, while the boat is starting to sink rapidly and all knowing that it's the end, is a pretty effective last sequence for the movie.The movie is filled with lots of melodramatic plot-lines and moments and follows (too) many different character. Luckily the movie is too short to ever allow any of this to become distracting.The movie follows all of the usual most famous passengers such as John Jacob Astor, Isador Straus and of course the captain Edward John Smith and First Officer Murdock. The movie throws in a lot more fictional characters that all aboard the Titanic with each their own reasons and problems, both in the upper- and lower classes. It's the reason why the movie tends to become over dramatic at times, which also causes the movie to not hold you interested entirely for its running time.Nevertheless the movie features some still some good moments and well developed characters.The overall sinking might be perhaps a bit of a deception. I mean, when the Titanic hits the iceberg, almost immediately the order is given to board the lifeboats. No time for panic or real disbelief. Everything happens so calm and rapidly at the same time. But again you have to watch the movie in perspective. In the '50's this was a normal sort of approach.Added to that, the movie is not that good looking with its effects. They used miniatures for most of the time. The sets and atmosphere on the other hand is good. The movie does a good job at re-creating the atmosphere of the '10's and the atmosphere at the time on board of the ship. Also the interior sets are good looking.The movie has a decent cast with Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck and an almost unrecognizable young Robert Wagner in an early role. It's the sort of movie in which none of the actors excels, which is sort of fine and suiting for a movie with some many different characters and actors performing them in it.All in all a fine and perfectly watchable genre movie, as long as you can appreciate the '50's style of film-making.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Horribly inaccurate, but good anyway","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I've been obsessed with the Titanic since I was a child, and when I saw this movie in a video rental store, I had to check it out. My first impression was that it was the worst Titanic movie ever made-I still think that. Why 8 out of 10, you ask? Because it is, in my opinion, the most emotional, touching, and real Titanic movie ever made. While 1997's Titanic is still my favorite (purely for the historic detail and fantastic sets), this movie takes the cake as a portrayal of emotion and humanity. If you want to know what actually happened on Titanic, watch 1997 Titanic or A Night to Remember, but if you want something real and human, watch 1953 Titanic. "},{"Title":"The Best Dramatic Retelling","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Of all Titanic films, the 1997 blockbuster included, 1953's Titanic holds the field for dramatic truth and intensity. This film tells a more believable human story than the 1997 FX spectacle, and the acting is superior to any other Titanic film. The most obvious similarity to Cameron's film is the estranged Sturges parents' battle over their daughter's shipboard romance with an American college student. Wealthy, snobbish Papa Sturges wants her to marry a European title; Mama, plebeian by birth, likes the American. The girl does a Rose Bukater, chooses the Yank and never gives a moment's thought to jumping overboard. This film is essentially a morality play, and a good one it is. When the touchingly human and deeply wounded Mama Sturges reveals that Junior isn't really Papa Sturges' son and heir, but the result of a long-ago one-nighter, Papa abandons the adoring boy. On board is also a young Catholic priest, defrocked for alcoholism. In the final disaster all threads are resolved the embattled Sturges recover the shreds of their lost love at the last moment; Papa redeems himself by accepting his wife's son as his own; Mama's sexual transgression is punished by the boy's death; the priest redeems himself by descending to certain death to help crewmen trapped below decks; the daughter will be happy with her Yank (though at film's end she is unaware he has survived). There are NO loose ends apart from a few historical inaccuracies. Among those not noted elsewhere here the captain somehow realizes within seconds of the collision that the ship is doomed and issues brisk orders to everyone unlike the real Captain Smith who, by all accounts, was almost incapable of action in the face of overwhelming disaster; Papa Sturges tells his family to go to lifeboat #6, though nobody on board had been told what lifeboat to use. Of overlooked minor details is that the actress portraying Mrs Astor is Frances Bergen, wife of Edgar and mother of Candice Bergen. Of the lead actors, Clifton Webb comes close to the performance of his career as Papa, and as Mama, a superb Barbara Stanwyck is his equal to the last syllable. Audrey Dalton is perfect as their lovely daughter; Robert Wagner does a credible if unexceptional turn as her romantic interest. As the priest, Richard Basehart's brief but convincing turn makes all more poignant the sad decline of his later career. "},{"Title":"Very good story with kicker ending that's better then Camerons version","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" *No spoiler. I don't want to spoil the ending* This is a much better moving movie then the blown up Cameron version. I feel the romance in the Cameron version was the whole story. To me that romance would of been just effective if it was in a cornfield in Kansas. It brought nothing to the film. If it wasn't the only story it would not have bogged the movie down like it did. In this version of the Titanic there is a romance with a real young and good looking Robert Wagner playing a college student who is on the ship with a bunch of his classmates trying to act like they are Cornell students because their college has the same initials. He is really sweet and his object of affection is a American snob who thought she was a European snob. What I liked about them is that he was really sweet and it didn't take long for her to warm up to him. Unlike the Cameron version in which the Kate Winslet character was so annoying and played too many games that got him in trouble that I felt the wrong person died in the end. But the real story in this version is about her parents. Played by 2 of my favorite actors Barbara Stanwyke and Clifton Webb. It seems the mother wants to bring her daughter back to reality and stop acting like a snob and the father disagrees. He thinks she is trash, but he really loves her. Before we learn this we find out that they are getting a divorce and are just acting OK because of the children. When the father threatens to take the little boy, he finds out something he never knew. A very big bad secret. He who was always a loving dad starts treating the little boy like a piranha and the little boy has no idea why. When the ship hits the ice, the father gets to action. Before that we get introduced to all of his snobby friends because now all he does is play cards day and night to stay away from the family. We get to meet Molly Brown ( Thelma Ritter), the Astors and the Guggenhiems. I like the way they incorporated them in to the story. What happens next is a stunner and a heart breaker. I am not going to tell because this movie deserves to be seen. Camerons heartbreaking end cannot compare. I mean this versions ending was something that took 2 seconds to happen. It was not something that we were hyped for like the Winslet/ De Caprio ending whom from the very beginning of the movie you knew something bad was going to happen to one of them ( the wrong one as far as I am concerned). This one no hint. Of course we get the supporting players such as Richard Basehart playing the defrocked priest. But their were no villains like the Camerons version. This to me was more realistic and it told more of a human story. And the boat, well that was just a backdrop for the story. I mean we all know what happens to the boat. If you want fact look at A Night To Remember, which was taken from a very famous book, with accounts from people working on the ship. Mainly Lighttoller. The best of the Titanic movies. This one is very good but it tells a different type of story. I give it a 9 for that kicker of a ending and the good appealing actors and fast moving story. "},{"Title":"Fab Fifties Fatality Flick!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I caught the 1958 Titanic on AMC and just have to say...for a movie made back then, it pretty much ROCKS!  If you haven't seen it and have been curious about it, it's definitely worth renting to watch. "},{"Title":"Lukewarm treatment of disaster.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  First off, you see this and you ask yourself -- why did Fox spend a fortune using color film for Betty Grable fluff, but one of the greatest tragedies of the 20th Century warrants only black and white? The film seems to be mediocre in every respect -- the stars are sort of big, but not really. Well, you have Barbara Stanwyck, but she was past her prime -- still nice to look at but not as stellar as she once was. Then there's the story -- almost as saccharine as the 1997 film (if that's possible) -- but it's the same old Hollywood pap -- turning a disaster into a soap opera.  And though this is less than half the length of the overblown 1997 telling, it still seems too long.  There is no tension or build-up presaging the disaster, and it is really, really hard to care about anyone -- especially a family whose main problem is how to live out the rest of their well-to-do lives -- and where they should do it. And what little irony there is so heavy-handed as to be ineffectual.  The ultimate question about this film is why was it even made in the first place. "},{"Title":"Wet","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Several comments have been along the lines of well ok it wasn't very accurate, but it was a great story. In that case the makers shouldn't have pretended that it was a true story.Cameron's version really was quite accurate. It is a common human trait to backlash against something which has been immensely popular. I guess this has now started with the 1997 Titanic. But to try to maintain that this movie is superior in any way is just rubbish.Almost *everything* about this movie was historically inaccurate. They even have the iceberg slicing the wrong side of the ship!And all that singing?. LOL. Yeah right. "},{"Title":"Decent for its time I guess","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" But the hammy acting, especially on Clifton Webbs part, overshadows the rest of the film. It was especially the climax of the film just prior to the sinking that I could never take. When Sturgis's son finds his father (Webb) after all the lifeboats have launched, Sturgis stands upright and stiff with his arm around his son, looking up into the heavens and proclaims, I feel as tall as a mountain!. I burst out laughing at that supposedly touching moment. The next tender moment that was suppose to be just as, if not more touching was when the band started playing and everybody that was still on board just stopped dead in their tracks and started singing Nearer My God To Thee. The ship is sinking fast and the audience is supposed to believe that everybody left on board suddenly becomes so gallant and brave that all panic stops and everybody joins in the choir? Pardon me but... CORRRRR-NY! If you feel the need to see an old film about the Titanic then I suggest A Night To Remember and not this pile of rubbish. "},{"Title":"This Titanic Rises to the Top ****","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck, two pros, are memorable in this fantastic version of Titanic.Their marriage has gone southward as they embark on this ill-fated journey.Audrey Dalton, and Robert Wagner along with Thelma Ritter, who both starred the year before in With A Song in My Heart, more than hold their own. There is also a wonderful character scene by Allyn Joslyn, who dressed as a woman so that he could get on a lifeboat.Webb and Stanwyck's son, Norman, can't understand why his father has become so indifferent to him. Trouble is that in a fit of anger, before disaster struck, Stanwyck had told Webb that the boy was not his. As the ship is going down, the boy runs to Webb and that scene will forever tear at your heart.A powerful 1 hour and 39 minute drama. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the 97 Version","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I think the person previously had it correct when he said that people are just bashing the new one because of all the hype that it got. The 1957 version of Titanic is not as good as the new version, not that it is a bad film though. I personally thought the passengers were way to calm in this film, although I rather liked it, but it wasn't believable. This version of Titanic also tried to represent historical facts but failed to incorporate them into the story and are completely out of place. At least in Spielberg's version the historical facts fit in and dont disrupt the story. All in all though it was a decent film and is worth the watch to see how much Spielberg took from it. "}{"Title":"What ship was this about, anyway?","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Although it's been a few years since I saw this movie, I remember the most striking aspect of the film was it's lack of accuracy.  Several users have referred to the special effects as superior to those of A Night to Remember. However, that is insignificant considering the disregard for facts.  Oh sure, the ship in this movie is named Titanic, and it hits an iceberg and sinks, but that is where the similarity to historical record ends. "},{"Title":"not as memorable a night","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The most recent 'Titanic,' being as successful as it was at the box-office, has certainly eclipsed the two previously most well-known films about the disaster, 'A Night to Remember' (1958) and 'Titanic' (1953). 'A Night to Remember' is definitely the better of the two. Most people who have seen the earlier 'Titanic' are of the opinion that it's a so-so melodrama with the doomed ship as a backdrop. Clifton Webb (who?) stars as Richard, a stuffy, well-off Brit married to an American, Julia (Barbara Stanwyck). Julia plans to divorce Richard and they have arguments about their two kids and who's going to live with whom, etc. There is a typical soap-opera denouement at one point (his son isn't really his son) and some noble suffering and sentimentality... in fact, the main problem with 'Titanic' is that it doesn't know when to stop being a soap opera and get on with the boat sinking. Somebody must have lost a bet to Clifton Webb for him to get the starring role in this movie. He's too old for the part; he looks more like Stanwyck's uncle or maybe the kids' grandfather. Stanwyck is Stanwyck, most of the time wearing that unique expression of hers that seems to say, get away from me or I'll give you such a slap. Robert Wagner plays a stereotypical college kid with the hots for the couple's daughter. He hangs out with his fellow classmates, all of whom wear identical lettered outfits and spend their time singing cornball college songs. This enduring image of college students in Hollywood films must have had some basis in truth, as it was a staple in movies for nearly forty years, but it's one aspect that definitely hasn't aged well. The special effects in 'Titanic' are not bad; the actual sinking at the end is fairly low-key, which may be historically accurate but doesn't make for real exciting cinema. It's all in the tradition of British understatement- the captain basically shrugs when the reality of the situation hits him. We half-expect him to say, Oh, bloody hell. And of course we get a final shot of brave and stoic Clifton Webb singing 'Nearer My God To Thee.' The best thing about this version of 'Titanic' is that it makes you want to see 'A Night to Remember' again. "},{"Title":"A dog","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Titanic, this 1953 version is a real dog.  Terribly inaccurate, like the visuals and names of the characters.  The only real accurate thing in the movie was the ship model they used actually had 4 stacks!  The iceberg struck on the wrong side, for one thing...and showing ripping up the hull underwater! Even the sinking is inaccurate, it blows up and sinks like a rock! Like Cameron's 1997 movie, this is too wound up in boy/girl, husband/wife, breakup/makeup genres, it makes the whole story out like a soap opera, not a real Titanic movie.  Unless you are a diehard Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwick, or Robert Wagner fan, leave this one on the rental shelf and rent A Night To Remember instead. "},{"Title":"A Bland Titanic Next To Other Titanic Films","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Titanic (1953) Starring Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert Wagner, Audrey Dalton, Richard Basehart, Thelma Ritter, Brian Ahene, Allyn Joslyn, James Todd, James O'Hara, William Johnstone, Frances Bergen, Charles B. Fitzsimons, Barry Bernard, Helen Van Tuyl, Dennis Frazer, Ashley Cowan, Roy Gordon, Marta Mitrovich, Ivis Goulding, Harper Carter, Merry Anders, John Costello, Eugene Borden, Donald Chaffin, Nicolas Coaster, John Dodsworth, Conrad Feia, Gloria Gordon, Ralph Grosh, Sam Harris, Charles Keane, Robin Hughes, Mae Marsh, Alan Marston, Oweven McGiveney, Harold Miller, Gordon Richards, Bert Stevens, Duke Seba, Richard West......Director Jean Negulesco, screenplay Charles Brackett, Richard L. Breen, Walter Reisch.Released in theaters across America in 1953, Director Jean Negulesco's Titanic is undoubtedly the most third class version of Titanic-set films. For its time, it was a major film about the Titanic and a moving drama that drew audiences by the dozens. The performances by the principal actors (none of which are famous other than Clifton Webb Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Wagner) are fine, really, but purely soap-opera in their quality. Take for example characters of Julia and Richard Sturges, a couple who are unhappily married and yet board the Titanic with their two children, only to fight about custody of the children when divorce becomes an issue. British veteran actor Clifton Webb hams it up as the arrogant, socially ambitious Richard, who hopes that his daughter Annette, (a very 50's name!) played by Audrey Dalton, will marry a wealthy European man with a title. But Julia (Barbara Stanwyck)is far more democratic and less pretentious than her husband. She counters his social climbing by attempting to educate her children with more wholesome American values such as family. After Richard learns that his son (played by a young Robert Wagner) is not his biological son but in fact born from a man with whom Julia had an affair with, their relationship begins to collapse. Meanwhile, Annette has fallen for the American third-class passenger George, a college student. Their relationship takes center stage toward the latter part of the film. Their romance, which happens rather quickly and one that is mostly simple American George trying to teach princess-like Annette how to relax, is in fact the inspiration for the couple Jack Dawson and Rose Bucater in the 1997 James Cameron Titanic. The severely human story of Titanic (hundreds died!) is only partially expressed, not only because the film focuses on the sinking itself but because there is no real audience-to-character connection. Further to that, the costume design/wardrobe by no-name Dorothy Jeakins is the worst for a Titanic movie. This is supposed to be 1912 but the actors wear 1950's fashion styles such as short sleeves, skirts, business suites, head wraps and scarfs. The Titanic is not a replica but a studio set. The sinking scene is the worst as it's very obvious it's a miniature model/toy on a tank of water hitting a fake iceberg model. Also, Titanic sinks whole without breaking in half as was the belief at the time. It would not be until the 1985 discovery of Titanic's ruins under the Atlantic Ocean and extensive investigations that historians acknowledged the fact the ship broke in half. If you don't mind the bad, low-budget effects, and care to learn a thing or two about who was on the upscale passenger list, what songs they sang during the voyage and the interestingly dramatic story of a married couple who find forgiveness and redemption only after disaster strikes, this is a Titanic for you. But I can only give it a 5 out of 10 rating because it did not cut it for me. Without a doubt, there are better versions out there. They include the 1957 British film A Night To Remember based on the Walter Lord novel, and the 1990's saw many fine versions including the 1994 made for TV film No Greater Love based on the Danielle Steele book and the TV series with Peter Gallegher. "},{"Title":"you must see titanic","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" SYNOPSIS Epic, action-packed romance set against the ill-fated maiden voyage of the RMS Titanic. As robotic diving vessels search the sunken Titanic, they discover a drawing in a vault that shows a young woman, naked, wearing a huge diamond, which is the object of the salvage. An old woman watching the news recognises the drawing . . . Rose DeWitt Bukater (Kate Winslet) is a young upper class American, soon to be officially engaged to the equally upper class Cal Hockley (Billy Zane). Rose is travelling in the sumptuous luxury of Titanic's upper decks with her insular, narrow minded mother Ruth (Frances Fisher). Not long out of Southampton, Rose has a crisis of the spirit, seeing her life closeted, cloistered, devoid of real meaning, in the grip of a dull and superficial society. She is saved from a desperate act by a free-spirited young steerage passenger, Jack Dawson (Leonardo DiCaprio), who is immediately drawn to this attractive and troubled young woman. The central story of the film, Rose and Jack's forbidden love, begins a powerful mystery that echoes across the years into the present. But on that April day in 1912, the Titanic is doomed, and the young lovers are caught in the terrifying panic that slowly grips the desperate passengers and crew as the icy waters of the North Atlantic swirl across the decks. And the giant jewel is still mysteriously missing. "},{"Title":"Where are Leo and Kate?","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie is mildly entertaining but something is missing.  You don't feel much emotion or concern for the passengers.  Stanwyck is fantastic, as always, and Robert Wagner is good too.  Rent the recent one for the 'ultimate' version. "},{"Title":"Thank God for James Cameron!","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" *SPOILERS*This movie was made by Jean Negulesco in '53, and is basically one of the worst Titanic movies ever made, if not *the* worst.We have a bickering couple (Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb) along with daughter (Audrey Dalton) who predictably finds love (Robert Wagner) and little son, Molly Brown (Thelma Ritter) and a lot of other people I'm supposed to care about but I don't.It's the zenith of boredom!Then, the iceberg hits, and so does stupidity! The boy runs from the lifeboat back on the sinking ship? To die with his father?PLEASE!And then, everybody still on board sings 'Nearer My God To Thee' and DOESN'T MOVE AN INCH as the ship SINKS?What the HELL were they smoking?Titanic (1953) Starring Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert Wagner, Audrey Dalton, Richard Basehart, Thelma Ritter, Brian Ahene, Allyn Joslyn, James Todd, James O'Hara, William Johnstone, Frances Bergen, Charles B. Fitzsimons, Barry Bernard, Helen Van Tuyl, Dennis Frazer, Ashley Cowan, Roy Gordon, Marta Mitrovich, Ivis Goulding, Harper Carter, Merry Anders, John Costello, Eugene Borden, Donald Chaffin, Nicolas Coaster, John Dodsworth, Conrad Feia, Gloria Gordon, Ralph Grosh, Sam Harris, Charles Keane, Robin Hughes, Mae Marsh, Alan Marston, Oweven McGiveney, Harold Miller, Gordon Negulesco, screenplay Charles Brackett, Richard L. Breen, Walter Reisch... ALL WASTED.Avoid it at all costs!Titanic (1953) 1/10. "}]