[{"Title":"An encompassing drama of what happened  to The Robe","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The film opens with Emperor Caligula (Jay Robinson) calling for his guards to find him the robe to bring him eternal life&#133; Caligula stakes his life on the loyalty of the Praetorian Guards&#133; So if they can keep him alive at all, why not forever?Peter (Michael Rennie) gave Demetrius of Corinth (Victor Mature) their master's robe to keep for him&#133; As we all remember, Demetrius took the robe from the foot of the cross before Jesus died&#133;By order of Caligula, 20 pieces of gold were authorized to pay for information concerning the robe that Jesus wore to the cross&#133; Defending Lucia (Debra Paget) from malicious attack of a Praetorian Decurion, Demetrius is caught and sentenced to train as gladiator in the Claudian school&#133;Being fully a Christian entails having a commitment Demetrius, obviously, is condemned to death because he can't take a man's life&#133; Puzzled by his religion, and fascinated by his magnificent physique, and wanting to find out if Demetrius will kill or not his opponent, Messalina asks to be put in the arena against the king of swordsmen the Nuban Glycon (William Marshall). The dramatic moment of the film comes when Lucia (Debra Paget)&#151;Demetrius' sweetheart&#151;sneaks in and is attacked by Dardanius (Richard Egan) and other gladiators... His faith shaken, Demetrius makes several kills, renounces his god, and succumbs to Messalina's charms...Susan Hayward looked gorgeous as the wicked Messalina&#133; The part, however, was not developed... It might have been an ideal role for this beloved actress... This was Hayward's second movie with the radiant Debra Paget, who was still considered a promising starlet, but, again, they were never together in a scene...Future Academy Award winners Ernest Borgnine and Anne Bancroft had small parts... Michael Rennie and Jay Robinson were excellent in their respective roles... Julie Newmeyer was one of the dancing girls, long before she became Julie Newmar and played Howard's rival in The Marriage-Go-Round.Demetrius and the Gladiators is a lively, efficient sequel to The Robe, with emphasis less on religiosity than on the brutality of the arena&#133; "},{"Title":"Works well as a spectacle, with a more intelligent script than many epics","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The historical epics which were so popular in the fifties and early sixties frequently had a religious theme. Some were based on stories taken directly from the Bible (The Ten Commandments, Solomon and Sheba, King of Kings), while others tried to convey a Christian message indirectly. Thus the central character of Spartacus is treated as a metaphorical Christ-figure, and The Egyptian draws parallels between Christianity and the monotheistic religion of Atenism which briefly flourished under the heretical Pharaoh Akhnaten. Demetrius and the Gladiators is one of a number of films (the most famous is Ben Hur, but others include The Robe, to which Demetrius is a sequel, Quo Vadis and The Fall of the Roman Empire) which deal with the early days of the Christian church and its persecution by the Roman emperors. The stories told by such films were normally fictitious, but were set against a background of historical fact. The central character, Demetrius, is a former slave who, after assaulting a soldier who is molesting his girlfriend Lucia, is sentenced to fight in the arena as a gladiator. This causes him difficulties as he is a Christian whose moral code will not permit him to kill another man, even in self-defence. He survives, however, largely because he attracts the attention of Messalina, the wife of Claudius, uncle of the Emperor Caligula. Later, believing that Lucia has accidentally been killed by another gladiator, Demetrius renounces his Christian faith, and fights fiercely, killing the man he believes to have been responsible for her death and several others. His courage and skill with a sword lead to his being made a tribune in the Praetorian Guard, and he becomes Messalina's lover. As in The Robe, the robe which Christ wore to His crucifixion plays an important part in the film; Caligula wants to get his hands on it because he believes that it has magical powers and that it will give him the secret of eternal life. Several of the epics of this period combined, incongruously, an improving religious message with a good deal of eroticism, with much bare female flesh on display- examples include Solomon and Sheba, Esther and the King and Salome, where we get to see the famous dance of the seven veils, but it is made clear that, contrary to the Biblical version of the story, Rita Hayworth's character is in fact a virtuous heroine who only is flashing her legs in public in a desperate attempt to save John the Baptist from his fate. There are elements of this strange combination of godliness and sexiness in Demetrius, but the sexiness is very much downplayed. Messalina's notorious promiscuity is alluded to rather than shown on screen, and the scene between the gladiators and the women brought in to entertain them may be an orgy, but it is a very decorous one. The film-makers were clearly more interested in the element of godliness, and, unlike some films of this type, Demetrius raises genuine moral issues about pacifism, non-violence and Christian forgiveness. Demetrius himself is a man who goes through a crisis of faith and abandons his Christian beliefs in favour of an ethic based on revenge and worldly ambition. His conscience, however, is troubled, especially after he is reproached by his old friend St Peter. He is a more complex and interesting figure than many epic heroes, so it is unfortunate that the part was played by Victor Mature, an actor whose success often seemed to owe more to his ruggedly masculine good looks and his virile physique than to his acting technique. Susan Hayward (an actress who could often look bored and listless when asked to play roles that did not interest her) makes a weak Messalina. Neither give their worst performance (in Hayward's case that must surely have been The Conqueror), and Mature brings a certain rough sincerity to his part, but I felt that the film might have been improved with other actors in these roles.Nevertheless, there was much I enjoyed about the film. Michael Rennie was appropriately dignified as Peter, played as a sort of ascetic philosopher, although I would agree with the reviewer who pointed out that it would be hard to imagine him ever working as a fisherman. I also liked William Marshall as Glycon, the former African king now forced to fight as a gladiator, who befriends Demetrius. (Spartacus, a better film than Demetrius although it owes something to it, also features a sympathetic black gladiator who befriends the hero). Jay Robinson, who played Caligula, has been criticised by some reviewers for overacting, although I must say I liked his performance. Historians have doubted whether the real Caligula was actually insane, although he was undoubtedly cruel and eccentric, but in the context of this film he is definitely presented as a lunatic, a man who has literally been driven mad by power to the point where he believes himself to be a god. (Not even Hitler went that far). There is an interesting contrast with a modern epic, Gladiator, in which Joaquin Phoenix plays another tyrannical Roman Emperor, Commodus, as a basically weak and insecure young man. Although Phoenix's performance works well in the context of that particular film, the way the role of Caligula was written called for something quite different- the sort of ranting, over-the-top performance which might be unfashionable now but would have been less controversial in the fifties.Although the standard of the acting is mixed, I generally enjoyed the film. It does not reach the standard of the really great epics, such as Spartacus or Ben-Hur, but it works well on the level of spectacle, with fine sets and costumes and some exciting scenes of gladiatorial combat, and has a more intelligent script than many epics. 7/10 "},{"Title":"see this for one of the most amazing performances on film","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Once you have seen this movie you will never ever forget Jay Robinson's performance as deranged but cunning Caligula.Is it great acting or just one of the greatest slices of ham ever put on film?I don't know but it proves the maxim that one actor can make a basically routine movie into a personal favourite.Demetrius is in some ways superior to its predecessor The Robe -it lacks the ponderous religiosity,theres more action,and Caligula moves into centre stage. "},{"Title":"Continuing the Story","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The box office reception of The Robe for 20th Century Fox exceeded a whole lot of expectations. What to do, but make a sequel to tell of where the rest of some of these characters wound up.Victor Mature as Demetrius, Michael Rennie as St. Peter, and Jay Robinson as Caligula continue their roles from The Robe. An original screenplay was done with these characters already familiar to the public from the film and from the beloved Lloyd C. Douglas novel. The film starts with a clip from the end of The Robe where Caligula has condemned Richard Burton and Jean Simmons to execution. As they leave Simmons hands Jesus's robe to an unnamed extra and says it's for the big fisherman. Of course it gets into Michael Rennie's hands, but Jay Robinson has heard rumors about this magical robe the Christians possess. Nobody can get an obsession like Robinson so he finds Demetrius who's now got a girlfriend in Debra Paget. He's sold back into slavery this time as a gladiator. Mature who was a supporting character in The Robe takes center stage here. He goes through quite a test of faith on many levels, including an affair with the notorious Messalina played by Susan Hayward. She's appropriately tempting and Mature's flesh is definitely weak here if not in the arena.Michael Rennie who has always played aesthetic upper class gentlemen is really miscast as the rugged outdoor St. Peter. He does what he can with the part, but my conception of St. Peter at various times of his life is better realized by Howard Keel in The Big Fisherman and Finlay Currie in Quo Vadis. These two look like they made a living outdoors, I could never see Rennie out on a commercial fishing boat. Of course Robinson continues with his well received portrayal of Caligula from The Robe. The difference is that in The Robe he was the spoiled heir to the throne. In Demetrius and the Gladiators, Robinson truly descends into madness as he starts believing he's divine. Another outstanding performance is William Marshall as Glycon, the gladiator/slave from Ethiopia. Marshall had a tremendous speaking voice, think James Earl Jones and Marshall makes him sound like a soprano. Had he come along a few years later, Marshall would have had the career Mr. Jones had. He's probably best remembered today for both the Blacula films and in an episode of the original Star Trek series as Dr. Dengstom who invents a computer to run the Enterprise.Some of this ground was covered better in the highly rated I Claudius series from the BBC. But that does not diminish Demetrius and the Gladiators in quality. Both should be seen and evaluated side by side on their own separate merits. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, Yes, but Still Fun!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS!'Demetrius and the Gladiators', the sword-and-sandal sequel to 'The Robe', sets the tone from the opening frames, when the famous climax of the earlier film is repeated. As the emotionally-charged Alfred Newman theme is played, Jay Robinson as Caligula, hissing contempt, orders the execution of a stoic Diana and Marcellus (Jean Simmons and Richard Burton)...but wait! Up in the balcony are Susan Hayward and Barry Jones, as Messalina and Claudius, looking suitably imperious! As Diana directs a slave to give the robe of Jesus to the big fisherman, only Messalina, at least 100 yards away, hears the instructions (she IS a crafty wench!), and the scene fades out, to be replaced by Franz Waxman's imperiously Roman theme music, and the title credits. Demetrius (the ever-wooden Victor Mature), has assumed the position of second-in-command to Peter (again played, with dignity, by Michael Rennie), and has found happiness hanging around a pottery, where his love (played by Debra Paget), a young Christian girl (with VERY '50s makeup), works for her father. As Peter must make a trip to the north, he turns over the robe to the Greek, and tells the Christians to obey him. Unfortunately, Caligula, doing an 'about face' from the first film, decides he wants the robe, after all, and Messalina informs him where it is to be found. When Paget is pushed by a soldier, Demetrius jumps in, swinging, quickly getting himself arrested (so much for being a leader!), and, when he cannot prove he is a freed slave, he is assigned to Gladiator training, under gruff-but-likable Strabo (played by gruff-but-likable Ernest Borgnine!).The school has all the usual stereotypes; Richard Egan (who would achieve '50s stardom being even MORE wooden than Mature!), is the sneering bully, William Marshall (with a Paul Robeson-like intensity), is the noble black ex-king turned gladiator who befriends Demetrius, etc. When Messalina visits, she immediately gets the hots for Demetrius, and decides she'll 'cure' his Christianity by making him fight his black friend to the death, for the Emperor's birthday. When, after winning (without, by the way, ANY gladiator training), the Greek refuses the Emperor's demand for 'No Mercy', and he then must fight three tigers (not being human, he CAN kill them!) Messalina, lust dripping from her pagan heart, orders the injured and unconscious Demetrius to be taken to her quarters, where she nurses him back to health.Of course the noble Christian spurns her advances, but when his true love sneaks in to visit him during the next prefight orgy (a very G-rated affair!), Messalina, all jealous indignation, has Demetrius locked away, and the poor Christian girl is left to the mercy of Egan and his horny friends. The Greek prays for a miracle, the young girl swoons, and Anne Bancroft(!), another love slave, screams She's DEAD! Mature goes ballistic, blaming God for killing his love, and at last the film moves on into the Blood-and-Sex phase that everybody has been WAITING for! Demetrius kills Egan and his (actually innocent) buddies in the arena, rebukes Jesus and gives fealty to the Emperor, then shacks up for THREE MONTHS with Messalina, while her husband, Claudius, is ridiculed by Caligula! How the pious has fallen!Finally Peter, escorted by Marshall, visits the sinning couple, and tells the sneering Demetrius to come to the pottery, if he wants to get Christ's robe for Caligula...and, SURPRISE!, Paget is NOT dead, only catatonic (actually, considering her performance, it's hard to tell the difference!) Naturally, the Greek prays for forgiveness, the girl recovers, and everything is as right as rain (other than the fact he's had a chance to savor Messalina's forbidden fruit for months!)Caligula quickly RE-discovers the robe has no miraculous powers (his scene of commanding a murdered prisoner to rise, while wearing the robe, is a hoot!), and orders Strabo to kill Demetrius in the arena. Strabo is killed by a Praetorian Guard (only to REAPPEAR, alive, in the final scene...maybe the robe worked, after ALL!), then another Guardsman kills Caligula (acting schools around the country, REJOICE!), and Claudius is named Emperor. Messalina promises to be a good Empress, and not mess around with the hired help, anymore (yeah, right!), and Demetrius, Marshall (carrying the robe), and Peter leave the Palace, to the swell of Waxman's finale.Seeing Bancroft, Julie Newmar (in an unbilled role as a court dancer), and Borgnine are added pleasures, but the REAL fun in this movie is watching Robinson define 'ham' as the scenery-chewing Emperor! While the moral message of Have as MUCH fun as you can, THEN ask forgiveness may have Christian ministers cringing, the film always maintains a '50s approach to sin and sex, always as implied rather than demonstrated, so it can be safely viewed by the entire family!Cheesy? You bet! But ENJOYABLE cheese!  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite guilty film pleasures.","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  OK, so it is not historically correct and contains  a dramatic personality change by Susan Hayward, I still love this movie.  The film has some surprisingly witty dialogue, a rousing music soundtrack, high production values and very good performances all around.  If you can accept the story for the fiction it is it can be surprisingly inspirational even if you are not Christian.  My wife and I watch it at least once yearly.     "},{"Title":"This is a place where men are trained to kill each other like animals!","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Demetrius and the Gladiators is a sequel to The Robe. It's directed by Delmer Daves and stars Victor Mature as Demetrius, a Christian slave made to fight in the Roman arena as a gladiator ( and ultimately entering into a bigger fight, that of faith), and Susan Hayward as Messalina. Filling out the support cast are Ernest Borgnine, William Marshall, Michael Rennie, and Jay Robinson as the maniacal emperor Caligula. The screenplay is from Philip Dunne (How Green Was My Valley/ The Agony and the Ecstasy and cinematography comes courtesy of Milton R. Krasner (Academy Award winner Best Color Cinematography for Three Coins in the Fountain 1955).Following straight on from The Robe, Demetrius and the Gladiators is a safe and enjoyable Biblical picture that doesn't outstay its welcome. Running at just over 100 minutes, the film is far from being epic in its telling. However, and without cramming in, it does contain all the necessary ingredients to make up a sweaty sword and sandals pie. Filmed in CinemaScope, persecuted hero, bonkers villain, sexy babe, huge sets, colourful costumes, and fights, lots of fights. Thankfully the serious dialogue is mostly kept brief, there a few things worse in this genre of film than bloated discourse on religious beliefs and political dalliances. Get in there, let us know what is going on, and move on to the next chapter of the story. This is something that Daves' film does real well, it has an eagerness to entertain with dots of gusto and sexual swagger. The acting is mixed, Mature is solid without ever really convincing as the heroic figure of Demetrius, Hayward and Robinson are camping it up and thus entertain royally, while Borgnine and Rennie earn there pay.Very much like another Phillip Dunne screenplay genre piece, David And Bathsheba, this one is often overlooked or forgotten in discussion about the sword & sandals genre. That both film's are not in the same league as the likes of Ben-Hur and Spartacus is a given, but both have much to offer the discerning cinephile. Recommended Sunday afternoon fare with a flagon of claret and a roast ox dinner. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A fitting sequel to The Robe","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Filmed at almost the same time, this film was a fitting sequel to The Robe, considering it did not have the star power of the earlier film. None the less it loses some of the reverence of the first film, as Demetrius, so passionate a Christian in the first film, seems to give in and give up on it all too quickly in this one. The tie-in of the final scene from The Robe as the opening scene to this movie was a good advertising ploy, and the musical score of Franz Waxman melded well with the earlier Newman themes. The powerful insanity of Caligula is once again handled well by Jay Robinson, who brought the character vividly to life, as I remember from my Roman History studies. If the Rome of those days was as charming as depicted in these films, I would not have minded living there and then. The performances of the cast, especially the minor characters, was excellent, although Mature was still awfully stiff in his performance. But a good sequel over all. "},{"Title":"Inferior Sequel To The Robe","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" If made today, they'd call this The Robe II. Mostly a beefcake fest and spectacle rather than a first class religious drama--which is what The Robe was. This one has lots of gladiator fights in the arena and a day in the life  at gladiator school stuff. The action is quite excitingly staged, but lessened by the handicap of early Cinemascope, where close ups and even medium closeups looked distorted and were very seldom used.Susan Hayward is fun to watch as a sexually ravenous and manipulative noblewoman. Victor Mature confirms his acting chops (see My Darling Clementine) by making a the struggling hero part believable, in a part that could have been cardboard rendered by many an action hero actor.The video quality on this DVD is disappointingly mediocre; Fox obviously didn't spend any money on restoration, as they do with many of their titles from the 1950's. Colors are muddy, and the print, while perfectly watchable, is scratched. Stereo sound is so-so, and at least on my system, I didn't hear any surround sound, which this movie certainly had (this was a significant aspect of early Cinemascope presentations).The actor playing bad guy Caligula gives one of the most hammy, over the top performances I can remember; he seems to have studied at the Simon Legree school of melodrama. "},{"Title":"Line cut from film","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A worthy, though rushed, follow-up to The Robe has a fun cast, a tired looking Victor Mature (from all his work on the previous film, no doubt). Susan is a bit 50s looking for ancient Rome, with her bushy hairdos. Jay Robinson again goes way over the top as Caligula but really has some delicious mad scenes. One oddity while watching the trailer on the DVD, scene 17 with Debra Paget on the trailer has her saying a line about seeing Jesus. This line was NOT in the finished film. Wonder why. All in all, fun to watch, a good cast, and a fine score by Franz Waxman, who wisely gives credit to Newman for the themes used. "}{"Title":"Seldom if Ever is a sequel equal to , let alone superior to the original","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" THis however is an unmistakable and unarguable exception. Dazzling beyond Belief, A story of Love, War and Peace Hate, Denial, Brtrayal And an emperors wife that would follow a lowly slave to where ever in the world he would go. Claudius, portrayed by Barry Jones, awaits his ascent to the Throne of Rome. And the traitor is exposed, IT IS CALIGULA. O the ancients of Rome, a noble lot if ever such was, and it was at one time. Pageantry and blood, tigers killed. Provocation beyond contemporary belief. The Greatest Gladiator in Romes History all made shining and bright for all to see, 52 years ago. Michael Renne is excellent as Simon Barjona, also known as Saint Peter, keeper of the Golden Gate "},{"Title":"History is Bunk !","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It's a pretty good story, actually, this sequel to The Robe. As entertainment, it has plenty to offer. As history, however, it falls flat on its face. The only accuracy in the story of Caligula is that he was assassinated by one of his own guards. He is also played so outrageously hammy that it is hard to take him seriously. Caligula also wasn't the slightest bit concerned with Christians or Jews, and in real life largely ignored them. His successor, Claudius, played here as a fine old Roman gentleman who wished the Christians well at the end, in fact found them and the Jews both to be a bother, and showed them the doors of Rome at every opportunity. (Please note with the one politically motivated action of Nero, real persecution of Christians did not occur until much later, under the Emperor Diocletian) And let's not forget the Empress Messalina, probably the most notorious loose woman in Roman history, who comes across here as just a cheating wife. But then - hey, I'm a history buff. The point is that despite these little problems, it is still a good movie, and Victor Mature is perfect as the toughened gladiator. It's a classic and still a favorite "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable.","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I am not a huge fan of the religious epics of the 1950s. For every good one, such as Ben Hur, there seemed to be two turkeys--such as David and Bathsheba or Samson and Delilah. Because of that, I have avoided watching Demetrius and the Gladiators for many years. However, after completing the task, I am surprised that I actually enjoyed the film very much.When Twentieth Century-Fox filmed The Robe, they already knew that it would be followed up by Demetrius and the Gladiators. In fact, the movies were filmed like one huge film and then separated into two as the studio was THAT confident that The Robe would be a big hit--which it was. And, for that matter, so was its sequel. Fortunately, you can watch either without watching the other.The film begins with a clip from the previous film--just before the two main characters (Richard Burton and Jean Simmons) were executed. Soon you learn that the Apostle Peter and his followers (including Demetrius--Victor Mature) are the keepers of the robe that Jesus wore to the cross. Oddly, however, the Emperor Caligula is very fascinated by the robe and insists he must have it. When Demetrius tries to hide it, he's sentenced by this loony emperor to become a gladiator--a sure death since Demetrius has vowed never to fight now that he's become a Christian. However, the lure sexy Messalina (Susan Hayward) and his own desire to live make it difficult, if not impossible, to fulfill this oath. What's next? See for yourself.There's no doubt about it--this film is a spectacle. It has huge scenes, huge gladiatorial fights and lots of beautiful sets and costumes. While it's not a fantastic film, the action is there and the film is fascinating. Part of this is due to the supporting performances. William Marshall shows what a wonderfully unsung actor he was. Had he been born later, his wonderful voice and acting skills would have made him a top star--something not possible for a black actor during this age. Additionally, while Jay Robinson's version of Caligula is not in the least bit subtle, it IS very entertaining and fun to watch. All in all, a decent film that is far better than I'd suspected.UPDATE Since this review, I've finally seen the precursor, The Robe, and was surprised just how bad it was compared to Demetrius and the Gladiators. It's an odd example of a film whose sequel was better--much better. "},{"Title":" Do you think a Gladiator who has killed forty men like I have,  can still find forgiveness? ","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" As a young boy going to the movies was entertaining and wondrous as I imagined how they could make men and animals so lifelike and real. When I first saw this movie  Demetrius and the Gladiators , I was very impressed with the acting skills of both my favorite actors at the time. I loved the dynamic style of Victor Mature who plays Demetrius, and awed with his being able to fight a tiger to the death. I was further enthralled with my other favorite Richard Egan who played Dardanius. As a regular 'good guy' it was entertaining to see him play a heavy. Then again I felt that way about Ernest Borgnine who is Strabo and William Marshall as majestic 'Glycon, King of Swords'. The story is actually part two of the movie The Robe which I believed centered more on the Icon than on the slave character. There was something shortcoming about this sequel in that it concentrated on the search for the robe by the Mad Emperor Caligula, played to the hilt by superb actor Jay Robinson. With additional actors like Michael Rennie playing Peter the apostle and Barry Jones playing Claudius, the director tried to make this sequel as reverential as the first. But that was not what I sought when I first saw it. It was a great film for the arena action and that's what made it fun. I realize there are superior movies out there like 'Gladiator' by Ridley Scott, but I remember early films as a child and that's what made this one a Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Watchable  Epic","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A sequel to the box office successful The Robe, this film is just one more of those spectacular epic films of the 50's and early 60's settled in ancient Rome and with a religious background of the early Christians and their whereabouts in an all pagan world.After a secondary lead in The Robe, Victor Mature (as the freed Christian slave Demetrius) takes here the centre of the stage and the film deals with his story; the man looses his faith and recovers it after fighting as a gladiator in the arena, becoming a Decurion for Emperor Caligula and having a passionate affair with the woman (Messalina) married to the weak emperor's uncle Claudius (Barry Jones). The film is most colourful, the script is not bad as well as the costumes and armors, the settings and reproduction of the old Rome are good enough (no computers back in 1954) and some action sequences in the arena are well achieved. But somehow this picture lacks the sort of sensation of greatness and huge spectacle other products of the genre transmitted (The Robe itself, the previous Quo Vadis? or the posterior Ben Hur and Spartacus); in fact, Demetrius and the Gladiators is not one of the titles that comes to mind easily when epic spectacular films is the subject.Victor Mature shows his inevitable overacting as the main character though it is fair to say he has done worse (The Egyptian and Samson and Delilah, for instance, and many others). Susan Hayward also overacts every now and then as the wicked Messalina but she was a fine actress and rounds up a better job. Jay Robinson clearly overacts and very much as Calìgula (Caius Germanicus was his real name) but in his case it appears to be a conscious performing decision after he was the most remembered character in the previous The Robe; he just lets himself go without limits. It is hard to swallow Michael Rennie (Peter) as a rude uneducated fisherman not for his acting but for his important and polite looks. There are good performances by Ernest Borgnine, Richard Egan (as a villainous gladiator), Barry Jones, Anne Bancroft and William Marshall (far before his Blacula days). Debra Paget delivers her acceptable acting but she looks as a contemporary girl here (she could have used the same hairdo and make up for her real life in the middle 50's).All in all, Demetrius and the Gladiators is a watchable and entertaining product, but no much more than that in my opinion. A 6 (out of 10) for me. "},{"Title":"Worthy Sequel to The Robe (1954) ***1/2","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A sumptuous musical score, in the tradition of Miklos Rosza's Ben-Hur,greets the movie goer who sees Demetrius and the Gladiator. This 1954 film was a sequel to 1953's Oscar nominated The Robe.Victor Mature plays a Christian who denounces his religion when his beloved is killed or so he thinks. Susan Hayward, as beautiful as ever, is the evil Massalina married to an emperor in this film. Ultimately falling for Mature, she will give him up to rule with her husband at film's end for the glory of Rome.The real acting kudos go to Jay Robinson who portrays Caligula. He is the very embodiment of evil and gives a tour-de-force performance in the tradition of Peter Ustinov's Nero in 1951's Quo Vadis? You feel and almost understand Caligula's insanity which will stop at nothing to achieve his quest of obtaining the religious robe. Take hostages, he screams to his commanders. He even kills with the robe in his hands in order to see if it works. Fresh from his sadistic Fatso in From Here to Eternity, Ernest Borgnine appears as Strabo, a bull-like head of the gladiators school.In certain respects, this film is far better than the sequel. Hayward shows her usual gutsiness far more than a subdued Lady Diana (Jean Simmons) in the original. Mature is quite appealing, especially in his denunciation scenes of his faith. His ultimate redemption is truly remarkable as well. "},{"Title":"More Of A Stand Alone Action Thriller Than A Religious Film Like The Robe","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Demetrius and the Gladiators is a fictional 1954 a sequel to The Robe. and it was based on characters created by Lloyd C. Douglas's novel.It features Victor Mature as Demetrius, a Christian slave made to fight in the Roman arena as a gladiator, together with Susan Hayward,Ernest Borgnine, William Marshall, Michael Rennie, Jay Robinson, Debra Paget, and a young Anne Bancroft in one of her early roles during her film career.Thrown in jail for defending an elderly merchant from a sadistic Roman legionnaire, Demetrius is forced to attend gladiator school and fight in the arena for the amusement of the mad, debauched emperor Caligula.This allows Demetrius to attract the attention of Messalina, the nymphomaniac wife of the soon-to-be emperor Claudius. For a short while,Demetrius lost his faith in God but he was allowed to get re-acquainted with his Christian faith through the Apostle Peter.This happens to be more of a gladiator epic rather than a religious one like its predecessor film,The Robe.People would probably watch it more for the action scenes.Too bad that it won't allow viewers to have some serious thoughts about their religion particularly their relationship to both God and Jesus.Despite being advertised as The Robe's sequel,it is definitely a different film compared to it. "},{"Title":"Not Quite as Good as The Robe or Historically Accurate, But a Worthy Watch","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A sequel to 1953's The Robe starring Richard Burton, Jean Simmons and Victor Mature, this film picks up following the martyrdom of Marcellus Gallio -- Burton -- and Diana -- Simmons -- due to their unwavering faith in Jesus Christ.In this movie, Victor Mature reprises his role as Demetrius, as does Jay Robinson as Emperor Caligula, and Michael Rennie as the Apostle Peter. There are a number of other well-known actors as well. Please refer to the cast listing.While this movie has some Biblical themes and deals with faith, it is not strictly a Bible-based movie per se. In other words, it does not follow the lives of Jesus Christ, the Apostles or any of the Old Testament prophets or patriarchs. Rather, it concerns what happens to the former slave Demetrius after the events which are portrayed in The Robe. It has more gladiator scenes than religious scenes.Briefly, due to an altercation with Roman soldiers while trying to protect the Robe, Demetrius is taken prisoner, and is then forced to enter a Roman gladiator school. Initially, Demetrius refuses to fight, or to kill another man because of his Christian convictions. However, following a series of events in which it appears that his love interest Lucia -- played by Debra Paget who was also Joshua's love interest Lilia in The Ten Commandments -- has died, Demetrius does an about face, turns against God and his faith, because very worldly, and begins to kill his opponents. Furthermore, Demetrius gets a taste of power and popularity when Caligula makes him a tribune following his victory over multiple opponents in the arena.The storyline includes a variety of plots and subplots, including Emperor Caligula's endeavors to acquire the Robe, Claudius' wife Messalina's romantic escapades with the backslidden Demetrius, and Claudius' patience in waiting to become the next emperor.Ultimately, Demetrius repents of his backslidden state and returns to the Christian fold when it is revealed that Lucia is not really dead, and her health is restored. Caligula is assassinated by members of the Praetorian Guard while sitting in the arena; and Claudius is proclaimed the new emperor, with his wife Messalina by his side. Claudius promises to not bother the Christians, just as long as they obey Roman laws.Overall, the acting is good, although I personally didn't really become attached to any of the characters.If you are willing to overlook the Biblical inaccuracies, as well as the errors concerning actual Roman history, and just accept this as a fictional work regarding early First Century Rome and gladiatorial fights, you may enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"The Sequel To The Robe","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Demetrius And The Gladiators (1954) Starring Victor Mature, Jay Robinson, Susan Hayward, Michael Rennie, Anne Bancroft, Debra Paget, Barry Jones, William Marshall, Charles Evans, Ernest Borgnine, Richard Egan, John Cliff, Karl Davis, Carmen De Lavallade, George Eldredge, Lyle Fox, Ed Fury, Everett Glass, Fred Graham, Frank Hagney, Selmer Jackson, Russell Johnson, Kenner G. Kemp, David Leonard, Dayton Lummis, Mickey Simpson, Ray Spiker, Paul Stader, Gisele Verlaine, Jim Wikler, Jeff York...Director Delmer Daves, Screenplay Phillip Dunne.Demetrius and the Gladiators, released in 1954, was the sequel to The Robe ('53) this time by a different director, Delmer Daves. The Robe, said to have been the first film in Cinemascope, was a triumph at the box office in '53 and was a superb religious drama, bu this film pales in comparison. The sense of spirituality and high drama is lost to a sensational epic about ancient Rome and its wicked characters who oppress the good Christians. Victor Mature is back as Demetrius, the Greek slave who converted his master Marcellus a Roman senator, to Christianity. The Emperor Caligula (Jay Robinson) put Marcellus and his love Diana to death. Demetrius escapes the clutches of Caligula, taking the Robe with him, to hide somewhere in the vast city of Rome. But Caligula desires ownership of the Robe to help him acquire divine powers. Yes, this is pure fiction and far removed from historical truth about ancient Rome during the early days of Christianity, but it was the sort of adventure and dramatic story that audiences in the 50's enjoyed watching. Susan Hayward was still a big star but she abandons her usual repertoire to play the role of a Roman priestess/noblewoman Messalina, who falls for Demetrius. There's no hint of smoldering temptress in her acting, though she is clearly costumed to attract male audiences. A young Anne Bancroft, not yet a big star, portrays Paula, another Roman noblewoman. Jay Robinson as Caligula hams it up and appears to act more like a comic book supervillain, complete with an annoying voice. The film is marked with a degree of sensationalism- mostly of the darker kind (attempted rape, torture, Gladiator fighting, religious persecution) but it's not overly violent and in fact tame by today's standards. This film was, however, lacking in the strong religious theme of hope and faith that The Robe had. The Robe, too, benefited from a great script and better acting. This film is lackluster and predictable and I really think there was no reason for making a sequel to an already successful film. So I can only give it a 7. But if you like Victor Mature, Susan Hayward and Anne Bancroft, then this film is for you, as well as being a film of interest to old Hollywood epic films. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Being born in 1956, this film has had it's run on my TV screen for years. I have always enjoyed this movie even with it's campy backdrops and fake tiger scenes.The first positive, is that Susan Hayward was and is a babe throughout this film, and awful easy on the eyes. Second, add a young Anne Bancroft and Debra Paget, and the film goes babe-fest! What's not to like? Yes, Jay Robinson does go way overboard as Caligula, and Victor Mature was a bit too wholesome as Demetrius, but the guy never really took himself too serious as an actor to start with. Toss in Michael Rennie, William Marshall, a young Richard Egan (300 Spartans), and Earnest baby, and your get a star-studded action film that holds it's own in the world of even worse Roman epics like the tortuous Fall of the Roman Empire.I sat through that no-action/women (Ok Sophia!) bore in a theater for as long as my mother could put up with her two boys squirming and bellyaching about the 188 minute run time. Alas, with us tag-teaming her, she never lasted to see the end of that film! "}{"Title":"Do you like movies about gladiators?","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Talk about guilty pleasures. I saw this film for the first time when I was about 8-years old. Back in those days you really only saw movies once &#x96; with mum and dad at the local cinema on Friday night. But my memory wrapped around this film almost as if I had a rewind button inside my head. It was one of those big-screen epics that made an impression on me.With your Roman Empire movies, your best bet is to set the story in the reign of one of the three mad emperors &#x96; Nero is tops, but Caligula and Commodus are the next best thing. Someone like Augustus with his stable, 40-year reign is just a little too sedate when it comes to drama &#x96; a bit like the Eisenhower era.Set in Rome during the reign of Caligula, all Demetrius (Victor Mature) wants to do is hand over the robe of Jesus to Peter (Michael Rennie), and lead a quiet life as a potter. Instead he has his faith shaken, and ends up in the arena where he dispatches many opponents, and a streak of tigers. Along the way his most dangerous enemy turns out to be Messalina (Susan Heywood), the wife of Caligula's uncle Claudius. It takes Peter and a good buddy from the arena, Glycon (William Marshall), to guide him back to the light.Well that's the story; the script is there to keep the spectacular arena scenes apart, and clear the set for Jay Robinson's viperish and eye-poppingly campy interpretation of Caligula. Despite tigers, dancing girls, oiled muscles, nets, tridents and short swords, the movie would have been pretty heavy going without Jay.Victor Mature is on screen for just about the whole movie and for the most part is either angry or anguished. I've always thought he was pretty good for a guy who once told a club, which did not accept actors as members, that he wasn't an actor and he had the reviews to prove it.One actor who was perfect in his role was Richard Egan. He plays Dardanius, a gladiator with attitude, and he looks the part with more muscles and teeth than Burt Lancaster.Susan Haywood gave Messalina some of the same medicine Jay Robinson gave Caligula; together they keep the movie from getting too serious. I love the way Messalina does a complete turnaround right at the end to wrap the whole thing up in about two minutes flat.Debra Paget is beautiful. Michael Rennie has gravitas and William Marshall is imposing &#x96; two great voices in the one movie.Although technical aspects weren't things I noticed much back in the 50's, I can now appreciate how Franz Waxman's score gave the film spirituality and depth. Waxman was a composer who contributed intelligent scores to every film he did without repeating himself.I must admit I still have a soft spot for this film; the arena scenes alone are worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Glad he saved her","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I love a good sword and sandal epic and this sequel to The Robe pretty much fits the bill. The hard-to-dislike Victor Mature this time steps up to the title part of the recent Christian convert Demetrius who for resisting the marauding Romans search for the holy relic in his care, finds himself dragooned into gladiator school only to later renounce his faith when his visiting young female admirer is apparently killed at the hands of some of his mob- handed fellow-fighters. Not to worry, chief disciple Peter seeks him out just in time and pricks his conscience enough to turn him back from a whole host of commandments he's recently broken, mostly at the urging of Messalina, the wanton wife of Emperor-in-waiting old, safe and sound Claudius.The sets, probably carried over from its predecessor, are grandiose indeed and the action sequences are fine for their time. I looked closely at the scene where Demetrius makes his name as a gladiator by killing three tigers in the arena and they looked real enough to me. The fight sequences are okay too. Of course films like this, with everyone pretty much wearing dresses, tend to see the actors either ham or camp it up and there's little doubt that Jay Campbell as the notoriously deranged Emperor Caligula is doing both while Mature however plays it pretty straight for the most part. Susan Hayward vamps it up as the loose Messalina while Michael Rennie is positively saintly as Peter.Some of the dialogue betrays its twentieth century origins such as when Demetrius warns that his old camp is likely to be wiped out by the Romans while Lucia's miraculous recovery takes some swallowing too. Nevertheless, this film which I always remembered fondly from my youth, managed to satisfactorily entertain me again and even if it's very much hanging onto the hem of its more illustrious predecessor, makes for a good enough entry in the list of watchable Hollywood epics in the 50's. "},{"Title":"Hail Hail Caligula (Jay Robinson)","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" OK lets face it, this is not the Robe, but its a lot of fun. More action than the Robe and with the wonderful Anne Bancroft, and Ernie Borgnine in small but wonderful roles, it does have a lot going for it.William Marshall is wonderful (as always), as Glycon. Susan Hayward is aloof as the royal slut who woos Big Vic and you can see her coming a mile away. Susan was overrated, she rarely gave a great performance despite some great roles. The biggest treat is Jay Robinson, who gets more screen time in this flick and is even better than in the 1st film. Of all of the Demented leaders of Rome, Love his performance or hate it, he will not be ignored. I think he was prefect for the mad, over the top Caligula. The guy just chews the scenery, and there is a ton of it! Its too bad drugs ruined Jay's acting career, as he had been on Broadway with both Boris Karloff and Kate Hepburn before this role, and he was only 24 here... "},{"Title":"Gone For A Burton","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The TV station that screened this recently billed Richard Burton as the lead. In the sense that Demetrius begins with the final sequence of The Robe in which Burton and Jean Simmons are condemned to death by Caligula, this is merely misleading, in the sense that this blatant cashing in on the success of The Robe is farcical it is best described as misguided. Risible more or less from start to finish it squanders the talents of people like Susan Hayward, Barry Jones and Michael Rennie and whilst Victor Mature had little or no talent to squander he may still have done better sticking to decent efforts like Kiss Of Death and Easy Living (the 2nd version with a screenplay by Irwin Shaw rather than the screwball comedy written by Preston Sturges). There's nothing much to say about this other than YAWN. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie - And A History Maker","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" One thing I have not seen mentioned yet in these reviews is that it made a piece of movie history it was the first Hollywood feature to show a black man knocking a white man on his ass. Blackula-to-be William Marshall, in defending Victor Mature, knocks Richard Egan on his butt. Never happened before in a Hollywood film. I actually saw a Southern version which cut this scene...It's one of the hallmark sword and sorcery films. Excellent swordplay, animals in the arena, Jay Robinson (the Ultimate Caligula), and John the Baptist shows up at the end.I can't imagine what the director was thinking to do Mr. Marshall's scene, but it's powerful. "},{"Title":"The robe 2","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" You do not change a winning team.Unfortunately the two stars of the robe (Burton and Simmons )died in the first episode.Three of its characters are featuredDemetrius (Victor Mature),Saint Peter (Michael Rennie)and Caligula (Jay Robinson ).There are two extracts from the robe the first one has additional shots of Susan Hayward (Messaline)who was not present when the two Christians were sent to their kingdom.Demetrius becomes the center of the plot.A Christian ,his belief will be put to the test.They make him a gladiator against his will and he knows he shall not kill his brothers.There is a very good depiction of the gladiators'life ,even if history is given a rough rideit was Nero before the Christians were really persecuted,as former classics such as sign of the cross (1932) or quo vadis(1950) testify .Susan Hayward plays a bitchy Messaline,even if her wish to  loyally assist her dear husband Claudius (who was just pretending he was a moron to fool Caligula)is rather laughable.Best performance comes from Robinson's Caligula .The actor is given more time to display his madness and he really doesthe scene when he tests the robe is really spooky.This is an entertaining sword and sandal by Delmer Daves,known for his remarkable westerns such as broken arrow. "},{"Title":"Impossible to take seriously.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This isn't one of those hilarious bad movies like The Conqueror or anything by Ed Wood, but it's pretty cheesy in an expensive 50's way.  The script is standard Biblical-Roman-epic tripe, but what makes it enjoyable for a bad movie fan like myself are the performances.  Jay Robinson gets my personal award as The Ham Of The Decade for his manic overacting, and this was a decade where Kirk Douglas made 23 films!  Such a contrast to the wooden Victor Mature, who himself said I'm no actor and I have 64 pictures to prove it.  Susan Hayward is pretty decent as Messalina, but has the honor of delivering the hilarious coupe de grace at the end  Her promise to stop sleeping around now that she's empress.  Anybody who knows anything about Roman history (or has seen or read I Claudius) knows how *that* went!  "},{"Title":"As Bad As It Gets","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was broadcast this evening on a local Christian channel. I feel it's a public service to inform readers that this might possibly be among the worst movies ever made. Don't listen to the opinions on Amazon.com or other sites. While there may have been a serious budget for this film, the directorial inspiration is no deeper than that of a movie made by Ed Wood. The director was Delmer Daves, and he's as plodding as they come. He only uses medium and long shots, and this is guaranteed to drive the viewer mad. You never get a close-up&#151;of anybody! He plops the camera in front of an ornate ancient set&#151;about 50 feet away&#151;then just keeps rolling, while the actors stiltedly declaim the most wooden dialogue ever written. Then there's the acting Victor Mature, just horrible; Susan Hayward, a decent actress who only makes things worse trying; some fool named Jay Robinson, who minces through his lines like a pre-menopausal Boston fishwife. Then, of all people, Ernest Borgnine, traipses through the set dressed as a Roman tribune or such. What's most amazing is that all of these things never let up. Daves never tries a different camera angle he moves to the next set, plunks down the camera, cries Action!' and the actors perform each scene as if in a play, while the camera never moves...not anywhere. The continuity is nonexistent, to boot. The movie's highest redeeming factor is only that it could be used in a college unit on how NOT to make a movie. And it's not just that it's bad&#151;it's that it keeps getting worse with every passing moment. In fact, the preposterous plot and the historical inaccuracies actually look good compared to the production values. It's Hollywood at its nadir, in a film that was later sold to the public as a piece of valuable religious history. Avoid this movie at all costs, unless you are on an LSD trip, in which case you might be able to follow the story and can get a lot of comic entertainment value out of the performances. Yet another bit of evidence that Hollywood is not a meritocracy; it is, instead, a luckocracy&#151;anyone lucky enough to cash in is who gets opportunity. A vile film. Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Pious pageant falls flat","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  In a way it's strange that Victor Mature was so often regarded-- not least by himself-- as a leading graduate of the Cigar Store Indian Acting Academy.His normal expression is anguished, like Van Johnson's, but not a blank slate; he usually moves athletically, and his delivery of the Hollywood Higher Idiocy style of period-piece dialogue compares adequately with, say, Richard Burton's. Admittedly Mature's tones are less resonant but could, say, Robert Mitchum, have made more of the part of a Crucifixion witness turned Tribune of the Guards in wicked old Rome? In this particular slab of Trash Romana, Big Vic winds up slaying Caligula and enabling Claudius to become a rather better class of emperor, an incident which escaped Tacitus and Robert Graves. This climax (rather less dramatic than the destruction of the Temple in De Mille's Samson and Delilah which led to Mature becoming typed as a skirt-wearer and sword-wielder) follows two hours of typical early Cinemascope. Shot after shot parades nearly static groups of figures in medium close-up, on the presumption that the giant screen obviated the need for montage.This visual staidness and the faded colour make Demetrius hard to watch on TV. By 1959 and Ben Hur, action was back with a vengeance, but here the stately direction by Delmer Daves does not quicken the pulse. Daves, who had started as a writer, always seemed more at home with talk than movement in his movies; trying to be intelligent, he lacks the toppling absurdist grandeur of De Mille, so this sequel to The Robe is neither as pious as that Bible Belt-pleasing rediscovery of the anamorphic lens (which Hollywood briefly tried c. 1930) nor as gaspingly grandiose as Cleopatra. It did not replicate The Robe's success. Hayward, who rarely rose above her material, is insipid as that alleged nonpareil of wickedness Messalina she escapes at the finish without even having to see the Christian light. The chief consolation is the screaming-queenery of Jay Robinson who returns as Caligula, America's answer to Kenneth Williams; but his meagre credits subsequently show that the Hollywood of the conformist 1950s found him hard to handle.  "},{"Title":"Without Exception , the most absolutely grand opening theme in movie history","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  And the movie was good too. Jay Robinson's re-introduction as the brutal tyrant Caligula, V. Mature (Demetrios) arrested by a Roman Soldier for failing to surrender the robe to the Roman Authorities. Sentenced to the Gladiatorial Academy, a test ensues, does he pass with flying colors?  "}{"Title":"One unforgettable talent","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie at age eight when it was released and have seen it once since, perhaps twenty years ago.  The first viewing was the more impactful, for two reasons first, for some reason I've never understood, it was not shown in technicolor but in an amazing purple and white scheme that is unique in my experience (any other reviewers know anything about this?), and second, Jay Robinson's totally over-the-top performance as Caligula.  To this day, I remember with fond bemusement the way he sprang from his throne and screwed up his skinny body in fury to shriek KILL HIM! KILL THEM ALL! in a quavering nasal falsetto. Absolutely wonderful!Other than that, this movie is a pretty standard '50s sex-and-reverence Biblical potboiler, with really dreadful acting by Victor Mature in the title role, and Susan Hayward more luscious than ever as Messalina.  I wouldn't go out of my way to see it again, but I would love to see clips of Jay Robinson's performance, anytime. "},{"Title":"Worthless","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought it might be fun, with Jay Robinson over the top and Susan Hayward chewing scenery...... it really wasn't. The only sparkle came in seeing Ernest Borgnine, Anne Bancroft and Richard Egan in small character roles. Cheesy and boring. Skip it.   "},{"Title":"Save this video for a day when the only the other thing you can think to do is to watch some paint dry!","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I guess there are worse films to see but not many nowadays.I saw this on t.v. on a wet afternoon when the other channels were not showing films (I do not have cable or satellite t.v. here in England and have four channels to choose from with o.k. reception)Presumably it was released as some sort of epic aiming for the Ben-Hur market but it does not really come off. I guess it might give a reasonable insight into film making, the studio way, in the 50's but it looks very dated and unrealistic when compared to modern day films.A red haired, light skinned Semite is just unbelievable. The acting is wooden, the story pedestrian. The gladiatoring scenes are o.k., but because one just knew our hero was not going to be savaged by a tiger, its predictability was tedious.One had the impression that everyone involved was taking part because they were under contract, rather than because they really believed in the story they were telling and were proud to be involved with it.It says something that t.v. companies still show this, other than in a study course about the history of film making. Then, it also says something about me, in that I gave it my attention, at least until I fell asleep, so I am not really capable of giving a precise plot summary.Because it was in the age of Claudius it prompted recollections of the brilliant BBC 2 series of I Claudius with Derek Jacobi in the title role, this was a hundred times worse than that.  "}]