[{"Title":"A parable, an exemplary sci fi story, a classic tragedy","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"60 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is by far the most literate, the most moving, and the most cinematically sophisticated film Disney has ever made. Those of the reviewers at this (IMDb) site who dismiss it as a kiddie movie, or who sneer at the special effects (time has not been kind to this film, one of them says; according to another, the thrill is gone) seem simply prejudiced, rather like those who automatically deride any film that features Charlton Heston or deals with a biblical theme. It is indeed quite amazing that any special effects filmed in 1954 would continue to stack up so well. (I suppose Lucas or Spielberg could improve on the giant squid today, but so what?)The acting is almost uniformily superb, although I seem to be in the minority in my opinion that Kirk Douglas' yo-ho-ho cliché sailor is rather wooden. (v. following paragraph) James Mason portrays Captain Nemo as a tragic hero in the classic sense, neither byronic nor a mad scientist a man so far ahead of his time that the world can only see his invention as a monster to be hunted with harpoons---and yet he is so tragically wounded by the whose malice and envy of lesser men that he has indeed become, in some ways, a monster. Paul Lucas is equally heartrending as Professor Arronax, the good-hearted bourgeois academician who truly believes that anyone can be made to see reason and become, in effect, a nice guy. Between these huge opposites are the robust common man of action, Ned Land (Nemo's cracked, I want to escape!), the Professor's worry-wart servant, Conseil (Peter Lorre), and Nemo's equally devoted, spookily laconic First Mate (Robert J. Wilkes).(I may as well say at the outset that to my mind the characterization of Ned Land, along with Kirk Douglas' stiff and utterly unnuanced portrayal, remains the major fault of the film. I would have liked to have seen an attempt at capturing Verne's taciturn Ned, half-mad from the tension between his enforced submarine claustrophobia and his romantic longing to once again swab a deck, reef a sail, or entrust himself to winds and currents; indeed, according to the novel's Aronnax, Ned's recitals of his adventures are worthy of a Homer of the North. Most unfortunately, the wisecracking, womanizing Ned of the film seems to reflect Douglas' momentary screen persona more than Verne's character, since it bears so little resemblance to the latter. Also, the fact that Douglas out-bills Mason in credits and advertisements is as weird as the ubiquitous poster art in which Douglas' head is two sizes larger than Mason's.) Leaving aside my pet peeve (i.e., Douglas), there are many Shakespearean qualities here in addition to the tragedy of Nemo. For one thing, much of the action takes place inside the characters' heads First Arronax, Conseil and Land analyze Nemo, assaying a most dangerous attempt to ferret out his motivations. Then Nemo analyzes Aronnax who, almost in retaliation, develops his own analysis of Nemo. Then Conseil and Land analyze Aronnax analyzing Nemo. Meanwhile, the claustrophobia of the submarine boat acts on their minds like an amphetamine drug, causing the latter to function more and more frantically for good or ill. Also like Shakespeare, the dialog (and it is wonderful dialog, grave but also lively with repartee and wordplay--just see the digest of quotes preceding these reviews!) alternates with comic relief and action scenes. As to the former, worry-wart Conseil is extremely funny, one of my favorite lines being his dismissal of Ned's message-in-a-bottle idea That went out with Robinson Crusoe! This is the nineteenth century! And action scenes, as the famous fight with the giant squid, serve the same purpose as the ghosts, sword fights, etc. that the Bard provided for the groundlings---so that it is indeed family entertainment; people of all ages can watch this film with pleasure. Masterfully, the film contains almost precisely the necessary updating to make the story meaningful to modern audiences. The common notion that Verne foresaw atomic power is certainly apocryphal; the Vulcania scenes are adapted from Verne's novel Facing the Flag, even if his super-nitroglycerine Fulminator is replaced here by nuclear fission. Nonetheless, Verne's speculations on power do make a good symbolic match with the notion of atomic energy, birthing a very credible meditation on the nineteenth century in the light of its successor. The somber and frighteningly beautiful finale causes us to wonder just at what point before 1900 this or that fateful corner was turned. "},{"Title":"under the ocean...","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Very simply, Richard Fleischer made a gorgeous adaptation of Jules Verne's famous novel. This is an excellent adventure movie told with quite a lot of humor. Fleischer introduced humor in a few sequences and especially in dialogs. But the movie also includes a sadistic side. This sadistic side is epitomized by the captain Nemo himself. You can describe him as a despotic man who's got a grudge against the earth that made him suffer. Moreover, he regards himself as a sort of governor of the ocean. In this way, Jules Verne's novel introduces a reflection about man and the extension of his power thanks to the machine (the Nautilus).Of course, the movie is supported by a dazzling performance. James Mason is an unforgettable captain Nemo. As for Kirk Douglas, well he said once I've made a career of playing sons of bitches. It's probably true if you study his character of Ned Land. But in parallel, Douglas makes his character funny and likeable. Then, Paul Lukas and especially Peter Lorre are outstanding.No matter that the movie was launched in 1954, the special effects aren't antiquated. Thanks to them, the movie could keep a certain charm and nowadays, it lets itself watch with pleasure.    "},{"Title":"The Greatest Disney Film Ever","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"40 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Disney`s version of 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA is rightly remembered for the classic scene featuring the giant squid , but it should be remembered for more than that . Captain Nemo is a wonderfully written anti-hero who`s what would be described nowadays as an environmentalist , but don`t dare confuse him with being some sort of yogurt knitting tree hugger because this is a man waging a violent crusade against warmongers and anyone else he sees fit to exterminate . It`s a really intriguing character study and Nemo is played superbly by James Mason . Compare Mason`s performance as Nemo to that of Steven Seagal`s role as ecowarrior Forrest Taft in ON DEADLY GROUND . Done so ? A laughable contrast isn`t it . Kirk Douglas may disappoint as Ned Land but his real function is to act as a physical square jawed hero alongside the academic and somewhat ambigious Professor Arronnax.I also appreciated the fact that Disney resisted the temptation to invent a child character in order to make the film appeal to children more by way of audience identification , nor is there any sort of mawkish sentiment or frivolity that`s spoiled many a Disney film . In fact this is such an exciting thoughtful adventure if it wasn`t for the presence of a seal I wouldn`t have believed it was a Disney film .Did I mention there`s a great battle with a giant squid ? "},{"Title":"Cuz He Swears By His Tattoo","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There's something out there roaming the Pacific Ocean destroying a whole lot of shipping and killing a lot of people. The more maritime the nation, the more losses it's suffering. Jules Verne's story has the United States of America taking the first crack at finding what's going on in the Pacific.On a ship commanded by Ted DeCorsia are two Frenchmen, renowned scientist Paul Lukas and his assistant Peter Lorre. Also along is Kirk Douglas who is crack whaling harpooner. Of course they meet up with the beast and it's no living thing, but a submarine. This was all new back then, although prototype submarines were used in the Civil War they had limited effectiveness. In fact this particular kind of submarine was something unheard of until the middle of the last century. It's captain is a misanthropic fellow named Nemo, played by James Mason. He's taking it out on the nation's of the world for some personal losses sustained. His brilliance as a scientist, his refinement also attracts Paul Lukas. But Kirk Douglas just wants to escape because for all of Douglas's carefree philistinism, he sees Nemo as a murderer and a menace. The conflict between both is what drives the story.20,000 Leagues Under the Sea won Oscars for both Special Effects and Art direction. It is probably Walt Disney's most successful live action film ever done, even beating out Mary Poppins dare I say. Even in this day of computer generated effects, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea still holds its own with more modern films.Kirk Douglas enjoyed the part of Ned Land the harpooner and it's a favorite of his today. He might have made a few more films for Walt Disney but for an incident that took place after the film. Disney was also at the same time creating his first theme park, Disneyland in Anahem, California. When it was opening he invited Kirk and his family to spend the day there on him and he even agreed to furnish a camera crew to follow the Douglas family around as they enjoyed the park attractions. So Kirk took his wife and his sons and they had a grand old time and got some free home movies as a souvenir. But Walt Disney kept the negative and the films showed up on his Walt Disney Presents television show. Of course Kirk never got paid for this appearance and neither did any of the rest of his family including young Michael Douglas. Even though this left a sour taste in Kirk Douglas's mouth as he related in his memoirs, The Ragman's Son, he liked his work in this film very much and the part certainly has the same kind of exuberance we expect from a Kirk Douglas movie. Kirk even gets to sing in the film, a nice little sea chantey called A Whale of a Tale. He even made a record of it and I'm sure if you can find it, the item might be worth a few dollars as a collectible.Right around the time 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea was released the United States Navy launched it's first atomic submarine. In tribute to that most popular of French authors with American audiences, the Navy named the ship the Nautilus. A great tribute to a great writer of fabulous tales of imagination. And Walt Disney couldn't have gotten better publicity had he paid for it.Don't believe me, I swear by my tattoo. "},{"Title":"Production Designer Harper Goff","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Below is a transcript of a hand written letter from Harper Goff in 1974 of which I have a copy which I think might be of interest.  This is an unusual comment entry, but I hope you will find this letter a fasinating rare glimpse into the process of creation, and will give a better appreciation of the artistry of the design of the Disney 'Nautilus'.  Harper Goff was responsible for the 'look' of the submarine in the Disney Production, along with much of the film's set designs.  Enjoy!Harper Goff writes....I was assigned the task of getting together a 'true-life' adventure film using some exceptional underwater footage shot in a laboratory aquarium, by Dr. McGinnity of Cal-Tech's Marine Biology lab in Carona Del Mar.  Walt (Disney) thought inasmuch as 20,000 L.U.T.S. was in public domain we might do worse than use the title for a current True-Life adventure short subject. Walt went to England and I stayed in Burbank and made a story-board of a live action version of the classic using McGinnity's footage as a sort of ballet episode where Nemo shows Aronax the wonders of the deep.  Walt liked the story-board well enough to have me give an 'A.R.I.' (Audience Reaction Inquiry) to a group of exhibitors who were in town.  They were enthusiastic and the rest is history.In motion pictures, the text of a classic like this subject is sacrosanct like the Bible!  The 'word' of Jules Verne is not to be made light of, so the duty of the production designer like myself is to take the sometimes arbitary discriptions of the Nautilus as recorded by 'J.V.' and make it work.a. Jules Verne while foreseeing brilliantly the atomic submarine of today, did not at that time invent the periscope, the torpedo tube, or sonar.  He did not prophesy closed curcut television.  According to Verne, if Nemo wanted to see what was going on the surface, he simply poked the glass ports of the conning tower out of the depths and took a direct look.  He risked his vessel, himself, and his crew by ramming the enemy at frightening speed. If he wanted to study the marvels of life under the surface, he reclined in his elegent bay window lounge, and passed the hours studying the marine life outside the amazing pressure proof window of his luxurious salon.  These items dictated much of the direction of my production designs.b. Nemo is quoted by Verne as telling Aronax that I need no coal for my bunkers.  I have instead harnessed the very building blocks of the material universe to heat my boilers and drive this craft.  No one can doubt Verne meant Atomic Power.c. It is not sound economics to study and design obviously unnesscessary parts of the Nautilus if it will not appear on screen.  The crews quarters were thus unaccounted for.  In Verne's original text Nemo from time to time leaves the chart room and steps directly into other diversified areas of the submarine.  Directors do not like to slow down the action and clutter up a dramatic moment by showing actors leave a room, lift a hatch, enter another room.d. At the time Captain Nemo constructed Nautilus on Mysterious Island, the iron riveted ship was the last word in marine construction.  I have always thought rivet patterns were beautiful.  I wanted no slick shelled moonship to transport Nemo thru the emerald deep and so fought and somehow got my way.  On Mysterious Island Nemo had the white hot heat of a volcano to help him build his dreamship, but I am sure that flat iron plates profusely riveted would have been his way.  His stock pile of material was always the countless sunken ships uniquely available to him alone.  Even the Greek amphora and the works of art that graced his great salon was salvaged from wrecks.e.  The free diving suits - (self-contained) were developed by myself with the assistance of Fred Zender, and exceptionally able underwater man.  The helmets were souped-up Japanese pearl diving helmets.  We masked the scuba gear, let water into the the helmet, put a breathing tube in our mouth, the clamps on our nose and one night in 1952 Freddie and I walked slowly from the shallow end to the deep end of the Santa Monica pool.  Lead around our middle and 16 lbs. shoes...it worked!  Many had predicted failure.  This formed the basis of the suits that appeared in the film.  We spent 9 hrs. a day, 7 days a week for 8 weeks at Lyford Key in the Bahamas, underwater!  Never lost a man, Fred was in charge of safety.f. 20,000 Leagues was the second cinemascope picture to go into production.  Fox had the worldrights to the anamorphic lenses developed by a French inventor named Cretien.  This lense squeezes the horizontal dimensions of a scene into half the normal area on a cinema frame.  If projected thru an anamorphic projection lense it unsqueezes this image and the resulting image is widescreen.  Fox had only one lense to lease and this meant that Disney could not shoot miniture set ups while the main action sequences were before the cameras.  I hit upon the idea of having the prop miniature shop build a squeezed Nautilus miniature.  The model was built half as wide and half as long, but just as high.  Even the rivets were squeezed.  This one miniature was shot with a normal lense.  If care was taken to insure the Nautilus remained on an even keel, the resulting footage was more than adequate.  When unsqueezed by anamorphic projection, the image of the Nautilus was stretched to normal proportions.  Of course the bubbles looked strange, but no one seemed to mind.  The success of this experiment made it possible for the special effects department to make its necessary footage of many of the underwater miniatures simultaniously with principal photography of the actors.g.  My idea has always been that the shark and the aligator were the most terrifying monsters living in the water.  I there for combined the scary eyes of the aligator that can watch you even when it is nearly submerged....with the dangerous pointed nose and menacing dorsal fin - its sleek streamlining and its distinctive tail.  The discusting rough skin of the aligator is well simulated by the rivets.  As Verne insists that the Nautilus drove its way clean threw it's victim, I designed a protective sawtooth spline that started forward at the bulb of the ram and slid around all outjutting structures of the hull.  These included the conning tower, the diving planes, and the great helical propellor at the stern.Sincerely,Harper GoffArtist and Production Designer Harper Goff's film credits include 'Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, 'Fantastic Voyage', 'The Vikings', 'The Great Locomotive Chase', and Disney's '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea'.  Mr Goff died March 3, 1993 at his home in Palm Springs at the age of 81.Corfman "},{"Title":"Great DVD Makes This Fun Again","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"33 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" One of the first movies, along with Shane, that I ever saw as a young kid that I still watch and enjoy today is this one. One of the reasons I still enjoy it is the wonderful restoration job someone did in the latest DVD that was released in 2004.Of course, it's not as exciting as seeing this on the big screen as a youngster, but it's still entertaining thanks to the intelligent dialog of James Mason, the humor (believe it or not) of Peter Lorre and the good special effects. The submarine is still neat to watch, particularly at night with the green glow to it. I haven't seen anything like it since. I haven't seen a giant squid attacking a boat, either, come to think of it. That still is pretty cool.I don't find this movie spectacular as its reputation but it's still a very worthy addition to any movie buff's collection. It's one of the classics of the '50s that has been revived with this great-looking DVD which also has some interesting extra features. "},{"Title":"Douglas' song neatly sums up the whole Disney venture...","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The film begins in 1868 as news of a mysterious and puzzling phenomenon sweeps the nautical world... Tales of vessels being swiftly destroyed by this apparition reach the public mind... American government and an armed frigate is sent to destroy the mysterious 'thing', most of the time phosphorescent, and infinitely larger and more rapid in its movements than a whale...But the monster sinks the frigate and only three survivors find themselves aboard 'a floating island' which inflamed their minds... The three survivors were a roguish sailor (Kirk Douglas), an oceanic professor (Paul Lukas), and his assistant, Conseil (Peter Lorre). The three men also find that their host, the enigmatic Captain Nemo (James Mason), is a cultured, hospitable gentleman whose big ambition is to destroy the world, which he despises... His splendid ship, the futuristic Nautilus, is a technological, self-sustaining wonder, enabling its crew to investigate worlds hundreds of fathoms beneath the surface...In their involuntary roles as prisoner-guests, the trio is invited to tour the wonders of the deep... and the walk freely on the bottom of the sea... Although the professor and Conseil are content to remain aboard to take advantage of the knowledge gained, the 'prince of harpooners' was eager to escape and get back to his own way of life... Douglas makes his great escape when the Nautilus stops at a lonely island but savage cannibals chase him back to the safety of Nemo's ship...Seizing every opportunity to get away, Douglas inserts notes containing the location of Nemo's secret island, in bottles and tosses them hopefully into the sea... One of the notes finds its way to the Navy...'20,000 Leagues Under the Sea' deserves acclaim for its futuristic insight... It is the finest visualization so far of a Jules Verne fantasy...According to Verne, the Nautilus gathered all the treasures of nature and art, with the artistic confusion which distinguishes a painter's studio... Kirk Douglas is at his best as the extravagant harpooner, occasionally violent and very passionate when contradicted...With his uniquely expressive voice, James Mason is brilliant as the dark genius, who put himself beyond the pale of human laws, defying all attempts made against him...Paul Lukas looks like a very curious intruder, absolutely astounded to pass his time in this mystic garden of the deep, on board the land of marvels... Peter Lorre is quite funny as the true, devoted servant, who despite his name, never giving advice, even when asked for it...At one point in the picture Douglas sings Whale of a Tale, which neatly sums up the whole Disney venture.. "},{"Title":"See the special edition of this Disney classic on DVD.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Disney studio's first American-made live-action spectacle remains one of its best,thanks to James Mason's portrayal of Jules Verne's anti-hero submarine commander,Captain Nemo,as a misguided Victorian-era terrorist. Mason brings such feline assurance to the part that he makes Kirk Douglas' hound-dog overacting as captive harpoonist Ned Land a forgivable counterpart. Disney milked every promotional angle for the film's debut which was the studio's first feature to filmed in widescreen Cinemascope and breathtaking Technicolor. It went on to become of the top ten highest-grossing pictures of that year,going up against contenders like On The Waterfront,not to mention a horror-film as well intitled The Creature From The Black Lagoon. It also went on to win several Oscars for special effects and for its cimematopgraphy. It was included in the Best Actor category with a nomination for James Mason's brilliant performance as Nemo.The film is a classic and it stands behind several other Disney films which include Old Yeller,The Parent Trap,and also Mary Poppins.The DVD version is out on this which includes several batches of goodies including the excerpts from the classic Disneyland TV show cannily plugging the picture,and also includes the theatrical trailer,and interviews with actors Kirk Douglas,James Mason,director Richard Fleischer with footage of scenes where the film was being shot at on locations in Florida and in the Bahamas. The movie itself is a breathtaking achievement and it includes the scene where the submarine the Nautilus rams a ship into the abyss,and the scene where the crew tangles with a bloodthirsty squid,and an encounter with a giant octopus under the depths. See It On DVD in the widescreen format! Rating 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The past meets the future in a gripping epic.","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Walt Disney film of 1954, 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea is nothing short of a masterpiece within its genre. While comparing it to Gone With The Wind or Citizen Kane might be done by others in calling Leagues a 'masterpiece', it would be comparing apples to oranges, for this epic, while not overlong as are most masterpieces, it is completely contained to tell a gripping story with wonder acting, production values and the special effects of the day.It is had to know where to begin to list the wonderful achievements here, especially in adapting a book of almost a thousand pages, much of it filled with endless lists of the fish and fauna of the sea, of which Jules Verne was especially fond. Such was unfilmable, of course, and the script writer, Earl Felton, was wise in paring down the verbosity of the novel, which, of course, was the usual for the prolix Victorian style of Verne's day. From that wonderful opening of the titles shown against lush drapery illuminated by rippling water reflections of the undersea cast upon it, to the beginning of the inspired, majestic score by Paul J. Smith, one is transported to a fantastic time and place and the artistry to come is well intoned. Customarily, the Director is given the lion's share of the credit for a film's success, but here it is an almost perfect melding of the story, the acting and the visuals as well as the music that combine with seeming effortlessness to entertain.James Mason as Capt. Nemo is superb, with his wonderful bearing and diction lending the aura of both contained madness and yet sympathetic grace to a character who could have been so easily overplayed. Disney wisely selected Kirk Douglas and Peter Lorre as the physical foils of Nemo and to provide the comic and action relief. Had this not been done, the intellectual bearings of Nemo and Paul Lukas' Professor Arronax would have overloaded and stilted the film, rather the way they do in the novel. Some take exception to the device of Esmeralda the seal, but that too is a needed counterpoint to the otherwise dark theme of the implied mission of the Nautilus the destruction of warships that spread man's inhumanity to man. Such is the skill of the spare dialogue in the film that one never is hit over the head with the sermon of the hopelessness and wickedness of war and the nations that sponsor it. This film carries the message of the novel, but it never looses sight of its first purpose, which is to entertain. Even the implied nuclear destruction is not trumpeted, but only alluded to, since such energy source was unknown to Jules Verne in the 19th Century, of course, but was highly topical in the 1950s. One of the glories of the movie is the marked artistry in all the careful details in the film. It was just then that the USA was planning its first nuclear submarines, the first of which was even named the Nautilus in memory of this immensely popular film. But the art director, John Meehan, the production designer, Harper Goff, and the set decorator, Emile Kuri, were never carried away by allusions to then modern technology, but kept faith with the setting of the day, by making the ship a wonderful creature-like form, the interiors a skillful blend of needed science for function, coupled with a lush decor that bespoke not only the Victorian times, but also the sensitivity of man of its genius of design. Look at the touches the electric iris covering the massive bubble window, the fountain in the captain's drawing room, complete with an artistic pipe organ properly intoning Bach's Toccata and Fugue in D-minor, as most appropriate. Even the uniforms and upholstery are embroidered with the 'N' of Nemo's monogram as are the galloons on the edges of the draperies. The inventiveness of the electric charge upon the hull is also one of the clever devices to invoke the future, yet help make the existence of the undersea ship believable.Everyone who sees this epic will always remember, the night scene of a hand-to-tentacle fight with a giant squid, as truly unforgettable and most appropriate again, for it was only a few years before that the first complete corpse of such a squid was found in complete form and thereby documented what others had only written of. This film exceeded its class in that day and age, yet even if equal actors could have been found for the earlier versions, they would have been too early to truly depict the vision of Jules Verne's technology of the future.Some have criticized that the entire novel was not on film, but were the entire book to be filmed, it would exceed five hours, and Disney knows that even with the finest production, a film must be limited to approximately two hours in order to get both an audience willing to sit through it, as well as exhibitors willing to show it. In making a movie, the constraints are much more severe than in writing a novel; a movie is a collaboration of many people and many conflicting desires and egos must be assuaged. The flow of an entertaining story is paramount, since this was never to be a documentary. Each actor's agent works to try to get the maximum time on screen for his client, which gets maximum credit and fee for the actor. The limitations of filming such an imaginative novel also created large costs which the producers would try to show on screen to justify it all to the accountants, since a film is created with the aim of making a profit for the studio and its investors. We must agree that they succeeded in making one of the most interesting and visually spectacular films ever made, whereas the book contained a great deal of unfilmable ichthyology that was more of an excursus into the expertise of Jules Verne than any dramatic device. All in all, I think that were Jules Verne alive in 1954, he would have been well pleased with this celluloid version of his epic story.  "},{"Title":"This is Truly a Mesmerising Masterpiece","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Nautilus is the star of the film.Manned by Captain Nemo (James Mason),this submarine/machine voyages the ocean.The cast of Actors truly are amazing as they brilliantly help adapt Jules Verne's gripping under-ocean tale. It won an Academy award and so it should have done,as this was a masterpiece to watch.It was certainly written in the late 19th century to educate victorians of places they could only wish to be.If cinema was around at that time accompanied with the book,this film would go down well.It has recently also had a DVD release which has features galore.The special effects are also superb for its time.(1953)The team have certainly done a great job,and with Richard Fleischer at the helm,Walt made himself proud.This was Disney's real hay-day,and i feel this is one of Disney's greatest films. (9.0/10)  "}{"Title":"Disney Filming Verne's Masterpiece","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" If one wants to read the best edition in English of Jules Verne's TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA, the edition to turn to is edited by Mr. Walter Miller, and published by Washington Square Press. Miller did a wonderful job at showing how the editions of the novel have been bowdlerized over the last 137 years (it was published in 1870) by translators who were determined to dampen the anti-imperialist/anti-British theme of the novel. Miller (who also did the definitive modern edition of FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON) did the first edition about 1985 and the second edition in the 1990s.Someone, at the start of the novel, has been attacking various ships on the seven seas, ramming them from underwater. In several cases the ships almost been sunk (in the movie one is blown up). Yet the culprit, from the descriptions of survivors, seems to be a monstrous fish or sea serpent. An expedition is sent out by the U.S. government under a Captain Farragut (Ted De Corsia here), in the brig U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln. On board is harpooner Ned Land (Kirk Douglas), Professor Pierre Arronax of France (an expert on oceanography - played by Paul Lukas), and Arronax loyal servant Conseil (Peter Lorre). Despite the doubts of Captain Farragut, Arronax is certain it must be a serpent. Eventually the Lincoln is attacked by the strange creature and Land, Arronax, and Conseil are thrown off the brig and land on the creature. It turns out to be a submarine boat, and it's owner and navigator is Captain Nemo (James Mason). Although at first willing to sink his boat below the ocean's surface to allow the three men to drown, he changes his mind - but insists that they are now his prisoners. And the three are taken on a cruise of the world's seas by Nemo for the rest of the novel.Now, it was a novel written in 1870. At that time submarines were experimented with, but with indifferent success. Cornelius Drebbel had built a successful one that was tried in the Thames in the 17th Century. David Bushnell's Turtle had tried to sink a British frigate in New York Harbor in 1776. Robert Fulton had designed a successful submarine in 1802, and tried to interest first England and then France in his weapon. In 1859 a French submarine was tried out. Then in 1864 (although it is doubtful if Verne knew about it) the Confederate hand-cranked submarine C.S.S. Hunley successfully sank the U.S.S. Housatonic in the first successful submarine attack in war. The problem was that submarines looked flimsy as opposed to the strong looking frigates and naval surface craft at the time (including early ironclads). Also, to be truthful, there seemed something sneaky about warfare under water.But Verne took it one step farther - the submarine Nautilus is designed for comfort, not only for warfare (more hereafter). It has luxurious accommodations like a parlor with organ, a museum of various nautical curiosities, a library, staterooms for Nemo, his guests, and his crew. So far, in the 108 years since John P. Holland's submarine was bought by the U.S., the idea of a luxury yacht submarine has not caught on yet - particularly the parlor has a thick glass window to allow you to see the creatures of the sea like in a vast fish bowl.Verne did mention electricity as the key to the motion power of the ship - the film suggests Nemo has discovered a new power to move the engines (i.e. atomic). Verne never dealt with atomic power - one of the few examples of a lack of imagination that Verne ever showed. He was a firm believer in modes of propulsion that one could see and feel - hence his attack on H.G.Wells' use of cavourite in the FIRST MEN IN THE MOON, which was a chemical based on hydrogen. Verne's moon cannon the Columbiad worked with gun-cotton.The key to the novel was the political attack on imperialism - in particular British. In the attacks of the Nautilus on the ships, it does the worst damage to British based ships. The reason is that Nemo is an ex-Indian Prince named Dakar from the Sepoy Revolt. Unless you read the complete novel you do not realize that the Prince lost his wife and children in the reprisal killings of the Sepoy Revolt, and he and his men are cruising the seas doing damage to the British Empire (financing anti-British activity throughout the empire when they can). The explorations of the seas is secondary to the political reasons for Nemo's actions.Some of the adventures of the Nautilus and it's crew and passengers are exciting, but now are dismissed as false. The submarine cruised under the ice to reach the South Pole - actually it would not get far due to the Antarctic continent. But in the 20th Century the U.S.S. Nautilus (the first nuclear powered submarine) cruised under the ice to reach the North Pole in the 1950s.Mason gives a good performance as the tormented Nemo, who is basically a good man but is consumed by hatred (although it is never made clear why). Douglas is good as a happy go lucky (but realistic) sailor, who is determined to escape. Also this film is one of the few where Douglas sings (A Whale of a Tale). Peter Lorre does well as Lucas' servant, who gradually realizes that his employer has become besotted by the learning experience of staying with Nemo forever - Lucas forgets the danger he and his associates are in. The special effects, for 1954, are first rate - and the film remains quite effective. It is possibly the best film ever made out of a Jules Verne novel. "},{"Title":"Great and Funny Adventure","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In 1868, shipping becomes a nightmare, since vessels are vanishing the in the South Seas. The tabloids attribute the disappearances of the ships to an existence of a sea monster. The US government invites Prof. Pierre Arronax (Paul Lukas) and his assistant Conseil (Peter Lorre) to investigate what is really happening and they embark in a ship navigating to the Orient. In the crew, Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) is a happy member. After a long period on the open sea, a submarine, the Nautilaus, commanded by Captain Nemo (James Mason), attacks the steamship. Prof. Arronax, Conseil and Ned are rescued by the submarine, and share the dreams and madness of Captain Nemo. Although being a 1954 film, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is a great and funny adventure, which has not aged. The adaptation of Julio Verne's novel on the screen is a great entertainment recommended for all families. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) 20.000 Léguas Submarinas (20,000 Leagues Submarines) "},{"Title":"Exciting and thrilling  submarine movie dealing with the  Nautilus captained by Nemo masterfully played by James Mason","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Magnificent adaptation based on Jules Verne's fantasy-adventure novel with good cast and extraordinary scenarios . New take on for cinema , filmed in Cinemascope widescreen with agreeable casting and an awesome James Mason as Nemo. The film talks about the known story from Jules Verne novel and previously rendered in a silent film . 1868 ,the oceans are no longer safe , many ships have been lost, the sailors have returned to New England's fishing port with tales of vicious giant whale with long horn . The naturist and biologist expert named professor Pierre Aronnax ( Paul Lukas) and assistant Conseil (Peter Lorre) undertake a dangerous mission . Aronnax and his helper , along with a professional whaler named Ned Land( Kirk Douglas) join forces in an expedition commanded by captain Farragut (Ted De Corsia) that attempts to unravel the mysterious sinking ships by an unknown creature . Aboard the ship called USS Abrahan Lincoln , they go out to investigate . At sea, Professor Aronnax was aboard the ship when Nautilus rammed it and threw the Professor, his helper and Ned Land into the water .Their ship is sunk and are captured and get thoroughly involved with power-hungry captain Nemo ( James Mason) and take an extraordinary adventure underseas in an advanced submarine called Nautilus. Prisoners at first, they are now treated as guests to view the underwater world and to hunt under the waves. Nemo will also tells them about the riveting submarine of the future and the revenge that has driven him for all these years .This fantastic movie displays sensational adventures, drama, intrigue, marvelous scenarios and is pretty enjoyable. Fascinating submarine movie blends action, , disaster spectacle, hokey fun ,suspense and emotional happenings . Our heroes incarnated by a throughly believable casting of the first-rate character players get stuck in the ship before the island explodes , undergoing numerous adventures and suffering innumerable perils . Surprise-filled entertainment and with plenty of action on grand scale with breathtaking special effects and some ships and submarine by maquette or scale model . The underwater scenes , explosions , pyrotechnics, flood , flamboyant FX to make large-size Octopus seem like horrible monster , all of them are spectacular and the film is another exceptional Hollywood product . However, overlong runtime is not boring but is entertaining and amusing . Memorable and great cast as James Mason plays a serious revenger captain Nemo ; Paul Lukas plays perfectly Annorax as intelligent scientific ; and Ned Land played by Kirk Douglas as an obstinate , stubborn sailor who spends most of their time devising intelligent ways for escape , in addition singing a catching song titled ¨A whale for a tale ¨ . Atmospheric and vivid score by Paul Smith . Colorful cinematography by Franz Planer in Cinemascope and Technicolor reflecting wonderfully underwater scenes . Filmed on location in Jamaica and Caribbe and interior scenes in Burbank studios. This splendid picture is lavishly produced by Walt Disney Productions. Won deservedly Academy Award for Special Effects by Hench and Meador and extraordinary participation from Peter Ellenshaw and Ub Iwerks ; besides achieved Oscar for Art Direction by Meehan and Goff.This classic movie is marvelously directed by Richard Fleischer. Other versions from the vintage story are an old mute (1916) by Stuart Paton , and for TV directed by Rod Hardy with Michael Caine , Mia Sara and Patrick Dempsey ; and directed by Michael Anderson with Ben Cross and Richard Crenna ; furthermore a cartoon movie directed by Arthur Rankin. The motion picture will appeal to fantasy-adventure buffs and it's a wonderful popcorn story . Rating  Above average , the mightiest motion picture of them all, it's a real winner . "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I was 13, I visited Disney World as a present for my graduation from elementary school. I was already too old, and I was rather annoyed at most of it. Particularly annoying was the 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. It had the longest line and, when I finally got on the ride, it was utterly boring. It also takes longer than all of the other rides, as well. Well, the movie on which the ride is based is fortunately much more fun (and you could probably watch it thrice in a row from the time you step into the ride's line up to the moment you get back off the thing!). It's actually one of the best films Disney ever put its name on, counting both live action and animation. In fact, the only one I can think of off hand that I definitely prefer is Mary Poppins. A good deal of 20,000's success can probably be found in Jules Verne's novel. I have a feeling that a lot of the dialogue and plot were left intact (I know some of it was changed). The script and dialogue are enormously literate. Disney films rarely (if ever) express this much intelligence and depth. It would only equal half the movie, though, if the lead actors weren't aboard. Kirk Douglas, Paul Lukas, Peter Lorre, and James Mason are at their bests here. Douglas and Mason in particular give stellar performances (Lukas' character is more of an observer and Lorre is, well, Lorre, but both have great scenes). Douglas plays Ned Land, a harpooner and the sole survivor of a ship's crew which was attacked by the Nautilaus. He's energetic and funny, and he also effectively communicates his dilemma as someone who has no real purpose on the ship, and is thus disposable. Heck, Kirk even sings a great song, believe it or not! Mason plays Captain Nemo, a character that became so archetypical afterwards that he might seem somewhat cliche to some. But Mason has some of the most amazing line readings. Richard Fleischer's direction is quite good. The film also benefits from an obviously enormous budget, as the production values are awe-inspiring. Take for example a scene in which the Nautilaus begins to sink. We see various bolts burst and pipes bend. We see the details when they repair the ship. And the giant squid attack is actually quite well done. The special effect technology is a bit crude at the time (a goofy rubber shark thankfully only appears in one shot), but the squid's enormous tentacles look and move realistically, or at least as realistically as one can demand for a film from this period. I'm telling you, don't ignore this movie just because Disney produced it and you can only get it in one of those giant plastic retard cases. It's a great, great film. 10/10. "},{"Title":"An impressive adaptation of the classic Jules Verne story","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Twenty Thousand Leagues Under The Sea is directed by Richard Fleischer, is based on the novel by Jules Verne and stars James Mason, Kirk Douglas, Paul Lukas and Peter Lorre.Seaman Ned Land(Kirk Douglas)is thrown together with Professor Pierre Arronax(Paul Lukas)and the professors assistant Conseil(Peter Lorre)after their ship is attacked by a mysterious missile.The three come across an abandoned submarine which they board and explore.They soon discover they are not alone as the crew return after burying a fallen comrade on the seabed.The crews leader is the mysterious and brooding Captain Nemo(James Mason).The Captain and his men have built The Nautilus as a way to have a life free from the violence and hatred that is all around everything on land.Many of their families were killed and they all follow any of Nemo's orders without question.The Professor is the only one of the three whom Nemo considers to be humane and intelligent.And he unburdens himself to Pierre and tells him about what drove them to this life under the sea.James is superb as the brooding anti hero who's intentions are good but he goes around destroying ships and killing people all in the name of good,even though those people have done nothing to him or his men.Although a dark tale,comedy moments are provided by Kirk singing and the delightful scenes between Ned and Nemo's pet sea lion Esmeralda. These will keep the children happy and provide some respite from the darkness of the story.Impressive and hugely enjoyable this is one not to be missed. No matter how many times you see it still scares and impresses. The special effects are impressive and memorable and the entire cast give superb performances, especially Mason as the tragic Captain Nemo. "},{"Title":"Goes deep!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  _20,000 Leagues Under the Sea_ is probably the greatest novel by the father of the entire science fiction genre.I happen to own an annotated edition of the novel.  Its editor explains that French and other European readers take Verne more seriously as an author than do most Anglophones, who consider him a writer for boys.  The latter verdict is unfortunate and can be blamed on incompetent translators and disrespectful publishers.  For one thing, they mangled technical passages which they did not understand, causing critics to disparage unjustly the science in Verne's science fiction.  Secondly, they completely omitted many passages of shrewd social commentary from Verne's original French.It is true that Disney was not altogether faithful to details in the novel.  But in other ways, I found him confronting his viewers, young though they were, with questions of uncommon sophistication and probity, just as did the real Jules Verne.  Disney pulled no punches with respect to the moral ambiguity of all three of his major characters.  They are not hero-white and villain-black. To say they are shades of gray does not do justice to their vividness. Let us say that they are zebras.  McCarthyites must have squirmed to see a film which made kids think so hard about what one should or shouldn't do in the name of science, or of fighting slavery, or of escaping incarceration.Another striking aspect of this screenplay is how it is reminiscent of Sartre, a major philosopher in the 1950s.  His play _Huis Clos_ (No Exit) was published only ten years earlier. In connexion with this play, Sartre stated his view that a portrayal of several mutually incompatible characters condemned to live together forever would make for gripping drama (if I am not mistaken, he said that this should be the perfect drama.) This is exactly the situation which Nemo, Arronax, and Land face in the _Nautilus_; and it is remarkable how tightly the dialogue concentrates on the ramifications of this predicament.  Hardly a word escapes their lips which does not allude to it.Children's films have seldom gone deeper than this, in any sense.  "},{"Title":"Very impressive","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is not my absolute favourite of the live action Disney movies but I am still very fond of it. The pacing can be sluggish on occasions, but compensates hugely are the acting, special effects and the way the story is told. The special effects even after all these years are still highly impressive, and the locations are beautiful. The score is rousing too, and the story is superbly told complete with some clever dialogue. The direction is adept, and the acting is excellent. James Mason plays the cantankerous captain with a certain grit and presence that makes him so compelling to watch, while Kirk Douglas is his usual likable self. All in all, not a favourite but a very impressive film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wonderful Verne adaptation","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Watched this one recently and was delighted to find it stands the test of time as one of the better Disney live action film's on the market. A quality take on Jules Verne's advanced story of subs and the atomic threat that was to become ever so prominent in the public conscious. This adaptation is a corking sci-fi adventure that benefits from great work from all involved.The cast are just smashing, James Mason is the stand out as the barmy but intelligent protagonist Capt. Nemo, gruff and menacing with a dandy slice of camp into the proceedings. Then we have Kirk Douglas who out Popeye's Popeye, tough and rugged with a song and dance to help moral along, and even taking time out to befriend a seal to help jolly the film in heart. Peter Lorre is solid as ever, and Paul Lukas almost steals the show as the conflicted Professor Pierre Aronnax. The sets are wonderful, the direction seamless, and the special effects make it hard to believe this was made back in the early 1950s, but ultimately its a story for adults and an adventure for the kids. Containing a giant squid sequence that sees Mason & Douglas fighting it to the death serves as proof positive that 20000 Leagues Under the Sea is an unadulterated joy. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Mightiest Motion Picture of them All!","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well, my summary is a bit exaggerated, but I'm not that far off. Like all Disney film, this is not a great adaptation of the novel(the novel is so boring though), but it is probably the best known adaptation of the book. To start off the cast is marvelous, more specifically that of James Mason, as the anti-hero, Capt. Nemo. The movie also stars Paul Lukas, Peter Lorre, and Kirk Douglas. Most of the film takes place in the Nautilus(designed by the genius Harper Goff) and it gives the audience a feel of claustrophobia. The underwater shots of the Nautilus are beautiful. However, those scenes would not be as good if they were not accompanied by Paul Smith''s beautiful score. Another Disney legend on this movie is matte artist, Peter Ellenshaw. He painted a bunch of boats that looked very much real and he painted Vulcania. The highlight of the movie is the giant squid, a scene that took up so much money that it could have been the end of Disney as we know it. Overall, 20,000 Leagues is in fact a mighty motion picture with great acting, music, and special effects that contribute to the overall quality of the film. "},{"Title":"Take it from a real submariner-","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" on modern boats life isn't easy- but compared to the living hell that the Hindu U-Boats were, modern submariners have nothing to complain about. People in certain professions don't like to watch movies about those professions (Doctors and Nurses shy away from hospital dramas, for example). Submarine sailors are different. We love to watch every submarine movie ever made, from Run Silent, Run Deep and Destination Tokyo to The Hunt For Red October, Crimson Tide and U-571. Why? Because we can always use a good laugh. For those in the know, submarine movies are usually absolutely hilarious. Except this one. After being in the Navy for four years, serving with around 350 different men, and being acquainted with a further 200-300, all of them submarine sailors, I think that I can state with absolute certainty that this film is the ONLY submarine movie that ALL submariners take seriously. And that is the highest praise a movie like this can possibly get. "}{"Title":"When Disney was worth paying your hard earned money to.","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Before the year 2000, most Disney films were great. they had little flaws and retold tales that our great great grandparents gossiped about. Disney films date back to 1928, with mickey mouse, although all the animated films were great, Walt Disney was taking a huge step with this movie, and it was well worth the step. 20,000 leagues under the sea could never be made today like it was in 1954. why? because Disney would disapprove of it.Disney today is all about teenage boys pretending to be strong and stalwart. they're not about having big muscled guys rip their shirts off, beat up other 'seamen' (dare i say that?) and talk and sing about women hungry for affection. Yes, Kirk Douglas was superb in this movie. Disney today cares about pre-teens and Hannah Montana, and they claim it's epic that she lives a double life. I claim that a man who escaped a slave camp to get revenge on the world, who has a submarine with an energy power that humanity will never achieve, is truly epic. And again, James mason is also superb.And finally, Disney cares about dance routines and pre-tween relationships (but they don't talk about the unplanned teen pregnancy that usually follows) they don't care about epic fights against giant squids, that could be put in the professor's words sure, a monster could sink a ship, if it were big enough. and yes, that monster is big enough.I don't even need to tell you the back-story. Just telling you all the little bits and pieces should be enough to describe how Epic 20,000 leagues really is.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great From Beginning to End...","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I fell in love with this film when my 7th-grade English teacher presented it to use when we were studying myths and legends. As B-movie as it might seem, it really is enjoyable from beginning to end. The acting is nicely done. Kirk Douglas is almost like Errol Flynn in manner, and the song he sings with the crew is a nice addition on his part. Everyone else is great as well. The special effects are pretty good -- of course not up to par with the CGI used in films nowadays, it's still remarkable what they did at the day in age this was made. The music is great. Well worth checking out for the orchestral music fan. Good writing and directing from all those involved.Definitely see this film if you haven't already. It's old-fashioned fun, and truly captivating. "},{"Title":"Immense effort in set design and a great interpretation of Jules Verne.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A really commendable interpretation of Jules Verne in terms of the mood and set design. The Art Director/Production Manager has done a great job. The rivetted  metal surfaces are a treat. the design of the levers that open the glass window looks beautiful even today almost half a century after this movie was made!!!! As you watch the movie it is very very difficult to believe that you are watching something that old... you even start thinking that it is Michael Douglas with a very strange make-up that you are seeing and it takes time to realise it is Kirk Douglas after all, and the whole thing is half a century old.So also the special effects. It is not the best example but is a really good effort for the time period. The giant squid however is still superlative in sfx quality and will so for all times.THere is characteristic hollywoodisation of characters... but then that is bound to happen. I personally felt it is good for adults and kids alike.  All in all a classic great not to be missed. "},{"Title":"An Effective Realization of Verne's Complex Vision","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Disney version of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea memorably realizes Jules Verne's vision of the complex Captain Nemo and his dream of using science to fight the world's ills.  The movie's greatest strengths are (i) James Mason's excellent portrayal of Nemo and the many facets of his nature and personality, and (ii) the lavishly designed and photographed sets that bring to life the world described in Verne's novel.  Despite the (cinematically necessary) variations and omissions from the novel, the film effectively describes the philosophical and sociological conflicts that Verne raised, even as it concentrates (probably foremost) on providing family entertainment.The cast contains other fine actors besides Mason, but the other characters are not nearly as multi-faceted or as interesting as Nemo, and thus Lukas, Douglas, and Lorre do not have the chance to perform as memorably as Mason did in the role of the Captain.  And if the Nautilus and the underwater sets and events are analyzed carefully, it is possible to spot some scientific &/or design flaws, and some of these do date the film.  There are also, of course, a number of Disney features that appeal strictly to the younger audience, sometimes at the expense of temporarily veering from the main story-line.  But these do not prevent the movie from being effective at communicating the most important aspects of the world of the tormented Captain Nemo and his brilliant scientific creations.The story of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea raises more questions than it answers.  There is no doubt that Nemo is correct in his criticisms of the world he has left behind, and there is no doubt that the others are equally correct in criticizing his extremist, vigilante methods of trying to correct the injustices he has seen.  During the story, the characters are unable to find a middle ground that would allow Nemo to use his genius in constructive ways.  This in turn points to many of the basic dilemmas of scientific discovery and its applications that are re-argued in every generation.  To the movie's credit, it does not attempt to give simplistic answers to the challenges that Nemo's beliefs and methods pose.  It simply shows us the positives and negatives of Nemo's perspective.  And along the way, as we watch the consequences of the conflict between Nemo and his enemies, there are some beautiful sights and exciting events to keep us entertained. "},{"Title":"The best Disney movie ever... and a DVD to match it!","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Finally! The definitive edition of a Jules Verne classic brought back in all its pomp and glory. The price, for once, is right. I remember it when it first was released in Europe, and I can safely say that this version beats even that showing back then.Extremely clear image, stupendous surround sound, make this a must have in the most absolute way.Forget all the other versions ever made. This remains THE classic of them all!Forget the dated special effects which, by the way, you may not even notice, since the story is so gripping and fast paced, that you may not even realize they are.James Mason gives a wonderful portrayal of Captain Nemo. One of his best roles, together with Fieldmarshal Rommel in The Desert Fox, Cicero in Five Fingers and Professor Arronax in Journey to the Center of the Earth of about the same period. Kirk Douglas and Peter Lorre form a perfect if not odd comical duo, to ease the tension of the story.The score is beautifully remastered and brings you immediately back to those long bygone days of great movie-making.I won't be long reviewing this movie, since many others before me, have already praised it and described it in detail.I can only say, buy it, buy it, buy it!Oh, and by the way, don't forget about another Jules Verne classic just released on DVD and in Widescreen Around the World in 80 Days. That's another absolutely must have.In the meanwhile, have you checked on Journey to the Center of the Earth. Do you have it on your DVD shelf? No? Shame on you... Go and get it fast. It's been remastered and it's a worthy companion to the other two Jules Verne movies. So, what are you waiting for?  "},{"Title":"Jules Verne novel brought to life","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Others have given good accounts of this Disney movie based on the famous Jules Verne sci-fi novel of 1870. That Disney took on this project at all &#x96; as a real live action film instead of an animated movie, is quite a story. The restored film DVD has some bonus shorts with good background on the making of this film. The IMDb movie page has the budget estimated at $5 million. But, the cost was $2.7 million, according to the DVD bonus videos. And that was an astronomical amount for 1954. It made it the most costly film produced in the history of movies to that time &#x96; surpassing the previous most costly, Gone With the Wind.This was a big success for Walt Disney. But it was a real gamble from the start. Before that time Disney had only done animated films. He had some great successes. But, Hollywood didn't consider him in the big leagues since he hadn't yet made a live action film. When one considers that no one in Hollywood had taken on a project like this before then, it showed Disney to be a man of action and conviction. He was already known as a dreamer and producer of fairy tales. At the time he decided to tackle 20,000 Leagues as a live action film, he also had plans underway for the opening of Disneyland. So, this film, with its huge costs, was a make it or break it project for Disney. There was one silent film made before this time &#x96; by Universal in 1916. It had some underwater shots filmed in the Bahamas. But the inability to create the technical submarine and many of the underwater special effects, led the filmmakers to alter the plot considerably. It borrowed from other stories, including some other Verne fiction, and much of it was shot on dry land. With its release in 1954, Disney's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea did justice to the wonderful Jules Verne tale of undersea adventure, exploration and sights. The detailed, elaborate and lengthy designs of the Nautilus are most impressive and yet today give one a sense of being in a real submarine. The underwater scenes, also shot in the Bahamas, are still among the best such scenes used in movies. And the giant squid, of course, seems very real. Younger audiences today may find this classic film somewhat slow. But many aspects of it are still noteworthy and enjoyable. The set, cinematography, special effects, direction and acting all are exceptional. I doubt that the best job of CGI today could make a more realistic giant squid than the special effects crew did for this 1954 film. "},{"Title":"Come aboard the Naultius","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Before there was Bio Shock. Before Steampunk became cool. There was this movie. The year is 1868, a number of sea monsters attacks in the Pacific, has cause fear among sailors. Professor Pierre M. Arrnoax (Paul Lakas) and his assistant, Conseil (Peter Lorre) were invited by the US government to find. They were attacked by the 'so called' monster, and found themselves shipwreck with Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) a sailor. Captured by the monster, they found out, it's not a monster at all, but a submarine the Naultius, captain by the mysterious Nemo. (James Mason) explorer of the ocean bottom, '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea'. What Pierre and the survivors doesn't know at first, is that Captain Nemo is border-lining between genius and madness. A man who is at war at the surface world, while being tired of war. Arrnoax knows of this, but due to his lust of knowledge, he continue to take the side of the captain, while Ned Land tries to escape. 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is based on the science fiction novel by French writer Jules Verne with the same name. There are some big differences between the film, and the novel. The film tends to cut outs or combinded such in case-- the treasure scene and the shark. Much praise for keeping much of Captain Nemo's reasons to attack the surface world and keeping the violence and death in, for a PG movie. Without it, it wouldn't be much of a adventure. The film can be a bit outdated, thus some action scenes with the limited special effects might be a bit cheesy, but at the time, well made. It's far superior to the majority of genre efforts from the period (or any period, for that matter), with production design and technical effects that have dated hardly at all. The soundtrack is spellbinding, mysterious, and glam. The haunting classic organ music plays well into the film. |'A Whale of a Tale' by Al Hoffman and Norman Gimbel as sung by Kirk Douglas sound as real as a sailor's hymn. Kirk Douglas is the perfect fit for Ned Land. Land is everything that Nemo hates about the surface, self-centered, greedy, and ego driven. While all of the actors did great in their respectable roles, it was James Mason, that got singled out for his performance of Captain Nemo. Even the point, that Nemo's last words to Aronnax echo is a strong message. There is hope for the future. And when the world is ready for a new and better life, all this will someday come to pass, in God's good time. It's a great adventure, so give it a try. "},{"Title":"Fine Kids' Film for More Than Just Kids","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" For a long time, Disney made top-notch live-action films, and 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea stands as one of the best.I loved this film as a kid, and can remember even at the time being impressed that it didn't feel like it was necessarily dumbed down for a children's audience. Look at the stars here Kirk Douglas and James Mason. Look at the production values and sterling (for the time) special effects. In the present day, Disney puts all of its oomph into its animated films, and its live action offerings many times emerge as barely competent -- and certainly not anything anyone with half a brain (kid or adult) would want to see.This is a terrific fantasy adventure film -- people who want to find quality family entertainment should stop complaining about the lack of family-friendly movies being produced now and pick up something like this instead.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A true adventure classic","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Jules Verne's classic novel is brought to the big screen here in probably the most well-known and best adaption of the novel. The film notably comes from Disney, which is surprising when you think about it because of how dialogue driven and character driven the film really is. It is impressive how well the film still holds up to this day and that it manages to remain constantly interesting despite little action. The film is still somewhat under-appreciated, whether that is because of Disney's title is unsure because the film still grips and entertains with ease.The story sees the oceans assumed unsafe during the late 1800s as a number of ships have been destroyed by what people are calling a monster. A naturalist professor, his assistant and a whaler join an expedition to unravel the mystery. But when they're vessel is destroyed and they are the only three who survive, the come aboard the 'monster' and realise it is a high-tech submarine run by the highly intelligent Captain Nemo. Nemo is distant to them at first, but slowly allows them to into his ideology. The story is very interesting, the mystery of Nemo's views on life are presented and left for the audience to make judgement on. I really like how the film portrays the four ideologies of these men and lets their views on warfare bounce around, as this is what forms the plots backbone. The film is very story driven so that fact that the plot is this good really helps make the film standout.The four lead actors are what really make the film memorable. All four create engaging people and get their personality traits down perfectly. James Mason is simply superb as the complex and tragic Nemo. He displays Nemo as a man that was far ahead of his time and wounded by how harmful man's actions can be. The fact that he has retired to the sea shows how much he wants to get away from the actions of his fellow humans. Paul Lukas is equally as brilliant in his very calming and touching portrayal of Professor Aronnax. He is one of a few who believes that he can convince Nemo to change his views on humanity and see that there is some good left. Both Mason and Lukas give wonderfully intelligent performances.Kirk Douglas puts his gruff persona and chiselled looks to good use as the vigorous everyday sailor Ned Land. Land's more bombastic attitude and hands on approach brilliantly corresponds those of Nemo and the professor. Peter Lorre is also excellent support as the professor's easily panicked assistant Conseil. Lorre's agitated expressions and nervous delivery are just perfect for the character, as Lorre makes what could have been a forgotten role extremely notable.It is striking at just how well the film holds up and how the visual aspects have hardly dated thanks to expert techniques used. The claustrophobic nature of the Nautilus is the perfect metaphor for how trapped the three men feel at first, whilst the submarine itself is a stunning creation thanks to its Gothic design and colourful scenery. The scenes filmed out at sea and under the oceans waves look very authentic, even the use of blue screen is difficult to notice at times. When the action set pieces do turn up they are very well shot and full of tension. The famous giant squid attack looks very good, thanks to shooting the scene in a storm, and has a lot of excitement. The scene were Ned enters the natives land is also very good thanks to the excellently crafted suspense, you can even forgive the dodgy electricity effects.The dialogue and interactions are another highlight. This is an extremely character driven film after all, the main thing that the film does is to try and have the views of the four leads bounce of each other in order to place them in an interesting dilemma. The three men have difficulty accepting Nemo's views and have trouble working out reasons for his motives. While Ned and Conseil dismiss him as a madman, the professor notes that Nemo does have his reasons as him becomes a confident for the captain. Nemo turns into more of a tragic character as we learn his true motives and this creates a great anti-hero for the audience to decide to agree with or turn away. The more that the professor gets sucked into Nemo's ideology creates the perfect conflict as Ned and Conseil cannot decide what action to take.As said the dialogue is brilliant. I really like how smart it is and how the conversations of the men are always interesting. It also allows us to see through the characters eyes and find out what they are feeling, like with the professor's journal. There are some funny quips such as Lorre claiming that messages in bottles when out with Robinson Crusoe that are well placed throughout. The score from Paul Smith fits in soundly as well. It does sound rather grand and manages to convey the elements of suspense very well. Even Kirk Douglas tune 'Whale of a Tale' is a very enjoyable number.20,000 Leagues might very well be one of the best adventure movies ever made, it is certainly one of Disney's best live action pieces. For such a reserved and dialogue driven film it is amazing how interesting and entertaining it manages to be. That in part is down to the four lead actors who, as said, are all absolutely fantastic jobs. It is also in part to an excellent script and some truly outstanding production design that also help to make the film a masterpiece. 20,000 Leagues is always entertaining, filled with interesting ideas, superb acting and wonderful visuals it is impossible not to find something to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Walt Disney & Jules Verne.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Richard Fleisher directed this big-scale, Walt Disney produced adaptation of the famous Jules Verne novel about the futuristic submarine Nautilus under the command of Captain Nemo(played by James Mason) who is tired of humanity's wars, and decides to sink all warships, regardless of nationality. This brings on the attention of the U.S. government, and a ship goes to investigate the sinking's(not meeting Nemo until later.) Kirk Douglas plays whaler Ned Land, while Paul Lukas and Peter Lorre play a professor and his assistant. Exciting film does have its share of lulls and slow spots, but makes up for it with thrilling action involving the attack of the giant squid, vividly brought to life during a sea storm. "}{"Title":"A Cinematic Wonder of 1954","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I think this film is best appreciated when watched empowered with an education of film history, taking into consideration the technological challenges which were overcome to make it all happen successfully, appreciating the risks it entailed for the Disney Studios, and imagining how it felt for audiences who experienced it for the first time as what was truly an unprecedented under-water cinematic feat. It was the most expensive film ever made up to that time, and if you look closely you can tell that no expense was spared. Nevertheless, in our modern era of Hollywood indulgence and computer generated graphics, 20,000 Leagues under the Sea inevitably ends up feeling slightly dated & hokey at times. The movie boasts many timeless strengths though, among them being interesting characters, excellent performances, and some great intellectual dialogue/debate. "},{"Title":"A great adventure and some very strong characters.","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great adventure. I was kinda taken aback by how cozy this movie is. I am really surprised that it was made in 1954 because the special effects are really well made for an old movie and the underwater footage is just fantastic. The movie looks great and plays great.There is something special with these older types of movies. There isn't really such a thing as mediocre acting and substance-less characters. The characters are all strong and stand out in their own special way. Whether they are taking the front or stand more in the background, like the little weasel that is the professors apprentice.I particularly like Captain Nemo's character. He is a misanthrope and the embodiment of a person who is so intelligent that there isn't much for him to do but to suffer in a cruel and inhumane world, where the rest of mankind aren't on his level. Throughout the movie we learn that while what he was saying is depressing, he was right. Ned is one proof of that. One day he saves Nemo's life. But on the day before, he made sure to act in such a way that in the end would lead to Nemo's death. As Nemo says, goodness needs to be consistent. It can't be done on impulse. The dialogue is well-written and provides insight in a natural way as to why Nemo is the way that he is. It opens up discussion rather then makes statements that can't be reflected upon. After Nemo's life is saved by Ted, I like how when the professor was trying to talk sense into Nemo and make him be a bit more cheerful about the world, Nemo could actually defend his point of view instead of it being just another cliché Hollywood moment where the bad guy is shown off as weak and fallible in his perspective of the world. And Nemo defending his view opens up a new perspective on things and makes everything about the movies morale more ambiguous, rather then it being a typical hopeful movie where everything works out great in the end. The movie is hopeful in it's own way, but it's in a way that shows you something bad and lets the audience want to make a change for the future.And in the end, he makes a point. The world isn't ready for destructive power of that kind. It is said that science fiction movies (as well as movies in general) are a reflection of the society in the era that they are being made in. And this movie was made in 54. The atom-bomb on Hirosima and Nagasaki was executed on 1945. I think that I can see a parallel there about mankind's destructive nature and immaturity. How the authorities take everything good and use it for destructive means.This is a movie about misanthropy and mankind's destructive nature. Precisely the kind of deeper themes that a science fiction is supposed to touch upon, and it does it well. Great movie. A new-found classic. "},{"Title":"Wonderful fascinating futuristic adventure","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Wonderful adventure taking you away on the high seas to meet a mad man and his mad machine. Jules Verne is a masterful story writer. He invented a lot of fantastic machines and wrote his stories based on them. Although nothing was technically possible the way he invented the machines the ideas were totally back to the future, things man would take an other century to actually build. The movie is raw adventure, sailing ships, sea monsters, hero's, comedy at times, fascinating story telling. It's made when CGI was still just a bunch of letters hustled together. Special effect was still simple and so fake. But, that does not matter, the story is very entertaining. A man's man, the one and only Kirk Douglas, is one of the leading characters. You can hardly go wrong then. Keep an open mind when watching, it's an old movie, it's not perfect, it's not Oscar winning material, but it's highly entertaining fantasy world. Watch it! "},{"Title":"20,000 Leagues Under the Seas","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is without a doubt the best translation of Jules Verne's 1870 science fiction classic Vingt mille lieues sous les mers. This translation by two Verne scholars, Walter James Miller and Frederick Paul Walter, takes all the knowledge available on the book and its author to not only make an accurate and readable complete text (early versions often omit a full quarter of the French original) that fixes the many errors of earlier translators, but also purges the text of many mistakes that were made by the original French compositors. The research and work that went into this translations is really quite stunning, and the result is a text that really lets Verne's genius shine 20,000 Leagues under the Sea is only a brilliant piece of scientific prophecy, but also a thrilling story with superb, subtle characterizations. The plot is familiar Captain Nemo, an enigmatic figure who has withdrawn himself from the world, tours the oceans in his submarine called the Nautilus. We see this journey of 20,000 leagues (approx. 43,200 miles) through the eyes of Professor Pierre Aronnax, a scientist who is both Nemo's guest and prisoner. Also aboard with Aronnax are his manservant Conseil and a gruff ship's harpooner, Ned Land. The Nautilus encounters many wonders and obstacles on its long voyage underwater forests, giant clams, attacks by huge squid, imprisonment in ice at the South Pole, monster storms, a war with a pack of sperm whales, and the discovery of the lost continent of Atlantis. But as something deep and destructive gnaws away at Captain Nemo, his prisoners seek a way to escape from the miracle ship.In the English-speaking world Jules Verne has rarely received in the praise he truly deserves as a writer. People applaud his scientific foresight (while criticizing him for errors that were usually the fault of the translators), but shrug off his writing as inconsequential, with cardboard characters and plot less stories. If only these critics would read this translation of Verne's best novel they would have to rethink their position on the great French writer! His genius for blending adventure, comedy, and psychology burst through in this translation. The book does veer into lengthy descriptions of marine life in places, and modern readers are likely to skim these parts but as a whole the novel is absolutely engrossing, throwing one stupendous adventure after another at the characters, while developing a mystery around Captain Nemo and increasing tension on-board the Nautilus so that the many different incidents hold together as a single plot. Even though submarines are commonplace technology today, Verne infuses his story with such awe-inspiring wonder that you can't help but feel the same sense of amazement as Professor Aronnax when he finds himself cruising the depths of the world's oceans. Real wonder never gets stakes, and no one was better at creating wonder than Jules Verne.Aside from the excellent translation, this edition contains numerous extras (if this were a DVD, it would be labeled as a Special Edition Director's Cut). The lengthy introduction explains Verne's background, education, the development of the novel, the many things that Verne accurately predicted, the book's unsung literary qualities, the different French texts, and the problems with earlier translations. All the original illustrations from the original French edition are reproduced in the text, and generous footnotes give the reader a guide through Verne's more obscure references and shed light on the author's scientific genius. As a bonus at the end of the book, the editors include a new translation of the relevant passages from Mysterious Island that discuss Captain Nemo's background (just in case you're too impatient to go read Mysterious Island for yourself to solve the Captain Nemo mystery). There's also a table of the measurements used in the novel for those readers who really want to test the author's scientific accuracy.65 of 70 people found the following review helpful 4.0 out of 5 stars The Original Jules Verne Novel, January 26, 2004 by Param Sukhadia. The foreword by Ray Bradbury is negligible, the Anthony Bonner translation is a graceful compromise between the 1870 French and modern American English, catching the flavor of the period without burying the reader in pseudo-Victorian turns of phrase. That said, readers who come to LEAGUES from either text, audio, or film adaptations of the novel are likely in for a shock, for the original novel is quite different. Some basics, however, remain the same Professor Arronax, his valet Conseil, and harpooner Ned Land are coaxed into assisting the United States in a search for a sea monster said to be terrorizing shipping lanes-but the monster is not flesh and blood. The three soon find themselves in the hands of the mysterious Captain Nemo, who has created a machine that glides beneath the surface of the ocean a submarine named Nautilus.But there the similarity ends. While there are very clear similarities between the novel and the various adaptations it has spawned, the Verne novel is less concerned with story, characters, and adventures than it is in creating a plausible vision of something that simply did not exist at the time Verne wrote a fully functional submarine capable of navigating even the most treacherous waters. Consequently, the bulk of Verne's text is concerned with detailed descriptions of the Nautilus and the sea life it encounters.Many modern readers may find it uphill work, particularly when Professor Arronax determinedly notes the sea life he sees to the point of scientific classification. But even so, and while it may not reach the level of great art literature, LEAGUES is a fascinating novel to read- -fascinating as much for itself as for what it tells us about the world of the 1870s and what was believed to be possible. The vision that Verne had would indeed come to pass there would be submarines, and they would strong enough to brave the polar seas. It is an impressive accomplishment. by- PARAM SUKHADIA "},{"Title":"20,000 Leagues under the Sea","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Sixty years later, 20,000 Leagues under the Sea stands up very well. The main reason for this is that director Richard Fleischer, the Disney production team and the writers did an efficient job in pulling all the elements of filmmaking together from the script, to the casting, to the cinematography, to the soundtrack. Unlike today's screenplays, the script for this adaption of Jules Verne's classic novel was written smart. There are wonderful sequences where Professor Aronax (Paul Lukas), Conseil (Peter Lorre) and Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) are discovering the underwater world for the first time. This movie also features an exciting episode with cannibals, another with a giant squid, the precursor to the atomic bomb and much more. Obviously these ideas were already written, but the screenwriters should receive credit for putting them in the screenplay without cluttering the story line with subplots and undermining the coherence of the narrative. Moreover, the cinematographers visualized this ideas perfectly with the result that the cinematography appears lush from the underwater sequences to the palms in the Pacific to the volcano liar. The other achievement in this film is that even though the special effects in the 1950s were in their infant stage, the giant squid and the atomic explosion still look convincing. This is a major advance compared to the inept special effects in Journey to the Center of the Earth. But finally the casting was expert. I always thought Paul Lukas was a bit too intellectual and nice to play villains, like in The Lady Vanishes. This movie proves it because Lukas does a wonderful job playing Professor Aronax, a decent person who is temporarily blinded by his idealism. Peter Lorre is also interesting as the professor's mousy assistant Conseil, while Kirk Douglas delivers a subtly effective performance as the rebellious and down to earth sailor who is more interested in concrete goals, such as helping himself and his fellow man survive, than with Aronax's lofty idealism. But the most effective performance is given by James Mason. Supported by a great screenplay, James Mason brilliantly reveals all the shades of gray in the movie's title character Captain Nemo. To this day, I have not yet read a review that could adequate describe Nemo and this is as much an achievement of Verne as of Mason. Mason conveys Nemo's genius, his eccentricity, his internal struggles, his idealism and then his disillusionment to perfection. 20,000 Leagues under the Sea, in closing, works as an above-average adventure film that is entertaining for all ages. The film also works as a fascinating character study that is likely to intrigue more intelligent views. "},{"Title":"Movie location","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The cave scenes for 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea were filmed at the Xtabi Caves in Negril Jamaica. At the time of shooting, Negril was an isolated village with limited accessibility due to a poor road. Director Richard Fleischer was adamant that the Xtabi Caves were to be used since they were ideal for film production due to their large size and raw, natural beauty. These caves were also used almost 20 years later for another famous movie, Papillon, whose director, Franklin Schaffer was close friends with Fleischer. The filming at Xtabi was not without its challenges, and production was stopped entirely for three days when Hurricane Florence lashed the island in 1953. "},{"Title":"Visually dazzling and thematically troubling - the definitive take on Verne's tale","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Considering 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is easily one of the most cinematic of the literary works of legendary science fiction author Jules Verne, one would expect a film adaptation of his classic adventure to be greeted with a particularly favourable reaction. At the same time, prospective viewers would have been fully justified in being skeptical by the fact that the adaptation was being produced by Disney studios, bringing to mind chilling possibilities of Verne's classic transposed into a cartoony, juvenile singalong devoid of the novel's complexities or essence. With that in mind, director Richard Fleischer's take on the story can be considered nothing less than a triumph, and, while admittably not the cinematic cornerstone it might have been under a different approach, still unquestionably the definitive celluloid version, both visually and thematically. Of course, being a live action Disney film, the addition of more kid friendly touches was more or less inevitable, but Fleischer manages to juggle the conflicting expectations of the projected youthful demographic and older viewers demanding a film worthy of its serious source material with considerable flair. As such, while there may be comic relief singing seals and a recurring song number (Kirk Douglas' amusing and catchy Whale of a Tale), such additions are inserted only in the most appropriate fashion, never being allowed to overwhelm the story at hand. Equally impressive is, simplified and kid-friendly version or not, how much of the novel's more disturbing thematic material remains intact, forming a loose parable confronting notions of ambition, exploitation of nature through technology, and, most poignantly, violence and feuding only evoking more of the same (with parallels to the unfolding Cold War that even Verne could scarsely have foreseen). Yet the film could hardly be further from a dreary, preachy moral play, as the stunning set design and vibrant technicolour manage to bring to life the mysterious and fascinating realm of the Nautilus and its aquatic domain in an unprecedentedly dazzling fashion. Even the special effects, usually the downfall of such films when viewed decades later, manage to hold up astonishingly well, with only a shade of 'endearing classic clunkiness' peppering a couple of the setpieces. More importantly is the fact that, through Fleischer's quick but steady pacing, such concerns are rendered increasingly irrelevant, sweeping the viewer away with an irresistible sense of larger than life adventure and fun.The unexpected quality of the cast assembled also manages to boost the film's quality, as each performer lends credibility and energy, anchoring the more fantastic elements of the story without dispelling its entertainment factor. James Mason brings a superb steely intensity and icy precision to the role of the mysterious Captain Nemo, rendering the character impossible to either like or dislike but fascinating either way. Kirk Douglas, clearly having a lot of fun, still manages to create a wonderfully memorable protagonist, overflowing with brawny charisma yet just self-serving enough to make him almost as ambiguous a piece of characterisation as Nemo. Peter Lorre, while visibly uncomfortable in many scenes, is still a welcome and often quite comical addition, his inherent eeriness and magnetic presence adding volumes to an otherwise drab sidekick role. As such, it is left to the far less colourful Paul Lukas to play the 'straight man', as the earnest scientist urging Nemo to abandon his mad schemes of vengeance as much as he is simultaneously drawn in by the presence and accomplishments of the man - a relationship which could have done with far more fascinating development, had Lukas bothered to put more enthusiasm into his performance. Despite initial fears, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea being a Disney film becomes increasingly irrelevant, as the rapturous visuals and impressive balance between accessible fun and troubling overbearing themes makes for an altogether engrossing watch. Any fans of classic science fiction or adventure of any sort should consider 20, 000 Leagues Under the Sea just the film for them, just as unlikely to disappoint as the timeless story is to fade from the public consciousness. -8/10 "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking Disney","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film reminds me of a later Disney picture, The Black Hole. Both explore the uncharted areas of our universe. The former under the sea and the later outer space. Both have men who want to exclude themselves from society and think their reasons for destruction are justified and reasonable. Both are good in their own ways, but 20,000 has a classic feel to it that the later doesn't have.The first great thing about 20,000 is the portrayal of Captain Nemo by James Mason. A great movie villain or anit-hero if you prefer. Captain Nemo does admit that he is not a civilized man and it really shows. Even though he is un-civilized, he has a sense of Justice. NEMO JUSTICE. He hates slavery and the men who enslave them. He hates violent men and their kegs of gun powder that kill other men. His great solution to this injustice is to blow up those ships with his super-duper submarine. He doesn't give a whale's fin who he kills along the way.The 2nd great thing about 20,000 is Kirk Douglass. He sings, gets into fights, and gives some witty lines. The third great thing is the seal. Animals always rule in Disney films. Monkeys, Seals, and Dogs are usually a winner. The 4th is the Giant Squid. This bad boy is not to be underestimated. The Fifth is the The Nautilus. Imagine if modern submarines were this cool. Crimson Tide would be a different film if they had been on board the Nautilus instead of that cramped submarine.The final great thing I will mention is that the film is not a typical good vs. evil adventure story. It is a compelling Sci-Fi story filled with ethical and moral questions that engage one's brain. It also has a lot of great adventure. Disney films are not all cutesy. It's not all tame. The violence may be scaled down but it's there. Someday I'll actually read the book and compare the two.This is one of those films that would fit well into a family library. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended!","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The first time I viewed this amazing motion picture I was in fourth grade. My teacher had chosen this film over just about every other Disney film. I must say she made a great choice as I was immediately into it when in the initial scene the Nautilus attached/destroyed a ship at sea. I ended up enjoying the entire film immensely, from beginning to end, as the 2+ hour run time seemed to go by in a flash. For me it has always been one of those movies that almost goes by too fast because of how much you enjoy it and do not want it to end. I still can't believe Disney was able to create this film back in the mid 1950's as it's visually/technologically breathtaking. Captain Nemo, without a doubt, is the quintessential anti-hero, which I've always been drawn to in movies my entire life. When I look back this actually might be the first film I viewed with such a strong anti-hero.I've read a few other reviews on here but didn't see anyone else make this observation, which I noticed after recently watching it again. And that is that the geniuses at Disney must have thought about this film when they made the Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy. One scene that stands out that proves my point would be the scene where Ned and Conseil go ashore to make some scientific discoveries on a remote island. However, Ned has other ideas and tries to escape only to run into the cannibals the Captain actually warns them about before they depart. Ned ends up running away from the cannibals and escapes back to the Nautilus with Conseil in the row boat. I believe it was the second POTC film where Johnny Depp's character also runs away from a tribe of cannibals and must escape on the Black Pearl which had been beached. There are probably many other references made from this film and the POTC trilogy as well.I'm honestly not trying to compare it with the POTC films but there are some striking similarities, in my opinion. Both are great action/adventure movies that let the viewer escape from the everyday and also never disappoint no matter how many times I watch them. This is one of the few movies that doesn't feel dated, even though it should, and I'd recommend any fan of the action/adventure genera to purchase this film on DVD as you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Adventure Under The Sea","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 20000 Leagues Under The Sea (1954) James Mason, Paul Lukas, Kirk Douglas, Peter Lorre, Ted De Corsia, Robert J. Wilke, Carleton Young, J.M. Kerigan, Ted Cooper, Percy Helton, John Daheim, Jack Gargan, Fred Graham, Charles Grodin, Harry Harvey, Dayton Lummis, Laurie Mitchell, Eddie Marr, Gloria Pall, T. Monaghan, Jack Stoney, Jack Pennick, S. Tarnell, Herb Vigran.....Director Richard Fleischer...Screenplay Earl Felton.Leave it to Walt Disney to be the first to make a film based on Jules Verne's 1ate 19th century classic fantasy adventure novel 20K Leagues under the Sea. It was produced by Buena Vista Studios, which was the studio owned by Disney where only his animated films had been made (Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs, Fantasia, Cinderella). This was Disney's first non-animated, live-action film, but he opted to stay behind the scenes and allowed Richard Fleischer to direct. Fleischer cast three well-known, A-list actors for the principal roles. James Mason stars as Captain Nemo, the reclusive idealist sea captain who commands the crew of the Nautilus, his powerful luxury-submarine. Kirk Douglas stars as the bold, self-centered and spirited sailor Ned Land, an older, fatter Peter Lorre stars as Conseil, the man-servant to French professor Arronax played by Paul Lukas. The Jules Verne novel is a lot more complex but this film attempts to provide this adventure film with a kind of prophetic vision of the future and sends a message about mankind's hopes and dreams for a better world. The character of Captain Nemo was Verne's favorite and appeared in other books such as The Mysterious Island. 20K Leagues recounts his final days. Captain Nemo has isolated himself from the rest of the world in order to live under the sea and make the blueprint for an ideal future society. He prefers the peaceful life under the boundless sea to the world above full of war, disease and violence. It's 1868 and America has just come out of the Civil War. Rumors of a deadly sea monster that has been destroying ships have fascinated the world and Professor Arronax who desires to seek the truth. Together with his man-servant and a group of sailors they head out to the South Seas. But soon Captain Nemo sinks the ship and takes up the survivors as his newest crew members. Here, the adventure begins. Before long, Ned becomes greedy for the treasures hidden by Nemo. Their journey takes them to various locations, including an island inhabited by cannibals. In the end, it becomes necessary to destroy the Nautilus and Captain Nemo himself, for fear that rather than helping humanity, he might endanger it. Disney may not have used animation but he did make great use of various special effects. The most famous of these is the animatronic squid which attacks the Nautilus. This scene is set underwater during a powerful storm and became so popular that Disney even made a Disneyland attraction ride out of it. Filmed in Cinemascope and with splendid cinematography by Franz Planer, the film is real winner. But if the actors don't do anything for you, then surely the look of the film will. Most of it is filmed under the sea, brimming with beautiful glowing fish and danger and this during the early 50's when audiences did not see much of it on film. The original music by Paul Smith is dramatic and gorgeous. Kirk Douglas was becoming a major Hollywood star at the time but in this film, he appears to be in it for publicity. He appears shirtless, plays a guitar, lusts for gold and women and is basically just doing his macho thing which he did for other roles at the time. Peter Lorre is wonderfully comedic as always, despite his age. The real strenght here is James Mason's portrayal of Nemo. For Disney, this film was purely experimental. He knew it would either make him or break him. It was a triumphant success of course but thanks not only to the lead actors but to the visual effects. After this, Disney felt confident enough to produce countless other live-action films. For so many reasons, this film was ahead of its time and is a film that can easily be appreciated and enjoyed by fans of Disney and the novel by Jules Verne. Keep in mind, though, that although Disney's name is credited, this is far from being a family film or a film for children. The film contains some mild violence, namely in fight sequences among the sailors and crew members, explosions and some horror (the squid). The dialogue and the story was never meant for children bur rather for adults and that must have been obvious to film-goers familiar with Jules Verne. All in all, a great film. "}{"Title":"I've read the novel, firsthand!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Jules Verne has done a spectacular novel I read called 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea. So when Disney decide to do a movie, it turned out just fine. Who would have known that the so-called monster is a luxurious submarine with a frightening exterior. Run by a madman named Captian Nemo(James Mason), he uses his submarine to sink ships. In the other side of town, you got three fine people to seek out that monster Ned Land(Kirk Douglas), Prof. Arronax(Paul Lucas), and his assistant Conseil(Peter Lorre). Ned Land is a tough, yet wise-cracking hunter of the seas, who loves a great adventure. When all three went about the Nautilaus(Captain Nemo's killer submarine), their adventure begins. Going into the world of underwater paradise, then going to New Guinea when Land gets the attention of cannibals. Of course, the cannibals get a shock they'll never forget, to me which was very amusing. Then there's the giant squid scene which is the most thrilling of all scenes. My friends were more curious about the scene, simply because I saw this movie before. It was 1981 when I first saw it. 5 years later, I enjoyed it with other people. They wanted to know about that certain scene. Well, what could I say, if you want to know about a certain scene, call me when I'm near. It's a good movie, and very adventurous as well. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"It's a whale of a tale, especially on the big screen...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Disney's 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA, from the Jules Verne classic, is highly enjoyable underseas entertainment and a parable about power in the hands of the wrong man--in this case, Captain Nemo (JAMES MASON) and his command of The Nautilaus.When three hearty souls (KIRK DOUGLAS, PAUL LUKAS, PETER LORRE) confront his evil destruction of other ships, the tale sails into high adventure, the kind kids might love (unless jaded by too many recent computerized kid films) and adults are sure to embrace.JAMES MASON proves to be a perfect choice as the professorial Capt. Nemo and PAUL LUKAS and PETER LORRE are satisfying in their well played co-starring roles but it's KIRK DOUGLAS who becomes the focal point of interest as the one most likely to destroy Nemo's power mad schemes. He also has a sterling song to sing (A Whale of a Tale) early in the film, and it's one of the highlights of the entertaining story.Best seen in widescreen version or on the big screen, it may not have the computerized finesse of some of today's big blockbusters, but it's a nostalgic treat and still amazing to watch the squid sequence done with such conviction before CGI was even invented. Great fun. "},{"Title":"There's one thing you oughtta know Professor, Nemo's cracked...","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" It's interesting to me how sci-fi films of the mid 1950's presented outer space travelers in those goofy looking suits and helmets, yet in 20000 Leagues Under The Sea they look perfectly natural as underwater gear. In fact this was the first time I made the connection between over and under water attire; the garb that Nemo and his men wear to explore the ocean depths never look as comical as they did in say, Abbott and Costello Go To Mars. The subject matter was a bit more serious as well, and for a Disney entertainment, it often struck a nerve regarding the future course of mankind with discussions between Nemo (James Mason) and Professor Arronax (Paul Lukas) on the viability of powerful new energy sources and their destructive power in the wrong hands.Another thought that crossed my mind was how close Captain Nemo's philosophy compares with what today would be considered a terrorist mindset. Consumed by the loss of a wife and son over their torture and death, Nemo remains committed to protecting the power source of the Nautilus. That includes destroying war ships without regard to human life, much like the attack that left Arronax, Conseil (Peter Lorre) and Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) adrift in a vast ocean. Douglas' character had it pretty much nailed when he called Nemo 'cracked'.But enough of the heavy stuff. '20000 Leagues' still manages to entertain, with concepts and even direct scenes that Disney saw fit to reintroduce in their Pirates of the Caribbean franchise. Anyone who's seen Dead Man's Chest will relate to Ned Land's escape from the island cannibals. One of my favorite scenes dealt with Nemo's dinner menu. What I wouldn't give for a helping of fillet of sea snake, with a side order of brisket of blowfish with sea squirt dressing basted in barnacles. Sort of makes your mouth water, doesn't it?Kirk Douglas seems to be having a pretty good time of it all, especially with that spirited Whale of a Tale number early in the picture. It takes some of the edge off the more sober stuff in the story. James Mason seems the perfect choice as Nemo, affecting a scholarly and serious posture to go with his avowed mission. Interestingly, I recently managed to catch Paul Lukas in a little known pirate adventure called The Mutiny of the Elsinore from 1937. I'm rather curious about the original destination of Professor Arronax and his associate Conseil in the film, they were heading to Saigon in a story set in 1868!The one thing that probably could have been improved upon in the movie was the filming of the underwater scenes, they were generally on the dark and murky side. The battle against the giant black squid was fairly exciting, but here's something to consider. Two years earlier, Bob Hope and Bing Crosby ran across a giant squid in Road to Bali, and it appeared to be a bright red color, which might seem ridiculous. However it looked a lot like a real one I saw on a National Geographic Special - who would have thought? "},{"Title":"Adventures in the good old style...","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" One of Julio Verne's masterpieces was perfectly adapted on this Disney production that remains so young although it was released 40 years ago. Remains so fascinating and so addictive. Not even the special effects look too much antiquated.The movie has so many virtues, is full of humor and what's for sure is that you'll be entertained for more than 2 hours . Adventures cinema in the old style (in the best style!!).PS I'd like to mention here the figure of Mr. Kirk Dogulas, his powerful presence, his charisma. He's been one of the best rogues in the big screen, along with Errol Flynn or Burt Lancaster. Everybody kneel down!!! *My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"To jlpicard1703E (DVD reviewer)","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" James Mason did NOT play Professor Arronax in Journey to the Center of the Earth. He did, however, play Professor Oliver Lindenbrook in that same movie. Professor Arronax was, of course, played by Paul Lucas in 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Incidentally I thought Mason was very good in North by Northwest. Funny, it wasn't even mentioned in the list of his best performances by other posters. I thought Ezmarelda the seal really stole the show. Lucas and Lorre were perfectly cast too. I also bought the DVD (special edition), and think it's great. I think the companion (bonus) disc is also great. I'd highly recommend this classic DVD set to collectors. "},{"Title":"a great filming of a literature classic. (possible spoiler)","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is Walt Disney's first live action non nature film. He had a lot at stake, being famous more for his animated films and nature documentaries. People will complain that this film didn't really follow the book but then much of the book was scientific and zoologic in nature and wouldn't have translated well to the screen. the basic bare bones plot of castaways aboard a submarine was therefore used as the basis for this film and it worked just fine. The squid was more dramatic then the octopuses described in the book.The Squid sequence cost about one third the budget of the entire film and nearly bankrupted the studio and had to be shot twice, but the results showed at Oscar time.The film was very well cast, though I would like to have seen someone younger for Conseil. The marquee names however sold seats which is what Disney needed, so Peter Lorre got the nod.This is the very first film I remember seeing as a child and it sparked an interest in technology and engineering that has remained in me to this day. In fact I got my Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology based on interests that came up after viewing this movie. I only wish I could tell Mr. Disney how much one movie motivated a young boy.The film still holds up well today 50 years after it was made. Look for the two DVD set with all the trimmings. Disney made a documentary for Television called Operation Undersea which one an emmy for best TV documentary. This program was the equivalent of today's making of... extras on most dvds. "},{"Title":"Exciting adventure story given beautiful Walt Disney production","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Robust adventure, albeit one filled with murder, suicide and a bloodthirsty squid, involving nefarious Captain Nemo (played by a bearded, monotone James Mason), arguably the darkest villain in the pre-1979 Disney canon. He is nothing short of a mass murderer, ramming his futuristic submarine into ships on the ocean circa 1868. He explains these are war ships and he is preventing world destruction, but after the unblinking, humorless Captain downs a ship full of sailors, it's clear he's a cutthroat. This makes the future of three shipwreck survivors he has taken aboard all the more desperate, although Kirk Douglas' Ned Land, scalawag and guitar picker, takes all the abuse in stride (indeed, he's flexible in any circumstance). This Disney production has a few lags in the special effects arena, but does have awesome moments. The confined space of the main set can't help but to work against the action, but what a beautifully designed set it is! The actors are colorful, the direction is tight, but there's not a big sense of danger however, as the three survivors don't even seem to fear their fates. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Disney, Nemo, and the Shadow of the H-Bomb","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The world's first nuclear powered submarine, USS Nautilus, was launched at the Electric Boat Shipyard, Groton, Connecticut, on the morning of January 21, 1954. Capable of sailing beneath the polar ice cap, able to plumb depths seldom seen by man, it was the pride of the United States Navy and the literal incarnation of its fictional namesake, imagined 84 years earlier in Jules Verne's Vingt Mille Lieues sous les Mers. Less than a year after this launching Verne's prophetic book came to theatre screens, resplendent in Cinemascope and blessed with a newfound topicality, as Walt Disney's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea -- one of the producer's best and one of the most thematically resonant films of its era. In 1954, the double-edged sword of high technology was hanging over the head of the entire culture. An almost religious faith in Progress, of course, is one of the distinctive notes of the decade, with Walt himself (producer of television films like Our Friend the Atom) one of its chief proselytizers. Yet the know-how that won the war was showing its dark side by now; the Soviet Union had exploded its own H-Bomb just a year or so earlier, igniting a worldwide nuclear arms race. The launch then, of the real-life Nautilus was an event full of desperate internal contradictions -- like Captain Nemo himself. The sheer genius of the thing was astonishing, yet for all its godlike ingenuity the USS Nautilus was, first and foremost, a horrific engine of destruction. Most Americans, no doubt, felt that such weapons were necessary, if only to counterbalance the similar armaments the Soviets were undoubtedly developing for their own use. Similarly, Nemo would, in a better world, employ his own Nautilus solely for peaceful purposes, for exploration and scientific discovery. What he actually finds himself using it for however, is nothing less than mass murder. True, the Captain considers his violence different;a war being waged to end all wars. Yet when Aronnax accuses him of being not only a murderer, but a hypocrite; the indictment does not miss its mark. We've seen it in his eyes as he pilots the sub, as he watches dozens of poor sailor men(as Ned calls them) thrashing, drowning, sinking into the deep, put to death by the action of his own bloodstained hands. In short, Captain Nemo has become the very thing he hates -- and his scientific genius has only made him better at it. This profound ambivalence towards technology informs every foot of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. On the one hand, the Victorian setting allows us to contemplate our own vast progress by imagining how impressed someone like Professor Aronnax would be by encountering it. Like Walt himself giving personal tours of Disneyland, we jaded moderns get to rekindle our own sense of wonder by conducting guided tours of our now-workaday World of Tomorrow for a truly appreciative audience. Yet just as we start to really enjoy ourselves in this, 20,000 Leagues feels compelled to remind us that Nemo is doomed, that not even Nemo knows how to control the terrible spirits now pouring out of science's Pandora's Box. Ned Land is clearly a dunderhead, clearly the lesser man of the two; just as the stalwart but slightly thick Captain Hendry was Dr. Carrington's pale shadow in Howard Hawks' The Thing a few years earlier. Yet Land lives to tell the tale, and Hendry brings Carrington home on a stretcher--not without a sad tribute on his lips to the Doctor's admirable but impractical idealism. In much the same way, Fifties filmgoers (a stupidly maligned species, in my view) were perfectly willing to admire Captain Nemo's dreamy pacifism; even willing, for 127 minutes or so, to wring their hands with him over all the moral ambiguities of the human condition. But this was, after all, the same intensely practical generation that had watched gentle, scholarly Neville Chamberlain wring his hands right into a second world war for humanity. So at the end of the day, with the lives and happiness of their children and grandchildren on the line, the Americans that first enjoyed 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea deliberately chose to hand their destinies over to Ned Land and Captain Hendry; to the hard-boiled, square headed Trumans and Eisenhowers of the world. Yet not entirely without regrets, I think...as the very existence of these films testifies. "},{"Title":"Set sail!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" An excellent adaption of the Jules Verne classic, well almost, but still you gotta love this. It had a young Kirk Douglas, and the man that plays Mr. Moto, or something, whoever he is. I loved this film it had a lot of things the book had, except some were missing, and some unimportant things that weren't in the book were added. Perhaps it's because they didn't have the technology for back in those days, so, they are forgiven. But despite those flaws, this is film is great, a decent cast, and I recommend this to all ages, good for the family, and to those loyal fans of the book, and sci-fi fanatics. Thank you Jules Verne, without you, or this story, or it's ideas that inspired a lot, there would be no sci-fi, or interest in science. I just wish you were alive to see this. "},{"Title":"Not state-of-the-art, but still watchable","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  While new movies may have more spectacular special effects, this film captures the feel of the era that Jules Verne was writing about.  The Nautilus looks authentically Victorian as do the diving suits. Disney shied away from the darker feel of the novel, yet retained much of the feeling of adventure and wonder.  Kirk Douglas' character is slightly abrasive, but Peter Lorre is a perfect foil for him.  James Mason is impressive as Nemo, and believable as the brooding genius. The famous squid attack is, by today's standards, a little hokey but, taking into consideration state of special effects at the time, it is acceptable. Kids will enjoy it and those who saw it in the theater when it was new will enjoy it as well. "}{"Title":"classic live action Disney","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" It's 1868. Ships are being lost and rumors of a sea monster spread. Professor Pierre M. Aronnax (Paul Lukas) and his assistant Conseil (Peter Lorre) are heading to the orients. They along with whaler Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) join an expedition which is destroyed by the armored submarine the Nautilus. They escape on a lifeboat which is picked up by Captain Nemo (James Mason). Nemo takes in Aronnax and his companions showing them new worlds and the powers of the universe. He continues his rampage as he reveals his reasons.This is a classic live action Disney film. The Nautilus is ahead of its times and also has cool looking old-fashion style. It's got great actors. James Mason is brilliant and so are the rest of the leads. It has taken the classic Jules Verne novel and given it real life. The giant squid is terrific. It is great old fashion adventure. Where else are you going to see Kirk Douglas singing to his sidekick seal? "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There are films that not only stand the test of time but become icons in their own right. They are films that define a genre, sometimes without meaning to. This 1954 Disney film of Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea is one such film. It is so thanks to an unlikely combination that has managed to help it pass the test of time beautifully despite the passing of more than sixty years since its original release.One of the biggest factors lies in its casting, especially of Captain Nemo. James Mason had already established his career in films like Odd Man out and The Desert Fox but it was with the role of Nemo that he earned cinematic immortality. Mason's Nemo is an incredible character a man who is equal parts genius and haunted by a past that hinted at but never quite revealed. There's a maverick nature to Mason in the role and he plays all of these elements beautifully. Yet there's a softer, more human side to his performance where he's almost a poet laureate of the deep, such as in a scene about half-way through the film where Nemo explains why he won't share his technology. It's a wonderful performance and a measured one that rises above the potential clichés of the genre.The rest of the cast is solid, if not always up to Mason's level. There's Kirk Douglas as harpooner Ned Land in a performance that varies from comic foil to action hero, a combination that's unlikely but that works for the most part though the comic elements stand up well for a film made six decades ago. Paul Lukas as Professor Aronnax and Peter Lorre as Conseil round off the four main characters and both do decently though it's perhaps Lorre, cast against type as an academic rather than as a villain, who comes across the better of the two. With the addition of the crew of the submarine Nautilus who have a few lines here and there, it's a solid cast all around.What stands out more than even Mason's Nemo is the production design. Decades before the steampunk genre had been founded, this film established much of the feel of that genre with its design of the Nautilus both inside and out. While Verne described something that was quite akin to the modern submarine, the production design of Harper Goff came up with something that was far more cinematic that combined Victorian style with more futuristic technology. Combined with some excellent costume design for the Nautilus crew, especially the diving suits, it's something that gives the film not only one of its biggest strengths but also perhaps its most iconic element.Outside of these elements, there's plenty of other things to recommend the film for. There's the Oscar winning special effects that bring Goff's visions to life for example. Using a combination of old-school techniques including some incredibly effective model shots, the film beautifully brings to life some great moments and visuals. The effects are perfect though as can be seen in some of the back projection shots used to illustrate what characters are looking at are a bit dodgy at times. Those instances are rare and, on the whole, the effects stand up very well for a film of this age.Then there's the combination of the script by Elmer Fenton and the direction of Richard Fleischer. Anyone who has ever read the original novel will know that, by virtue of it having been written as a serial originally, it's quite episodic with little in terms of an actual plot. Fenton's script manages to bring many of the incidents from Verne's tale together while also adding new elements here and there as well as changing the occasional piece of detail such as Nemo's hinted background. With this in hand, Fleischer's direction helps to keep the film moving throughout while also adding an occasionally campy tone that sometimes works and sometimes doesn't.Elsewhere, the film shows some strong production values that illustrate some of the finest big-budget Hollywood work of the era. The cinematography for the film is fantastic throughout, highlighted perhaps by the sequences inside the Nautilus which are a sight to behold. There's also the excellently filmed underwater sequences which expertly mix together shots with doubles and inserts with the actors to bring sequences to life. The film's score by Paul Smith, while definitely a product of the era with a sound that only classic Hollywood could produce, serves the film well throughout, creating a strong sense of atmosphere from the early scenes aboard the US Navy warship the Abraham Lincoln to the underwater sequences which portray both the extreme beauty and the mystery of the deep.Nowhere though does this all of these elements come together better than in the film's signature sequence the fight with the giant squid. Combining performances from the actors, effects ranging from model shots to a full sized attacking squid as well as practical rain and lightning, excellent cinematography and the music of Paul Smith, the results were gripping for audiences both then and now as man battles beast with not only their lives at stake but the fate of the Nautilus as well. It's something that gives the film it's best sequence as well as presenting one of the most incredible action sequences ever produced for the screen.The term classic can be thrown around quite easily but there's little doubt that it can be applied here. From Mason's Nemo to iconic production design that continues to influence the steampunk genre, it's a film that has become iconic in ways that Disney and his filmmakers could never have imagined. As well as remaining one of the best adaptations of a classic into a film, it also remains as watchable today as it was then. If that doesn't make this a classic, I'm not sure what does. "},{"Title":"My favourite Disney Movie - perfect adaptation of a fantastic book.","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The director of this film, Richard Fleischer, delivers a film in true Disney spirit that even a huge fan of the waves like myself falls in love with. There is humour in this adventure and this shows with the dialogues and screenplay. Captain Nemo has a grudge against everything. I think he actually has a grudge against mother earth herself. I think Nemo considers himself ruler of the ocean and through his machine Nautilus he is able to put his belief into reality with such power. James Mason is outstanding in his part of Captain Nemo, Kirk Douglas plays a fantastic part of Ned Land, he has such a gift to make his character likable and funny at the same time. Paul Lukas and Peter Lorre also magnificent.Even though this film is 60 years old it can still hold its own! Watch it you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but too Disneyfied","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" By far the most popular version of the Jules Verne novel, this well-remembered Disney classic is a giant of the genre a science fiction adventure yarn that helped set the trend for similar kiddie flicks that followed (THE 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD, JOURNEY TO THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH). However, I have to say that I was slightly disappointed when watching it. It was less entertaining a film than I had expected, which perhaps is down to an overlong running time and a slightly sanitised, Disney-esque feel to the proceedings, which never dwell on the less than savoury aspects of the adventure. Instead the film focuses on admittedly cute performing creatures &#x96; Esmerelda is a hoot &#x96; and the death and destruction inherent in the story (for example the loss of the main ship's crew) is glossed over as too dark.Still, at its best, this is influential, exciting stuff. The well-remembered giant squid attack towards the climax utilises an excellent full-size model and would be rehashed by countless films made afterwards. The undersea ship Nautilus is a wonderful creation, and James Mason delivers a memorable turn as the manic, obsessed Captain Nemo, at war with humanity. Kirk Douglas excels as the macho hero, especially in his (too few) two-fisted action sequences, and you can't get much better than Peter Lorre as a kooky supporting performer, bringing much warmth and humour to the production.So I enjoyed this movie superficially, but I left wanting more. Few sequences equal the squid attack or the explosive climax, and too much time is spent on repetition &#x96; attack, capture, escape, repeated again and again. The bit where Douglas is on the run from a tribe of island cannibals hasn't dated too well, even if it continues to inspire films to this day, like INDIANA JONES or that PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN sequel. It's a fun outing, but nowhere near the level of my two favourites the genre has to offer James Mason starred again in JOURNEY TO THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH, while my all-time great is the low budget '70s outing, THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT! "},{"Title":"A Product of its Time, But a Good One","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Disney's take on 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Natural historian Prof. Pierre Arronax (Paul Lukas), his assistant Conseil (Peter Lorre) and harpooner Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) set out on a government funded ship, in search of a rumored sea monster. The three of them get separated from the ship and stumble across the supposed monster, which is in fact a highly advanced submarine called Nautilus. It is led by the enigmatic Captain Nemo (James Mason). He and his devoted crew have shunned civilization and adopted to the aquatic way of life. The visitors are not allowed to go back as Nemo does not want his secret to get out. Prof. Arronax has no objection as he is deeply fascinated by the underwater world and wants to study it. But as Captain Nemo starts showing his brutal side, Land is desperate to escape.This movie is dated, be it its political incorrectness, the science depicted in it, Prof. Arronax's method of study, or its special effects. A sautéed unborn octopus would be an environmentalist's nightmare today, yet it was a delicacy in its time. Similarly, no present-day natural historian would want to kill a rare species and place it in a natural history museum, but that is exactly what Prof, Arronax intended to do with the sea monster. It also depicts American natives as cannibals. The Nautilus defends itself by passing electric current over its surface when we now know that electricity and water should not be mixed. Disney made quite a few changes to the original material and ironically, the novel, written more than eighty years before the movie came out, has aged better.However, the movie has its own charm. Its heart is in the right place. We find yourselves smiling at its quirks as they remind us of the time when it was made. Kirk Douglas is the life of the movie; he is winningly riotous, effervescent and his energy pervades the entire movie. Another highlight of the movie is Captain Nemo and Prof. Annorax's stately friendship.Good to watch once. "},{"Title":"A mighty adventure based on Jules Verne's novel","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie tells about three men that have to travel against their own will in Captain Nemo's submarine called Nautilus.20000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954) is directed by Richard Fleischer.It's based on Jules Verne's novel from 1870, which I read last week.There are some differences between the book and the movie, like Esmeralda the seal, that wasn't in the book.This was the first science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney Productions.And it was also the only science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney himself.As it was the first feature length Disney movie to be distributed by Buena Vista Distribution.There is a terrific cast inside the submarine.Kirk Douglas is really something as the harpoonist Ned Land.An outstanding performance by James Mason in the role of Captain Nemo.Paul Lukas as Prof. Pierre Aronnax and Peter Lorre as his assistant Conseil are excellent.The movie has many incredible scenes, like the battle against the giant squids.The duet between Kirk Douglas and the seal is a riot.This is an adventure you don't want to miss. "},{"Title":"A spectacular release of a spectacular movie","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The movie is a classic and is the penultimate version especially with James Mason as Nemo and in spite of it's hokey parts. But what amazed me most it the video quality. The DVD version is thankfully not modified to fit your (lo fi) screen. Nor is it 1.37  1 as IMDb states. Instead the aspect ratio is 2.551 which is probably equivalent to Cinemascope. Viewed on your wide screen HDTV the width will have severe letter-boxing! I chose to use some zoom to get almost 16x9 sizing. And although this is not a blue ray disk, using a blue ray player the picture quality compared favorably with HD movies. The vivid color and sharpness make watching it after seeing the VHS tape is like seeing a whole new movie. "},{"Title":"Splendid adventure, with great depth (in more ways than one)","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This was Disney's first big budget live action screen movie, and it is one of the best action adventure movies ever made - it still stands up well to scrutiny nearly 60 years later.With a big budget, a great cast (headed by Kirk Douglas and James mason, both well cast as protagonists with diametrically opposed viewpoints), and the innovative might of the Disney studios applied towards putting spectacular visuals on screen, the only thing to worry about was the script. And Disney didn't slip up there. Earl Felton's adaptation of Jules Verne's novel takes some liberties, but retains the moral heart of the book, and uses the Nemo/Ned Land antagonism (through the medium of Paul Lukas' sounding board Arronax) to discuss, without judgement, the opposing viewpoints.The performances are all great, and the visuals are simply astonishing, especially for 1954 - credit must go to director Richard Fleischer, and one of my favourite aspects of this movie is the way Disney hiring Fleischer as being the best man for the job healed the rift between him and Max Fleischer, Richard's father - and the man behind the Fleischer (Popeye and Superman cartoons) animation studios - with whom there had been a feud since the studios first became competitors.If you are watching for the first time, watch out for an apparent mismatch between the Nautilus and the bubbles/wake it produces. The anamorphic lenses used for this very early Cinemascope film squeezed the picture down onto a normal 35mm frame i.e. the picture looked tall and thin in the film frame until it was unqueezed to normal proportions by the reverse lens on the projector (hence the word anamorphic, meaning without shape). These lenses required a great deal of light, and this was difficult to provide underwater. The solution adopted was to film as much as possible with normal lenses, and to use a specially constructed squeezed Nautilus and underwater set which the projector lens would then unsqueeze. This works perfectly, except for the bubbles/wake, which give the whole game away! "},{"Title":"Stonking Adventure In The Traditional Style","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Verne, like Wells, was such an original story writer that even if a movie strays from his plot it is almost certain to come up trumps.Here is the ultimate sailor's nightmare, a sea-monster that cannot be killed. In truth, it is the 'Nautilus', an outrageously advanced steel submarine tricked-up to look like a monster. In an age of wooden shipping, its serrated back is no match for any other vessel.Nemo is its commander. He is a strange cocktail of tragedy and cruelty who we can at times empathise with as well as despise. He has abandoned the familiar terrestrial world and cast off the accepted humanitarian view of civilisation. He lives in the sea and from the sea and has become a kind one-man crusade. The first eco-warrior. James Mason plays the part with conviction and panache. Although his personal life may not have been as flamboyant as Richard Burton's and therefor he was less frequently a public figure, I still believe he was a man of equal charisma. Like Burton, he had an extraordinary voice and accent, and it is hard to imagine where a Yorkshire lad from Huddersfeild found it.Pitted against him is an accidental captive played by Kirk Douglas. He is also playing to type as someone slightly unhinged. He has a recklessly adventurous streak that could make him a hero or a villain just as easily. It's a similar role to that of Doc Holliday in 'Gunfight At The OK Corral', or Paul Eddington, the suicidal courageous rapist of 'In Harm's Way'.Their relationship is inevitably fraught.Peter Lorre does what he has always done, a propitiatory figure with big, beseeching eyes. He missed out on the Tolkein trilogy.The movie charts Nemo on his determined but doomed career. The world is slowly closing in on him. Plot is well-paced and directed, with some believable action sequences. Most of the special-effects pass muster even today - not bad for a work that's even older than 'Forbidden Planet'. The script is often extremely intelligent, far moreso than most modern science-fiction efforts (check-out 'The Core'), with Mason turning in his usual fascinating performance. Again, unlike most modern adventures of this type, a great deal of the interest derives from the complexity of its characters and the interplay and sparring between them. We are drawn into their lives so completely that Nemo's death seems no less tragic for his being the anti-hero.There's a lot more going on in this movie other than squids and squabbles; it deserves to be watched and rewards being listened to carefully.Highly recommended for all the family, despite its age. "},{"Title":"still thrilling after all these years","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In the late 1800's a US expedition sets out to sea with the intention of finding a vicious whale. The late great James Mason is simply superb as Captain Nemo and is a standout in a movie that is already well-acted all round. More then half a century later, the film is still thrilling, still a joy to behold, and still ranks among the very best that Disney ever made. The DVD makes the film look as pristine and beautiful as it no doubt did when it was first released.My Grade A 2-Disc Special Edition DVD Extras Disc 1) commentary with Director Richard Fleischer and Historian Rudy Behlmer; Grand Canyonscope cartoon short; and Trailers for The Lion King SE, Pirates of the Caribbean, Finding Nemo, X-Men The Legend of the Wolverine, Atlantis Milo's Return, Stitch The Movie, & George of the Jungle 2Disc 2) An 88 Minute Making of; 16 minute Jules Verne and Walt Disney Explorers of the Imagination featurette; The Humboldt Squid A Real Sea Monster featurette; Production Gallery; The Musical Legacy of Paul Smith; Touring the Nautilus; Storyboard-to-Scene Comparison; Monsters of the Deep; Movie Merchandise; Unused animation; Trims; 6 photo galleries; 3 Audio archives; Deleted Sunset Squid Sequence; 1954 Disney Studio Album; and Theatrical Trailer "}{"Title":"Typical Hollywood gutting of a classic","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Yes, I gave this movie 7 out of 10, but it's also a tragedy that so many people have to watch this and not read the original. Like most if not all Hollywood adaptions of classics, especially those from the Victorian-WWII era when political awareness was perhaps highest among literature readers, Disney took out much of the subtleties in the novel. Whereas Captain Nemo was a complex persona, in the movie he was portrayed very unflatteringly to the extreme in many cases. He had to be made the villain, willing (in all its meaning) to sacrifice the lives of his seamen in his own burial. Also, God had to be inserted as well, as if without God morality cannot exist on its own. Perhaps that's the real, unintended message. "},{"Title":"Underwater-extravaganza","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Classic adventure-movie based on the immortal novel by Jules Verne. Amazing special effects, considering that this is 1954! The film is extremely well made with impressive set-designs and a sparkling cast that convinces all over. Kirk Douglas is somewhat out of place as constantly playing and singing Ned Land, not at all the strong and willfully man that we are presented for in the book. Paul Lukas is somewhat stiff, but James Mason owns the film as Nemo. One of his best performances ever he practically steals every scene he appears in and provides the movies backbone. And then there is Peter Lorre who off course provides the laughs. A movie for the entire family! "},{"Title":"A new look at an old favorite","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen led me to read Verne's novel for the first time, and to watch the Disney classic again.  The Disney film is strictly an action movie (with some humor and character development), and only hints at Nemo's collection of undersea specimens. (After all, dead specimens don't move unless someone is swallowing them!) I like the way it tells more of Nemo's history, which the novel only hints about.Does anyone know - did Kirk Douglas actually sing? The Trivia tells us that he did learn to play the song on the guitar!I would like to see Disney update this movie, with the original cast, but dubbing in better underwater photography and a more realistic squid! "},{"Title":"Good film, but was expecting more.","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEAI was disappointed with this movie. I did like it, but it was not what I was expecting at all.The movie starts with a town being scared to go out in their boats due to a sea monster that is terrorising the area by destroying ships and sinking them. When a group of sailors go out there looking for the monster they find exactly what they are looking for. The only thing is the monster they have found is not a monster, it is a submarine that is attacking and blowing up ships. 3 people enter the submarine when they find it and get held against their will by the captain as the sub goes on terrorising everyone.The book for this story is a classic novel, but I have never read it. I didn't know much else about this film apart from there was a giant squid in it somewhere. That is the main thing this movie is famous for. So going on that, I was expecting a great fantasy movie full of underwater wonder. Instead I got a submarine prison movie. It is a good story and the movie is good, but the squid just seems little out of place as the rest of the film is just an adventure film and not really fantasy.The effects are not great, but then the film was made in 1954. For it's time the effects are very impressive. The giant squid even looks good. I really like the submarine they used. The design of it looks spooky and goes along very well with everyone thinking it is some kind of monster.The movie is made by Disney so as you can imagine, it has that classic Disney feel to it. You can tell this film is Disney and that is a good thing. I am a Disney fan and love most of their films, but this is nowhere near their best.Kirk Douglas takes the lead as Ned Land. A sailor that goes on the hunt for the dreaded monster. Kirk does a great job and his character is very likable. I can see when he was so popular back in his heyday. James Mason for me is the star of the movie. James plays Captain Nemo, the captain and leader of the mischievous submarine. James plays the character so straight laced and so calm as if he was an evil mastermind. His character made this movie and I think James deserved a lot of praise for this film. Other cast members were Paul Lukas & Peter Lorre. All in all the acting was above par, especially for a classic movie like this where generally there is a lot of over acting. Yes there were a few scenes where the acting was over the top, but not to the extent where it was too much.The film is a lot of fun to watch on a rainy, cold Sunday afternoon but I would not really watch it with the kids. I can imagine them getting pretty bored quickly through it.I will give this film 6 out of 10.The natives over there are cannibals. They eat liars with the same enthusiasm as they eat honest men.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"One Fifties Sci-Fi Movie That Has Stood the Test of Time","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Jules Verne's novel 20,000 Leagues under the Sea is set aboard an ocean-going submarine, something which did not exist when he wrote it in 1870, so it can be regarded as an early example of science fiction. (Verne had a record of making predictions which later came true; he also, for example, foresaw a journey from the Earth to the Moon). This film can be seen as an early example of the genre now called steampunk, that sub-genre of science-fiction which delights in 19th century technology, real or invented. The story tells of the adventures of Captain Nemo, the commander and designer of the submarine Nautilus. Nemo's name, derived from the Latin for no man, is an appropriate one, because he is a strange, mysterious figure. He is a brilliant inventor and engineer, but serves no government and no country, preferring to sail the seas with a crew who owe loyalty only to him. He is, at one and the same time, a humanitarian and a misanthropist, hating tyranny but regarding most men as unworthy of freedom. He claims to hate war, but his greatest passion is a desire for revenge on an unnamed hated nation whose government were responsible for the deaths of his wife and son and for his own imprisonment in a penal colony. The other main characters in the film are Professor Pierre Aronnax, a French scientist, his assistant Conseil and a sailor named Ned Land. These three are the only survivors of a shipwreck and have been reluctantly rescued by Nemo who sank their vessel after it fired on the Nautilus, believing it to be a sea monster. Much of the dramatic tension in the film arises from the contrasting personalities of Nemo and his captives. Aronnax, a gentlemanly intellectual, initially believes Nemo to be mad, but later comes to sympathise, at least partially, with his world-view. The cocky and more plebeian Land distrusts both Aronnax and Nemo and spends most of his time formulating plans of escape. 20,000 Leagues under the Sea is therefore unusually character-driven for a science fiction film, so it is hardly surprising that four major stars, James Mason, Kirk Douglas, Paul Lukas and Peter Lorre were cast in the leading roles. (Interestingly, none of these men were of the same nationality as their characters. The Englishman Mason plays Nemo, whom Verne originally envisaged as Polish but later described as Indian. The American Douglas plays Land, who was originally Canadian. The Frenchmen Aronnax and Conseil are played by Lukas and Lorre, both Hungarian by birth). All four are good, but Mason is especially good as the tormented Nemo, a man who appears to be at war with the rest of humanity but who is really at war with himself, torn between his desire for revenge and his better nature which tells him that revenge is a futile pursuit. The film was directed by Richard Fleischer, a versatile director who seemed able to work in virtually any genre, including film noir (The Armoured Car Robbery), true crime (Ten Rillington Place, The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing), the historical epic (The Vikings), and sword- and-sorcery fantasy (Conan the Destroyer, Red Sonja). He also made a number of science-fiction films, including this one, Fantastic Voyage (which also involves a submarine) and Soylent Green. Fifties sci-fi has a rather unenviable reputation; many films in the genre from this decade were made on a low budget, with clichéd scripts and low-quality special effects; some examples, such as the notorious Plan 9 from Outer Space are frequently to be found on lists of the worst films ever made. There were, however, some very good science fiction films from the period, such as Forbidden Planet, with a plot based on Shakespeare's The Tempest, or the 1953 version of The War of the Worlds, and 20,000 Leagues under the Sea is another in the same category. Not only does it have a humane and intelligent script and some first-rate acting performances, the special effects- so often sci-fi's Achilles heel- are actually rather good, especially during the scene where the Nautilus  is attacked by a giant squid. The vessel itself looks realistic enough to be convincing, while different enough from a modern submarine to make us realised that we are watching a Victorian fantasy. This is one science fiction film that has stood the test of time. 8/10 "},{"Title":"best Disney movie","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" my favorite Disney movie. Love it and i wish that Disney would make more Disney movies like 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Great movie what I love about the movie is that it's live action and animation that Walt Disney was the producer of the movie. I still watch the movie even though I am in my 20's. Great and Clean Disney movie. Love the cast including Peter Lorree, James Mason, Kirk Douglas, and Paul Lukas. Best Disney movie and appropriate for all ages and family. The movie is one of my favorite Disney movies ever made. I love it that Richard Fleschier who directed Dr. Doolittle did the perfect job directing the movie. "},{"Title":"A classic among classic adventure tales","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" By 1954, Disney already had a name for itself with producing quality entertainment. So it shouldn't shock many (now) that Walt Disney decided to take on this project and adapt Jules Verne's story to the big screen. But here's the game changer, the cast has big name actors, the special effects are fantastic, the props are spectacular and the screenplay was well revised.The story takes place in the late 1800's where a Professor Aronnax (Paul Lukas) and his assistant Conseil (Peter Lorre) are put their knowledge and well being to the test when they are given the opportunity of a life time. Recently, there have been sightings of a sea monster attacking vessels out on the open sea. The offer, is to sail with the US navy to track down the monster and destroy it. At first the professor and his assistant were curious, but soon audiences will watch them grow and understand that the answers they were hoping for, were not even close to what they thought they could be.Aboard this ship is Ned Land (Kirk Douglas), a master harpooner who seems to have an attitude with authority but in the most lighthearted and high-spirited way. But another character that is one of the most intriguing and hard to figure out characters is Captain Nemo, brilliantly played by James Mason. The way Mason portrays his character makes it so hard to read. Mason acts with a controlled yet ferocious hatred, but it never seems like that. In fact, he may seem a little mad (crazy), but he will always use a sophisticated vocabulary.Also, for 1954 the special effects and props were so convincing. Wait until you see that giant squid! Absolutely phenomenal! And because the film is in wide screen, it looks even better. The sets either on the ships, in the water beside the choral reefs or on an island looks great. The music provided by Paul L. Smith was much welcomed too. Since Smith has worked with Disney before on various other projects like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937), his score emits all the right feelings for each scene.The reason why I titled this as the classic among classic adventure tales because that's what it is. This is the purest of the pure in what this genre is. Setting out on a journey with no idea of what the end result may be is exactly what an adventure is. I mean, what else could you ask for? Sailing out to sea to find a monster sounds exciting and scary at the same time, plus you have cannons, island natives, underwater treasure and so on. There's just so many things to explore!Because of the top-notch acting, amazing set pieces, adventurous music and spectacular special effects, this is by far Disney's most famous live-action piece from the 1950s. "},{"Title":"Classic Disney Adventure","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A vessel and crew is enlisted to try and find a mysterious monster said to be the cause behind a series of seafaring disasters.Nicely executed Disney classic with an all star cast including Kirk Douglas, Peter Lorre, James Mason and Paul Lukas. The battle with the giant squid definitely steals the show here and really nothing else in the film again ever truly lives up to that excitement. Overall it does seem a tad overlong and a little too Disney cutesy, especially the pet seal Esmay, but there's still far more good than bad here. Good adventure fare with a truly terrific performance from James Mason as Captain Nemo. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Top rate adventure-fantasy from the Jules Verne classic.Something is sinking ships around the world. Is it a monster? French scientist Arounax and his assistant Counseil are invited by the US navy to hunt the beast. Also along is master harpooner Ned Land who is determined to kill it to make the sea-lanes safe again. Excellent screen adaptation of the classic follows the pattern of the book fairly close, but adds a new element of the Nautilus coming home to the port of Vulcania to put in for some repairs.. Cast is first rate with Mason the standout as Nemo. No good acting in Sci-fi films? Just look at his expression and his eyes as he prepares to destroy another ship. Lukas and Lorre are also good as the scientist and his assistant, and Douglas has one of is better roles as the cocky, self assured harpooner. The Nautilus-an organic fish like submarine deviates somewhat from Verne's description but it is triumph of design. The rivited steel plates and the evil looking lighting give it a contemporary 'steampunk' look that still looks great after almost 50 years. The special effects are also of a superior nature that make the viewer believe he is actually there. I remember seeing this film in the early 60s when it was re-released and the impression it made on me has stayed with me over the years. This film-along with the equally brilliant Fabulous World of Jules Verne are the only ones that come close to bring Verne's vision to the screen in a way that actually manages to capture the essence of these novels. Not to be missed, great fantastic fun for all. Director Fleisher's serious grip on the material makes this a winner- on every level. "},{"Title":"Good Once You Get Past The First 30 Minutes","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I agree with another poster here - planktonrules - when he states this film has problems (for example Kirk's singing) and I am also in the same boat as plankton in that I did not see this film in the decade it was released. I first saw it in the 1970s when daily re-runs of Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea were filling my childish mind with views on how a submarine series/movie should be produced To put in another way, I wanted Richard Basehart in a submarine filled with christmas tree blinking light control panels or the show did not cut it! Also, an epic film like 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea demands an epic music score of the type heard in the semi-follow up - Mysterious Island (1961). However, in 1954, someone like Bernard Herrmann was probably too busy with 20th Century Fox or Hitchcock? So maybe they could not get him? I don't like the chosen score for 20,000 Leagues.As well as a mighty score, Mysterious Island also began with a mighty first few minutes in a hot air balloon. 20,000 is once again on the other side of the coin...the first 30 minutes of Leagues (one quarter of the film!) would rank as boring to terrible! All that early talk about the monster, Kirk behaving like a fool, Kirk singing, a boring tour of the sometimes ugly Nautilus (but the window is cool), then finally Captain Nemo (James Mason) takes his helmet off and starts talking. This is the true start of the film. If watching on DVD I would even consider picture searching the flick until you get to the 30th minute where Nemo starts talking.From the 30th minute, this is a rather nice film that proudly holds a place in my DVD collection. Kirk becomes less painful once he has James Mason to bitch about. However, I still struggle to think of a single character I like in this film. But the movie has an interesting story to tell, so we don't really need cool characters to hold the film together.Special features on the DVD include the sunset squid attack. This is footage of the squid attack that was rejected for probably seeming too B-Grade! However, despite the very obvious wires that hold up the monster, despite the very obvious mark on the painted sunset in the background, this rejected footage is rather cool. The upgraded footage of the attack seen in the final cut was so swamped with heavy seas and big waves that it actually stole from the squid image. Also, the dark lighting in the final cut is less pleasing than the sunset image.Added note Please read my IMDb review for Irwin Allen's The Return Of Captain Nemo (1978). "}{"Title":"Still worth the plunge, but could use an update","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Olden adventurer still retains some classic appeal through it's underwater exploratory allure, but does appear to be in need of the obligatory big budget remake. Too many aspects of author Jules Verne's timeless novel have become bogged down in the 1950's Disney direction, thereby making this version ideal only for sentimental buffs wishing to revisit the once mighty production. Others seeing 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea for the first time may have a difficult time adjusting to some of the more dated aspects.Punctured by the over-expressive score and some cheese-ball delivery, eventual steam this probing tale escalates into is usually offset by technical limitations. The action scenes feel hopelessly inept, though the philosophical crux of the film remains as vibrant as ever.While Kirk Douglas's goofy performance has not stood the test of time, thankfully one of science fiction's most enduring and romantic characters has been translated with some decency. James Mason's enduring take as the eccentric genius Captain Nemo continues to keep the film credible. Although much feels pretty rote by now, Nemo's brief but important conversations with the professor will continue to resonate, exemplified by the repeated, profoundly relevant final words of the film. "},{"Title":"Exciting for everyone!!!!!","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 20000 Leagues Under The Sea, the 1954 classic Disney film, presented in widescreen, is based on the Jules Verne book with the same name (be sure to read Around the World in Eighty Days if you haven't already!!!!!). This movie has characters like Captain Nemo, and it has the great big submarine The Nautilus, and as the title suggests, the crew goes very, very deep into the dark, blue ocean.I've seen this movie several times; last time I've seen it, we rented an old VHS of it (now phased out in favor of a bigger and better DVD!) and it was cool.What I liked about this movie It's fun! And it's exciting!20000 Leagues Under The Sea - start your adventure tonight!10 stars, indeed! "},{"Title":"1954?","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I somehow never saw this movie until just recently. I agree that it does stray from the book quite a bit, but much of the message is still there. I was VERY impressed by the special effects, considering the fact that it was made in 1954. Yes there are some, well, many, scenes that are obviously fake, but not to the point where it's unbelievable. If you let yourself climb into the movie, you don't notice the fakeness. "},{"Title":"James Mason carries the film","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Although the Disney version distorts this movie from following the book (as Disney always does) this movie is worth a peek. For the year, the effects are pretty darn good and the acting superb. I'm not a fan of Kirk Douglas (although he carried Spartacus) who seems to throw the film off a little to me with his attitude. The biggest joy is watching James Mason. Salt and pepper beard and those piercing eyes make him believable as the mad Captain Nemo. The cinematography is great in my opinion as well. Whether you're a fan of Disney, Jules Verne, Douglas, Peter Lorre (who I've always liked =) ), or James the man himself, you will like this movie. It's entertaining. I gave this movie a vote of 10 for keeping my interest and plus James Mason is my favourite actor.  "},{"Title":"liked it when I was a kid","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Well I know 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea won't get mentioned in the same breath as Douglas in Spartacus or Paths of Glory or Mason's turn in Lolita, but this was one of those movies I must have bugged my parents and my uncle into renting a good seven or eight times.  It has this cool Wild, Wild West sort of aesthetic I've never forgotten.  It's heads and shoulders above ninety percent of the adventure movies they make now, and it's pretty appropriate for kids.   "},{"Title":"THE BIG SEA MOVIE of the 1950s. GRADE A","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Walt Disney's biggest sea film is this wonderful adventure based on Jules Verne's famous novel. The acting, screenplay, direction, sound, and special effects are all superb. James Mason's Captain Nemo is the BEST version in cinema. The sets and costumes are all realistic and impressive. The squid battle sequence is wonderfully done even by 1950's standards and no computer graphics!! Although the movie does not adhere to the novel, it still is entertaining to watch. A PERFECT film for families of all ages. It is even better in letterbox format.OVERALL GRADE A   "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have seen this movie about at least 20 times and though not totally faithful to the book it was a great movie with special effects that were astonishing for the era with no computers.I recommend this movie to anyone who is imaginative and likes adventures and likes to dream.Rojan "},{"Title":"Rickover's Yellow Submarine","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This doesn't have the power it once had. Forbidden Planet still does in comparison. The reason for me is several-fold. One is that they decided to invest too much in Lorre and Douglas, and it just doesn't work. Maybe it never did and we overlooked that for the other pleasures.They were two. One was the intriguing story of a genius inventor turned antiwar ecoterrorist. It was such an odd, noble and attractive idea in its time, but now it is even isn't notable.The big swell of interest for this was something that I think is shared by no other sci-fi film, except perhaps those early Soviet-block space movies. When this film came out, featuring and atomic submarine, the US Navy launched the first of it nuclear subs, also named Nautilus. This was still in the era that advanced technology was associated with large powerful objects, instead of tiny things that did invisible tasks.The toy tie-in was in plastic models. You could buy a model kit of each submarine and assemble them. The Navy sub had removable panels so you could actually see the reactors, imagining the blinding light shown in the movie. Those days were brief, where the science tie-in wasn't in the characters and their dolls but in something related to the invisible forces of nature, somewhat magical. You could play with this model, emulating the three foes of the movie stupid authority, equally stupid primitives (obviously the non-technically interested) and natural creatures standing in for nature. (This latter with the knowledge that in the film the submarine was seen as a monstrous animal.)It was the children of this time, the audience of this movie, that put Jimmy Carter in the White House, in some part based on his association with the Nemo character. And though the credit can easily be shared, he was the one who started the clock on the end of the Soviet Empire.All that is gone now, the noble spirit and the notion of technology in objects that can enclose and support humans. It lived on for ever so long in Star Trek, which borrows heavily from this. But even that simple stroke is gone too.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood improvement","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" For me---having read the book in the new edition from the Naval Press, edited by Frederick Walter and Walter Miller---I can only state that this movie is almost a travesty of Jules Verne's visionary novel. It has never ceased to amaze me and puzzle me that Hollywood never seems to be able to leave well enough alone with important books and stories made into movies, but they have to change virtually everything the author has so carefully written. Do the producers and writers presume to improve upon the great authors? Do they feel that the original is too boring or too out of date for modern audiences? There are precious few books that have emerged from Hollywood unscathed, and this is certainly not one of them. "},{"Title":"The singing seal delivers the most entertaining performance","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Buena Vista wisely opens the movie by showing the cover of 19th century edition of Jules Verne's work, and then opening to the first page. This solves the problem of explaining to the audience that this is a story set long ago about a once-futuristic submarine. The problem for contemporary audiences is that the movie is six decades old, so it is an old movie about an old story about what was once a vision of the future that is now a bit frayed. I am sympathetic to the concept, given that as a child I loved to read old books like this, as a sort of time travel into the past. And I saw this movie in a theater as a boy, though not in its first run, perhaps around the age of 8. I enjoyed it because it is a fantasy trip into imagining being aboard an ancient submarine traveling the distant oceans and down into the deep. How can a young boy resist? Children can enter into the fantasy of a movie like this. But as an adult, it didn't work, partly because I had seen it, but mainly because I'm an adult, and it takes more than a movie with mediocre acting to engross me in the experience. It took me several tries to make it through the movie this time, because every time I put it on, I looked at the acting and said, Eewwww!Many movies in the 1950s had really shallow acting, perhaps because studios found that a segment of the public actually preferred it. Here I assume, given that it is Disney, the acting is geared to children, so it is shallower still. It is a formula that worked at the time. Disney seems to have discovered this formula of simplistic, over-baked acting, and we still see it in some modern children's movies. I know it worked because I remember how I responded to movies like this as a kid. Kids generally are not looking for Laurence Olivier level acting, and are not analyzing technique. I finally made it through the movie, mainly by trying to view it through the uncritical mind of the 1950s. With the right mindset, James Mason's performance actually looks pretty good, and almost sophisticated next to Kirk Douglass' hyper-enthusiasm. They delivered the right performance for the youthful audience; Douglas was perfectly cast, and his singing was remarkably good. Paul Lukas delivers a performance of what a child might imagine a professor to be. The great Peter Lorre appears to be sleep walking. The best, or at least most entertaining, performance is delivered by Esmeralda, the seal, especially in the musical number with Douglas. What saves the film, at least for someone who has not previously seen it, is the story line. The question is whether it works for modern youth, particularly girls? There are some glowing reviews here, but how old are the reviewers? Frankly, I'm not impressed with Richard Fleischer's directing; a better director would have delivered a film that appeals to both children and their parents. While I am not a fan of heavy handed CGI, this is a movie that could benefit from a remake, as long as they don't try to modernize the story. But perhaps one day, when this movie is old enough, children will see in it what I saw in reading old books a window into the past. Perhaps in 50 years, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea will be old enough to be interesting again. But for me, now it just looks tired. "}{"Title":"We're getting there...","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" After watching the 1916 adaptation and then the 1954 adaptation of Verne's brilliant novel, I am coming to feel that this is a movie that is ripe for a real, high-budget, modern remake. I should note that I would hate to see it cheapened and turned into some goofy nautical clunker like Poseidon, but with the right people this could really be made into a spectacular film. Unfortunately, it could also be a spectacular screw-up, and probably would be. Sadly, with the way movies are these days, I think that the one thing that the movie really needs, special effects, is probably the one thing that would sink it. 21st century Hollywood would wildly overdo the CGI, and we would have a cheesy cartoonish adaptation featuring a cast of teen heartthrobs and veteran movie stars. At any rate, a vast improvement has been made since the 1916 version, obviously, most notably in the portrayal of the Nautilus, which the original film-making team did not have the means to represent. It glows this time, for example, looking like a sea monster when partially submerged (it never looked even remotely organic in the original film), and the interiors are amazing. The simply brilliant description of the power supply of the Nautilus is unfortunately reduced here to the phrase Captain Nemo had discovered the power of the universe, but this is again one of the things that just can't be brought to the screen the way it's described in the novel.One thing that was funny right at the beginning of the movie was when Professor Arrnonax is invited (by the U.S. government, incidentally) to board the Abraham Lincoln for a free ride to America is he'll help search for the sea monster that's causing so much public uproar. The suggestion is made to cut the Pacific into squares and then search each square for the monster.This reminds me of a story from when I was a kid. I went to Disneyland with my brother and my mom, and my mom said, What do we do it we get separated? And I said, That's easy, mom. If we get separated, just divide Disneyland into squares and search each square until you find us! Needless to say, my mom scolded me for being so stupid. (Note none of that ever really happened, but it makes sense). Isn't the Pacific Ocean a little big to search through piece by piece? I happen to know that it won't sit still and submit to a thorough search, not even for the United States government!At any rate, I worried at a couple of points that this was going to be a Disney musical, and the kid-pleasing Disney influence is definitely pretty heavy handed here, such as in the happy-go-lucky sailors singing and dancing together on deck (that old phrase curse like a sailor must be total nonsense!), and Kirk Douglas's famous song (I got a whale of a tale and it's all true, I sweat by my tattoo!). I was also happy to see that the tremendously important character of Conseil (wasn't it spelled Consul in the novel?), who was left completely out of the 1916 version, was included here, played cleverly by Peter Lorre, although I found myself thinking more of Dr. Frankenstein's sidekick Igor than Professor Arronax's astonishingly loyal servant. Incidentally, another thing that was left almost entirely out of the original film is the giant squid, which has come to be the image that the story is most famous for. Odd that it swims backwards, but at least it's there!And Captain Nemo, thankfully, is portrayed skillfully by James Mason, who's filmography doesn't seem to have any end, and who years later would go on to play Professor Humbert in Stanley Kubrick's Lolita. The Nemo in 1916 was so unbelievably bad that it seemed like it was deliberate (you really have to try to get him THAT wrong), so I'm glad some effort was made to be more faithful to the original character. Granted, this is a Disney film, so Verne's broody, vengeful character can't be exactly re-created, but this is a faithful adaptation that doesn't take too many disappointing liberties with Verne's novel. Let's hope there's another one and they don't screw it up! "},{"Title":"The sea supplies all my wants.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This was an Oscar winner for Art Direction and Set Decoration. and for Special Effects. It received and additional nomination for editing. As impressive as that is, it was the characters that really drew me to this film.The great English actor James Mason (The Verdict, Georgy Girl, A Star is Born) was impressive as Captain Nemo, and really gave weight to the great story by Jules Verne and script by Earl Felton.A very young Kirk Douglas (Lust For Life, The Bad and the Beautiful, Champion) was a real riot as a singing seaman who was just after the gold.Paul Lukas (Watch on the Rhine) and Peter Lorre (Casablanca) were also great.Yes, great effects, but some mighty fine acting, too. "},{"Title":"The Undersea World of Jules Verne","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" While I admit the science fiction and special effects don't hold up expertly; still, I found the film enjoyable - and, it was above average, all things considered. There are old films which have no dated special effect look to them - maybe it helps to be in black and white. The squid isn't that bad, and the other stuff is better. Some of the science fiction/fact considerations were more difficult to fathom.James Mason portrays Captain Nemo very well. Kirk Douglas was startling, at first, but easy to get used to - the one who I had the most difficult time with was Peter Lorre; sometimes, he seemed to be looking around for a different movie. Finally, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea scores points for being thought-provoking. I imagine the film was mainly seen by children. I wasn't around when this film came out; but, I hope I would have been stimulated by the characters, especially the contradictory Nemo, as a kid. ******* 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954) Richard Fleischer ~ Kirk Douglas, James Mason, Paul Lukas "},{"Title":"It's just MY opinion","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Hi !This movies is really wonderful. A lot better than the book of Jules Verne.Not only technical is good but actor too and story too. It's rare movies it's better than the book, but in this case it's arrived.A must to see movie !  "},{"Title":"In my top five Disneys...","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of the best. this is a classic, not the popcorn flicks Disney's pumping out now. It stands in my top five of all Disney movies for simple entertainment value. The cast, the story, bringing it all together, was just spectacular. A definite must for collectors. "},{"Title":"Very good adaption of this classic, especially special effects","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie, and except for a few corny routines (the on-deck song and dance) it is a spectacular presentation. Acting is good, esp. captain Nemo (Mason) and Dr. Aronnax (Lukas). What I like most is the character development as played out by James Mason and the special effects, which, for the time, were very good. The combination of good acting, good effects and the sense of awe this picture was made to inspire work to create a first class sci-fi drama. "},{"Title":"A whale of a tale!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  By far the best of the classic Disney live action films, this film has its flaws (the questionable natural history in the portrayal of the giant squid, Kirk Douglas's embarrassingly overwrought performance and the fact that Peter Lorre just isn't given enough to do) but it's still grand entertainment and the sublimest of special effects films. The story of Nemo's tragic quest for world peace is still a gripping one, and if there was ever a villain to lose your heart to it's the gorgeously bearded, mellow-voiced James Mason.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining sci-fi adventure spectacle","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Fans of the Jules Verne original story will shortly realize the film adaptation is greatly compressed and cuts out most of the politics of the story; however, this is still a great sci-fi adventure film classic worth viewing many times. Make sure to view a widescreen video version of this and steer clear of all television broadcasts where the film is edited and incorrectly formatted. This was Walt Disney's first widescreen mega production and it pays off with a great cast, sets, music, and special effects. Most famous sequence is the attack of the giant squid. This must have thrilled movie audiences back in 1954. "},{"Title":"Disney Fantasy Has Thrills.","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As master harpooner Ned Land in 1868, Kirk Douglas overacts outrageously, like a cartoon character, like a figure in the kid's movie that this is. His gestures are out of Italian opera. His inflections rise and fall like a roller coaster and he twists his features into impossibly revealing configurations.There's something in this flick to satisfy most appetites. Douglas, along with Professor Paul Lukas and his bald sidekick Peter Lorre, are taken aboard the Nautilus. It's a submarine like none other, filled with Victorian niceties like plush chairs, deferential servants, and a huge pipe organ.The kids will gawk as they see mariners sludging around on the ocean bottom collecting various animals and plants to be converted into foodstuff. Come to think of it, I'm not so sure that a sea cucumber is really a plant. It may be an impostor. Kind of like an animal that hasn't yet decided to come out of the closet. In any case, the way the Nautilus cook prepares it, it tastes like veal or something. I don't know how they managed to make the coffeemate out of squid cream though. That's really a brain teaser, trying to imagine a milk-producing calamari. Well, I'll let the kids figure it out.The captain of the Nautilus is the stern, dark-bearded James Mason. His wife and children were tortured to death during an armed conflict and he's decided to retreat to the bottom of the sea in his iron-clad invention and live off the land, or rather the ocean. His only mission now is to sink warships. He doesn't like war. Some viewers may find this calling noisome, if they enjoy war.Douglas, Lukas, and Lorre wind up as Mason's prisoners or guests, depending on how you look at it. Douglas, a master harpooner, is eager to get off the device and get ashore where there are women and drinks. Lukas is a scientist and is more interested in Mason's technology and intentions, and the philosophy that lies behind them. Lorre is along mainly for the ride.There are a number of exciting adventures. Among the more notable are the cannibals chasing Douglas along the shores of a New Guinea beach. The colorfully clad and befeathered natives are stereotypes. They don't really speak. They grunt and huff like animals. It's not a mistake to portray them as cannibals though. New Guinea was notorious for anthropophagy until relatively recently. The last time human flesh was being traded as long pig was documented in 1954. Ritual cannibalism still persists but it's not done casually. You eat the brains of your relatives as part of a funeral. Gajdusek won a Nobel Prize by figuring out that that's how the lethal disease kuru was transmitted. So much for New Guinea cannibalism.My fourth-grade teacher was Mrs. Viola De Krupp, one of the more maleficent of the species, but she was right when she warned me about rambling. I've been careful to avoid rambling ever since. I never ramble. In fact I can't understand how some people can go on and on with irrelevant comments, wandering from the point, forgetting what it was, and doing nothing more than free associating in print. I find it self indulgent and disgusting. A filthy habit in its every aspect.Meanwhile, back aboard the Nautilus, a giant squid attacks the boat in the film's best-known scene. Kirk Douglas, master lampooner, to the rescue at the last minute, saving James Mason's life.Did I tell you I've been thinking of insulating the attic in the Bucks County house? But like all sensible people I live in mortal fear of staple guns. I've heard they explode. Okay, it may sound silly to you but, look, why take a chance? That's my motto.I regret to say that there is also a sea lion aboard with human traits. It obeys commands like, Cover yourself up, and Give me your paw, and, Now play the Toccata and Fugue in D Minor on the ship's organ. The beast is revolting and should be turned into foodstuff. Maybe it would taste like pate de foie gras.The character of Ned Land, master cartooner, may be a Jungian sensation type but I'm glad he was along. Some of the dialog between Mason and Lukas gets pretty heavy at times. Seventeen lactiferous ducts open onto each female nipple in humans. Sometimes you can't help wondering why it's not sixteen or eighteen -- just seventeen. "},{"Title":"Slightly sub-standard submarine yarn","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Jules Verne's early sci-fi classic was one of the first books I ever read as an infant, so it was nice after all these years to see a colourful, entertaining, if slightly anachronistic and underpowered, telling of the tale.Captain Nemo in my opinion is certainly one of the more complex and deep (no pun intended) characters in children's fiction and I was very pleased with James Mason's conviction-led performance. He is the black heart at the centre of the movie and he commands that mixture of shock and awe for want of a better expression, sufficient in his bloody-mindedness to amongst other things, imprison and almost drown the three innocent prisoners he reluctantly takes on board, sink without compassion a battleship containing a full crew and finally take his own unswervingly loyal crew with him to their doom as, mortally wounded, he finally gives up on humanity. I have happy memories of another Verne adaptation from the 50's with Mason in the lead, Journey To The Centre Of The Earth and hope to get the chance to see it again soon.Of course, being a Walt Disney production, these darker, more interesting moments are unfortunately jarringly offset by supposed action and comedic sequences. The Nautilus' encounter with a giant squid, which I remember as thrilling in the book is more akin to the 1966 Batman camp classic and the caped crusader's celebrated duel with a rubber shark! The attempts at humour come from Kirk Douglas' Ned Land character. Unfortunately Douglas plays it with more ham than a herd of pigs, only lacking a pipe and tattoos to complete the resemblance to Popeye. He acts like he's in a different film to everyone else and gets to sing, play a guitar and clown around with a pet seal, if you can believe it.I was amazed also to see the great Peter Lorre, again completely miscast, as the studious Professor's assistant. There's a little scene between Douglas & Lorre which reminds me of nothing so much as the This, slap in face exchange between Basil Fawlty & Manuel in Fawlty Towers! Otherwise there's no chemistry between them at all.Well lit, the film's special effects fail to really lift the feature either. The Nautilus scarcely looks big enough in the water to bear its crew and it's really not enough to float some live fish in front of a submerged model in a tank if you're trying to portray realism. The musical soundtrack is pretty hackneyed too.So, then, not quite the film to match up to my cherished childhood recollections of a thrilling book and probably some 20 minutes too long into the bargain. That said it entertained me pleasantly on a Sunday afternoon and back in the 50's must have had at least some of its audience thinking along ecological lines decades before it became de-rigeur to send out green messages in big budget blockbuster features of the present day. "}{"Title":"Still Great Today! Good Show, Mr. Disney! This is the sort of Film that we can truly call Mind Expanding in an innocent and blameless way of speaking!","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" When a true classic tale gets committed to the screen, there is always a great possibility that it won't be the last time. Whereas older literature, such as any Dickens work, for an example are all available to any and all producers, being that they are all in good old Public Domain. Hence, at the Christmas-Hanukkah-New Years Holiday season, we are treated to multiple Scrooges in seemingly countless numbers of versions of A Christmas CAROL.Now, we all have our own favourite version(s), mainly because we all have our own tastes. It is strictly a subjective matter; yet, there are some productions that have come along which seem to capture collective imaginations of whole, huge chunks of the populace, putting them just a trifle ahead of the others. (Which is our favourite? That is another story, Schultz!) Other masterful literary works that fall into the old Public Domain syndrome include the outstanding Science Fiction of Monsieur Jules Verne; which of course was written in the final trimester of the 19th Century. And once again, it is up to us to determine the best by virtue of their popularity in the viewing and rentals markets. (If, indeed, there is some way of measuring these.)As for our subject of today's lecture, class, we have Walt Disney's 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA (Walt Disney Productions/Buena Vista Release, 1954), which was THE picture of 1954. The co-incidence of having the premiere of the DISNEYLAND Television on ABC in the Fall TV Season that year afforded ample opportunity to give us, the home viewers, plenty of 'how it's done' and 'behind the scenes segments concerning this Jules Verne adaptation.It did seem at the time and remains still to this day, a most heavily promoted of Disney's live action movies. With a top Hollywood cast of top leading players, it surely was the biggest Disney film of all time. (Arguably and when you make allowances for inflation and the real buying power of the almighty dollar$.) As with virtually all screen adaptations, there were some variants on the original story, but so what? We can forgive Walt for that, can't we, Mousketeers? After all, no novel can go from print to film intact. Because they are two (2) different media, Schultz! OUR STORY&#133;&#133;During the time of the Civil War in the United States, there is a pattern of attacks on shipping Merchant vessels as well as any flying any Man o' War flags, especially those warships, all along the Atlantic at the Eastern Seaboard of the divided and warring States. The attacks and sinking of these vessels are attributed by eye witness accounts as being done by some 'Sea Serpent' type of monster. The creature has been rendered in drawings by various newspaper cartoonists of the day.On an excursion out to sea, expert Whaling Harpooner Ned Land (Kirk Douglas), Professor Pierre Arronax (Paul Lukas) and his assistant, Conseil (Peter Lorre), are all taken prisoner when their ship was rammed by the hideously huge eyed monster, which of course turned out to be the good ship Nautilus, the iron hulled super-scientific and futuristic Submarine.As Captain Nemo's (James Mason) prisoner, they are subject to his whim, including execution. But they remain his guests, mainly due to the Professor's scientific knowledge and his curiosity in Nemo's technological developments. They remain with the Nautilus as it cruises around the earth for 20,000 leagues.* The 3 make good their escape along with the Nautilus' mascot Seal, when Nemo decides to pull a Jim Jones deal with all of his crew following at his volcanic island.(Oh,yeah I almost forgot to mention. 'Nemo' is Latin for No One!) Among the changes that this Disney film had were having the power of Nemo's Nautilus engine being nuclear (or nucular), whereas in the book it is electrical. All is forgiven, as just electrical would have little fascination for a '50's audience. The second example concerns the substitution, not of an item on the menu, rather of Disney's pinch-hitting for the pack of Octopi (or do you prefer 'Octopuses') which attacks the Nautilus in the book with a solitary Giant Squid. In our book, this was an a-okay maneuver, thumbs up, Walt! As well as being Disney's biggest live action picture, it was also the first to be released and distributed by his own Buena Vista releasing company, ending an approximately 20 year working relationship with RKO Radio Pictures.NOTE * I can well remember of hearing of this title as an 8 year old, sitting in front of our old DuMont 18(?)inch, b&w TV and thinking that the title meant that they would be that far below the surface of the Sea. As a league is about 3 miles, they would have been about 60,000 miles of water over them! Earth would have to be even bigger than Juiter! I know better now, thank you! (20,000 leagues means distance traveled, right, Schultz?) "},{"Title":"Tragedy in Technicolour","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A reasonable re-telling of Jules Verne's classic novel, which only goes off the rails towards the Hollywood climax. James Mason gives a surprisingly good performance as the idealistic malcontent Nemo, who has given up on, and indeed avenges the injustices of civilized life. The complexities of Nemo's character are not completely glossed over and his hypocritical and often plain contradictory motivations are at least acknowledged, if not completely explored.Of course, this is at heart a Disney family film so we get a song from old Douglas Senior, a comedy seal, some stereotypical cannibals and plenty of once Oscar-winning, now very dated, special effects. Peter Lorre brings a touch of light comedy, and Kirk Douglas brings a selfish, macho swagger to Ned. The production design is great, as is the Technicolour cinematography.The darkness of the story occasionally shows through the glossy, colourful veneer but otherwise this is just another lightly entertaining Disney adventure. This great story really deserves more. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This lushly staged CinemaScope sci-fi from Disney is one of their better efforts.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Some great Hollywood professionals were hired to bring this Disney version of Jules Verne's classic story to the screen, including director Richard Fleischer and noted cinematographer Franz Planer, and they were well chosen. The casting is also first-rate with Mason and Lorre giving the standout performances.  Superior craftsmenship and interesting characterizations keep this one above average, and it would make a great double feature with Fox's JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH, an equally terrific CinemaScope version of a Jules Verne story, and also starring the great James Mason.  "},{"Title":"You'll pray for a torpedo","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" If I were on this voyage I'd jump overboard. Harpooner Kirk Douglas, professor Paul Lukas and his apprentice Peter Lorre are taken on board the Nautilus, a submarine helmed by James Mason's Captain Nemo, after he destroys their ship. Then nothing of interest happens for an hour. Then we hit the island of cannibals and an attack by a giant squid... Nope, still not interesting. There's some fun to be had courtesy of Douglas's likable performance, but other than that there's little to recommend this flat adventure, which could do with being a good deal shorter and wastes Peter Lorre in a thankless role. In the plus column, it's better than 'Mysterious Island'. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Jule Verne's 20 000 Leagues Under The Sea is my second favorite book, right besides The War Of The Worlds. And i think everyone would be better off if none of these books were made into films. But it has happened. Hollywood, and to be more correct, Walt Disney has made Verne's classic into a foolish kiddie ride, and nothing more. Verne deserves more. If this book still is to be made into a film, it should be made a lot darker. Of course, everything centers on Ned Land, which is so wrong, because the main storyline in this epic, is the intense relationship between Nemo and Professor Aronax. Overall, this film still remains as a classic, but in my opinion it is just dull entertainment. "},{"Title":"Mayor disappointment!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" For me---having read the book in the new edition from the Naval Press, edited by Frederick Walter and Walter Miller---I can only state that this movie is almost a travesty of Jules Verne's visionary novel. It has never ceased to amaze me and puzzle me that Hollywood never seems to be able to leave well enough alone with important books and stories made into movies, but they have to change virtually everything the author has so carefully written. Do the producers and writers presume to improve upon the great authors? Do they feel that the original is too boring or too out of date for modern audiences? There are precious few books that have emerged from Hollywood unscathed, and this is certainly not one of them.The film does have a few good qualities. But I was expecting a faithful adaption. Damn you Disney! I mean Nemo dies in the end! What the fu*k is up with that? And the professors journal is lost. It's not lost in the book. In the movie there really isn't any purpose for Nemo to be under sea other than escaping humanity. What the hell is he supposed to be doing under there? Go fishing? In the book Nemo wanted to escape but he also wanted to explore. My favorite part in the book is when they are trapped under the ice in the north pole. But that wasn't in the film was it? No! In stead we get a bullsh!t sub plot about slave camps and Nemo being a former slave. (or a former slave merchant? I forget) Anyway that is kinda his motive here. WE'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO KNOW HIS MOTIVE!!! And they even go to an island where they built Nautilus. That was it for me. The movie was officially ruined.Now this being a Disney movie it has to be child friendly. This is not a good thing if you've read the novel. This movie should have been done by Paramount or 20th Century Fox. They would have made it darker and more true to the book. In stead they made this travesty, juvenile, child friendly family film.Don't watch if you're expecting a good adaption. But if you like adventure films then this is right up your alley.6/10 "},{"Title":"Split","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Right, I confess, I have a fascination with this film, but I don't understand why. True, James Mason was the man fate intended for the role of Nemo, and the Nautilus was design perfection. However, I would like to point out one thing. Once again, Hollywood pisses on literature by tearing away the subtlety of the book and changing all the things that fascinate about the story. Jules Verne's Nemo was a mystery - nothing is ever found out by Aronnax or his associates about this enigmatic figure. Yet Disney goes further than to even suggest his past, it becomes integral to the plot. The beauty of Verne's work is that it is scientific intrigue set against human struggle, yet this version does not do the novel the justice of presenting this as an important side. Not to mention that the emphasis is shifted from Aronnax to the questionable comic duo of Conseil (about as different from Verne's character as it is possible to be) and Land.As an avid reader of Verne, it is not possible to show how disappointing the best film version of this book is. Oh, and where the hell did the music come from?! "},{"Title":"Time Taken Its Toll","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The bloom has gone from this once eye-popping production.  During the 46 years since Leagues first hit the screen in 1954, much has taken place in terms of science fiction production design evolution. Special effects and set decoration here are impressive, but it takes more than that to make an engrossing film for adults today. With children, say 5-15, it's another matter, and the Disney studios need to finally be up-front in their marketing, identifying this as made for this age group.  Adults have simply seen too much technological advancement in the interim.My personal reaction was cool many of the cast members seem adrift as exactly how to play their characters.  Director Richard Fleisher also seems more interested in getting the giant squid pullies and mechanics to work than to delve deeply into character work.  But then again, this is a Disney-produced film, and his trademark is basically treats-for-tots entertainment.The art house showing (on 10/15/00) was a beautifully restored full-size Cinemascope print, well presented. Following the showing, 84-year-old director, Richard Fleisher came to the stage to field questions, a very special event. Actually, in my opinion, this director made about a half dozen outstanding films during his long career, Compulsion, being one of them.  Fleisher identified this as his persoanl favorite during the question period.  Leagues is normally included among his best.  My response to this showing is that the film is dated and unevenly acted and staged. For kids, though, this is another matter, and there is enough fighting, battling, chasing, exploding, and the like to keep the young person attentive and even enthralled.  The philosophical talk is of no interest to them, but there's always the pretty color, attractive decor, and special effects to focus in on.  The past 46 years has not been kind to Leagues.  As more years pass, the film may become increasingly a curio. Jules Verne's imagination is still impressive from a historical standpoint, and James Mason's Captain Nemo and his Nautilaus submarine has already been stamped in our minds as indelible film folklore. ### "},{"Title":"Douglas Sings...","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A harpooner is taken far beneath the sea by moody Captain Moody is this lavish version from Walt Disney. Mason is a wonderful Nemo, playing up the madness beautifully. Kirk Douglas shows us a hidden talent in this film as he sings the popular tune Whale of a Tale, and he does it well. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing movie adaptation","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I recently read the book by Jules Verne and then decided to get the movie with Netflix. The movie is best described as loosely based on the book. The characters are heavily distorted (Conseil scheming against the professor, Nemo talking English to the crew, Ned Land singing with a guitar, getting drunk and releasing messages in a bottle???). The storyline itself is also completely rewritten. No expedition to the pole (which is the highlight and culmination of the book), but instead a kind of home base in 'Volcania' where Nemo gets shot and which gets blown up. Very disappointing, and I only give the movie 5 points because it is probably good entertainment if one hasn't read the book. But how the director could sleep well with having produced such a travesty from a magnificent book is beyond me. "}{"Title":"Flabby, tedious, anodyne - a typical Disney adaptation","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Only 3 years before, Kirk Douglas had starred in 'Ace In The Hole', a great noir movie, but Billy Wilder's first commercial flop. I can't help wondering if it was Kirk Douglas' sustained over-the-top performance, which is in full evidence in both movies, that made Ace In The Hole the 'runt' of Wilder's litter. In 20kLUTS, Douglas again gives it full beam, both barrels and the full nine yards all the way through, which is a credit to his particular skill, and is the only thing to lift the dreary script of this leaden, stagey melodrama. James Mason, on the other hand, isn't sure whether he's Phileas Fogg or Robert Newton, and has a lot of pseudo-oceanological exposition to deliver. You can see him flagging by halfway through. Peter Lorre, bless him, struggles to keep up.Connoisseurs of 1950's racial stereotypes may be shocked - like the 'natives' themselves - at the portrayal by motley black actors of savage, barbaric Polynesians, repelled from the Nautilus by a mild electric shock. I have no idea whether this was in Verne, but it's the sort of unthinking two-dimensional dramatization that typifies Disney's usual wholesale rape of classic literature for profit, sorry, mass entertainment. You may think you're getting your money's worth because it goes on so long without subtlety, depth or reflection - the bizarre scenario is all Disney requires from Verne.But that's the Disney way - always was, always will be. Very occasionally Disney product takes off and transcends its banal conception. Here, it goes the full fifty fathoms the other way. "},{"Title":"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I thought was a meant to be an acclaimed film, in some ways it is, and I suppose it is quite worthwhile, from director Richard Fleisher (The Vikings, Conan the Destroyer). Basically it is the late 1860-92's, and the ocean's aren't safe with many ships being lost, most of them are told to be by a vicious narwhal (a giant whale with a long horn). So begins a US expedition which attempts to unravel the mystery, with naturalist Professor Pierre Aronnax (Paul Lukas), his assistant Conseil (Peter Lorre), and professional whaler Ned Land (Kirk Douglas) on board. There is a point when they find themselves being taken aboard and almost kidnapped by the mysterious Captain Nemo (James Mason), but the fantasy, sci-fi adventure still continues, with diving for treasure, battle with a giant squid, and the destruction of Nemo's island still ahead. Also starring Robert J. Wilke as Mate on the Nautilus, Carleton Young as John Howard, Ted De Corsia as Captain Farragut, Percy Helton as Diver, Eddie Marr as Shipping agent, Fred Graham as Casey Moore and J.M. Kerrigan as Billy. I think the film is only good for those action and thrill moments, like the giant squid battle, but it is hard to take a film of this sort seriously, especially when you get Disney involved, but certainly worth a look. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Special Effects, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing. Good! "},{"Title":"Hold the calamari","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea 6 out of 10 High budget Disney adventure is an entertaining if overlong adaptation of the Jules Verne classic. The movie entertains in places but struggles with seemingly endless underwater nature shots and serious lulls in the action.When the action does rear its head it is quite well done. The giant squid attack looks better than advertised and the Papua New Guina natives (actually Jamaica) are wonderfully right out of Shaka Zulu.James Mason is a magnificently brooding Captain Nemo, while Kirk Douglas is a likable as everyman Ned Land (who despite his name and disgust at eating seafood is supposed to be a first-rate sailor. And he has the annoying sea shanties and pet seal to back him up) While Mason and Douglas, despite coming across as strangely French, certainly provide good performances the rest of the cast sinks to the bottom.Paul Lukas is stiff and unbelievable as the professor and Peter Lorre is horrible miscast as Gilligan. (Okay he actually plays Conseil the professor's apprentice. He is about forty years too old to apprentice for anything. One of the cast calls him lad at one point for God's sake) Nemo's henchmen are even a bigger joke. They are dead ringers for the Batman villain henchmen from that late sixties series of the same name. (And certainly could have been the basis for those in the 1968 Batman movie) While the acting is a mixed bag it is the nature shots that kill the pacing of the film. Environmentalists will have a fit with all the coral reef stomping and turtle molesting while the rest of us who have avoided IMAX for years do to crap like this will squirm in our seats.The movie also strangely misses opportunities. For example much is made of Captain Nemo using gold for ballast cause money means nothing to him and Ned Land's attempts to steal said treasure represents the greed of the landlubber that is ruining our oceans blah blah blah. Towards the end of the film the captain releases the ballast and nothing is even mentioned. No Ned Land bemoaning the waste, no money shot of all that treasure falling into the depths. Nope its back to the nature photography the sea shanties and the pet seal.Yup by this time I am rooting for the giant squid. "},{"Title":"Does Not Stand Up to the Test of Time","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" American Movie Classics ran 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea last night. I hadn't seen this movie since I was a kid, and I was shocked to see how bad a film this truly was. Clearly, it hasn't stood the test of time.Normally, when viewing a film of this type, over fifty years old, you have to put aside modern-day views on special effects and cinematography. Clearly the technology wasn't there in ages past, the hurdles those filmmakers had to overcome to pull off submarines and nautical battles and giant squids were monstrous. But that's not why I say this movie doesn't relate in this day and age. I can get past those things.What I can't get past is the horrible script, the weak plot, and, most noticeably, a terrible film score and some horribly bad acting by, of all people, James Mason. The film score plays the same, vapid theme over and over again (derivative of an musical number, Whale of a Tale, that appears early in the film), regardless of whether it's an action sequence, an emotional sequence, or moment of revelation in the film. After two hours, that same sequence of notes rings like fingernails on a chalkboard. And James Mason is so horribly wooden and and uptight, you wonder what type of direction, if any, he was given for the role. There's a ludicrously bad sequence towards the end. Mason's Captain Nemo is moving, under fire, trying to set off bombs in his headquarters, and make it safely back to his ship. Bullets are ricocheting all around him, and he's walking like some uptight member of the House of Lords at a formal dinner party. It's no surprise he's shot in the back at the end (can you say sitting duck?). You wonder how Disney managed to get fine actors like Mason, Peter Lorre, Kirk Douglas to surrender their artistic credibility for such drivel.When one looks at old movies, those that stand the test of time are those that have good fundamentals script, acting, direction, and music. Reasonable people can overlook the lack of technology, but not flaws in the basics of film-making.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"20,000 Leagues is Below Sea Level *1/2","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a miserable, disappointing film.In 1954, James Mason gave the greatest Oscar losing performance for A Star is Born, and imagine he was in such a stinker the same year. Even with his cantankerous performance as Nemo, the film leaves so much to be desired.What was Mason really searching for? What, if anything, is his personal world and what does he hold true to mankind? The film is often tedious and downright obnoxious.Of course, we have Kirk Douglas strumming a guitar singing Whale Tale. What a whale of a tale all together.Paul Lukas and Peter Lorre are along for the ride. Lukas portrays a sea professor who doubles in human understanding. Science and the latter next mixed. There is nothing to Lorre at all here. He is not his usual diabolical self.The film belongs in the drowning pool. "},{"Title":"utopian messages, observative but dull storyline","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea' is a Disney film inspired by Jules Verne's novel with Captain Nemo and a submarine. The film's message seems to discuss the ills of human society and Nemo's reluctance to share some secrets with the world based on his experiences with evil people. Because of his problems, Nemo builds his underwater utopia and spends his time in love with everything that the sea holds and becoming nearly self-sufficient on it.This films brings together three outsiders with Captain Nemo and examines their adventures in Nemo's world. Although observative and probably true to Verne's novel (I have not read this novel, but I have read other novels in which Verne is observative and descriptive when discussing some of nature's wonders), many of the events in this book seem to be time-fillers instead of contributing to a plot. Generally, the story itself is pretty slow-moving and there is nothing special about the story-telling or the characters, apart from Nemo who comes across as a genius and later as a madman.'20,000 Leagues Under the Sea' works pretty well as a film for children, but it is probably a little out-dated by today's standards and when children prefer to watch 'Toy Story' and 'Finding Nemo'. It's not bad, but it's not great either. "},{"Title":"greatly overrated and adults will probably find it all a bit boring","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My review on this film is VERY dependent on when the film was seen. Had I watched it when it first debuted (tough to do since it came out before I was born), I probably would have liked it a lot more. However, given that special effects and sensibilities have changed over the years, the film just looks VERY VERY DATED. While most of the reviews were very positive, I wonder if these same reviews would all be positive if they saw the film today. Then they might notice the very silly and ridiculous special effects. The giant squid or octopus or what ever it was just looks dumb and fake. And, in addition to problems with the special effects, the plot occasionally takes a dive straight into hokey mid-1950s Disney live action territory. Here we have Kirk Douglas sing and dance--something that NEVER should have been attempted.However, despite these major quibbles, the film is still watchable and I assume younger kids will enjoy it. BUT, do NOT show this to teens--they will no doubt laugh themselves silly when you tell them this is considered a classic. "}]