[{"Title":"Bittersweet tale of success leading to tragedy","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"52 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Scouting talent for an upcoming film to be shot in Italy, a trio from Hollywood (writer/director Bogart, producer Stevens and publicist O'Brien) travel to Spain to scope renowned local dancing sensation Maria Vargas (Gardner). Immediately, they are struck by her beauty and presence. In fact, Gardner has a profound effect on every man she meets...though the effect is as unique as each man she encounters. Stevens sees a talent to be exploited for all it's worth and O'Brien sees only huge marquees and dollar signs. But Bogart, after a couple of brief but revealing conversations with Maria, sees so much more. Expecting a naive Spanish peasant eager to grab at the brass ring, he finds instead a woman as smart as she is beautiful, whose main motivation is to enjoy the challenge and escape that a Hollywood career might offer a woman who will nevertheless always value the simpler things in life. Even with her inate beauty and uncommon savvy, to Maria's detriment she does not have eyes in the back of her head. Told in flashback the viewer experiences her success in Hollywood and her quest to find the true love of a man (Brazzi) that has always eluded her.In the hands of Joseph Mankiewicz, The Barefoot Contessa frequently bristles with crackling dialogue (would you have expected less?). Unique to this contribution from Mankiewicz is the portent that hangs over the film. As the details of Maria's life are expounded, empathy for her fate increases accordingly.  Impeccably well-cast, this is actually an ensemble film. Gardner is luminous as Maria, though she is not solely dependent on her looks to carry the film--she gives a real performance. Bogart is stalwart and sympathetic as Maria's protector. And O'Brien, in an Academy Award-winning turn, is sly and oily as the single-minded publicist who changes allegiances as often as his sweat-soaked shirts. Lensed by the great Jack Cardiff and shot largely in Italy, the European ambiance, as well as the snappy dialogue, push the credibility of the premise a notch or two above so many other so-called exposés of Hollywood excess and pretense. "},{"Title":"Just couldn't care about the story or characters.","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie sounded like a good idea. It's about the rise and fall of a female movie star and focuses on the upper-class society and the world of Hollywood but in truth and honesty the movie is just too much of a drag, due to the fact that the story just never seems to take off and the characters are not very compelling ones.It probably foremost is the pace that makes this movie its story come across as slow and dull. It seemed like an interesting idea to tel the story of this actress from the viewpoint of several male characters she met throughout the entire movie. However this way of storytelling instead causes the story to feel like a messy one. I also just don't see how this movie is a good one as an inside-Hollywood movie or social commentary perhaps. The movie to me just seemed pretty pointless and it wasn't going anywhere. It all still could had worked out had the characters been better ones.You can't really blame the actors for not letting the characters work out well enough for the movie. I mean when you have actors like Humphrey Bogart, Ava Gardner and Edmond O'Brien involved, you can hardly blame the acting can you?The movie is just too much talking and not enough drama or romance involved. I didn't very much liked watching this movie and didn't feel involved with it enough but nevertheless I also couldn't hate it. After all, it certainly ain't no bad movie but it still is one that comes across as being uninteresting and pretty pointless overall.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Interesting depiction of a Hollywood goddess","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ava Gardner is beautiful Spanish dancer Maria Vargas who is discovered and given a Hollywood contract in The Barefoot Contessa, also starring Humphrey Bogart, Edmund O'Brien, Rossanno Brazzi, Marius Goring, and Valentina Cortese. Written and directed by Joseph Mankiewicz, the story is supposedly based on Rita Hayworth, who turned down the role. There are some similarities - the Spanish roots, the dancing angle, the studio head who desires her but doesn't get her, a la Harry Cohn, and the great sadness of her life. The famous story about Rita is that her first husband, Edward Judson, was nothing more than a pimp, though he is the man who turned her into a movie star. He demanded that she have sex with Harry Cohn, and Rita refused time and time again. Finally, Judson made a date for himself and Rita to go on a boat trip with Cohn, and Judson cancelled at the last minute, leaving Rita alone with the studio head. She still didn't go to bed with him.The story begins at Maria's funeral and is told in flashback by the various men who were in her life. Most of the narration is provided by the Bogart character, writer-director Harry Dawes, who had a unique relationship with Maria - he cared for her deeply and was always there to listen to her and advise her. Maria was a woman whose life was lived as a barefoot Cinderella looking for her prince. Harry has a sixth sense about things, and when Maria is about to marry the man she believes to be her prince, Count Torlati-Favrini, Harry starts to worry. He knows that, as is often pointed out in the film, real life is much more erratic than a movie script.Edmund O'Brien gives a terrific, Oscar-winning performance as a yes man/publicist who does all the talking for the studio head, Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens). Bogart is excellent, but he does not have a great role; although he has top billing, he doesn't even have the starring role. One suspects he's there for box office pull.The dialogue has been praised here - Mankiewicz was one of the great dialogue writers, but I found some of the dialogue in this a little pretentious and the pace slow. It's an interesting story, but for me it doesn't compare with All About Eve and Letter to Three Wives in script or in pace.The star of the film is Ava Gardner. For this writer, Gardner and Hayworth were ultimate sex symbol/movie stars - gorgeous, sexy, exciting women. Around 32 here and living the wild life she always did, Gardner is breathtaking to look at. After the beginning of the film, she drops the Spanish accent, but she more than makes up for that in presence. Like Lana Turner and Rita Hayworth, she was one of those actresses whose appearance and private life often received more publicity than her actual acting - but Ava could act. There was always something uninhibited, earthy, sexy, and inherently honest about her performances - and she was that way as a woman, too. I highly recommend her autobiography to anyone who hasn't read it.To see this marvelous cast and especially to see them in something written and directed by a fine artist like Mankiewicz is worth it, even if it's a little flawed. Nobody's perfect. "},{"Title":"Ava Gardner carries herself--and the film--beautifully.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Barefoot Contessa is a greatly underrated film--which is rather surprising, when you consider the amount of talent involved. First, there's the brilliant script by Joe Mankiewicz, who was always at his best when dissecting Hollywood and its denizens. The movie's best scene may be the Hollywood party where Kirk Edwards gets his comeuppance, all booze, boredom and viciousness (What she's got, you can't spell. And what you've got, you used to have.); although the scenes of the pathetic/glamorous European jet set are also excellent, the way Mankiewicz can create a small line or gesture that delineates an entire character. Really, the only time his touch fails him is toward the end, when Maria meets her Count and things get a bit melodramatic.Also magnificent is the cinematography by the always-brilliant Jack Cardiff, who invests everything with color-drenched glamour. (Did you know that, along with shooting such visual masterpieces as Black Narcissus, The Red Shoes and Pandora and the Flying Dutchman, Cardiff was also the cinematogrpaher on Rambo First Blood. Yikes.) Edmond O'Brien won a well-deserved Academy Award for his portrayal of the sleazy PR man Oscar Muldoon, managing to bring hints of depth and dimension to a character that could have easily been pure caricature. Another fine, if brief, supporting turn comes from Mari Aldon as Edwards' long-suffering mistress, Myrna (especially her I'm just a scared tramp exit line).Still, what makes this film work is the presence and performance of Ava Gardner. See The Barefoot Contessa and you will understand why many have thought her to be the most beautiful woman ever to grace the screen. She is simply breathtaking. Ava's appearance alone is enough to give credibility to Maria Vargas' legendary magnetism--and, without that, the whole film would fail, as it's really just about three men standing around one woman's coffin, wondering that made her tick--but it's her work as an actress that raises the character from beautiful blank to irresistible enigma. Even when her dialogue is a bit trite and soap-opera, she manages to make it believable by making shallowness appear to conceal depth (if you get what I mean), and even does a fine job with the accent. This was the film that earned her the tag the world's most beautiful animal, but Ava Gardner was much more than that. "},{"Title":"Ava Gardner acted with the distracted air of a woman searching for something she cannot quite define&#133;","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ava Gardner replaced Rita Hayworth, in the late forties and early fifties, as Hollywood's leading love goddess&#133; She was less sparkly than Rita, and her reign, coming just before Marilyn Monroe's, was a short one, but she had certain symbolic virtues that were not to be denied&#133; There is indeed an animal quality about her sensuality&#133; She is a proud, restless tigress, sure of her powers, yet confused about their proper uses&#133;The Barefoot Contessa, opens at the rain-drenched gravesite of actress Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner) where the people who were involved with her recount how she arrived at this stern destination&#133; They include Bogart as a film director and Edmond O'Brien, who won an Academy Award for his performance as a loud-mouthed press agent&#133; Bogart relates how he was hired to write a screenplay featuring a new glamor girl&#133; He and a rude millionaire interested in movie-making (Warren Stevens) discover Maria dancing in a Madrid cabaret and choose her as their leading lady&#133; She becomes an overnight sensation and helps Bogart regain his lost stature... The remainder of this overlong film then turns to pretentious soap-opera, building to a climax in which Maria and a boyfriend are in face of an impotent husband&#133; The film was populated by harsh, self-indulgent, and unsavory men who all came off second-best to Bogart, a cynical but comparatively likable character&#133;The plot had strong cinematic possibilities, but the script by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, who also directed, had ambiguous passages, overly ornate, and ultimately tiresome&#133; "},{"Title":"This film seemed to be populated by one-dimensional characters.","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I expected much more out of the writer of this film.  Was he not the creator of All About Eve?  That was a wonderful satirical work with interesting, believable characters.  This movie seemed to be ponderously written with a series of one-dimensional characters, most of them cliches.  Humphrey Bogart did his best, but Ava Gardner was unsatisfying, though beautiful to look at--a paper doll. Edmond O'Brien played his shallow part well, but I was amazed to learn that he took the Oscar from Steiger, Cobb, and Malden in their great turns in On the Waterfront.  I hold Joseph Mankiewicz responsible.  If this movie had been well-written, it could have been truly intriguing.       "},{"Title":"It Was Raining At The Funeral","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie sucks so bad! Bogart and Edmond O'Brien do their best, and there are a lot of snappy one-liners about the movie business. But Ava Gardner is lifeless, the story makes no sense, and the whole thing just oozes tragedy in the most artificial sense of the word.Here's a taste of what THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA is really like*** *** ***It was raining at the funeral. I stood alone in my trench coat, wondering why Maria had to die. Wondering what made her life different from a cheap movie script. Wondering why the most stunningly beautiful woman who ever lived had to throw herself at an old drunk, a gay count, and some random gypsy with a guitar.Was it the men she loved? Or the love she threw away? Was it the animal in her? Or the beast in the heart of every woman? The questions made no sense. The answers had no meaning. Life is like that. Life, the opposite of death. Not the cereal, or the magazine.Maria never had cereal for breakfast growing up. She crawled out of a Spanish sewer and instantly became a star. But a part of her still craved the stench of life. The passion. The forbidden filth.Perhaps the billionaires who pursued her weren't filthy enough. Or was it a different kind of filth? Some filth you can't find in a sewer. Only on the Riviera, or in Hollywood. Maria was pure, too pure for Hollywood. Except when the beast in her sent her running for the filth she once called home. But all of that was just water down the drain.It was raining at the funeral. I stood alone in my trench coat. Waiting for the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"A Bunion","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ouch. What can I tell you? The Barefoot Contessa is a film so heavy, so un-fun, so self-consciously aware of its own bitter sophistication that I could not find a single saving grace in the picture.Okay, Ava Gardner is luscious, and her lovely breasts are wonderfully showcased. And yes, Bogart manages to turn in a decent performance despite the disastrous dialogue, a tribute to his charm.What went wrong? First and foremost the dialogue, written by director Joseph L. Mankiewicz. There is no action in the film- just characters standing and speaking in the most heavy-handed movie metaphors ever committed to screen. Voice-over fills every silence to drown us in details that would have choked the actors outright. Ava Gardner & Bogey share a relationship that spans years... and yet they never have a conversation in which either of them simply says what they mean.BOGEY Has Cinderella found her Prince Charming yet or must she return to the ball? AVA The actor writes the role for the screenwriter, not the other way around. And yet all this time, the peasant girl abides, and wonders when she must put on shoes and walk out of the valley forever...!CRINGE! Every time I had a vague notion of what the characters were trying to say my attention waned and I had to start all over again. It wasn't worth the effort. If you want to know why novels are adapted and condensed before becoming a screenplay this movie stands as a perfect example. The Barefoot Contessa would have made a brilliant novel, but as a film it's a plodding failure.GRADE D "},{"Title":"What exactly was Rossano Brazzi's sexual problem?  How does an uneducated peasant woman speak as if she were an English professor?","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" (I want to preface my review by stating that I have posted many reviews and am a positive and fair minded critic. This is by far the most negative one I have ever written.)(I also thoroughly appreciated the excellent commentary by John Holder on page 1 of hated it. I have seen 2400 films in my 64 years and this is one of the top 10 worse big budget so-called A level films I have ever seen.)This is the second time Ava Gardner has appeared in a film where her husband or lover has somehow lost his penis or else lost its use. This was the problem in the Hemmingway classic novel The Sun Also Rises that was made into a film in 1958 when Jake Barnes (played by Tyrone Power) either had Mr. Johnson shot off in WWI or else had it so damaged that he could not use it. I did not understand what happened to Ava Gardner's husband (Rossano Brazzi) in The Barefoot Contessa. Was his penis shot off? Did he have PTSD(shell shock in those days)? Did it get damaged and cause him to become impotent? Was he gay? Was he a latent homosexual who found out that Ava could not satisfy him? Talk about a hard luck dame (1950s language). No writer has mentioned that Ava's character was an uneducated peasant woman who did not even have an elementary school education yet she spoke as if she were a college English professor. Talk about stilted language, this takes the cake. The scene where Warren Stevens (Kirk Edwards) and Marcus Goring (the rich playboy) had their verbal confrontation was so silly that I spit up the burrito I was eating. They stood at opposite ends of the lavish mansion and in an excessively theatrical manner started hurling insults at each other. I expected them to challenge each other to a duel. Edmund O'Brien, a fine actor, seemed to have overloaded on caffeine or worse. Rossano Brazzi seemed stupefied as to what motivated his ridiculous character. Humphrey Bogart spent the 1950s attempting to stretch his roles. This was a stretch that Wilt Chamberlain in his prime could not reach. Ava Gardner was being portrayed as an innocent in the woods yet in 1950s style movie subtlety she was sleeping with her cousin, her chauffeur, the deck hand on her husband's yacht and the gypsy to whom she threw her gambling casino winnings. Joseph Mankiewitz won back to back double Academy Awards in 1949 and 1950 for writing and directing A Letter to Three Wives and All About Eve. He was a fine writer for almost 20 years before becoming a director. This was his Waterloo. "},{"Title":"A Talky Film, But Highly Compelling For All That","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have always felt that if Humphrey Bogart had not died in 1957 he would have gradually left the lead roles of his greatest films to pick up very juicy character roles, and the film that convinces of this is THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA. His Harry Dawes is not the hero of this tragedy - there is no hero, just a heroine who loses all. Harry is her closest confidante and guide, for he sees the talent that makes Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner) the great film star she becomes, but he realizes that she is a very real and good person - but a terribly naive one for all that in a corrupt world. It is Harry's sad duty not only to help tell the audience the story, but to watch (one might say inevitably) Maria destroy herself.Harry is one of the people that wealthy control freak Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) finds available because they are on beams end. Harry has had drinking problems, and his career as a film director is in the toilet. Edwards has found Maria in the slums of Madrid, and believes she has great potential. He wants Harry to direct her in a film test, just to be sure. Harry has little choice, and does the test - but he gets to know Maria and win her trust. And he finds a way to somehow do his work for Edwards but give Maria a fighting chance to not be under Edwards' iron glove control.We watch Maria's career progress, with her honesty able to capture public approval when she runs to defend her father from a homicide charge. Later we see her successfully break with first Edwards, and then his Latin American rival Alberto Bravano (Marius Goring) and then falling in love with the Count Vincenzo Torlato - Favrini (Rossano Brazzi) whom she marries in the belief he is her long awaited knight in shining armor. But the Count has a secret, and in learning it and trying to overcome it Maria destroys all she achieved in four short years.All of Joseph Mankiewicz's films are literate - he is possibly the most verbally careful of all major film directors. Some by the way find that THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA may stray too far afield because of the dialog (most of the film's narration is during a funeral). But he still gets some very effective scenes in. The confrontation between Edwards, a humorless example of the Puritan work ethic, and Bravano (who for all his defects is honest about enjoying his money and position to appreciate living) at a party is a great highpoint. So is such a minor moment as when a royal pretender to a throne makes a tragically accurate comparison between himself and Torlatto - Favrini. So stick to that dialog - it pays off.The film is also a roman-a-clef. Some of the characters are obviously clones of real people. Edwards the millionaire control freak is based on Howard Hughes, especially with private contracts for performers like Jane Russell. Bravano has a lot of the Dominican Republic playboy Porfirio Ruberosa. The background of Maria Vargas is supposedly based on that of Rita Casino (Rita Hayworth). I am sure that Harry Dawes is based on some directors that Mankiewicz knew of, as was Edmond O'Brien's publicist and factotum Oscar Muldoon (catch his scene on the telephone talking to Harry when the latter is in Hollywood and Oscar is in London, or his final break with Edwards - the Party's Over - and realize this role, not D.O.A., was the one that netted O'Brien his Oscar for best supporting actor). A fascinating study of the limits of movie fame and fortune in winning happiness.Final note Mankiewicz apparently could not avoid having a small joke at the expense of his audience. When we see Maria's first film, the marquee has a poster that mentions the screenplay is by Lloyd Richards. Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe) was the dramatist who wrote plays for Margo Channing and Eve Harrington in Mankiewicz's classic ALL ABOUT EVE! "}{"Title":"A great Hollywood morality tale","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film covers a lot of the same themes as Sunset Boulevard, though in my opinion that film is more riveting than this one. It's hard to believe Bogart got top billing for this one since this film clearly revolves around Ava Gardner's Maria Vargas. In fact I think you could plug practically anyone world-weary and haggard into Bogart's role and the film wouldn't lose much. I guess they felt they needed his starpower to sell the movie. He just doesn't have much to do in this film. On the other hand Edmond O'Brien is truly memorable as the sweaty publicist. He deserved the Oscar he got for the role. Maria's relationship with Count Favrini seemed a bit rushed but not to the point that it is totally unbelieveable. Afterall Maria's whole life is supposed to be a fairy tale. I wish somehow they could've developed the role of Kirk Edwards. He came across as one-dimensional. This film being so old, there is no commentary to explain the purpose for this or whether it was by design at all. Despite my complaints, I still enjoyed the film and appreciated its message, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good Character Study, Writing, & Settings","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This sometimes slow, but interesting, movie has a number of strengths, most notably its characters, writing, and settings. The cast also features some fine performances from Ava Gardner, Humphrey Bogart, and Edmund O'Brien. The 'contessa' herself is undeniably the center of attention, but there is also much more to appreciate.Gardner does well in personifying Maria, a character with an unusual mix of earthiness and innocence. The symbolic contrast between wearing shoes and going barefoot seems at first to be a rather obvious device, but as the character is developed, it gradually takes on more meaning. Gardner, with a lot of help from the Joseph Mankiewicz script, is convincing amidst Maria's changing fortunes in love and in her career.Bogart is an ideal choice to play the director, whose own nature has an unexpected combination of world-weariness and integrity. And O'Brien gets one of his very best roles, as a press agent who is largely a parasite, but who turns out to have a couple of interesting things inside of him.On the surface, the story is a relatively simple tale of a young 'discovery' and of what happens to her after she finds sudden fame. Yet the contrasts and conflicts among the characters, and the contrasts between them and their surroundings, make for plenty of good material. The multiple narratives and the dialogue help considerably in bringing out many of these possibilities. It's an interesting and effective movie that makes its characters come alive, and allows you to spend a couple of hours in their world. "},{"Title":"How did this get past the Hayes Board?","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As an observer of film, everyone once and a while, I see something in a film that seems totally out of place for the period.This film is about a star who is molded by a number of men, but never knows if she wants to be the common peasant girl she starts as or the Hollywood princess the men in her life have molded her to be. Her tragedy is that she is killed by the man she loves trying to give him what he cannot have.Humphrey Bogart is listed as the star of this movie, and he is at his best in the scenes he is in. But the star of this movie is Ava Gardener.The recurring theme of the shoes and allegories to the Cinderella Story are wonderfully woven into this script. Every character comes deep in pathos, as this shining star illuminates their lives. "},{"Title":"Talky cynical soap opera--would have made a great parody.","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is astonishing this movie is so renowned and highly thought of. Edmond O'Brien won an Oscar for best supporting actor--for the gallons of sweat pouring off his brow. As other reviewers have stated this is a talky cynical soap opera. It is also full of every kind of clichéd 2 dimensional character...the South American playboy...the tough realist Bogart narrating this bittersweet eulogy. More the once I wondered if the movie was a parody. It was not. The problem is there is nothing to back up the words of this greatest tragedy to ever hit Hollywood. Gardner at 33 is too old for the role as the world's most desirable woman. What a narcissistic ego she must have had to even attempt the role!--There is a funny scene where Bogart tells Gardner she doesn't need artificial lighting to show her beauty--precisely what she totally depends on. Her flawless dubbed Castillian was a bit overboard--but who cares if there is something interesting going on. There isn't.The action is risqué scenes for 1954--a man in Gardner's dressing room--wild gypsy dancing and the all time clincher the man she marries had his privates blown off--no good for a nympho like Gardner--this movie would have made a great satire.The part of the movie that does ring true is the mockery of the boring and empty lives of the rich living it up on the Riviera-- but it isn't enough to save things.Boring and empty basically sums up this movie too. "},{"Title":"She Found the Wrong Prince Charming","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While in the burial of Countess Torlato-Favrini (Ava Gardner), her friend Harry Dawes (Humphrey Bogart) and the Count Vincenzo Torlato- Favrini (Rossano Brazzi) recall parts of her past. When the wealthy Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) hires director and screenplay writer Harry Dawes, they travel to Spain with the public relations Oscar Muldoon to see the dancer of a nightclub Maria Vargas and invite her for an audition, since they need a new face for their next movie. Maria, a naive woman with simple origins, is convinced by Harry to go to Hollywood and becomes a famous star and a close friend of Harry and his girlfriend Jerry (Elizabeth Sellars). Along her successful career, Maria lives personal dramas including lack of adaptation for her new lifestyle, is unable to love and is disputed by the powerful millionaires Kirk Edwards and Alberto Bravano (Marius Goring). When she meets the noble and handsome Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini (Rossano Brazzi) in the French Riviera, she believes that she found her prince charming and her life becomes a fairy tale. But after the wedding, she sees that her Cinderella's castle of dreams has become a pumpkin.The Barefoot Contessa is another movie of the great director Joseph L. Mankiewicz where, like in All About Eve, the backstage of the lifestyle of Hollywood of the 50's is disclosed without any glamor, full of betrayals, ambition and manipulation, where lives are destroyed by cynic and powerful people. Ava Gardner steals this movie with her astonishing beauty, Humphrey Bogart is excellent as usual and Edmond O'Brien won the Oscar. This melodramatic story has also a great cinematography and locations, and in spite of some moments of soap-opera, it is a good film. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Condessa Descalça (The Barefoot Countess)Note On 01 May 2012, I saw this film again on DVD. "},{"Title":"Barely Interesting Contessa","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A young Spanish dancer becomes a big movie star in Hollywood but dies after only three films. Mankiewicz was a writer first and director second. When the script was not good, all his flaws as a pedestrian director were exposed. As with many of his films, this dreary soap opera relies heavily on narration and talking heads to tell the story rather than the camera. The story is not very interesting and the big finish is silly and anti-climactic. Bogart is about the only reason to watch this and it really drags when he is not on the screen. Gardner is rather vacuous in the title role. O'Brien is pretty good but it is surprising that he won an Oscar for this role. "},{"Title":"A boring gabfest","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The videocassette edition of this film includes the theatrical trailer at the beginning. What a letdown when the movie unfolds! The trailer promises an intriguing Hollywood story along the lines of `The Bad and the Beautiful.' Instead, the filmmakers deliver a boring gabfest.While some of the performances are very good &#150; especially Gardner and O'Brien &#150; their efforts are undermined by a script loaded with lengthy slabs of cynical philosophy. Perhaps this would have been better as a play &#150; Mankiewicz certainly makes very little effort to create a cinematic experience. He must have been averse to silence; as soon as the characters stop speaking, in comes the narration &#150; it's so pervasive that it almost seems like a parody. But there's little evidence that parody was intended.The writer/director's approach seems to have been Never show action on screen when you can talk about it &#150; and talk and talk and talk. And yet, with all that talk, the point of it all remains quite muddled. "},{"Title":"I like it better than All About Eve, myself","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A quietly moving film about the short life of a curiously indescribable woman, Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner), and the men who knew her. Joseph L. Mankiewicz is probably most famous for his film All About Eve, which he both wrote and directed, as he did with The Barefoot Contessa. He structures Contessa much the same as he does Eve, starting the film at the end of the story and then working backward through flashbacks. This time we begin at Maria's funeral, and three men who are attending it narrate her strange and melancholy story. Humphrey Bogart is arguably the lead actor, as he narrates the majority of the film, probably about half. He plays Harry Dawes, a washed-up movie writer/director who is carried along to Madrid by his producer, Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) and his producer's assistant, Oscar (Edmond O'Brien, who won a much-deserved Best Supporting Actor Oscar; Oscar is the second narrator). They go to Madrid to pursue Maria, whose name has started to become famous in Europe. While Maria at first refuses, Harry is able to convince her to come where others have failed. Where one might expect Mankiewicz to make The Barefoot Contessa about Hollywood what All About Eve was to Broadway, the film has little to do with Hollywood. We do experience a couple of Hollywood parties, but the film is more concerned with the world of the fabulously wealthy. Maria has grown up poor and rather wretched - she has many sad stories about her life during the Spanish Civil War - and she can hardly relate to anyone around her. Harry comes the closest; he's more down to earth. Maria is such a fascinating character. We know a lot about her - but, then again, we know so little. The film never really does define or understand her, but that is the point. Mankiewicz almost tops All About Eve with his dialogue here; sometimes it's almost too good. The story and its structure work perfectly, and Mankiewicz does not repeat his one mistake from All About Eve, that is, he doesn't shove our faces in the film's point. We're left to ponder, which I think is going to make me remember this one a lot longer than I will All About Eve. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Cruel Irony of Fate","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The early fifties saw several excellent films made in Hollywood about Hollywood itself, such as Sunset Boulevard, Singin' in the Rain and The Bold and the Beautiful. The Barefoot Contessa also falls into this category. The main female character, Maria Vargas, is a famous actress and the leading male one, Harry Dawes, is a veteran director and screenwriter, although the film does not deal with the technicalities of movie-making quite as much as, say, The Bad and the Beautiful. The emphasis is more on Maria's private life than on her professional career, and we never see any clips from her films. The film begins with a scene set at Maria's funeral, with the main story told in flashback. It follows the normal structure of the woman's picture, which was a popular genre in the forties and fifties. Such films were primarily aimed at a female audience and generally had a strong female figure as their leading character. The plot revolved around this female character and her life and loves, with male characters being defined in terms of their relationship to her. Maria becomes a Hollywood star after she is discovered dancing in a Spanish night club story by Kirk Edwards, a business tycoon turned film producer. Her story is narrated by three of the men in her life- Harry, who becomes her friend but not her lover (he is happily married), Oscar Muldoon, a publicist working for Edwards, and Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini, the Italian Count who becomes her husband. (The title derives from the title Maria acquires on her marriage and the fact that she likes to dance barefoot). Another important character is Maria's lover Alberto Bravano, a wealthy Latin American playboyAs with The Bad and the Beautiful there has been a lot of speculation as to whether any of the characters were based on real-life individuals. (Howard Hughes, for example, has been suggested as the model for Edwards and Rita Hayworth for Maria). I suspect, however, that Joseph L. Mankiewicz, who acted as both writer and director of the film, would have been too cautious to risk upsetting any of his Hollywood colleagues by basing his characters too obviously on any living individual, and the studio would not have wanted to risk a possible libel suit. Certainly, one can always find significant differences between the characters and those individuals upon whom they were supposedly based; Hughes, for example, may have had his faults, but he had a real passion for film- making, unlike Edwards who has only moved into the industry because he sees it as a money-making opportunity. 1954 was a vintage year for Humphrey Bogart, as it was the year when he made three of his finest films, this one, Sabrina and The Caine Mutiny. In his early days as a major star, he tended to specialise in a few genres- gangster pictures, films noirs, war films and Westerns, generally as a tough guy or action hero. In the last few years of his life, however- he was to die less than three years after completing The Barefoot Contessa- he was to extend his range, into comedy (We're No Angels), romantic comedy (Sabrina) and into playing flawed, emotionally vulnerable characters (The Caine Mutiny, The Left Hand of God). Harry Dawes is in some ways, such as his world-weary cynicism, a typical Bogart character, but in others he too represents a new departure for the actor. Although Harry is the leading role- he has more screen time than any other male character- he is (unlike most Bogart characters) a bystander, someone who comments on the action rather than participating directly in it. Edwards, Bravano and the Count all play much more active roles in Maria's life. This was one of a number of films- others include The Killers and Bhowani Junction- which show that Ava Gardner deserves to be remembered as a serious actress, not just as a sex symbol. Maria can be seen as a tragic heroine- not in the sense that she is destroyed by a flaw in her character but in the sense that she falls victim to a cruel irony of fate; in a desperate attempt to please the one man whom she truly loves she only succeeds in provoking his anger and jealousy. I have always had a high regard for this film, so I am surprised at some of the negative comments on this board. One reviewer compares it to a soap opera, but few soap operas can call upon actors as gifted as Humphrey Bogart, or Edmond O'Brien, or have dialogue as witty and literate as that written by Mankiewicz. Soap operas tend to be excessively melodramatic, but this is not the case with The Barefoot Contessa; much of the film, particularly in the first half, is taken up with dialogue rather than physical action, and potentially melodramatic elements in the plot, such as the trial of Maria's father for the murder of her mother, tend to be played in a low-key manner. Only at the end, when we learn the manner of Maria's tragic death and the reason for it, does strong emotion predominate, and it would have been ridiculous to have played these scenes in anything other than an emotional way. This is not perhaps Mankiewicz's finest film- in my view that is probably All About Eve, another film with an actress at its centre. It is, however, a fine study of the rise and fall of a twentieth-century goddess. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Down and out in Hollywood, Rome and the Riviera","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When a movie opens with the funeral of the main character, you know you are in for a long, sad ride. Really long, in this case &#x96; the movie clocks in at two hours. With the inevitability of a tragic death fixed at the opening, it's hard not to see the entire film through filter of sadness.The Barefoot Contessa follows the rise, perpetual dissatisfaction and demise of a beautiful, charismatic Maria Vargas, a young Spanish woman played by Ava Gardner. A powerful wall street type turned movie backer wants her to be the new face and visits her in her small village, dragging along a PR man, the director and washed up actress. There are two narrators &#x96; a little confusing at times &#x96; but most of the movie is relayed from the perspective of Humphrey Bogart, a sad sack, world weary writer/director (in a mythical time when writers were as famous as the stars). He was great, as always, and Gardner was good but lacked oomph for someone supposedly able to set the world on fire.I think that was due mainly to the direction, she wasn't allowed to sparkle; quite the opposite, she was prohibited from shining. The odd thing about the movie is how much of her action happened off screen. When Hollywood arrives in her village to see her dance, we only see her hands clicking castanets. When she has a screen test which dazzles jaded directors and, we don't see it. When she makes three movies, we never see her on set or even get a hint of what she was like in the movies. When she rises to the top of the celebrity mountain with legions of adoring fans, we don't see them or even understand why. In fact, all she really does is mope around and wait for her demise. The only time she is allowed to partially captivate is during an odd scene where she hand-dances at a Gypsy camp.It must have been intentional, and added to the doomed mood throughout. Instead of the details, instead of watching a small town girl lose her innocence (though she always seemed quite confident, self-possessed and resigned to her fate) we see the outcomes -- cruel people growing crueler, the dehumanizing effect of fame and redemption for a few characters (Bogart's character finds true love after three marriages and manages to kick the booze habit for good). Mostly we see barefoot Ava, drifting through life, never able to let herself be happy, or fall in love, or enjoy success, or even laugh. And we are never really able to understand why. The opening shot shows that she is doomed and I was never able to shake that inevitability throughout.Still well worth the time.-- www.cowboyandvampire.come -- "}{"Title":"A script has to make sense, and life doesn't","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Barefoot Contessa is about Maria Vargas(Ava Gardner), who, from a nightclub dancer in Madrid, becomes a world-wide sex-symbol and movie star, and ,eventually, ends up marrying a Count, thus becoming a Countess. Throughout this journey, she is constantly helped (from a moral point of view as well) by her friend Harry Dawes(Humphrey Bogart), movie director and writer.I kind of have mixed feelings about this movie, because I did not particularly enjoy the fact that, at times, it seemed a bit too fairytale-like. I understood Maria's rather bohemian attitude towards life, and I empathize with it, but I felt that it was becoming too much of a laitmotif (for instance, the numerous times Cenicienta-Cinderella is mentioned). I believe there were many flaws in the plot, so from that point of view, I was let down. The thing that bewildered me most is that I genuinely did not understand the end- not that I did not agree with it, but I just simply did not understand it. And this never happened to me before. From the wedding night up to the very end, I was confused. After the internet enlightened me, I was still intrigued by this weird ending...and maybe not so much by it, but by the way in which it was conceived and presented to the audience. Anyhow, it could have been way better.The technique used throughout the movie was not my cup of tea either. I mean, I do not particularly like when a movie has one narrator, let alone 2 or more! And the way the movie begins basically lets you know how it is going to end, which makes the whole movie somewhat predictable, because you know hot it will end.The performance given by the actors is satisfying, especially the one of Humphrey Bogart, who has started to grow on me since I saw this movie. Ava Gardner's beauty is superbly emphasized, from the very first moment we lay eyes on the Latin Maria, up to the point where she is Contessa Torlato-Favrini. By the way, I wonder if that was really Ava Gardner speaking Spanish. Anyway, in my opinion, she is not only exquisite, but also very talented, and this part made her justice from both points of view.8/10, because it kept me entertained more or less...more thanks to Ava & Humphrey and less due to the other aspects. "},{"Title":"The rise and fall of a film star","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Directed by All About Eve's Joseph L.Mankiewicz.1954's The Barefoot Contessa is an unforgettable look at film making and one woman's journey from unknown dancer to world famous screen queen filled with glamour,murder,secrets and passionate love affairs. The film stars Ava Gardner, Humphrey Bogart, Warren Stevens, Rozzano Brazzi, Marius Goring and Edmund O'Brien.Opening in a graveyard in Italy on a rainy day this tells the story of successful screenwriter Harry Dawes(Humphrey Bogart)and his involvement with the ill fated actress Maria Vargas.Harry is in Madrid shooting a film and one night in a club he spots the beautiful dancer Maria Vargas(Ava Gardener).Going to meet her in her dressing room he speaks to her about making films and after seeing her again takes her to America for a screen test.The other main players in this tale are wealthy film producer Kirk Edwards(Warren Stevens)who bears more than a passing resemblance to Howard Hughes,his long suffering assistant Oscar Muldoon(Edmond O'Brian),millionaire playboy Alberto Bravano(Marius Goring)who bears more than a passing resemblance to Aristotle Onassis,Harry's girlfriend Jerry(Elizabeth Sellars)and the love of Maria's life the smouldering Italian aristocrat Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini(Rossano Brazzi).Humphrey Bogart get's to play a rare tender and gentle role and is just as good if not better here than when playing tough guys.There is also no romantic involvement for him and Maria,just a touching and genuine friendship that is at the heart of the film.It's also a look at three very different lifestyles the American film industry,the Italian upper classes and the glamorous free for all of the French Riviara.Mankiewicz isn't afraid to play around with the editing either,featuring voice overs,flashbacks and a sequence showing Maria leaving Bravano for Vincenzo from two separate viewpoints.Ava is at her most beautiful and luminous giving a memorable performance as the woman behind the screen goddess.The ensemble cast give strong performances and this coupled with Jack Cardiff's photography and some lovely costumes all helps to make this a worthwhile film experience. "},{"Title":"A giant question mark posing as a metaphor.","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are so many moments lingering underneath this pretentious art film that is more puzzling as each scene goes by. There are so many messages pro-film making and anti-film making, and whether this was meant to be Mankiewicz;'s valentine to the growing influence of European films as his masterpiece All About Eve was to the theatre. The story of Spanish movie star Ava Gardner, discovered by American filmmaker Humphrey Bogart, begins in the present and sinks back to the past. Like Bogart's 1944 war film A Passage to Marsaille, the film has flashbacks within flashbacks. The story covers her discovery by Bogart, her ascent to stardom, and ultimately, descent into degradation after making a shocking discover about the count (Rossano Brazzi) she has discovered isn't quite the prince charming she envisioned him to be.Gardner, one of the screen's most breathtaking beauties, is a delight to look at, and it seems her own disgust with the Hollywood publicity machine has influenced her almost blank performance. The narration by the three different men in Gardner's life is the bulk of the Oscar Nominated Screenplay. Highlights of the story are the trial of Gardner's father for the murder of her mother (who is revealed not to be the saint most Spanish mothers are elevated to), and Edmund O'Brien's description of the vacuum-like international society set which is as empty as the cocoon he uses to describe some of the members to be in. That sequence offers an opportunity to laugh at the rich. The costumes, art direction and photography are sumptuous, but the film, like most of the characters, is an example of the walking dead. Still, there are some wonderful observations about humanity (or the lack of it) and the people who live a shell of a life that is even missing the sounds of the ocean in the midst of its blankness. "},{"Title":"A wooden, fawning, male-gaze look at Hollywood at its worst","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Barefoot Contessa (1954)Oh dear, such potential, and such a forced plot with too much talking, far too much voice-over narration, and a world that might have interested the movie makers but is almost hopeless false and empty for the rest of us. Could Ava Gardner and Humphrey Bogart really be involved in such a flop? Even Edmond O'Brien, who can be a great B-movie lead, overplays his part--at first he seems impassioned and convincing, but once you see through his loudness you sense an actor trying too hard. It got him an Oscar at the time.And with the really impressive and normally subtle Joseph L. Mankiewicz directing and writing? He's just off his game here--but he got an Oscar nomination himself, for the screen writing. This is a Figaro production--an offbeat independent group that made four films, shot largely in Italy and Europe, and usually of really high quality (like The Quiet American). But this one seems to have production constraints, with a lot of shooting in limited quarters, rather dully assembled.I am a minority, I see from the ratings, so let this just be a voice of dissent to add to the mix.Bogart, for what it's worth, makes the most of what he has to work with (mostly standing around watching the action, if you can call it that, happen around him). And what he witnesses and narrates is a kind of male moshpit over this woman who is supposedly so beautiful all the rich men around her can't resist her, risking reputations and fortunes to win her over.And of course the woman playing this Spanish contessa is an actress with an admiring fanbase of her own, an echo of the drooling masses who followed Rita Hayworth, the purported (and probable) inspiration for the film. But this whole insider look at the Hollywood world, the making of a star, and the machinations and unbridled obsessions over a woman are handled a hundred times better in The Bad and the Beautiful, a 1952 black and white drama that sets the stage for the Technicolor one.So what exactly goes wrong here? A little of everything. It's not a horrible mess--I watched the whole thing--but it's filmed rather stiffly, it has some really wooden secondary actors (the ultra rich Christian producer in the first half of the film, who can never even get out of his chair it seems), and the writing is just contrived, arch stuff. Maybe on purpose. There is a wonderful moment when a third rich suitor takes over a scene and walks off with our reluctant heroine, and it's shown twice, from two different points of view, a nice movie-making ploy (though both scenes are identical--there is no sense of re-visiting and changing our opinion of events).As a final kind of falseness that seems almost intentional, a series of recurring flashbacks to the funeral for the woman show a real raining downpour, with Bogart and O'Brien both getting soaked. And then, in the next moment, the final flashback, there they all are, soaking wet, but the sun is out and not a cloud is in the sky. Yes, we get the symbolism, and life goes on all bright and filled with possibility, but really now. "},{"Title":"very good Bogart film in color","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I somehow managed to miss this movie until now but this is one of the last big budget Bogart films that I had yet to see. Not sure why or even if I avoided it until now but I'm definitely glad I finally saw it. It's a very intelligent and well structured film, almost a film about film in a way. Bogart isn't even necessarily the main attraction by the time you get done with the film, but I found myself really awed by the presence he brought to his role and the way he acted as a kind of moral compass for everything happening.This was really one of the most unpredictable films of the early 50s for me as a viewer. I really did not expect what was going to happen next, at least until the melodrama started getting thick towards the very end. I was fascinated by the way that the narrator kept shifting; it goes from Bogart's character to Edmund O'Brien's character (he really should have shared billing with Bogart and Gardner considering how much he contributed to this movie) then back to Bogart and to a new character played by Rossano Brazzi (who I recognized from the part of Emile in South Pacific but who I haven't seen in other films) and of course eventually back to Bogie. I did not expect the sunny boatside ocean views or the Riviera so wonderfully photographed.It's interesting how this movie forms a commentary on movies themselves. The Bogart character is very reminiscent of Dix Steele in In a Lonely Place. I feel like it's a great type of role for Bogart to play -- a screenwriter that is -- because he can drop these crazy over-the-top cynical gems and nobody really bats an eye. In fact it's pretty obvious that it's what everyone expects of him. Bogart was too good for most of the movies he appeared in, frankly. In this case his talents were harnessed to a worthy cause.I've never been a huge fan of Ava Gardner but I liked her in this movie. If she's ever going to be believable as anything, it's a movie star. And folks maybe I'm being too cynical myself but you just can't play too hard to your strengths. They reached a bit too much towards the end but on the whole I was with her the whole way, she felt very real to me.The color photography by the way is tremendous, and you can see it from the very early scenes in the movie with that Spanish style bar setting that's so reminiscent of Casablanca. There's a lot more use of shadows and contrast than you would see in a modern or even a 60s/70s color film. Joe Mankiewicz' direction is a lot better than I would have expected based on previous experience. My favorite scene from a director perspective was that scene on the boat, when just the angles of the shots tell you the whole story about who Gardner's character is really interested in.Love the movie and look forward to seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable gabfest","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The story told in flashback of a peasant Spanish dancer who becomes a Hollywood star, only to be shot by her impotent Italian Count husband for her infidelity while he is unaware that she is pregnant.There you go. 'The Barefoot Contessa' in three lines. Mankiewicz unfortunately needed to write about 25,000. While Bogie, though looking tired, is always worth watching, the rest of TBC is simply too wordy. There's a scene early on where writer/director Harry Dawes (Bogart) has been ordered by his bullying boss Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) to fetch Maria (Ava Gardner) back to his private plane or not bother coming back himself. How long does this scene go on? Are we expected to care for all of 15 minutes whether Harry loses his job or not? TBC is full of such over-extended, weakly set-up yakathons. Only Bogart has the chops to maintain audience interest, and then he struggles. His finessing of his boss at the end of his first narration is the high spot of TBC.As for Ava Gardner - sorry, but she can't act. She does a sort of 1950's Vogue mannequin impression of acting, but apart from that she doesn't have the cheekbones. It's telling that in the (too long) early scene where her dancing wows a Spanish nightclub, we don't actually see her dance! This wasn't a clever directorial touch, it was an admission that Ava's dancing was as one-dimensional as her acting. A special mention for Marius Goring, who gives a convincing impression of an amphetamine-fuelled zombie. Edmond O'Brien won an Oscar for his sweaty publicist turn, which is OK, but looks too much like hard work.I'm surprised Madonna never did a remake. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but also VERY whiny","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film begins in Spain where a totally obnoxious and evil rich producer (Warren Stevens) has come to offer a talented Spanish lady (Ava Gardner) a film contract. His entourage includes an alcoholic director who is on the wagon (Humphrey Bogart) and a fast-talking idiot PR man (Edmund O'Brien). Ms. Gardner makes it big in Hollywood, but seems bored with it all and spends much of the rest of the movie running from herself until a very tragic conclusion.Aside from a few clichés here and there, this is a pretty good film and has a pretty cynical view of stardom. However, I also felt pretty annoyed at times during the picture because most of the characters in the film are amazingly wealthy and/or famous and they spend all their time whining about how bored they are!! This is exactly the sort of film that gives Communist revolutionaries the incentive to destroy the 'decadent Capitalists'! The character Ava Gardner played was on top of the world but also spent much of the film in a depressed stupor and the rich guys around her were ALL selfish louts. In fact, the only decent person in the entire film was Bogart.While very watchable, the film is highly reminiscent of the Godard film, CONTEMPT, as well as THE SUN ALSO RISES (also starring Gardner). It's almost like the producers of the these other two films teased apart THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA and broke it into two films. "},{"Title":"Weak script. Weak film.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Worthwhile seeing only because of scenes with Ava in technicolor.It wasn't fair to see this movie for the first time right after I viewed the 2001 digital restoration of Fritz Lang's Metropolis. Compared to Metropolis, Contessa is weak.The story is not that interesting. The characters are not that interesting.The voice over seems to be there because they KNEW that the film was weak and would need a voice over.During the first few scenes, I noticed that The Barefoot Contessa could use a digital restoration a la Metropolis. After the movie progressed a bit, I realized that this film does not merit the effort of such restoration.My wife doesn't like Contessa, either. "},{"Title":"A lugubrious, Hollywood-turns-on-self potboiler from Joseph Mankiewicz","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Joseph L. Mankiewicz' The Barefoot Contessa exerts the baleful fascination of an uncoiling serpent.  It's one of a brood of movies dating from about 1950 (Sunset Boulevard, The Bad and The Beautiful, A Star Is Born, Two Weeks in Another Town, The Legend of Lylah Clare) that shows Hollywood turning poisonously on itself.  But while Mankiewicz' similar lowdown on Broadway, All About Eve, transformed all the backstage bitchery and mordant cynicism into entertaining, brittle artifice, The Barefoot Contessa sinks into its own fetid swamp.  It reeks of private scores being settled, of spiteful inside jokes. An unpleasant party of American filmmakers, none of whom likes the others, descends on a dive in Madrid to watch Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner) dance flamenco.  But the haughty peasant girl won't consort with patrons, even with a filthy-rich icepick of a producer (Warren Stevens), who sends first his toadying publicist (Edmond O'Brien) then a director in his employ (Humphrey Bogart) to fetch her.  Ultimately she relents, journeys to Hollywood, and becomes the toast of the town.  The possessive, controlling Stevens pushes her too hard, and she leaves him for an even wealthier South American playboy (Marius Goring).  When, he, too, pushes hard, a proud Italian nobleman waits in the wings to make her his Contessa.The central portrait of Gardner descends from the proto-feminist carnality of her compatriot Carmen (as drawn by Prosper Merimée and Georges Bizet).  For various reasons, her relationships with the four principal males in the story stay chaste; she reserves her passion for flings with lusty men of the same soil in which she likes to dig her unshod toes.  (The avuncular Bogart numbers among her platonic lovers, wed as he is to doting Elizabeth Sellars, who looks like Dorothy Kilgallen in her What's-My-Line couture).But, as the 1950s never tired of telling us, unbridled sexuality leads to death.  The movie opens at the Contessa's rainy funeral, and returns there again and again  like a tolling bell.  That sets the lugubrious, portentous tone &#150; a splashy threnody.  But The Barefoot Contessa is closer in spirit to a pulpy potboiler, with its movie-colony parties and casinos at Cannes, and with characters suggesting Porfirio Rubirosa and the exiled Windsors.Mankiewicz, a wildly uneven director, misfires badly here, with an overlong, overblown melodrama that some ruthless nipping and tucking might have made more svelte.  (He even repeats an entire scene, shot from a different angle, but to no rhetorical point.)  The dialogue shows grease stains from all the midnight oil, and what in All About Eve was overwrought and epigrammatic has become arch, too cleverly coy.  Though Gardner took the title role, the center of attention defaults to Bogart, starting to look old and ill but still the best thing in the movie.  O'Brien walked away with a supporting-actor Oscar for his part, though he lent much finer support in two better pictures, The Killers and White Heat.  Both Goring and Brazzi could benefit from subtitles.  Voice-overs disorientingly shift from character to character, like a relay race.  The freshest element in the production is the camera work from Jack Cardiff, who defied the garish Technicolor of the era to give The Barefoot Contessa a muted, autumnal look.  He and Bogart are the only two participants who guessed the movie's intended key right. "},{"Title":"Over-written flat tragedy","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jo Mankiewicz wrote and directed some beautiful and clever scripts. The Barefoot Contessa is simply the worst example of what his talent could give us.You can easily sum up the flaws here it's overscripted. And visually Mankiewicz fails to build up this celluloid character from Ava Gardner's feet. She's hardly touching and appealing.Modern Cinderella... Mankiewicz must have had enough of Tinseltown by then. He pieces together a bunch of colourful characters saying their lines alone in an artificial structure made of recurring flashbacks with annoying changes of narrator. In this 128 min doomed fairy tale Bogart is just ok but the rest of the cast is wooden.All About Eve, for one, was cleverly scripted with witty dialogue and engaging characters. "}{"Title":"Call Me Crazy, But I Like This Film","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Yes, it's talky and disjointed. The dialog is stilted. The actors look uncomfortable. The gowns are atrocious. But like many of writer and director Joseph L. Mankiewicz's gabfests there's a lot of intelligent observation going on, which elevates its soap opera plot. And Ava looks great. As an exposé of Hollywood foibles it falls flat, especially since the whole thing looks more like one of those international productions where everyone's speaking different languages and are badly dubbed. Bogie comes off well, though his appearance is sadly dissipated. Rossano Brazzi brings his reliably handsome and commanding presence. Edmond O'Brien's Oscar winning supporting role is hardly a standout. It's Ava's show all the way, and when she's not on screen is when you realize how awful the film really could have been. If you pay close attention, it's not so bad. "},{"Title":"O'Brien steals the movie!","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Edmond O'Brien certainly deserved his Hollywood award for Best Supporting Actor. A difficult role, he has to appear convincingly insincere in most of his scenes, faking his emotions and making himself hypocritically adept at false but flattering compliments. Only in the funeral scene and his off-screen narration, do we discover the real man. Aside from this tour-de-force, however, the movie is a bit disappointing. Mankiewicz told me It was almost a good film. But I was angry at too many things and went off in too many directions. Basically, the film was a Cinderella story, but somewhere along the path, I lost my sense of humor. Mankiewicz wrote, directed and produced for Figaro, his own production company. Believe me, it's super-difficult to concentrate on both writing and directing. Producing is a chore I would certainly leave to someone else. Writing and directing have their own headaches, but most of them are artistic problems which good thinking &#x96; plus advice from one's peers &#x96; can generally overcome. On the other hand, producers handle a vast array of problems &#x96; money problems, contract disputes, making sure cast and crew are in the right places at the right times, lining up permission to shoot in both public parks and thoroughfares plus privately owned areas, liaising with the police and other civic officials, providing a shoulder to cry on and mediating disputes between actors and actors, actors and crew, crew and crew and all and sundry with public officials. I could go on and on. Let me just say that although I would gladly sign on to write and/or direct a movie, no way would I agree to produce or have anything to with producing, no matter what inducements of both money and support staff were provided. Anyway, with theses crosses to carry, I think Mankiewicz did wonders with The Barefoot Contessa. My hat's off to him. Actually, for his initial writer-producer-director production, he'd planned to film Twelfth Night, but that project fell through. "},{"Title":"A picture tells a thousand words","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw the movie Mogambo and was surprised at how natural Ava Gardner was in it. I got her autobiography (just her words transcribed from tape with little editing and flow) and thought I might find an interesting person in there. The Barefoot Contessa came on TV with me just at her chapter in the book on the movie. Little or no info about the production, which gives scant insight into how she felt, some but not enough to make it interesting. Mostly her struggles with the men in her life and drinking. Contessa is a silly tapestry of episodes with a central character of Maria Vargas (Gardner) beginning well, but becoming more and more ridiculous. You get the feeling the Joseph L. Mankiewicz picked up fragments of this from his life in Hollywood and beyond (there are references to a Howard Hughes type) and part of Rita Hayworth's real story,but where ever it sprang from it doesn't hold together well and none of the characters are that believable because of the tenuous thread. You can see Humphrey Bogart trying very hard and Ava Gardner is a knockout to look at and begins well as the Spanish girl dancer with humble beginnings, but then she just comes across as a stunningly beautiful vacuous idol that is determined to make mistake after mistake. I didn't mind the shared narration at all but a modern audience would not be able to deal with all those words, especially the heavy handed long winded explanations near the end. Could have done much of that with a few well held head shots of people thinking, as in the opening of the movie with intriguing shots of an audience watching a never seen Maria dance. Anyway, it looks good. Some great locations and great old cars. "},{"Title":"Magnetic as the Barefoot Ava, enigmatic as the Barefoot Contessa, tragic as the Barefoot Cinderella ...","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Life, every now and then, behaves as though it had seen too many bad movies. Coming from Joseph L. Mankiewicz, as accomplished a writer as a director, this remarkable preterition works like a clever warning don't get too fast on accusing the script to be too formulaic, talky or hackneyed, The Barefoot Contessa is set in a world of pretension, from Hollywood to the European jet-set, behavior is dictated by predefined codes, by a person's aura or by a hierarchy that never tells its name, whose people are all characters guided by the writing and directing of a divine instance, called fate.But I must say I was disappointed when I learned that the story of Maria Vargas, The Barefoot Contessa, was based on Rita Hayworth, or some actress named Anne Chevalier. It was too great a coincidence but I thought it was meant to be from and of Ava Gardner, and only Ava Gardner, for her biography is one of these peculiar cases when reality is strangely more fascinating than fiction, especially when the kind of fiction we're talking about is fairy tale. Now I even realize that The Barefoot Cinderella who'd have been quite a fitting title, if only to sustain the idea that this was a princess who had everything to triumph over adversity, looks, heart and that inspiring sparkle in the eye, but no Prince at all&#x85; and what more tragic than a Cinderella remaining barefoot? And Ava Gardner was that kind of Cinderella-figure. She was uniquely beautiful; she was revered as one of the most beautiful actresses of the world, if not the most. And despite all the looks she had, and the stardom she was brought to, she never felt totally happy, she had only three men, no children, and left the silver screen with mixed memories. How can a woman blessed by such a voluptuous body and illuminating face, kept such a miserable opinion on a success served on a silver, no, golden plate? That's the kind of mystery The Barefoot Contessa tries to give answers, and if seriously, they didn't think about Gardner before writing the story, then her casting, is quite a strike of genius.The film opens when producer Kirk Edwards comes to a Spanish bar with his publicist Oscar Muldoon (Oscar-winning Edmund O'Brien) and director-writer Harry Dawes (Humphrey Bogart) to find a new face. They heard of a beautiful dancer named Maria Vargas but she trusts neither of Edwards or Muldoon. It's to Dawes that she finally opens her heart, expressing her fear of success, her eagerness to keep her feet on the dirt, as if the heights of success would make her dizzy. She likes movies though, but she doesn't trust herself, nor her capability to find love in this world, let alone there. This is not the little girl from Madrid slums talking, this is the earthy daughter of North Carolina who loved to go barefoot before luck brought her to MGM. But Cinema for Dawes is as unimaginable without Maria than ours without Ava, he convinces her give happiness the benefit of the doubt.The relationship between Dawes and Maria is particularly poignant and given the two actor's age more acceptable than Bogart with Hepburn in the film of the same year Sabrina. Maria is a beautiful flower waiting to bloom and Dawes her guardian angel. But after three movies made together, she was able to fly with her own wings, and became a star among the stars, as admired as envied. The story is told from flashbacks during her funereal from Dawes, Muldoon and Maria's two lovers, a frivolous Latin American playboy Alberto Bravano (Marius Goring), and Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini (Rossano Brazzi). And what is interesting is less the relationship she has with these men than the way she gets into and out off one's arms, before her tragic ending.All through the film, we never know to which extent Maria lead her destiny, she's indeed a fairy-tale heroine with enough determination and courage to seize the situation but still guided by destiny. She was reluctant to go with Bravano, but only because Edwards forbid her, she challenged him. Then she challenges Bravano, by turning her back on the decadence of casinos and jet-set, and still dance on the mud near a Gypsy camp and this is where the Count meets her. The Counts has everything of a Charming Prince, but seems to hold a terrible secret, which would ultimately seal Maria's fate, the one that kept Cinderella forever barefoot, and to which the erected statue plays like a poignant epitaph.It's true that some choices, some actions are questionable given the context of the film, and their purposes seem to be their convenience to a plot leading to its tragic conclusion, but it's all in the 'bad movies' line as if Maria's life was in fact, the worst movie she ever made, and when every now and then, someone utters a kind of corny line, it's like the screenwriter apologizing in advance. That whole intricacy between reality and fiction is cleverly handled, which is not surprising coming from the director of All About Eve, whom the film borrows some elements through the opening and the different perspective of Maria's life from the others' perspective. All About Eve remains superior if only because it had the perfect balance between action and talk, I must admit in Barefoot Contessa, Mankiewciz took our patience for granted, which didn't leave much screen time to the most dramatic and poignant parts. Appreciating The Barefoot Contessa is understanding some bits of Ava Gardner, an unusual star who despised her stardom because she felt there was more to life than playing the star, and incongruously, that kind of attitude made her an even more glorious star, because paraphrasing Bogie, that's the stuff great movies are made on. "},{"Title":"slow with a big finish","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie starts with the funeral of a relatively young woman. Her story is told in flashbacks. You keep watching because you want to know how and why she died.She is not a particularly interesting person, more a china bust with a frozen smile. She is supposedly a spectacular dancer but does only one rather embarrassing dance routine that reminded me of my mother dancing when drunk.She is surrounded by interesting people e.g. screenwriter Harry Dawes, played by a very mellow and likable Humphrey Bogart.Kirk Edwards is a gum chewing billionaire, who makes his life miserable by bullying everyone just for the fun of it.Alberto Bravano is a South American tycoon, who is perfectly candid about his own selfishness. His honesty and lack of hypocrisy makes him extremely charming.The movie makes clear how wealth and fame can most of the time get in the way of happiness. It shows how they seduce and corrupt. It pokes fun at the airhead wealthy who descend on the Riviera each year to gamble.The movie also explores jealousy, how pleasant life can be when it is in check and how miserable when it is not.It is a quite slow paced, somewhat boring movie. Not much happens. It just meanders around to its rather surprising conclusion. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie.","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow! What a great movie! Tragic story, great acting, wonderful cinematography, pathos, drama, the movie has it all! Ava Gardner is absolutely stunning and her portrayal of the the title role is compelling. This movie is definitely one of Humphrey Bogart's better works, and Edmund O'Brien is brilliant; his performance was certainly worthy of an Academy Award. But there are two more outstanding performances by Warren Stevens and Rossano Brazzi. Mr. Stevens' gives a chilling performance as an obnoxious Wall Streeter turned movie producer. Mr. Brazzi's performance is a scene stealer. His presence raises the movie to another artistic level, especially in the scene Ava Gardner and Marious Goring. All in all, this is a wonderful movie. It withstands the test of time; its theme is would resonate with today's audience. "},{"Title":"Poor Ava","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Excellent ensemble acting, especially O'Brien, who has the most scene-chomping role as a PR man who never shuts up. Bogart and Ava are the characters who see the vacuity of the rich and glamorous. Why poor Ava? Once again, as in The Sun Also Rises, she gets stuck loving (here follows spoiler) a man rendered impotent by the war. And, like her character, Lady Brett Ashley, in Sun, she is forced to turn to, one might say, stereotyped studs - a bullfighter (Sun) and a flamenco gypsy dancer (Barefoot). My question is The Count was impotent, so did he marry her? If he married her to continue his family, as he tells his sister, why should he object to Maria having an affair that could result in a child that he could make his heir? "},{"Title":"The Barefoot Contessa","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I always try to agree with all the entries in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and this was another one of them, from director Joseph L. Mankiewicz (All About Eve, Sleuth). Basically Countess Torlato-Favrini, or Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner) is having her burial, and through flashbacks Harry Dawes (Humphrey Bogart) recalls meeting her. In the past, wealthy Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) hires down on his luck Harry as screenwriter and director for his next picture, and they are travelling to Spain to find their new star. There they meet Oscar Muldoon (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Edmond O'Brien), public relations, who manages to help them meet nightclub dancer Maria to arrange an audition. Being a little naive and simple, Maria is convinced to go to Hollywood, make some films with new friend Harry, and she also gets to like his girlfriend Jerry (Elizabeth Sellars). But it is not just Harry recounting his time with Maria, the flashbacks also show her acquaintances with sweaty publicist Kirk, millionaire Alberto Bravano (Marius Goring), and handsome French Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini (Rossano Brazzi). She believes she has found her prince charming in the Count, and they marry, but it turns out not to be what she had hoped for, and she is devastated to be pregnant. Also starring Valentina Cortese as Eleanora Torlato-Favrini, Franco Interlenghi as Pedro Vargas, Mari Aldon as Myrna and Bessie Love as Mrs. Eubanks. Bogart does pretty well as the snarling film director, O'Brien I guess deserved his award for his chatty character, and Gardner barefoot (which could have been a little more) and not is glamorous. I may not have understood everything going on, and I found it a little long after a while, but what I did pay attention to made it a reasonable satire of the movie business, and an alright drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Story and Screenplay for Mankiewicz. Good! "},{"Title":"Gardner Smolders, But Mankiewicz Misses with a Portrait of a Rita Hayworth-Like Star","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ava Gardner. God love her. She almost makes Angelina Jolie look like a mousy schoolgirl. However, her startling beauty and intense sensuality are not enough to overcome the deficiencies of this overripe 1954 melodrama. All the signs looked promising since the credentials behind this production are impressive. Writer/director Joseph L. Mankiewicz just had a one-two punch winning back-to-back double Oscars for writing and directing A Letter to Three Wives and his indisputable high watermark, All About Eve, and Humphrey Bogart was at a career peak with The African Queen and The Caine Mutiny. Moreover, Mankiewicz chose the lethal combination of the movie industry and the international jet set as his vitriolic target this time. Nonetheless, much like Rob Marshall's recent adaptation of Nine, the movie simply lacks propulsion in the narrative flow and the characters any real depth to give the viewer a valid reason to engage in the fanciful story apparently based on Rita Hayworth's checkered life.With a rather affected accent, Gardner plays Maria Vargas, a beautiful Spanish dancer discovered in a Madrid nightclub by a megalomaniacal Howard-Hughes-like tycoon, Kirk Edwards. She despises him almost immediately, but she does connect with one of his cohorts, a has-been writer/director named Harry Dawes, who convinces her to do a screen test. No romance develops between Maria and Harry but rather an abiding friendship that leads to international stardom after only three movies. Meanwhile, love escapes her but not tabloid scandal as her father stands trial for killing her mother. A convenient affair with Alberto Bravano, a South American bon vivant, follows, but their mutual manipulation seals the fate of the relationship. Maria finally meets the man of her dreams, Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini, and all's right with her world until a humiliating secret threatens to shatter everything.The framing device of the funeral makes the resolution of the storyline all too clear, and the recurring use of flashbacks and voiceovers will be familiar to anyone who has seen Mankiewicz's two earlier classic films. Gardner is luscious to look at, especially in one shipboard scene where she throws a towel aside as everyone gawks at her beauty, but she even seems lost by some of the script machinations. Bogart plays Harry with the right jaundiced tone, but there is only so much he can do as an observer of the action and simply hands the picture to Gardner. Warren Stevens, Marius Goring (The Red Shoes), and Rosanno Brazzi (Summertime) play their accustomed types adequately, but the one true scene-stealer is Edmond O'Brien as mouthy agent Oscar Muldoon constantly wiping the sweat off his brow (naturally he is the one who won an Oscar). Master craftsmen Jack Cardiff (Black Narcissus) is responsible for the luxuriant camera-work here. There are no extras on the 2001 DVD other than the original theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"A subtle masterpiece about Hollywood","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One criticism I've often seen given to The Barefoot Contessa is that its too slow and lacks the bite it should have contained. I disagree - its a very subtle character drama about human nature first, and a stripping down of the Hollywood star system second. I like All About Eve as much as the next film buff, but The Barefoot Contessa takes a completely different approach to what may appear as similar material initially. The film may be a soap opera, but its an absolutely gorgeous one. The acting is terrific, the venomous dialog is among the best I've heard, the characters are sympathetic, and its beautifully filmed.There's many reasons why the film is such a success. The direction and screenplay by Joseph L. Mankiewicz are among his best work. His direction is stunning - the film is slowly paced and extremely low-key. It's low-key nature may be why its been largely overlooked today (the current rating on IMDb of 6.9 is completely undeserving). The screenplay has some of the best dialog I've yet to hear. The characters often seem to come and go, which is one of the few flaws the film has. However, the two main characters of Harry Dawes and Maria Vargas are compelling throughout.Another reason for the film's success is the acting. Humphrey Bogart offers a refreshingly quiet turn as the has-been director Harry Dawes. If it isn't one of his absolute best performances, its certainly shows the range as an actor he had. Ava Gardner is gorgeous and does a great job as the uncompromising woman the Hollywood system tries to victimize. Edmond O'Brien offers one of his best performances as the man who tries to be the voice of reason (but fails) throughout. Great acting, great direction, great dialog, and a great story all add up to an amazing film. The Barefoot Contessa is one of the most underrated films of the 50s. (9/10) "}{"Title":"Barefoot Contessa  & Hugo Winterhalter's elegant music","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Enjoyable film gracefully enhanced by arranger Hugo Winterhalter's orchestration. Winterhalter's collaborations with composer and pianist Eddie Heywood produced the richly enduring Canadian Sunset. In Contessa, he interweaves melodies, creating a subtle presence powerful yet never overbearing.Winterhalter's orchestra backed leading vocalists from the 40's thru early 60's. A complex tonally evocative sound is his trademark, at once discernible in such diverse hits as the Ames Brothers 'You, You, You' and Kay Starr's 'Rock and Roll Waltz'. Hugo's arrangements deftly balance precision against ethereal delicacy. This quality likens Winterhalter's performances to those of brilliant pianist Walter Gieseking, a crisp interpreter of Debussy and other Impressionist composers. Paul Vincent ZecchinoManasota Key, Florida01 April, 2006 "},{"Title":"Waiting for that perfect romance","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If there were any more beautiful women ever walked this planet of our's than Ava Gardner, they must have existed long before Thomas Edison invented the movies. Else they would have been film stars.Maris Vargas is so different from the real life Ava. She's a silly girl filled with romantic notions and isn't about to give in to anyone unless it's for love. When we meet her, she's dancing in a Spanish cafe and being eyed by Warren Stevens who's playing Kirk Edwards a not so veiled portrait of Howard Hughes who did in fact have the real Ava on his short list of desirable conquests. Stevens wants to sign her, but also to bed her. One doesn't go without the other.Screenwriter Harry Dawes played by Humphrey Bogart foils Stevens's plan by having other producers view her test. With a bidding war on, Stevens has to sign Ava on her terms.Ava doesn't give it up for Stevens and later neither to international playboy Marius Goring. Goring's character is based on Dominican diplomat and legendary lover, Porfirio Rubirosa. That's a story that would rate a film. I can see Antonio Banderas in the part.She finds herself finally with Italian count Rossano Brazzi and she's sure this is it. But Brazzi has a terrible secret and Ava's efforts to deal with it bring nothing but tragedy.Humphrey Bogart is top billed, probably as per his contract. But the film is really Ava's show. You won't easily forget her as Maria Vargas.Edmond O'Brien won a Best Supporting Actor that year as sweaty press agent Oscar Muldoon. His is a profession that inspires cynicism by nature, yet O'Brien proves to have a lot more character than originally thought. O'Brien was up that year against Tom Tully from The Caine Mutiny and Karl Malden, Rod Steiger, and Lee J. Cobb from On the Waterfront. Of course those three split the vote and O'Brien was the lucky beneficiary.Warren Stevens got his first real notice in The Barefoot Contessa and Marius Goring probably has his best film role of his career as Alberto Bravano the thinly disguised Rubirosa.It's a sad tale and a cautionary one against silly romantic notions. "},{"Title":"Good movie with great stars, typical for Joseph L.Mankiewicz!","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Joseph L. Mankiewicz, probably most famous for his CLEOPATRA (1963) with Liz Taylor and Richard Burton made this film in a very similar way almost 10 years earlier. What you find here is, first of all, very good cast, great locations, and wonderful music. Of course, it is not a good idea to compare this movie to the one about the queen of the Nile, but the director's style (only) is strikingly common for both movies.The action, as for the 1950s, is not that slow. In fact, pretty much happens in the movie. Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner), a famous dancer, starts the world career as an actress. A lot of film producers and directors are willing to take her to their films. However, her private life does not seem to be equally lucky...Ava Gardner was great in this role (Maria Vargas)! Her facial expressions, her acting, simply everything about her proves that she fitted best to this role. Humphrey Bogart again proved to be a great talent, the sun of the cinema of that time (e.g. the ultra popular CASABLANCA by Michael Curtiz). An Italian actress Valentina Cortese also gave a very good performance as Eleanora Torlato-Favrini. Although she was not so popular like other stars, she appeared in many good films, some made by such first-rate directors like Michelangelo Antonioni (THE GIRLFRIENDS in 1955), Federico Fellini (JULIET OF THE SPIRITS in 1965), Francois Truffaut (DAY FOR NIGHT in 1973), or Franco Zeffirelli (JESUS OF NAZARETH and BROTHER SUN SISTER MOON in the 1970s).The locations for the movie are really wonderful. A little town of Portofino (northern Italy) and San Remo are only some of the places that you will find here. The music is also excellent! From the very beginning southern rhythms can be appreciated. Consider a moment in a little tavern in Madrid where Maria Vargas stays. Real Spannish soul of the lively southern rhythms!THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA is not a film which could be considered one at the top of classics, like CLEOPATRA, BEN HUR, CASABLANCA or GONE WITH THE WIND. But it is equally entertaining, a film that I see with pleasure. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Tour-de-force performance by O'Brien","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  O'Brien is fantastic as a press agent who lives for opportunity.  Bogart is surprisingly good as director who falls for Gardner.  Gardner is quite good in a wide range of emotions and shots.  The photography is stunning. Marius Goring is wonderful as a corrupt influence.  Brazzi is a bit stiff as the Count, but overall an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"It never connects with the audience in a sensual or primal way","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Spanish dancer in Madrid is discovered by Hollywood executives and is groomed into stardom before her untimely demise. Bitter soap opera is more about ill-fated love than it is about the movie business, and that's part of the problem Rossano Brazzi, playing yet another in his series of spineless Prince Charmings, never connects with Ava Gardner, who is lovely but vacuous (and sounds dubbed). Humphrey Bogart, cast as an alcoholic film director, coasts through on auto-pilot, never so much as cracking a smile. Edmond O'Brien managed to win a Supporting Oscar for flashy role as a press agent, but The Barefoot Contessa does too much tiptoeing and never gets down to real business. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Unintentinally hilarious, campy, and awful","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just saw this on PBS station (no ads or edits.) Amazingly bad film. So over-written, wordy, and over-wrought. Campy and in some spots almost hilariously bad. Scene with Italian count telling Ava Gardner why he can't have children (is he gay?) would be great fodder for midnight movies at the Castro in San Francisco, where Rocky Horror ran for years.Bogart can't seem to do anything without a cigarette in his hand, plus constantly offering to other people, even giving them whole packs! Without the cigarette business I'm not sure what he'd do with his hands or mouth - seemed to be his whole shtick, pretty much.Ava Gardner looks slightly past her prime, and pinup poses in swimsuits are pretty tacky and dated. No Spanish accent, and speaks very stilted, and vapid and breathy. Kept thinking what this might have been like with Sophia Loren!!! The writing goes on and on about contracts, and writing, and TV, and newspapers and writing, and writing and authors - pretty boring, wordy stuff. Her second, eastern European lover looks and sounds like Count Dracula with his pointed sideburns and eye makeup. (He's also obviously gay.) Even with this wordy, boring writing, you would think that with lots of money, great international sets and locations, and Ava and Bogie, that a big director like Mankiewicz could have pulled together something far better than this. Maybe all his references to drinking are revealing, and like the Bogie character, he should have gone on the wagon. "},{"Title":"I Saw It For Bogie","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The plot of this didn't sound like the type of movie I would really enjoy but I watched it because I'm a big fan of Humphrey Bogart. His '50s films aren't my favorites but I feel the need to see them just to check them off my list. Anyway, on to the good and bad of this picture. The good the direction is great and the actors mostly do fine. Bogart and Edmond O'Brien (who won an Oscar) are the standouts. The bad it's talky, long, dull, full of clichés and mostly unrelatable and unlikable characters. I've never been overly impressed with Ava Gardner and that trend continues here. This is one of those plights of the rich, famous, and attractive soapers. It's not terrible of its type which admittedly is not a type I'm crazy about. There is an audience for it, however, and it's rated fairly high on IMDb. So I won't say that it isn't worth seeing. If you are a big fan of Ava Gardner's or if you like these types of movies, you should definitely check it out. "},{"Title":"An unsavory stew of leftovers . . .","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" . . . from THE SUN ALSO RISES to SUNSET BLVD., Ava Gardner's THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA makes one yearn to see the Jennifer Coolidge version of C!NDERELLA again. At least there weren't a dozen foreigners mangling the English language in the latter flick. A color film with Noirish pretensions, THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA telegraphs its big reveal from miles away, and pulls all of its punches more than any ROCKY movie. It tries to be all things to all people, but ends up being a pale imitation of everything in which it chooses to dabble. Gardner's Maria character is way too inscrutable to follow in the footsteps of A STAR IS BORN. Viewers do not appreciate being bludgeoned with the Eurotrash metaphor of castrated nobility any more than Maria does here on her wedding night. Humphrey Bogart as Maria's confessor Harry takes an apparent mid-movie chemotherapy break, which is quite jarring, as it replaces the best thing this feature has going for it with the unintelligible gibberish of substitute voice-over narrators. THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA is a gab fest from the get-go, but at least it begins in spoken American. Oscar winner Edmond O'Brien is a hoot as the sweaty Oscar Muldoon PR flak, but he's not around enough to save this misfire. "},{"Title":"A new face","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner), the star of three pictures is dead.Her story is told by a few men that knew her.We get to see how three men, wealthy Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens), publicist Oscar Muldoon (Edmond O'Brien) and writer-director Harry Dawes (Humphrey Bogart) have traveled to Madrid to see the dancer Maria Vargas.They're looking for a new face to star in the movies.And so Maria Vargas turns from a dancer to a movie actress.Being such a beauty she becomes adored by men.She's wanted by the rich playboy Alberto Bravano (Marius Goring) and Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini (Rossano Brazzi).The best relationship she has with Harry Dawes, but it's not one of the romantic kind.He has a girl in his life, and that girl is Jerry, played by Elizabeth Sellars.But the glorious Hollywood isn't such a magical fairy tale she expects it to be.It's far from it.Joseph L. Mankiewicz is the writer and director of this dark tale.Humphrey Bogart is perfect as the cynical movie man.Ava Gardner was a lady with the beauty and the talent.The chemistry between those two works brilliantly.The Barefoot Contessa (1954) shows Hollywood as it has not been showed too often. "},{"Title":"You will love it if you are a fan............","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you like the stars of this movie, watch The Barefoot Contessa as soon as possible because you will love it. Bogart is terrific in his weary-of- Hollywood washed-up movie director role. Ava Gardner is beautiful and the whole color photographic set-up is keyed to her complexion and overall look. Her acting is also very good in a perfect role for her.Edmond O'Brien deserved his Oscar award for his performance as a fast-talking PR guy. Little-known Warren Stevens is fine as a spoiled Howard Hughes type, and Brazzi is just right as the romantic Count.However, the whole movie is constant narration, by no less than three (3) narrators. If there ever was a movie dominated by the spoken word, this is it. I said Whew! as I viewed this and occasionally was tempted to turn down the sound and just look at the fine acting and beautiful cinematography for a few minutes, to rest from the relentless stream of voiced-over narration.This movie is definitely to be recommended, it flows along fine and is well put-together. The only flaw is that while the actual movie dialog is good, the added narration is way over-done. "}{"Title":"A movie that has aged very well","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers ahead! The film The Barefoot Contessa is an intriguing character study that is still firmly rooted in the classical Hollywood narrative. Told in a series of flashbacks from the start of the film, which opens at the Contessa's funeral. The film features a strong performance by Gardner, who shimmers in beautiful clothes as the strong willed title character. Bogart receives top billing, but really is in a role that supports Gardner.The film is weakened by its sudden inversion of Maria's fortunes, although the impending disaster is foreshadowed in a way that inspires anxiety in the audience. Gardner's character is maddening; she alternatively appears street-smart and worldly, yet at other times she is naive and foolhardy. The juxtaposition makes for an oddly rootable combination, although the foreknowledge of the funeral forces distance from the character from the audience. "},{"Title":"Great Acting and Plot","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After hearing about this movie for a long time, I enjoyed watching it this evening and am glad I did. Ava Gardner is stunning as the barefoot Contessa and Humphrey Bogart is quite believable in his roll as well. This movie is what movies were known for, great acting, great plot, written well, directed well and the end results is a movie that can be enjoyed. The movie built the characters well and you really feel like you know them and care about them. I didn't see the ending coming, which is marvelous and kept my interest. The scene where they are falling in love was so romantic! I just loved it! Probably one of the most romantic scenes in any movie I have ever watched. It was like a fairy tale, but not all fairy tales end happily ever after. "},{"Title":"Life every now and then behaves as though it had seen too many bad movies...","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The title suggests a more whimsical tone, but The Barefoot Contessa is anything but, instead it's a dark and dreary examination of a doomed Cinderella who would have been happier if left undiscovered. Ava Gardner portrays that Cinderella, rising from an impoverished heritage in a dysfunctional family to a life of Hollywood glamor and parties on the Riviera. Not once though do you get the impression that she enjoys any of it; even at her wedding the servants have more fun than the aristocrats.Told in flashback style through the eyes of three men close to the Contessa's career, the film is a savage indictment of celebrity phoniness and the corruption of money and power. Oddly, Humphrey Bogart's character, a screen writer and director, manages to make it through the entire affair with a semblance of dignity and respect. Battling his own alcoholism, Harry Dawes (Bogart) is believable when he challenges studio boss Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) and confronts publicist Oscar Muldoon (Edmond O'Brien) for the snake oil machinations of his occupation. Actually, O'Brien's performance is a mini standout for the picture, one that earned him a Best Supporting Oscar. Any scene involving his character makes you want to run for a shower.It may have been a line in the film, but if not, I like the comparison of Bogart's character as a 'fairy godfather' to Gardner's Maria Vargas. Harry Dawes is at the same time a participant and a watchful outsider in Vargas' career progress, with only his own good intentions for a reward. We get a good insight into his motivation when he pulls a fast one on Edwards by inviting three international film agents to a showing of the Vargas screen test. Now they all realize her star potential, virtually guaranteeing that she not be bullied into a one sided contract.Maria Vargas' own dreams never seem to mesh with her meteoric rise to stardom, instead she always longs for solace in the arms of a life partner who can bring about a happy ending to the Cinderella story. Instead, the hopelessly naive actress settles on an arbitrary solution to carry on the Favrini heritage that virtually assures her doom. Ultimately, the film dissolves into a dark and utterly sad finale for a character whose life worked out as if it had been the subject of too many bad movies. "},{"Title":"Simply Gorgeous to Watch","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Despite a rather silly overblown story this is one of the most visually beautiful films ever made, in no doubt helped by the glowing presence of Ava Gardner at her most gorgeous. Photographed by the great British cinematographer Jack Cardiff, this film was printed using the imbition process at Technicolor in London where the creative use of dyes &#150;quite unlike those used in America-- provided a richer, more subtle color palette that we normally saw in those days from Natalie Kalmus and her technicians at the Technicolor lab in Hollywood. The courageous use of figures in shadows and darkness is particularly impressive and must have inspired the Italian Vittorio Storaro who, many many years later, was to attempt many of the same color and lighting effects for the films of Bertolucci and Frances Coppola. "},{"Title":"Humphrey Bogart not well","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What bothers me in the film, The Barefoot Contessa, is that the Technicolor makes Humphrey Bogart look like he isn't feeling well. Since he died only three years later, the signs of ill health are clearly visible.The color adds weight to his face and makes his lines and wrinkles stand out. I prefer my Bogart in black and white, thank you.Ava Gardner, on the other hand, looks sensational. Her confident stride and her chin always up make her a stand out on the screen.I still have some unanswered questions about this film 1) How intimate are the Count and his sister? Does the Count have to squeeze that close behind his sister when they are looking at Maria on the beach? 2)Why didn't the sister do what every sister would do--tell Ava that her brother, Mr. Knight-in-Shining, really isn't ..uh... functioning?3)Why did the Count shoot both Maria and her lover in the shack or garage where the tryst was going on? 4) Was Humphrey Bogart warning Maria when he said that the Count was handling life on his own terms? Don't you think Borgart should have gone the extra mile to explain the implications of that for Maria?5) After Maria'sdrive back home on the rainy night, couldn't Maria wait until the next day to have sex with the pool guy before telling her husband some tough news about having someone else's baby? Please write back. "},{"Title":"Average - should have been better","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With Humphrey Bogart and Ava Gardner in a movie, one would expect a better result than this one. The characters also seemed cardboard, and surprisingly unsympathetic. I couldn't help but imagine that Humphrey and Ava had washed down a heavy dose of tranquilizers with a quart of scotch before each day's shooting. The Brazzi character isn't even cardboard - more like paper-thin. Pursuing Ava, he seems to be a virile, masculine Errol Flynn type; then, impotent, not only seems to be non-plussed by the sensual Ava character's seeking solace elsewhere -but takes extreme action, to say the least. The supporting characters and their actors were also disappointing. The shots of the European locations were the most interesting aspect of the film then, and remain so - in addition, they now provide us with a more nostalgic picture of Europe a half century ago.(Still rate at 7* -- 5* overall, but an extra one for Gardner and Bogart because of who they were.) "},{"Title":"World-Weary Bogart","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An ambitious film written for the screen by director Joe Mankiewicz, THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA is a long and episodic film that seems to paste together several short stories. The narrator keeps switching as we are shown several pieces in the life story of an enigmatic star named Maria Damato. She comes from nowhere, causes a sensation in 3 films, then dies. The film is framed by scenes of her burial. But what do we ever really learn about her?Ava Gardner plays the fiery Maria. We see her discovery in a Madrid night club, her squalid home life, and her unhappy marriage. We are told by the narrators that she is a star. We are told by the narrators about the murder trial of her father. Humphrey Bogart plays the has-been writer/director who helps discover her. He becomes her best friend and much of the narration is through his character.Edmond O'Brien won an Oscar for his manic and sweaty press agent. Rossano Brazzi and Valentina Cortese play the doomed Italian nobles. By the time they show up, O'Brien's character is out of the film. Even the millionaire producer played by Warren Stevens doesn't stick around long.Also notable are Bessie Love and Gertrude Flynn as members of the bored jet-set party, Marius Goring as the abusive boy friend, Elizabeth Sellars as Bogart's wife, Diana Decker as the drunk, Enzo Staiola (the kid from THE BICYCLE THIEF), and Tonio Selwart as the pretender.Bogart comes off best as the world-weary and cynical film maker who seems to understand the foolishness of fame, the limits of money and love, and the importance of dreams. Gardner is solid as the contessa and wears some outrageously vulgar gowns and jewelry. O'Brien is excellent as Muldoon, as are Brazzi and Cortese. Bessie Love looks great but has only a few lines.An impressive film with a lot of witty lines (Mankiewicz also wrote and directed ALL ABOUT EVE and A LETTER TO THREE WIVES). Certainly worth a look for Bogart and Gardner fans. "},{"Title":"The first fairy-tale about film-making","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nowadays, it has become a habit that the film industry tells stories about itself. I don't believe that it was already a habit in the 1950s, which makes this film absolutely interesting and stunning. Is it possible that it is one of the first critical satires on commercial film-making?The story-line is not pat at all, you can't tell for sure whether this is a comedy or a drama.Also, `The Barefoot Contessa' is a really, really beautiful romantic story, although the leading characters (Humphrey Bogart and Ava Gardner) do not have a love affair with each other. This film gives a notion of what real love means.It's strange but it's true I have never seen a similar movie before.  "},{"Title":"Frank Mank","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's been stated - often in these very pages - that film is a visual medium.  Nothing wrong with that until you start thinking about all those 'Movie-Quote' books that are gradually becoming a mini industry. Any genuine film buff worth his or her salt can quote a minimum of forty per cent of the DIALOGUE from 'Casablanca' but I've yet to hear even ONE gush over the opening montage despite the fact that it was shot by Don Siegel or talk in reverential terms about camera angles, pans, dolly shots, etc.  I am, of course, speaking about the buff-in-the-street, the genuine movie buff whose only object in seeing a movie is sheer enjoyment, as opposed to the academic and/or film 'scholar' who has chosen to make a living out of writing obscurely about film rather than stack shelves at Safeways. So, here we have a dialogue-heavy movie and given that the dialogue was penned by Mank - the man who gave you 'A Letter To Three Wives' and 'All About Eve', but remains perhaps better known as the guy who had the chutzpah to rewrite Scott Fitzgerald (Mank was producer on 'Three Comrades' on which Fitzgerald received his sole 'screenplay' credit) - we know going in that it will be out of the right bottle. In fact for some, myself included, Mank's name as writer-director was the major selling point though Bogie and Ava Gardner are not exactly chopped liver.  In the event it IS the dialogue that one takes away from this movie, none more pertinent that Oscar Muldoon's bitter sense of betrayal on learning that Maria has every intention of appearing at her father's murder trial ...'there WILL be a cornet solo on Wednesday night'. If the film is ultimately disappointing it is only because it promised an examination of a warts-and-all Hollywood, in the tradition of Sunset Boulevard, The Bad And The Beautiful, etc and changed course halfway through to concentrate on the eponymous character AWAY from Sunset and Vine.  Of course in one way you could argue that Mank was wise to adopt this tack because after all WHO or WHAT COULD compete with Wilder and Minelli who, between them, said pretty much all there was to say about Tinseltown Behind Closed Shutters. What remains is a richly cynical look at Hollywood and the Jet Set conveyed concisely via Bogie's voice-overs (so much for a visual medium) and a virtuoso turn by Eddie O'Brien which really DID deserve its Best Supporting Actor Oscar - from one Oscar to Another, as you might say.  Mank (Joe, that is) like his elder brother Herman, excelled at brittle dialogue and at his best (Wives, Eve)gave us durable masterpieces, this just misses but is still worth hearing, if not seeing.  7/10  "},{"Title":"flawed characterizations, problematic acting","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie has many scenes -- particularly most of the scenes where Bogart and Gardner are talking alone, other than their last scene -- where the characters are saying interesting, insightful things, but it's hard to believe that these characters are the kind of thoughtful, experienced, complex, intelligent people who actually would have learned these things in their own lives and thought these things themselves. Bogart, Gardner, and the two millionaires each needed to be established early-on as being more complex and conflicted. The fight between the two millionaires at the party didn't resonate because the trigger for it wasn't shown -- we walk into it after it's already degenerated into a shouting match -- and because neither character was developed before it started. The lack of any material in the script to provide this complexity meant that the actors appear wooden, but I think the script is more to fault than the actors; and it is not the dialog we hear that is poorly written (it is well written), it is the lack of developed characterizations that are the problem. I also fault the blow-hard toady publicist character -- he's the least intelligent character in the film and he is so consistently overbearing that whenever he's around, no other character can develop. Instead the other characters all have to listen to him blather on, boring us all. Imagine if there was such a character in All About Eve, it would ruin everything. The toady's decision to leave the U.S. millionaire to become a toady to the South American millionaire was totally uninteresting since it didn't represent any significant change in his life, and he himself wasn't interesting enough to care about anyway.The character of the Count is problematic for a different reason. He turns out to be a neurotic, deceitful jerk, at the end, but nothing he does before that establishes that this is what he is. To the contrary, in the scene where he needs water for his car radiator, he calmly walks into a gypsy camp and politely asks for water, appearing very comfortable with these people so far from his aristocratic class. He should have had hints of neurosis. And also in the casino -- he should have displayed little gestures or comments, a touchy flinching from a passing waiter, perhaps, that showed that all is not right. Or the pretender-to-the-throne character could've indicated not only praise, but a hint of trouble in his reputation. Instead the Count is presented to us as a perfect gentleman -- so much so that I simply couldn't believe that he would be such a cad as not to tell Gardner of his war-wound impotence until their wedding night. And then, to try to tell her by handing her his Italian military medical report -- and only then, that night, at that moment, he learns that she did not read Italian? Come on. He'd have learned that fact the day after they met, or whenever was the first time they went to a restaurant and she couldn't read the Italian menu. Or he would have learned it on dozens of other occasions, such as looking at a newspaper, or at books in his mansion. These are all fairly technical characterization issues that were all fixable, and that would have provided a much better movie - a movie in which the long speeches of the characters that we have in the movie as it is would have fitted naturally. As it is, the only really convincing and interesting character is the Count's sister -- she delivers a speech on the balcony, about the end of aristocracy, that is moving, and totally believable from such a character, and convincingly delivered by this actress. The other speeches in the film could have been equally effective, if only the characters delivering them had been developed so as to make them authentic. "}{"Title":"Ava's Film","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the strangest films I have seen in that both Ava Gardner, usually v bad, is very good as Maria, the heroine, and my hero Humphrey Bogart is acted off the screen by everybody else. This being so, I thouroughly enjoyed watching this wonderful movie. A classic tale of Hollywood,not as good as The Bad & The Beautiful, but still more watchable than the usual fare that is put out today. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, glamor strewn, atmospheric misfire.","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the strangest, most confusing films I've ever seen. Still, I've never been able to forget it. It doesn't really work, because the script is way too confusing to make for a satisfying narrative. Still, this strange thing has its own exotic charm. Ava was never more lovely, or sensual, and she's given able support by Warren Stevens, Bogie and Edmund O'Brien (in an Oscar winning turn as a venal, pushy Hollywood publicity man). The sensual decadence the international jet set was never more artfully presented. But still--what is this thing about? Is it a rags to riches story? An indictment of Hollywood commercialism,or is it just a critique of human nature in general? The ending is unbelievably strange. Ava, a young girl of gypsy background, has become an international star. Then she chucks it all to marry the man of her dreams (a rather gloomy Italian Count, played by Rossano Brazzi.) She goes with him to his Italian palazzo, thinking she's about to become a happy housewife. Then he tells her that he's impotent (a war injury). She flips out, runs away with the gardener, and gets pregnant. He, of course is furious and kills them both. Crazy! We are meant, I suppose to think that this is high tragedy, but its all too unbelievable to register as a serious work. Why didn't she just get an annulment (quite doable in Catholic Italy, given the circumstances). Why does he lie to her--does he think his condition doesn't matter? He kills himself, of course. What is the writer saying? Is this a comedy of errors? Still the sheer dreaminess of it all is fascinating--the doomed star, the doomed husband, all that glorious sensuality suddenly snuffed out. Another unpleasant negative message comes to mind, is Mankiewicz telling us that a woman like Maria Vargas (Ava) deserves to be destroyed because she violates the marriage contract? It is all very very 1950s, and so fascinating that it should be remade (but with a drastically tightened up and more credible script). A real curio from the latter part of Hollywood's golden age. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a long and at times tedious film. It could be called a woman's search for love, but it is really the film-maker's search for a story. That it is strung together via flashbacks inserted in the contessa's funeral is merely a way of admitting as much. The film does have one brilliant technique -- that is, the repeat of a scene we have already seen, shot from a different angle, and, this time, explaining via providing background what the scene means. I don't know of any other film that has ever used this device. The film feels as if it has been written. The dialogue -- particularly Ava's and that of the showdown between the two rich men at the party -- conveys dry ink, not spontaneous speech. The film could have been edited by about a half hour, and Ava's long-standing relationship with her cousin needed to be clarified or eliminated. Bogart's heated objection to the cousin and the relationship was pointless -- something left in that ended up making no sense in the context of the outcome. And the outcome was radically unconvincing. But to explain why would be to inflict a spoiler upon my summary. "},{"Title":"Roshamon perspective","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was the first film I remember to use the multiple point of view technique generally known as the Roshamon Gate device; several witnesses tell a story from differing angles. Ava Gardner's character is revealed in subsequent voice-overs by Bogart and O'Brien as they stand in the rain at her funeral. It has the same weltschmertz tone as Durrell's Alexandria Quartet and Burroughs' Naked Lunch--both works that present a mosaic picture of lives too impacted and too wanton to be seen directly.The monochrome Europe of 1954 is a character actor no less than the others. It's frenetic streets and flashbulbs will become magical elements for Americans in La Dolche Vita and 81/2 and Roman Holiday. But Ava is the star in retrospect; she is never more desirable than seen through the eyes of her lovers. "},{"Title":"A very loose and improbable screenplay, from which Bogart is too often absent","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is hard to understand how Mankiewicz got any more work as a director after this messy, incomprehensible bundle of improbabilities and disconnects. Performances on the whole are good. Ava Gardner is gorgeous, but Bogart seems restless and uneasy, and one suspects he knew what an absurd picture was shaping up, and wished he were elsewhere. After working on so many masterpieces under the direction of John Huston, he must have wondered what in the world he was doing here, and much of the time one feels this.Nonetheless, this great actor is almost always a huge presence on the screen, and, vacant as the picture is, there are a few scenes between him and Gardner, and between him and Edmond O'Brien, that are fairly strong. But don't go out of your way to see it; you'll be disappointed.Patrick Watson "},{"Title":"Intelligent dialog but a bit forced and contrived","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The initial cynical, world-weary tone of the script caused immediate associations with Sunset Boulevard and the scene with the Howard Hughes-like studio owner with Aviator (interesting that Ava Gardner had a relationship with Howard Hughes), but otherwise this melodrama had a stagey and forced feel for me.I did not like the overuse of voice-over that served to distill and spoon-feed what we are supposed to gather from the story. At times, as in Maria's courtroom scene, I was hungry to actually hear what she said, not Harry's voice-over of what he made of it.Still, Harry and Maria's scenes are worth watching, and the intelligence of the script in these scenes in particular make the film worthwhile viewing. "},{"Title":"The worst of Hollywood - should be a 1","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here's the story a dancer becomes an actress; she meets and marries a count, who discloses after they're married that his dick was shot off; he later catches her with the gardener and shoots them both.This is Mankiewicz as usual so bad that it's painful to watch. How bad is it? Even Humphry Bogart can't save it. It's embarrassing that Mankiewicz kept getting away with these turgid films.There's no chemistry between any of the cast; the story goes along on it's own - none of the character interaction leads anywhere; at various points there are lengthy discourses between characters; on top of all this there is a pointless narration.There is no reason whatsoever to watch this movie. It will leave you with fewer brain cells. "},{"Title":"All About Ava","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Barefoot Contessa, The (1954) *** (out of 4) Director Mankiewicz was clearly trying to recapture ALL ABOUT EVE with this scathing look at Hollywood. The film starts off at the funeral of actress Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner) and then we take a look at various characters there and we then flashback to their connection with the beautiful woman. We learn that director Harry Dawes (Humphrey Bogart) was given a project by millionaire Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens) and they were looking for a fresh face and found Vargas. However, the lady doesn't play by the rules of Hollywood and over the 128-minute running time we see her eventual downfall. THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA is an extremely well-acted film and there are certainly some great moments but I think the film could have been better had it followed the less is more aspect. The film certainly isn't the first to show the downside of fame so the extended running time really wasn't needed and I felt that after the first hour the movie really started to lose focus and goes off in a few different directions and none of them are all that interesting. I think after Vargas gets involved with a couple rich men is when the film started to slowly fall apart. It's not that these scenes are bad but they're just not all that interesting and you can't help but wish that at least fifteen or twenty-minutes had been chopped off as it would have helped the pacing and I'm sure it would have helped with the dramatic structure. I thought the first half of the movie was extremely entertaining and especially the first few scenes between Bogart and Gardner. The set up is that Gardner is well aware of the director and wants to know if he can work some magic and make her into a good actress. The dialogue is so great and the actors sell it so well that you can't help but feel as if you're hearing a real discussion. I thought the actors did a remarkable job because the lines are so simple yet they ring so true in regards to trying to achieve fame and wondering if it's worth taking the risk. This section starts off in Gardner's dressing room and then continues a bit later at her house when Bogart makes one more attempt to get her. I also thought the film did a good job at showing how miserable all these people were. Most people look up to Hollywood, their stars and their filmmakers yet this film clearly wants to paint a picture that most of these people who millions want to be are nothing more than unhappy people. Bogart turns in another very good performance from this late stage of his career. His laid back nature really brings a terrific father-like figure to Gardner and their relationship and chemistry is terrific. Gardner is pitch-perfect and this is certainly one of the best performances I've seen from her. She has no problem with the accent and God knows she's beautiful enough for the part. I thought she brought a lot of emotion to the character and really made you feel for her. Stevens is also extremely good as the rich wannabe dictator and Edmond O'Brien is almost too good as the press agent. The movie lets you know in the opening moments that we're not watching a happy movie and I liked the approach but I still think less is more. The few questions with the screenplay can be overlooked because this is a terrifically made movie that looks extremely good and the performances make it worthy enough to watch but at the same time it should have been so much more. "},{"Title":"Fantasies of a faux queen","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ava Gardner is at her most stunning in BAREFOOT CONTESSA, but the movie and players surrounding her are so bad as to make the film virtually unwatchable by a modern audience. Gardner plays a gypsy who moves up in the world as a consort to the rich and powerful. Directed as if by a closet queen like Douglas Sirk, the movie alternates between sweeping Italian cinematography and confusion about whether it's a drama or comedy, with some of the most stilted dialog you will ever hear. All of the men, excluding Bogie, come off like simps -- they're all foreigners, which helps explain it. Too bad there wasn't some nudity; it might have helped. The closest we get is a fully clothed Gardner doing a slinky dance in a gypsy camp while a young Rossano Brazzi watches. "},{"Title":"Some biting dialog but lacks the vitality it should have had...","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Compared to the scripts for ALL ABOUT EVE and A LETTER TO THREE WIVES, this film scripted by Joseph L. Mankiewicz is not in the same league. It's a fascinating study of an enigmatic woman who remains an enigma to the very end. AVA GARDNER, while effective as the free spirited woman who is turned into a world famous star by a controlling producer (Warren Stevens) and a renowned director, HUMPHREY BOGART, is never quite histrionic enough to give more than a paper thin characterization of the confused, searching woman. She is photographed effectively by Jack Cardiff, who does a masterful job on the whole production, but the actress seems almost bored with her role at times.EDMOND O'BRIEN won a Supporting Role Oscar as Muldoon, an obnoxious and sweaty publicity man, but he's given better performances elsewhere. This was his lucky year. Some of his monologues would have been better if they were edited just a bit.The story takes Maria Vargas from a sleazy nightclub joint in Madrid to the cream of society in a world of glamor where she is clearly the most glamorous creature the camera can find. Bogart does a passable job as the director who tries to act as her conscience. Personally, I liked him better in his rugged film noir detective roles.All in all, an interesting glimpse into the lives of these people, but lacking the bite and savage wit that it only occasionally manages to convey. The ROSSANO BRAZZI episode is a bit sudsy and hard to take, but he does a nice, quiet job of conveying his inner torment.Summing up It's an uneven film, enlivened by some interesting scenes but a script that is too talky for its own good. "}{"Title":"Soulless","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You can't really dive into film without encountering the Mankiewicz brothers. Here we have writer-director Mankiewicz creating a character who is a writer and director, a very good one. Like Woody Allen, his writing is better than his directing. This is a soulless movie with a bad rhythm, but the writing is expert. Its written in the neonoir form with the role of fate and the prominence of the narrator. A device here is that the narrator shifts among three men, the director, the publicity man, and the monied count who marries her. Mankiewicz's flaw is that he only has a few cinematic devices in his movies (here a statue, shoes and rain), and he glues them together with long, complex speeches with allusions that carry through the movie. He wisely hides much of that in the words of these narrators. Its a sign that he understood himself and his craft.I suppose there's much to say about the conventions of neonoir, but I won't here, except to advise you to look for three things the trial, the party with the gypsies and the sexually curious boys who seem to be in the background a lot... And how similar they are.What interests me more is the highly reflective form he's chosen. It is a movie. It is about the movie business. And within that, it is about a woman with a Cinderella -Prince Charming fantasy. There are many, many moments when the script's lines talk about this not being a script or how closely it follows a script. The characters here are drawn from real film life and filmgoers would have recognized most of the main characters.Both Mankiewicz brothers toyed with self-reference and other folds, but this and the earlier All About Eve are the most extreme.Bogart smokes. Ava has breasts.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Great Writing, Disappointing Movie","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** I don't know how I went so many years without seeing this film, but when I finally saw it last night on cable I was disappointed.Yes, Ava Gardner was beautiful, but her Spanish (the accent and when she spoke the language) and her lengthy monologues on love and desire, especially the Barefoot monologue she has with Bogie near the beginning of the film, were overwrought and not at all convincing. I realize the movie was made in the fifties, however the smoldering looks she gave all the men and the veiled sexual references throughout the film -- and the absurdity of her husband handing her a letter (A LETTER!) on their wedding night describing his war injuries -- made me laugh out loud several times. (Note to movie fans even in the 1950's that would have been grounds for an annulment of the marriage, ESPECIALLY in Catholic countries like Spain and Italy. I don't care how much she supposedly loved him. To stay in a sexless marriage would go against everything the audience has been shown about her character up to that point.) Most of the writing and the dialogue was fabulous, but the execution left a lot to be desired. We are given very little reason why her father shoots her mother, for instance, other than to foreshadow her own demise. (Since when is it a surprise that poor peasant families scream at each other in movies? And since when does that lead to murder?)The scene where Edmund O'Brien tells his boss where to get off was great, and Bogie was, well, Bogie. He was fabulous and convincing, but all in all, I wasn't that impressed. I wish someone would do a re-make so the sexual situations and tensions could be clarified and the music updated for the screen -- the full orchestration was tedious, frankly -- but knowing the movie business today they'd probably cast someone like Mischa Barton in the title role and screw it up even worse. "},{"Title":"Would only watch this once..","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As a Bogart connoiseur, I was pretty surprised that I struggled to get thru the film.It was as if, Humphrey himself didn't enjoy making this picture..I realise now, he wasn't the main role - which still doesn't mean it can't be good, however the 2 hour picture lacked charisma and punch so many other Bogart pictures do pack.As others mentioned, it is very heavy in dialogue and while some very cool lines were said, it was just not memorable...I can't think of one scene I could quote.The story itself I suppose has a lot going for it, even if it's totally unrealistic and would be unlikely told in this style again.If you do happen to pick it up, just don't expect any 'Sahara', 'Casa' or 'To Have & Have Not'..~Paul Browne. "},{"Title":"Intriguing but confused and ultimately soulless (or is that soleless?)","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bogart lobbied hard for his role, and comes close to pulling it off.  This movie seems to attempt to mix and match styles and plotlines from A Letter To Three Wives, Miracle of the Bells, The Red Shoes, Le Grand Illusion, and Mrs. Skeffington.  Huh??? Only Edmond O'Brien comes off perfectly in his Oscar-winning role.  And he and Bogie as co-narrators are the only characters whose souls are not cordoned off from the audience as if by panes of glass.  Brazzi, in particular, is an aloof and distant aristocrat who walks through the film in an ugly trance.  Whose idea was it to cast normally likable Warren Stevens as an arrogant bully of a business mogul?  His curiously enigmatic performance works against Ava Gardner's necessarily enigmatic one.  Were Adolphe Menjou, Edward G. Robinson, and Lee J. Cobb all simply not available?   Finally, the camerawork is monotonously film-noir-ish despite the fact that in many scenes, an opulent style would have been far more appropriate and would have given the dark scenes far more dramatic impact.Altogether, this is interesting to study as a cinematic student but tedious and off-putting to someone tuning into TCM expecting to be entertained by a Bogey movie. "},{"Title":"A Problematic Movie..(vague-mini-spoiler)","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agree that the actors are good - especially Bogart & O'Brien. Yes, Gardner is wonderful.  I would recommend this movie, especially for the great dialogue! It was great almost all the way through... However...after that.... wow. I understand that it is dated, but it was a shock to feel the atmosphere of the early '50's so strongly - i.e.  McCarthyism & Anti-feminism "},{"Title":"Another tragic tale of the independent woman","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a well made movie with quick, snappy dialogue and a glamorous star. Ava Gardner looks beautiful and her acting is strong but I have a problem with a movie that punishes women for having sexual needs and desires. Ava plays Maria who lives in fairy tale world of her own making and when she finally finds her Prince she is deliriously happy but that happiness is short lived. Her Prince, as it turns out, is unable to satisfy any sexual needs that she may have. And she learns this on her wedding night when it is a too late to back out. Maria chooses to have an affair and this affair so infuriates her deceitful and selfish husband. Once again, Hollywood has told a cautionary tale about a woman who dares to be free with her body and her sexuality. A crime of this weight can only mean death. Watch out ladies. Tread lightly and all will be fine. Humphrey Bogart is also very good as her friend, director and 'Godfather'. "}]