[{"Title":"Completely Unexpected","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"86 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Humphrey Bogart heads a superior cast in this tale of a gang of swindlers who seek to covertly purchase African lands rich in uranium--but this is not the tough film noir you might expect the script by director John Huston and Truman Capote upends the tale to create one of the most wry and wicked comedies going, and a remarkably fine cast follows suit with a host of eccentric performances.Although Bogart does not look his best (this film was made toward the end of his life), he offers an understated yet very witty performance as Billy Dannreuther, the man the crooks hire to make the land purchase. His leading ladies, bombshell Gina Lollobrigida and an unexpectedly blonde Jennifer Jones, are equally effective in the roles of Bogart's cheerfully pragmatic wife and the pathological liar with whom Bogart becomes romantically entangled. But the big news in this film is the supporting cast. Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, Ivor Barnard, and Marco Tulli give drop-dead-funny performances as the largely incompetent foursome behind the landsnatch scheme; Edward Underdown (as Jones' long suffering husband) is simply the most completely ludicrous Brit to hit the screen since 1930s screwball comedy; and all the cameo players nail their roles to perfection.It would be unforgivable to give away too much of the story, but suffice to say that one wrong turn leads to another. The film never overplays its hand, maintaining a low key tone that sets off the wickedly funny script to delightful effect. Some viewers may not get the joke--much of BEAT THE DEVIL requires the ability to appreciate covert humor--but those who do will find the movie bears repeat viewing. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Amazing how clueless some people are","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"91 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you're a classic film fan, you're going to come across this film sooner or later. And chances are, being a fan of how movies were made back in the day, you'll understand what these creative folks were going for. It's a satire/spoof! It's not a blatant attack on movies of similar genres (a la Naked Gun), but a subtle one because THEY PLAY IT STRAIGHT. And therein lies the genius of this film. It's a satire that's played straight. Even though the actors, bless their hearts, seem like they're sometimes about to bust a seam speaking the lines, they are intentionally trying to be serious. Every cast member, especially Edward Underdown and Robert Morley (as Chelm and Peterson), understood and delivered their lines to perfection. The men of this world most in need of a beating up are all so incredibly large... Or something like that. Hell, Bogart just sat back and let the humor flow all around him. And good old Jennifer Jones. The old Selznick factory product finally gives a performance that's not artificial. What's amazing is that renowned Italian actress Gina Lollobridgia took part in this production. My theory is, she didn't know what the hell was going on. They gave her the script, told her to play it seriously, and didn't clue her in on the joke. There had not been a film made like this before, and there hasn't been one made since. Perhaps this film has served a lesson to studios over the years. Sometimes, I think some of todays satire/spoofs do venture close to Beat the Devil ground (Zoolander), but none of them ever reach it for fear of the audience not getting it, as I understand most of Beat the Devils audience of 1954 did not get it. Imagine Mike Myers playing Austin Powers straight, and not trying to be funny in all the situations he's in. To me, that would be immensely more funny. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Dry Humor","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Most of the reviews of 1953's Beat the Devil regard it as a Humphrey Bogart picture. Certainly his company produced it, but it is truly a John Huston film. Huston's legendary dry wit suffuses the whole enterprise from start to finish. Essentially, a comedy of errors, Huston's script, co-authored by Truman Capote, also serves up wry social commentary on a range of subjects from social position to the industrial world's exploitation of Africa, a place near and dear to Huston's heart. Jennifer Jones' prophecy that Africa will become an ugly place with all those holes, has long since become a reality. A brilliant cast, with Bogie playing his typical world-weary existentialist, spiral avarice and misconception into hilarity; a comic exposition of the proverb, What a tangled web we weave . . . Often criticized for being unrealistic, Huston's and Capote's comic script has none-to-funny real parallels in the present day debacles of Enron and WorldCom. In Beat the Devil, greed and deceit are brilliantly juxtaposed to reveal the ultimate folly of even the most devious criminal enterprise. This is a superior black comedy that plays even better today than it did 52 years ago. "},{"Title":"Bogart himself called it a mess.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"58 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The plot, if you can call it that, concerned a group of six stranded adventurers in an Italian port whose plan is to buy up some East African land that supposed1y contains uranium&#133; Double-crossing quickly becomes the name of the game as Bogart and his fellow conspirators (including Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, Gina Lollobrigida, and a seemingly endless parade of bizarre characters) outdo each other in inspired crazy way&#133; Bogart, trying desperately to maintain his composure, delivered such priceless lines as 'I'm only in on this because the doctor told me I needed plenty of money. Without money I become dull, listless, and have trouble with my complexion. But his lines weren't the only offbeat ones&#133; In a room where he's being questioned after being captured, while a firing squad goes about its routine work outside, he is asked straight-faced, Now tell me, do you really know Rita Hayworth? The film is one of those rare items that viewers either seem to love or hate, no middle ground accepted&#133; and declared that only the phonies thought it was really funny&#133; Many reviewers thought the whole thing was a tasteless joke and decried the waste of time, talent, and money&#133; In any case, Bogart gave an immensely satisfying performance in his tongue-in-cheek role and the film itself has now become a regular attraction in Bogart film retrospectives&#133; It is also an excellent example of how much Bogart had matured as an actor, since it is not easy to overcome apparently inept material and still give a performance with some meaning and substance&#133; "},{"Title":"A Spoof That Works After a Half Century","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hadn't seen this film in a long time and I'm glad to have caught it again. It's at the apex of black-and-white barely tongue-in-cheek comedies with a stellar cast that had a blast making the film.Jennifer Jones, beautiful as always, seems barely able to stay inside her role, laughter threatening to break out at any moment.  Humphrey Bogart has a recurrent quizzical Am I really doing this? expression.Tied in with a gang of bumbling crooks seeking a fortune in uranium in Africa, illicitly of course, Bogart, married to a cute Gina Lollabrigida, falls in love with a faux English gentleman's wife as fast as his spouse goes for the supposed representative of the landed gentry. Of course cuddling and sweet words substitute for sex.Robert Morley, always funny, is the putative leader of a gang that can't get their act together with Peter Lorre shedding his customary menacing stare for a busman's holiday as a gangster with a sense of humor.The action ranges from beautiful Italy to a placid sea voyage aboard a rickety tub commanded by a rum-soaked moron whose Italian expletives are not understandable but who cares?  The main characters, shipwrecked, wind up on an African shore where they're greeted by what today are embarrassingly stereotyped Arabs (I cringed at one of the European's comic invocation of Islam but then the movie has to be taken on its own terms and time, right?).The resolution is lame - the characters all look ready to leave the set and get drunk before undertaking a new film.  But this is one of the best spoofs of the noir genre and what makes it fly is the ensemble of first-rate actors in roles neatly the opposite of those they were usually seen performing.Rent it! (Please) "},{"Title":"the sub-par quality of this film detracts nothing from a great story","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is the funniest thing I have ever seen. Its very talky, and the plot is thick with double crosses, etc from the four crooks, and of course Bogart himself. Marco Tulli as one of the low-life criminals has a face worth a thousand words. Just seeing him with Peter Lorre, Robert Morley and Ivor Barnard is too much. They all look so incredibly guilty together. The extremely Proper Englishman played by Edward Underdown is a pleasure to watch as he reluctantly interacts with Bogart and co. turning up his nose at their nefarious activities. The plot itself is well thought out and at the same time absurd so you'll never know what to expect, but when it happens you may chuckle and rub your hands together thinking that's perfect! Its that kind of movie. This is a comedy for all us Bogart buffs and fans of film noir who enjoy a break from drama to laugh at our beloved genre. People have complained about the picture quality, which I admit is not what it could be considering it was filmed in 1953. However, its not as bad as all that. It's only that the film has deteriorated a bit. The original camera work and audio work shines through the years of neglect this filmed has had to live through. All in all a hugely under-rated film, which I strongly recommend "},{"Title":"Very good off beat comedy, beware of bad prints.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beat The Devil is one of Bogart's more unusual films. Scripted by none other than Truman Capote and John Huston, it is a very entertaining, offbeat noir satire (quite a description). Upon first viewing a lot of the humor may get lost, but view it a second time, and you can not help but laugh out loud at many of the jokes.The cast is absolutely top notch. Bogart is perfect as Billy Dannreuther, a man who has a friend that will line him and his associates up with some land in Africa that is rich with uranium.  It's always nice to see Bogie prove that he had a great sense of humor, and didn't mind poking fun at himself. Jennifer Jones, who, for some reason, always reminded me of Vivien Leigh (in Streetcar)in this picture is terrific as Mrs. Chelm. But it is Robert Morley who steals the picture for me.  Sometimes menacing, sometimes charming, he is a delight to watch.Huston and Capote have done a great job of blending the different genres without letting them get all caught up in each other. I do wish that the final scene was written a little better, but the movie is still a lot of fun.Caution - because the film was allowed to enter the public domain, there are a lot of really lousy prints out on the market, even on DVD.  If you want this film for your own collection, do yourself a favor and spend a couple of extra dollars and buy a good print.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Devil's Advocacy","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Do you like New Yorker cartoons? I ask because I've decided that's a pretty good way of predicting whether you will enjoy Beat the Devil. If the wryly, dryly humorous cartoons in The New Yorker have a tendency to make you go That's not funny, or I don't get it, then chances are you will not get this Humphrey Bogart feature, nor will you think it's the least bit funny. New Yorker cartoons make me smile - even laugh - and so does Beat the Devil, which I think is a deliciously absurd spoof of the international intrigue movie genre. It didn't start out as a spoof, but that's how it turned out under John Huston's direction. Co-starring with Bogart are Jennifer Jones, Gina Lollabrigida, Peter Lorre and Robert Morley. The plot, such as it is, has to do with uranium-rich land in what was then called British East Africa and the efforts of an unsavory quartet of characters to get their hands on it. They've enlisted the help of Bogart, a mercenary type who lives in an Italian coastal village with his wife (Lollabrigida). Their names are Billy and Maria Dannreuther (yes, it sounds like people are saying Dan Rather). Bogart and his associates are waiting for a ship that will take them to Africa. Also hanging about, waiting for the ship to sail, is a British couple, the Chelms. Harry (Edward Underdown) is a fairly stuffy sort who appears to be a gentleman of means; Gwendolen (Jones) is a flighty character who uses her imagination more than her memory. There is some major flirting between Billy and Gwendolen, while Maria has an eye on Harry.Part of the fun is seeing the way the cast plays the droll Truman Capote-John Huston script almost straight. Also fun is watching how the characters react, usually with disbelief, to what the other characters are saying. Bogart plays the kind of character he does so well, the less than ethical, but still basically moral, world-weary rogue. Lollabrigida makes for a sexy wife; even more remarkable is how well she plays her part, considering that her English was extremely limited, forcing her to recite most of her lines by rote. Peter Lorre and Robert Morley make for a hilarious pair of crooks, but the real delight of Beat the Devil is blonde-wigged Jennifer Jones, playing a ditz who can't keep her lies straight - and doesn't even try to.Still, the film's humor is at times elusive, and may be too slight for some (most?) people's tastes. Those who don't find Beat the Devil at all amusing are in good company; Bogart himself is quoted as saying, Only the phonies think it's funny - it's a mess. Then again, Bogart did have his own money tied up in this film, which was less than a hit.(Small spoiler) If you do watch Beat the Devil, note the name of the associate producer in the opening credits; it comes up again later. "},{"Title":"Shoddy production","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"37 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've tried, and tried, and tried, and have now given up trying to figure out the appeal Beat the Devil has to a certain clique of film fans. There's no denying its surface appeal. Bogie, Huston, Capote, Lorre, Jones, et al, but I'd have to agree with Bogart who called it a dog. It's not exciting, it's not funny, and it's not appealing to the eye. The shoddy production values (at least for a film with a cast, director, and writer of such high calibre) were apparent to many critics of the time, so the video and DVD releases probably look no worse than the film did in 1953. The fact that the copyright holders (Bogart's company co-produced) let this fall into the public domain may be a clue to what they thought of it. "},{"Title":"The Last Huston - Bogart Collaboration","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film has become a favorite with cultists. It's a matter of tastes, for I have yet to really like it. But every now and then I do give BEAT THE DEVIL another chance to see if it is better or worse than I have believed. It always remains somewhere stuck at the point of neutrality that I began at.For a film that starred Bogie, Lollabrigida, Jennifer Jones, Robert Morley, and Peter Lorre, and was directed by John Huston, and had a screenplay by Truman Capote based on a novel by James Helvick (Claude Cockburn), it should have been better than it was. But it is like the bits are better than the whole. Morley and his entourage walking around the deck of the freighter to Africa in the morning, soaking in the sea air, while he disses Mrs. Chelm (Jones) is very amusing - but it is less than one minute of the film. The reassuring First Officer saying not to worry to the passengers, than they hear an explosion, and he returns to inform them that the boat is sinking is amusing too. But the tempo of the amusing segments are split by long periods of characters running around doing rudimentary actions. Pauline Kael was right when she said that the odd thing about this film is that if you see it from the start to end, every one of the scenes look like they belong in the center of the film. Bogart's production company took the loss at the box office. He blamed Huston, and never worked with him again.Bogart was wrong to say it was a mess that only phonies would claim to like. He had a contempt for certain types of intellectuals. But it was certainly in need of some pruning and strengthening in the script. Capote obviously enjoyed spoofing some of the situations. Witness the business of the limousine driver (after the accident) being denied a demand for compensation for the loss of the limousine, and making an impassioned speech sounding from a left wing play. But he probably was not quite ready to do a complete script. He might have made the transition scenes briefer than they became. What remains does hold your attention, but it does not make for a consistently satisfying movie experience. "}{"Title":"Film-noir twisted into a unique and witty comedy","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm surprised at the lack of positive reviews written here for this witty film-noir spoof. The movie is certainly conceived in standard noir fashion, based on a story about colonial exploitation which is ripe with opportunity for double-dealing and triple-crossing, and populated with a cast of stereotypical film-noir characters. But then something strange happens. It's as if the characters are given self-awareness. Because these would all be boring and mundane people in real life, they live out their fantasies by embracing the limited nature of their scripted alter-egos and playing them to the extreme. This is how superficial, cardboard-thin film-noir characters might behave if forced to live in the real world without a script to guide them.The story is about several travelers who meet in port while waiting for a ship to take them to Africa. Three unlikely criminals - the committee - are on their way to pull off a uranium swindle. Their hired agent, Dannreuther, is the reluctant but ever capable leading man, married to a beautiful young Italian who dreams of being English. Harry Chelm is English to the point of absurdity. He is every bit the exaggerated epitome of a British aristocrat, except that he lacks the wealth and title to actually be one. His wife, a charming mythomaniac, manages to convince everyone else otherwise. Complications arise when this group is confined to a small port and then to an even smaller ship. The three criminals scurry about like a pack of mismatched meerkats. Robert Morley is absolutely hilarious as the criminal mastermind cursed with a face and body completely incapable of hiding even the smallest emotion. Peter Lorre has some wonderful scenes playing an unflappable, philosophical German named O'Hara. Jennifer Jones, Gina Lollobrigida, and Edward Underdown deliver outstanding comedic performances while Bogart effortlessly cycles through every leading character he's ever portrayed. I don't think it will spoil the film to point out that the uranium deal is nothing but a MacGuffin. The real value of this movie is the understated comic situations and mannerisms which arise when the characters are allowed to break free from the restraints of standard film-noir style. They do so in a totally natural manner using their own self-awareness but still restricted by the limited personalities and abilities of the stereotypes they represent. The results are unique, unpredictable, and completely charming.  "},{"Title":"an extraordinary satire","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To not appreciate Beat The Devil is to not appreciate the English language. It's impossible to go one minute through the film without sterling quotable dialog (thank you Truman Capote). One of my favorite moments is when ex-Nazi Ohara (Peter Lorre) tirades Bogart and Lollabrigida. Bogie says It smokes, it drinks, it philosophizes...The Italian representative of the malevolent quartet headed by Robert Morley was the role model for Roberto (I love Bobby Frost) Begnini in Jim Jarmusch's Down by Law.If you could elevate the dialog to a serious suspense film, you'd have a Hitchcock production. Unfortunately if the satire was remade today, it would be titled something like Who's Scammin' Who. "},{"Title":"Maybe I missed something ... but ...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"27 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched Beat the Devil last night from a DVD I purchased recently, and frankly I wasn't impressed.The reason I bought it I suppose was the cast list ... an excellent roll up it is too.  But really I did not enjoy the film ... it just didn't seem to get up off the ground at all.  Before I knew it, there was what I imagined to be a climax towards the end, then it finished.  (Maybe I should watch it a few more times?)The stars put together for the film seemed to play out their Hollywood stereotypical roles well ... Peter Lorre as the nervous little illegal alien type, Robert Morley as the pompous Englishman, etc.  I really don't see how Bogart could have been a sex symbol in this one?  Gina was just gorgeous as always.I did enjoy the humour of the film though.  It was subtle but it was there. Some quite funny moments.The DVD I have is of a very poor quality.  The picture is very scratchy and the sound is bad.  (Gina was extremely difficult to understand in some parts.) "},{"Title":"Odd...I call it odd","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The above is a line from Black Widow that I've always liked. I guess it was called to mind because Beat the Devil is a black comedy. Well, it's an odd comedy anyway.The 1953 film had absolutely everything going for it, including Humphrey Bogart, Jennifer Jones, Gina Lollabrigida, Peter Lorre, Robert Morley, directed by John Huston with a screenplay by Truman Capote. What more could you ask for? I don't know, but something.The story concerns crooks stuck in Italy while they wait for a steamer to be repaired that is to take them to Africa. There, they will buy land that has uranium on it, though no one knows that. They're allegedly selling vacuum cleaners. Also traveling on this steamer are a British woman (Jones) and her husband. He supposedly is landed gentry in England, but is he? The crooks wonder what he's up to, and the wife keeps changing her story.There is a lot of humor to be had in this film - the situation is funny, the denouement is wonderful, there is some witty dialogue and there are clever situations that go on during the film that are amusing. The problem is that nobody cares.The film, which looks like it cost about a dollar to make, is too disjointed, and there are long sections where nothing interesting happens.One of the posters, who really liked the film, commented that people don't like it because the actors aren't going for laughs. Well, I'm not one of those people. Acting 101 says you don't go for laughs - you play the situation and the characters for real and the laughs happen. That doesn't mean, however, that you pace it like it's Long Days Journey. Bogart had wonderful timing no matter what, and it's evident here, particularly in the car scene on the way to the restaurant, where the character's glibness is apparent. The problem isn't in any person, it's in the direction. I don't believe Huston had a sense of comedy. He could be brilliant, but this was not his thing.Still, Beat the Devil is worth seeing, but it's hard to keep your attention on it. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie.  Full of tone.  Romantic and sensuous.","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the nice things about this fine movie is that there is nothing else like it. It pulls you into a world once real and now almost entirely forgotten. I particularly like the interlude where Bogart and Jones stroll along a vast, empty Italian balcony overlooking the sea so far below. Another nice touch is when they come up to the ship they took to the lifeboats from, not sunk at all, just like in Lord Jim. It is too subtle for today's tastes, and that just makes it all the more delicious. Very fine. If you like Chuck Norris or Steven Segal stay away from this one---you won't like it. But if you like Gene Wolf, well, it feels very much like that. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK... some people are exaggeratedly unimpressed with this film, and who can fault them for not discerning the sophisticated ripples of humor and innuendo floating back and forth throughout. Another reviewer mentioned that if you like New Yorker cartoons, you'll like this movie. I concur. It's not slapstick, and for those who mentioned Arnold Schwarzenegger products in comparison, well, you've got my sympathies.Aspects of the story ARE absurd; Hey, it's a comedy! Expecting another Maltese Falcon could be a problem for some viewers, so stick to that genre if you're jonesing to see another noir flick. The subtle comedic turns are really great. Bogart is very funny, as he is in almost all of his films. He does seem tired, but I found that endearing and genuine.In point of fact, this is a wonderful, surprising film that gets some unexpected performances out of, especially, Jennifer Jones. My DVD version of this is made from a dreadful original print, and if anyone has a lead on where to get the full 100-minute version on DVD, let us know, OK?It's truly a shame that Beat the Devil slipped into the public domain, and we can only hope there's a clean original out there somewhere for a full-length, remastered DVD.cheers! "},{"Title":"An imaginary conversation ..........","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An imaginary conversation between John Huston and Humphrey Bogart..........Huston and Bogart are enjoying a warm summer cruise, replete with cigars and brandies, just off Catalina on Bogart's boat -- Santana. Huston speaks.Huston I've got a great idea for a new movie, Bogie.Bogart Let's hear it, John.Huston I'm going to remake all of our movies together -- 'Casablanca,' 'Across the Pacific,' 'Key Largo,' 'Treasure of the Sierra Madre,' 'The African Queen' -- into one movie! What do you think?Bogart Sounds interesting. Go on.Huston Then I'm going to add elements from some of your other movies -- 'The Maltese Falcon,' 'To Have and Have Not,' 'The Big Sleep,' 'Passage to Marseilles,' 'Dark Passage,'  'The Night of the Iguana,' 'Prizzi's Honor'.....Bogart 'The Night of the Iguana?!' 'Prizzi's Honor?!' What movies of mine are those?Huston Oops! Sorry. I forgot. I haven't made those movies yet.Bogart That's OK, John. Here, have another brandy. Go on.Huston Well, you see, Bogie, the idea is to take all of the best elements from all these movies and combine them into one all-time blockbuster Humphrey Bogart movie.Bogart You're beginning to get my attention. Keep going.Huston Casting. For your wife, I've got in mind this beautiful, young Italian actress -- Gina Lollosomethingorother. She even speaks English! And the public won't mind that she's more than 30 years younger than you. They never do. And for your OTHER love interest, how does Jennifer Jones sound to you?Bogart Hey! I get TWO beautiful love interests in ONE movie. WOW! Now you're REALLY talking my language, John-Boy. Refill? Huston Thanks, Bogie. I know I can get Lorre for it and Morley's available, too. They're two of the main supporting characters.Bogart This is just sounding better and better all the time. How soon can I read the script?Huston Just as soon as we write it.Bogart Who's 'we'?Huston I've hooked up with this unknown young writer to write it. Name's Capote.Bogart Kaput?Huston No, no. It's pronounced 'ca-PO-te.' I guess he's Italian. He's from New Orleans or someplace like that. First name's Truman.Bogart They named him after the president?! How old is he -- six?Huston No, no, no, Bogie. Truman isn't the only Truman named Truman. I mean, president. I mean, person. Oh, Bogie, you're getting me all mixed up.Bogart OK, OK -- relax, John. If this 'Kaput' guy is good enough for you, he's good enough for me. By the way, what are we calling this stupendonova, anyway?Huston Dead Heat with the Devil.Bogart I think I'd much prefer to beat the devil.Huston Good idea! We'll change it to 'Beat the Devil.'Bogart Well, John, the sun's going down. We'd better head for home. One more cigar and brandy for the trip back?Huston Sure, Bogie. Let's celebrate. We're going to make the best Bogart movie that has EVER been made.Bogart You said it, John. This baby absolutely cannot miss.Oh ..... yes ..... it most certainly can!     "},{"Title":"Amusing, sure, if not a `classic.'  But enjoyable enough for what it is","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pleasant enough piffle &#150; a mildly diverting comedy-adventure hybrid &#150; Beat The Devil has a belated reputation as the last word in dry drollery, an arch in-joke to whose hidden hilarity only the select and sophisticated few are privy.  Humphrey Bogart didn't think so, saying  `Only the phonies think it's funny. It's a mess.'  But one of the movie's formidable champions, Pauline Kael, picked up on his line and trumped it `Yes, but it may be the funniest mess of all time.'  Bogart may be the shrewder critic here; after all, he sank his own dough into the venture, which went down like the ill-starred freighter upon which the cast put to sea.  Only latterly has it has it acquired dubious `classic' stature.Beat The Devil (directed by John Huston, who co-wrote the script with the up-and-coming Truman Capote) improvises a loose, comic riff on the international adventure genre.  Thankfully, it's not unhinged or absurd enough to be a dreaded `spoof,' and emphatically not one (as it's become a commonplace to assume) of the noir cycle.  In narrative, point of view and look (there's no coherent visual style), Beat The Devil bears not the slightest resemblance to film noir, which, by this point, was slyly starting to parody itself anyway.   The plot's McGuffin concerns uranium deposits in central Africa, which draw a disreputable and multinational crew of opportunists who hope to strike it rich by sticking it to their various motherlands.  The joke lies in that these bumblers keep getting taken in by one another's cover stories, pretensions and lies &#150; and falling for one another's spouses.  It's not a bad joke, but it needs a bit more rigor to flesh it out from a skit to a feature film.Of course it's funny, if haphazardly.  A blonde Jennifer Jones, juggling an English accent as if with a mouth full of prunes, comes straight out of screwball comedy (who knew?), and Gina Lollobrigida (when not waylaid by her own attempts at English) occasionally matches her.   Peter Lorre, looking much like the short and rotund Capote of the future, again displays his instinctive flair for subversive comedy (his past in sinister parts limited what might have been a long and enjoyable career).  And Robert Morley, crisp as a toasted if unusually thick crumpet, serves up every line like a butler bearing a decanter of vintage port.  Bogart, on the other hand, can't persuasively hide his age and infirmity, and his role as debonair lover and man of action demands superhuman suspension of disbelief (maybe he was just thinking of all the money he was going to lose). Yet having fun doesn't have to mean that plot is irrelevant, some boring old rule made to be broken.  Part of the movie's folklore is that Capote stayed up all night writing the next day's pages; maybe so, but didn't he or Huston know where they were going?  Once the characters wade up on the North African shore to be apprehended by `Arabs' (surely, Bedouins?), there's no more pretense of a cohesive script or a halfway satisfying storyline.  Finding a plausible way out of all the intrigue, however tongue-in-cheek it might have been,  wouldn't have killed the laughs, now, would it? "},{"Title":"Cheerful, sharp-witted fun","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BEAT THE DEVIL is like a bright, shiny, mechanical toy - one of those pictures where the viewer is best off just sitting back and watching it go. If you can do that, you'll find yourself smiling through the entire experience, thanks to the flawless dialogue and the sheer joy the performers exude at being able to take part in this lark.Bogie unwillingly teams up with a quartet of bungling small-timers to connive their way into ownership of a heretofore unseen uranium mine in Africa.  From this point onward, it's pretty much a case of If something bad could happen, it will with hilarious results.This is Bogart at his most relaxed and low-key, you can tell he knows as well as we do that this bunch of losers is never going to get it together well enough to hit the big time.  But like us, he finds it effortlessly amusing, and is willing to sit back and enjoy the show.  Gina Lollabrigida supplies the spitfire, Jennifer Jones is maddeningly attractive, and Robert Morley and Peter Lorre supply big smiles as two crooks who are only about one-half as smart as they think they are.  Watch for Lorre's brief dissertation on the meaning of time! "},{"Title":"All pomp and no circumstance","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As Hollywood production became ever more individualised, with writers-directors and producer directors working independently of the studios, there were many pictures which attacked Hollywood conventions themselves. In Beat the Devil writer-director John Huston gives us a farcical take upon the recurring heist-gone-wrong subgenre. The style now known as film noir may not have been fully defined and discussed until the 60s, but any keen-minded cinemagoer can recognise a trend. And if a trend can be recognised then it is open to parody.It looks however as if Beat the Devil may have begun life as a serious thriller. All the business about criminals going after uranium mines in Africa seems fairly original, and is certainly not an archetypal noir plot. And really there is no grand satire here, and no lampooning of specific genre clichés. The story's premise is essentially serious, yet is written with comedy characters and comical mishaps along the way. It's if Huston and his co-writer Truman Capote simply gave up on following it through and instead decided to have a bit of fun with it.Nevertheless, Huston shoots this one with the same thoughtfulness and precision as he would a drama. As always, he favours set-ups which keep multiple actors in shot together, background and foreground, minimising on cuts between them. With some neat movements he is able to bring the right person to our attention at the right moment, for example the scene in which we first see Humphrey Bogart and Gina Lollobrigida. Bogart paces back and forth in the foreground moving in and out of shot, while Lollobrigida is in mid-shot but sat in the same place, meaning the two of them take turns to be the focal point without lots of editing or obtrusive camera-work. Another neat touch is when the major approaches Bogart at the outdoor table, starting off in the background as if an extra, until it becomes apparent he is worth taking note of. Huston's technique is about elaborate arrangement to keep all characters involved and performances intact without the distractions of film form.And here there are many characters and performances worth looking at. As befitting for the tone, this is a real outing for oddball supporting players. Peter Lorre is at his very best, all shiftiness and lethargic mannerisms, while Robert Morley gleefully portrays his blustering and conspicuous opposite, and Ivor Barnard hams up his caricature of the puffed-up ex-army fascist. It appears these three fine character actors have been told to simply let go and play their familiar types to the hilt. By contrast, lesser-known Italian Marco Tulli gives a far more restrained performance, but he is in a way the funniest. There's a great moment somewhere in there while the other three are bickering and he is just sat in the middle of the shot, quietly blinking away like some daft meerkat. Even the tiniest roles are filled &#x96; often impeccably &#x96; by comedy players, many of whom are not well-known in English-language cinema. There's also a great turn by Jennifer Jones, at her most comical and almost unrecognisable as an eccentric Englishwoman, showing superb comic timing as she casually beats her husband at chess. With so much scene-stealing going on, it's possible to forget this is ostensibly a Humphrey Bogart movie.But while Beat the Devil is full of quirky characters and has numerous funny little moments, it doesn't have much point beside that. The humour is never exactly hilarious because the whole thing really doesn't seem conceived as a comedy. There's not enough of the interaction between crazy characters and sane world which drives wild comedy (such as the Marx Brothers), because in Beat the Devil virtually everyone and everything is crazy. Meanwhile the only completely straight characters (Bogart and Lollobrigida) are simply dull marginalised figures who exist separately from the comedy yet don't have the strength to perk up their end of the movie. Overall it is just a chaotic mess that happens to be worth a chuckle here and there. "}{"Title":"Huston at play.","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Few things in movies are harder to put into words than the weird charm of Beat the Devil. There's something lordly about the heedlessness of it all, as though John Huston had woken up one morning and, over eggs, decided to fritter away a few months, a couple of major stars, and the entire budget of a film on a practical joke. It's difficult to imagine the theater audiences who took this for an attempt at a serious thriller; any possibility of melodrama vanishes at approximately the moment Robert Morley, lower lip jutting with purpose, marches into sight -- his scowl is burstingly comic, and his crisp, supercilious phrasing seems to give the movie a whole extra level of energy. Despite Humphrey Bogart's famous irritation with the final product, he seems wry and laid-back here, and quite clearly aware that nothing of importance is happening. Jennifer Jones is unexpectedly funny and likable, Gina Lollobrigida is luscious (her pursuit of the stiff-necked Underdown is winning), and then of course there's Peter Lorre, who was one of those magic ingredients one could add to any film to make it better. (Where are they now?) He, Barnard, and Tulli make a hilariously seedy lineup -- Surely one look at our faces should convince you we are honest men!What else? The plot is the shaggiest of dogs, the production looks cheap and somewhat patchwork, and the ending is -- well it just sort of ends. Yet as a sort of cinematic prank on the part of Huston and Truman Capote, who concocted some genuinely classic dialogue, the whole manages to be great fun. There ought to be more movies like this, but who has money to throw away? "},{"Title":"Not your grandfather's Bogart nor Jones picture","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The other comments from reviewers capture the plot. I won't add mine.'Beat The Devil' has got to be the most edgy movie Bogart or Jones ever attempted. Jones performance is a revaluation in her range of talent. Actually, considering 'Portrait of Jenny', 'Love Letters', and 'Song Of Bernadette' a startling revelation. In 'Beat The Devil' she more than matches Morley and Lorre in comedic brilliance. Very few actors could play a saint and a complete ditz with precision and believability.Bogart was no slouch in comedy e.g. 'All Through The Night' and 'We're No Angels' may have called this movie, 'A mess', but it is a fine mess and a tribute to Bogart's ability.-30-  "},{"Title":"OK, It's not Bogarts' best but...","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I found the ending of Beat the Devil to be abrupt and with seemingly poor production values. Almost as if the production company had filmed in sequence and used up their budget, making it necessary to tie it up and put it in the can NOW! With that exception, it is a very amusing film with an exceptional ensemble cast. Particularly memorable is Jennifer Jones as a somewhat ditzy and overly imaginative (British?!?) beauty. And that is quite an accomplishment considering the other female lead is played by Gina Lollobrigida. Clever writing and impressive performances by the supporting cast makes this an enjoyable and interesting movie especially (but not exclusively) for Bogart fans. "},{"Title":"A decent enough Bogart film; sort of boring at times, but a good one to own on DVD like I do...","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rare essential cult comedy starring Humphrey Bogart as a smuggler working for a band of criminals who meet up with a pair of traveling newly-weds who are off to Africa in search of diamonds.There are some plot twists, but the film takes its time a bit too much. A good film to watch just for appreciation, although not quite great. I'll tell you who is great, though Peter Lorre re-united Bogart again 11 years after Casablanca!4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Great movie in need of restoration","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't be dissuaded by the comments of those who didn't get this movie. If you are the type who can appreciate cutting satire delivered with a straight face, and if you agree with me that the journey can be as or sometimes even more enjoyable than the destination itself, then you will absolutely love this movie. All-star cast, great director and a script containing some of the wittiest, now-classic dialog on film. Many have previously commented on the major highlights and the basic plot of this film so I won't waste any more space on that. What I will address are the complaints regarding bad prints of this movie on DVD, where perhaps the true source of some of the negative complaints spring. For whatever reason this movie has become public domain, which means many various, cheaply-made DVD releases by fly-by-night studios saturate the market.  I wish I could tell you which is the best print but I don't really know because I haven't seen them all. I did purchase one by Passion Video which was a terrible print--analog transfer, extremely dark and, worst of all, the sound lagged well behind the video making it look like some cheaply dubbed foreign b-movie. Needless to say I returned it for a full refund and--also needless to say--avoid this one at any price. I have heard the Laserlight edition is a fairly decent transfer, if you don't mind putting up with the logo at the bottom of your screen. What I would request from others who post complaints regarding poor DVD quality is to let others know which studio print you purchased/rented. I think it would really help the rest of us out there still looking for a decent copy. I only wish some studio with the means (Criterion--hello?) would give this gem of classic cinema the restoration and remastering job it desperately needs and certainly deserves. My feeling is the glut of these cheap copies on the market make a decent restoration effort financially untenable. sigh. "},{"Title":"A pretty bad movie","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sorry, but I didn't get it. In fact, I barely even realized it was a comedy. I did enjoy the acting, particularly Peter Lorre, Gina Lollobrigida, Jennifer Jones and, of course, Humphrey Bogart. However, I did not find the movie itself to be very funny or entertaining. When it did finally end, I thought there was a lot left to be desired.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Real Jumble Of A Film","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ebert likes it. It's in 1001 Movies To See Before You Die.Yet I rather detested it.'Beat The Devil' has a complicated jumble of a plot that really never gets off the ground or involves the viewer. Bogart does some nice work in a mess of a film but you can tell his heart is not really in it. Peter Lorre and Robert Morley are quite good in support. Jennifer Jones has an interesting role as Gwendolen Chenn, and wears a blonde wig (and looks remarkably like Vivien Leigh in 'A Streetcar Named Desire', it has to be said).There are a few choice pieces of dialogue, with Jones getting some good lines, yet this is an uneven mess. I don't even want to go into that much detail about it (and I'm a pretty keen and wordy reviewer) because I just can't be bothered. I love classics, Jones and Bogart, yet I hate this film. "},{"Title":"An often misunderstood film","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Upon its release in 1953, Beat the Devil was rejected by audiences everywhere and flopped at the box office. The strange thing is that although it was considered a flop in '53, audiences nowadays consider it a classic! I guess that's because it was before its time. It is considered a screwball comedy, but the humor is extremely low-key and went straight over most audience's heads.Four lowlife crooks as well as their associate (Bogart) are en route to Africa, but are stuck in Italy because of their broken down steamer. They plan on making their way down to East Africa to some land rich in uranium and make off with it. While there, Bogart and his wife (Gina Lollobrigida) meet up with a British couple (Jennifer Jones, and Edward Underdown) who plan to run a coffee plantation in Africa. All eight get back on the now repaired steamer and once again set out to Africa.... the boat then floods and everybody abandons ship. They wind up on the shore and are taken in by a violent band of Arabs. They refuse to let them go until Bogart bribes their leader by telling him that he can introduce him to Rita Hayworth!Still with me? Well, if not, that's OK. The movie is so screwy and that's what makes it so fun! Bogart's last words of the film are classic! "},{"Title":"30's tragedy returns as 50's farce","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The script is based, more or less, on a novel by James Helvick, pen name of Claud Cockburn, who was an  influential Left journalist in the 30's and possibly a  Comintern agent and/or a British Secret service agent. (An interesting guy, who wrote a couple of volumes of very amusing, utterly unreliable memoirs. His son Alexander is the Nation columnist; his sons Patrick and Andrew are also  journalists; his unacknowledged daughter (born out of  wedlock) Sonia, who died last month, was the mystery  writer Sarah Caudwell.)Characters drawn from Cockburn's past appear,  transmuted, in the screenplay. Major Jack Ross, with his menacing advice not to worry, is in part based on a  decayed English aristocrat whom Cockburn met in New  York in the 20's, and Mr. O'Hara, with his uncertain nationality (O'Hara is a tiptop name among Chilean  Germans) and ingratiating manner, seems to be drawn  from Otto Katz, a Communist publicist of the 30's who was executed in the 1951 Czech purge trial (his confession implicated the notorious British agent, Claud Cockburn).Cockburn moved to Ireland (County Cork) after the Second World War, where he met and became friends with John  Huston, the director of Beat the Devil, who had earlier worked with Bogart on Maltese Falcon and The African Queen. They got Truman Capote to do the screenplay,  hired the damndest set of character actors-Peter Lorre, Robert Morley, Ivor Barnard-and two second-rank  actresses-Gina Lollobrigida and Jennifer Jones-and  headed for Italy, land of fun, frolic, and (not least) no US or UK income taxes. The story is a chaotic mess. Some commentators refer to the movie as a satire on the international intrigue genre, but it isn't (in my opinion) coherent enough to be a satire of anything. There are persistent rumors that Huston, Capote, and possibly Cockburn made up each day's shooting script in the morning without much idea of where the story might be going; Bogart said only phonies he probably said  'queers' like the movie, and it died at the box office.Why do I like it? The characters, the acting-Jennifer Jones  steals the picture, no small achievement-the pitch-perfect dialogue. (All the characters, including those with heavy  Italian accents like the ship's purser and the chauffeur, speak English in syntactically flawless, indeed elegant, complete sentences.) It belongs to a class of quirky,  language-drunk work-Importance of Being Earnest, TheStuffed Owl An Anthology of Bad Verse, S. J.  Perelman-that some people like while other, equally  intelligent and literate people stare at them in bafflement. "},{"Title":"Beat the Devil is for Huston/Bogart completists only","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had long read about this final John Huston/Humphrey Bogart collaboration being described as a comic mess that would eventually have a cult following as I found out when I checked out Cult Movies 2 from a library years ago. With a script by Huston and Truman Capote, a cast that included Gina Lollobrigida, Jennifer Jones, Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, and as a Scottland Yard officer, Bernard Lee years before he was cast as M in the James Bond series, I expected at least some witty lines and some amusing sequences. There were some of the former, my favorite being Lorre's about his character's last name There's plenty of Germans from Brazil with the name O'Hara. But many sequences fall flat and as the movie goes on, I found most of it boring. I fell asleep during the first hour when I tried watching it last night so I watched the whole thing a few hours ago and even when alert the whole thing makes no sense. So unless you're a completist of Huston or Bogart, I can't recommend this movie. You're better off watching their superior previous work. "}{"Title":"A Lot Of Intrigue That Leads Up To Nothing Much","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is, in many ways, a very strange movie. It features a great cast, headed by Humphrey Bogart and including such figures as Peter Lorre and Gina Lollobrigida among others and directed by the great John Huston. So, right off the top, it has a lot going for it, and, in fairness, for the most part the acting was decent enough, especially from Bogart. Having said that, the story itself was quite lacking in anything meaningful. Bogart plays Billy Dannreuther, some type of shady character (although his background was never really explained) who teams up with a gang of international criminals in a scheme that had something to do with uranium mining and/or coffee plantations in Africa (although I was never really clear on the details of the scheme, either.) The team (or the committee as they were sometimes referred to) meet up with a somewhat mysterious British couple - the Chelms - and everything becomes quite confusing, both for the characters in the movie and the viewer watching the movie.I was rather unimpressed with the female leads in the movie (Lollobrigida as Mrs. Dannreuther and Jennifer Jones as Mrs. Chelm.) Each seemed to fall for each other's husbands far too quickly and easily. There was some attempt at humour throughout. Some was effective, some not. The drunk ship's captain line was funny the first time; after that it became tiresome. The attempt at humour at the close of the movie was mildly amusing in an ironic sort of way. Nothing here really overwhelmed me. On the strength of Bogart's performance and the high powered cast, I'd give it a 4/10. In all honesty Bogie's wartime movies were far better from what I've seen. "},{"Title":"Mediocre flick; dreadful DVD transfer","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Old movies with grand stars are somehow immune from modern complaints, even when they are pretty bad. Beat the Devil has Humphrey Bogart, Gina Lolobrigida, Robert Morley (!!!) was directed by John Huston, and was written by Truman Capote--- For goodness' sake, this is a billing made in movie heaven! Alas, the movie is kind of lame. But who could come right out and say so? One really WANTS to love it, and revel in its window onto the long-departed glory days of Hollywood. But I am afraid that this particular window only opens up onto a stairwell, or some other equally uninteresting feature. The fact that the film itself and the DVD transfer is dim and blurry doesn't help much. Does the DVD look so bad because that's the best print extant? Or does it look so bad because the serious movie experts judged that the movie wasn't worth the price of restoration? Or does it look so bad because it really DOES look that bad? I.e., it also looked that bad in 1953 when it was first made? Dunno....There are many other great movies available on DVD from the bygone days. The issue of this totally unremarkable relic from the past does film rescue and restoration, and subsequent amateur film-library-building, a disservice! I wish there was a way to punish modern shlock-meisters for this type of transgression (e.g., see the absolutely DREADFUL DVD issues of such masterpieces as Fritz Lange's Metropolis, which besides looking horrible are nonetheless labeled as Fully restored! or Digitally remastered!--- all bulls..t, of course. It puts amateur collectors like myself completely off what could otherwise be an exciting enterprise.).And a way to reward those who put in the time and effort to do it right (Too many to cover the field adequately here, of course, but check out Casablanca, Citizen Kane, Arsenic and Old Lace, and The Big Sleep for examples of top-notch brilliance in movie re-mastering and restoration. Those DVD releases will take your breath away!). "},{"Title":"Painful To Watch A Dying 'Bogie'","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Watching a very ill-looking Humphrey Bogart made this movie too uncomfortable for me to enjoy. He looked terrible and his voice didn't sound the same, either. In other words, he looked like a man dying and knowing he did die within a couple of years after making this film, made it tough to watch.That, and accents by Robert Morley and Gina Lollobridida that were difficult for me to discern, made the film simply unappealing.Morely did his stuffy Englishman role well; Lollabrigida just had to be herself and let us guys ogle her while Peter Lorre played his normal mousy, nervous guy. The film also had the usually-likable Jennifer Jones. For such a great cast and two famous writers (Truman Capote and John Huston), maybe I expected a lot more, but who could blame me? This film just did not live up to my expectations and seeing Bogie in that condition was a real downer. It's hard to find this movie with a decent transfer, thus poor-quality visuals make it even easier to think less of the movie. I know that isn't fair, but it's a fact of life. Maybe a better print would make me look at this in a better light, pun intended. "},{"Title":"Outlandish satire/comedy filmed on location in Italy and Africa with all star cast","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Low-key and droll comedy by Truman Capote and John Huston dealing with a quartet of international swindlers named Peterson (Robert Morley), O'Hara (Peter Lorre), Ross and Ravello is stranded in Italy while their ship is being repaired. With them are the marriages Billy (Humphrey Bogart) and Maria (Gina Lollobrigida) Dannreuthers, further Gwendolen (Jennifer Jones ) and Harry Chelm (Edward Underdown). Meanwhile, Gwendolen is keen on Billy and the newspapers have just published this piece of news  'Colonial officer murdered in Soho' . The eight are headed for Africa, presumably to sell sew-machines but actually to buy land apparently full of uranium . As the plot's McGuffin concerns uranium deposits in a far country from central Africa .They are joined by others who supposedly have identical motives . But their steamer is sinked and they are shipwrecked and imprisoned by Arabs who put them on a firing squad .Delightful though irregular parody in which Humphrey Bogart steals the show using his wits , breaking all the rules and kicking virtually every cliché in the pants , as he relentlessly deceives , cheats ,laughs and lies . Amiable but sometimes lumbering satire goes on and on about the same premise . Seemingly endless list of character players includes a good support cast as Robert Morley as unlikely crook , Underwood as inept husband and of course the great Peter Lorre who adds surprising sparkles. John Huston's direction keeps things moving with laughs, he directed this sometimes hilarious, but mostly silly and baffling spoof of intrigue movies with ridiculous situations in the wake of ¨The Maltese Falcon¨and ¨Key Largo¨. The jokes come with machine-gun rapidly , though don't always work, there are so many of them that this comedy ends up with enoughs laughs for quite entertaining. It's a stupid movie but also funny and remains like a laugh-filled amusement. Filmed on location in Salerno , Campany ,Italy , Shepperton Studios, Shepperton, Surrey, England, UK (studio); and in Amalfi Coast, Amalfi . The movie hasn't the thematic unity of 'African's Queen', ' Asphalt jungle' , or ' The treasure of Sierra Madre' the John Huston's best . The picture has become public domain in which circulate several lousy copies . Many people , audiences and critics , in its 1953 exhibition eluded this offbeat film but subsequently became a cult favorite that it remains nowadays. "},{"Title":"It's a little on the silly side of insane, but what a trip. A serious bit of fun.","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beat the Devil (1953)A riotous, imperfect, silly, brazen, forward thinking, throwaway, brilliant spoof. For starters, you know something will happen with Huston directing Bogart. And throw in an aging bulging Peter Lorre as a German named O'Hara. O'Hara comes into a room and says to Bogart, playing a disaffected American, Why do you always make jokes about my name, huh? In Chile the name of O'Hara is, is a tip top name. Many Germans in Chile have become to be called O'Hara.And so there is a dig at a lot of stereotypes, most of them with shades of truth. The style of the film is not film noir, as many people say, but more just an intrigue or war time spy film. The most direct connection seems to be Huston's own Maltese Falcon, but even this is based on Bogart and Lorre appearing in both films (as well as a fun appearance in Beat the Devil by Robert Morely doing a kind of less pleasant Sidney Greenstreet). I sensed a lot of direct influence from Lady from Shanghai, an overlooked and frankly brilliant and daring Orson Welles film from a few years earlier. Check out the slightly surreal plot, the strange sequences of locations (land, boat, land, with an exotic overture in the middle), and the characters themselves, including Jennifer Jones as a kind of decorative female not unlike Rita Hayworth in Shanghai. There is even a man-to-man discussion of Heyworth in Beat the Devil between Bogart and a unlikely Muslim captor in a generally hilarious scene.The film is flawed by its own excesses at times, and by a kind of frivolousness that Welles, for one, avoided by making his film's excesses more formal and less literary. Huston, like Bogart, was literate by nature, as a lot of heavy drinking men were in those days, and the dialog, as brilliant as it is (and shepherded along by Huston and Truman Capote in tandem), isn't always in synch with the acting, and with the flow of events. So if we don't really expect anything from the plot, per se, knowing it's all just in fun, we come to expect more from the series of remarks, the twists of fate, and the yawning expectations of an audience used to very high quality writing and acting by 1953.I know some people who just can't finish watching this because it strikes them as phony and childish. Bogart might agree--he lost money on the production. But there are some great moments, and an ongoing repartee that works well, or works superbly, at different moments. I'd cash out a couple of actors for others more idiosyncratic, I think. But no one asked me, I know. Watch it for what it is. And check out Lady from Shanghai and see if you see what I mean. "},{"Title":"A real messy movie really.","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Guess this is what happens when you let a bunch of unexperienced people with the genre people make a comedy.So here we have a movie directed by John Huston, starring Humphrey Bogart and Peter Lorre, among others. Sounds like all the ingredients you need already to make a great movie with. Beat the Devil is however far from great really and actually quite the opposite. The movie is a failed attempt at making a comedy, simply because it did not had the right people for the job involved.Director John Huston had actually never directed a comedy before on his own and Humphrey Bogart just also ain't exactly the first name that comes to mind when you think of a good comedy actor of the '50's. Everything in this movie basically tells you that it did not had the right people at the right places. Even though the movie tries hard and it also does succeed at points, the movie it's timing is really off and it's story is incredibly messy, making the movie often more annoying than anything else really to watch.All other bad elements aside, it really was the story from which the movie suffered most. The story is needlessly complicated and becomes hard to follow. It has a whole bunch of characters in it, of which you just never know or understand what they are up to. The movie does has some good dialog in it but it seemed to care less about it's actual plot, that is such a muddled one.But well, yes when the movie does strike, it strikes rather well. I got some real laugh out of this movie at some points. It's a subtle movie with its comedy and its humor often is in its smaller things. I therefore just couldn't hate watching this movie no matter how poorly done and annoying the movie was at other points.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Desperate characters","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beat the Devil has a number of memorable characters. The best performances come from Jennifer Jones, excellent as the bright-eyed and eccentric Mrs. Chelm, Humphrey Bogart as the practical Billy Dannreuther and Robert Morley in an unscrupulous Sydney Greenstreet type role. My favorite among these was Jennifer Jones' energetic and amusing portrayal of Mrs. Chelm.The movie has a number of funny scenes and brilliant lines. However, the overall storyline was only average could have been stronger to bring out more humor. Humphrey Bogart said this film could only be enjoyed by phonies. I wouldn't go that far, but this is certainly not Bogart's best film. "},{"Title":"One of John Huston's weakest","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"         Beat the Devil is based on a novel of the same name by James Helvick. John Huston co-wrote the screenplay adaptation of it, like in case with many of his other films, this time with the help of Truman Capote. The film begins with an introduction of a group of crooks, who while stuck in Italy because of the problems with the steamer they are travelling on, learn of the existence of a piece of land rich in the uranium somewhere in South Africa, which might be bought by a very cheap price because of the present owners unawareness of the fact. Hastily they embark on a journey to the place, which, as they think, will put an end to their lifetime troubles by providing them with a considerable wealth for the rest of their lives. A peculiar Dannreuthers couple, played by Jina Lollobrigida and Humphrey Bogart, joins them in pursuit of this `noble' task obviously intending to share a part of this enormous wealth, which supposedly awaits our heroes there. Beat the Devil is a sort of cynical adventure comedy which thou features a superb cast of actors and is co-written and directed by brilliant John Huston, nevertheless fails to enter the quality category of nearly all of Huston's other films, still remaining a worth watching film with a number of fine lines in the dialogs and quite a good acting that makes one tolerate a rather weak story and other numerous flows. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Unimpressive","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wouldn't say this was a bad movie, but rather uneventful in my opinion. The only thing that kept me watching was the screwball element.  You never knew what might happen next, esp. with Jennifer Jones (Gwendolen Chelm).Overall, I wouldn't recommend this as one of Bogart's best works.  And poor Peter Lorre is old and fat in this one! "},{"Title":"What the Devil?","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's take a handful of hot chillies, three cups of chocolate pudding, a dozen fresh raw oysters, two tangerines, and a partridge in a pear tree. Fine ingredients all.  Then let's put them in a bowl and mix them up and bake a cake.  What do we get?  A big mess.  That's what happened to Beat the Devil.  John Huston directed it, Truman Capote wrote it, and Humphrey Bogart starred in it (along with Gina Lollobrigida, Peter Lorre and Robert Morley).  Fine talents all.  And when I try to watch the film, I keep thinking, What IS this?  The film starts in a small seaside town somewhere in Europe, I believe, with the characters running about sharing snappy dialogue concerning exactly what, I cannot fathom.  I have seen this sequence on television over the years at least five times.  I know this sequence well.  But I do not know what happens after, because I never watch more.  I have read that the film is a comedy.  Well, not only is it not funny, it isn't even  interesting.  It's confusing. It's unpleasant.  It's annoying. It's a big mess. "}{"Title":"JENNIFER JONES - COMEDIENNE","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a big Jennifer Jones (JJ) fan and have recently completed a video collection of all her 24 films including the two versionsWild Heart/Gone to Earth (1950).I therefore have had an opportunity to compare her very divers performances in each role.Now I think Selznick did JJ a great injustice by not producing/casting his wife in more comedy/thrillers like Beat the Devil.She obviously had a comic gift which comes over perfectly as the congenital, lying, obsessed Gwendolynne Chelm ...my Spanish nurse said....Apart from Cluny Brown (1946),it is a pity she was not cast in more comedy/thrillers like this instead of the nervy characters she often portrayed, she would for sure have had more hits where age was not critical unlike in say A Farewell To Arms (1957) in which she was too old to play effectively the part of Catherine Blakeley, the English nurse.Playing her role in Beat The Devil in a blond wig, she positively shines and I could not take my eyes off her even when La Lollo appeared in the same scene!Humphrey Bogart looks physically sagged down with the cancer which was soon to claim him in 1957 but he has some great lines from the pen of Truman Capote/John Huston.The more you watch Beat the Devil, the more comic it becomes.I must have watched it 10 times by now as there is always something I miss on the previous viewings.I especially liked the interview with the menacing Arab potentate, with all the castaways all held for questioning.Even here is a joke as he is obsessed with the American actress,Rita Hayworth and appears to have a pin-up of her on his wall! All the cast shine and parody the characters they represent.The snobby English gentleman Harry Chelm (played by (Edward Underdown) in reality a bloody refugee from Earls Court.The sinister German Irishman! (Peter Lorre) who has obviously taken refuge in South America - the traditional bolt hole for escaping Nazis after the collapse of the Third Reich.Comic baddy boss (Robert Morley) gives us a tour de force as Peterson - watch his wobbly double chins as he is harshly questioned about his purpose and reason for visiting the particular African country.The drunk excitable Italian skipper of the doomed vessel and of course the voluptous Italian firecracker played by Gina Lollobrigida.The line she has to Edward Underdown (who has a chill on his liver too tiresome) is I've brought you tea and crumpets, appealed immensely to my bawdy English sense of humour and I'm sure La Lollo did not realise the affect this line would have on an English audience as she was speaking her lines phonetically at the time!This is a glorious romp of a film.   "},{"Title":"Rambling with a few fun moments","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Various crooks, smugglers, con men and adventurers are trying to go to Africa to buy a new valuable material called Uranium. Peterson (Robert Morley), Julius O'Hara (Peter Lorre), the Dannreuthers (Humphrey Bogart, Gina Lollobrigida) and others are stuck in Italy as they wait for their ship to be repaired. Mrs. Gwendolen Chelm (Jennifer Jones) is fascinated with the group as she travels with her husband.Truman Capote is injecting this with lots of snappy rapid-fire dialog. John Huston is trying to shoot the idyllic location with lots of camera work. However this movie just lack a cohesive drive. The characters are all eccentric. There is a rambling quality to this. The story of this ragtag group wasting time at this Mediterranean port isn't that compelling or exciting. The movie feels like on hold for far too long. It feels like a lot of A-list talents playing around without much of a goal. "},{"Title":"An abundance of intelligence, nonsense and black comedy rolled out into a misguided metaphor.","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having much of the same talent as 1951's masterpiece The African Queen, this film comes off as a total contradiction in its entirety, giving a dark view of humanity at its most amoral and laughing at it at the same time. A group of strangers are crowded together on a steamer and something shady is afoot. At first, you really can't figure out what's going on, because every time that the writers drop an important plot point, a distraction occurs which moves it into a different direction. The film is alternately wise and confusing, one moment with leading man Humphrey Bogart standing out with me where he is informed that Hitler and Mussolini like leaders will soon destroy the world. Bogart simply states that he would like another year or two to continue to be miserable. That statement applies to how many people seem to feel today, a cynical society in an ever increasing dangerous world where unhappiness seems to be a better option than total oblivion.Replacing Sydney Greenstreet as the villainous fat man, Robert Morley is a total contrast to his fearful missionary in The African Queen. He's so instantly smarmy, you're surprised anybody even wants to be around him. Add in Peter Lorre (sadly a very undefined character) and two leading ladies (Jennifer Jones, highly resembling Vivien Leigh in A Streetcar Named Desire and the luscious Gina Lollobrigida, obviously somebody's kept woman here), and you have a dream cast. The remainder of the cast are cynical men who seem intent on creating more unhappiness, and while there are some surprising plot twists and sudden turns (people are believed to be dead, incorrectly it turns out) and everybody is in danger at all times. A ship's steward politely tells Bogart that the ship is sinking as if announcing dinner. It is obvious that John Huston had his tongue so far into his cheek he could taste last week's dinner, yet the inside joke wasn't let out on an unsuspecting public who, according to reviews, just didn't get it. I did, but it may not have been the filmmaker's ideas that I got, just my own visions of what the film said, at least to me.Along with another independently made Bogart film (The Barefoot Contessa), this is a film that doesn't necessarily work but with its star performances and a few dropped intelligent witticisms, can inspire some great thought. Otherwise, however, it is a pretentious bore. "},{"Title":"What Movies Used To Be","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a great example of well written script, great direction and great acting. Capote's comedic dialog is precious. Huston's directing is a good example of letting fine actors, act and the repartee between Bogart, Jones and the other players is smooth and effortless. Present day movie makers could take a lesson from how to construct a character-driven movie from this entertaining film and young actors should be obligated to observe how real professionals ply their craft. The romantic farces that we get know just feature good looking actors repeating script lines and adding little to the creative process. Reference any movie with Jennifer Aniston, Anne Hathaway, Matthew McConaughey or any number of other young stars and compare what they do to how Jennifer Jones and Gina Lollobrigida run through this script and you will see what I mean.At some point one feels like they are in the movie instead of just watching it. My only regret is that the DVD I watched didn't have subtitles. "},{"Title":"I just like to know who's making friends with my friends.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bogey himself called it a mess, but it's a delightful mess that doesn't spoil things by making it's characters go for outright comedy. The humor is in the cleverly written and subtly delivered lines, often catching up with you in the next scene and suggesting you hit the rewind button. The Alpha Video DVD I picked up probably offers a better copy than many reviewers in this forum have mentioned, I found it to be acceptable enough though slightly washed out.Bogart's character is Billy Dannreuther (uniquely pronounced like the famed newscaster's name), married to Gina Lollobrigida, and in cahoots with an international band of swindlers. They must be up to no good according to Gwendolen Chelm (Jennifer Jones), because after all, they don't even look at her legs. Gwen's husband Harry (Edward Underdown) fancies himself an upper crust Brit, who plays at it effectively enough to con the main hoods into thinking he's a member of landed gentry, instead of someone who's just landed.The crooks are a colorful lot, led by Robert Morley in what would have been the Sydney Greenstreet role if this were a class reunion. A dozen years since The Maltese Falcon seems to have filled out Peter Lorre's frame to ample proportions, while the rest of the evil quartet is rounded out by Ivor Barnard as The Galloping Major Ross, and Marco Tulli's Ravello. Each seem to have their own unique charm, except Ross, who relies on his swagger dagger a bit too much.While playing at international intrigue, the Dannreuther's and Chelm's also play at a little spouse swapping. You never completely figure out if Mrs. Chelm is off her rocker or not, but she describes herself best with - I'm something of a witch, my old Spanish nurse said I could have been professional. That's why the film's payoff with the bad guys led off in chains seems a bit forced, Gwendolen's soliloquy on her husband's disappearance sounds like the ramblings of a nut case. For reasons unknown, Bogey's character gets away with it, but what IT is, I don't know.Beat the Devil may be one of Bogart's quirkier films, but by no means his weirdest. On that score, I would point to Swing Your Lady and The Return of Dr. X, a bit hard to find since they're not commercially available. This one is at the far other extreme, a public domain film that can be found anywhere and everywhere, and worth the trouble of rounding up for it's offbeat cast and story. "},{"Title":"FILM NOIR SPOOF","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This glorious spoof of the film noir genre of the 1940's, has direction by John Huston, an ever evolving script by Truman Capote and starsHumphrey Bogart - HB (Billy Danreuther), Jennifer Jones - JJ (Gwendolynne Chelm), Gina Lollobrigida - GL (Maria), Edward Underdown - EU (Harry Chelm), Robert Morley - RM (Pierson), Peter Lorre - PL (O'Hara) and other notable character actors.Basically a group of rogues are vieing with each other to be the first to obtain a rich uranium deposit somewhere in British East Africa but we are never told where precisely.It was filmed on location in Italy and features the only other comic role of JJ, (her first being Cluny Brown (1946)) as a congenital liar, whose Spanish Nurse taught her all there is to know!.What a pity Selznick did not recognise the comic potential of his wife and instead of putting her in soulful dirges like Indiscretion of an American Wife(1952), he had developed her natural comic potential.Beat The Devil did not perform at the box office in 1953/4 when released but is now, thankfully, being re-evaluated by discerning film connoiseurs, achieving almost a cult like status.Being a strong amateur chess player, I particularly liked the scene outside the Italian cafe where JJ is duffing up EU again with an almost instant sight of the board, while chatting up HB.(Note to chess geeks - JJ plays much more weakly in A Farewell to Arms (1957) vs Rock Hudson!!).Incidentally HB liked to play chess himself when off camera.The plot twists & turns and being English with a bawdy sense of humour, I laughed when GL says to EU I've brought you some tea & crumpet while almost smothering EU in the eye with her... well you get the point! It is reported John Huston rather sadistically requested JJ to climb to the rocking crow's nest- a fearsome climb - to do her leg stretching exercises on the ship taking them to Africa.The gang, led by RM, hope she breaks a leg - & not in the theatrical sense!My favourite scene is in the office of the African potentate who is questioning the motley group of rogues.In reality all he wants to know is whether HB has met Rita Hayworth as he is a big fan!.If you look carefully you can see her pin-up on his office wall.The quivering of RM's various chins when he is threatened with torture, is a delight to behold.The trick of Nazis having escaped to Latin America after WWII, is lampooned by PL who insists everyone calls him O'Hara (our little Irish leprecaun!).Everyone seems to be having a ball.Look out for Bernard Lee playing his usual police inspector role.This was long before he shot to fame as M in the Sean Connery, James Bond series from 1962 onwards.I've noticed in memorable films there is usually a catchy tune somewhere and here is no exception as played by an Italian brass band.I even find myself whistling the pianola music played on the ship while Ivor Barnard is away with his stabbing swagger stick ready to bump off EU.I voted 7/10 for this film  "},{"Title":"Beware edited editions!!!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Actually a nice little film, an outstanding satire on the classic noir genre.  The main thing to be aware of is it is almost impossible to find a version on the market that is the original 100m cut.  Almost every version on the market is a bizarrely edited version that runs about 89m and completely alters the flow of the original cut.  If you can locate the 100m version, I think you will thoroughly enjoy this Bogart/Huston co-production. "},{"Title":"Threadbare but pleasant black comedy","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Shot a little too quickly and a little too cheaply, this pleasant little black comedy ends up a little threadbare. Bogart looks worn out, but puts in the effort. The heavy lifting is done by the support anyway, especially Jennifer Jones as the comically dramatic English traveler. Robert Morley provides the best laughs, especially when he's trying to talk his way out of difficulty with a customs official. And Lollobrigida looks terrific, even if her dialog is a bit thick. Actually, most of the cast's dialog is a bit thick, but they lend it international flavor you don't see now days. It's a bit too sophisticated for its own good, but fun while it lasts if you're rounding out your Bogart knowledge.  "},{"Title":"Turgid attempt at comedy.","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I understand that Beat the Devil has a following so I hate to say it's dull and pointless but that's how it struck me. I watched the whole thing about ten years ago and wound up merely puzzled by its positive reputation. I just watched the first half again, though, and my original opinion didn't change.It certainly OUGHT to be a success, given the good people in front of the camera and behind it -- Bogie, Lorre, Huston, Peter Viertel, Truman Capote. But all they seem to have come up with is a few memorable lines. Lorre has this ten second disquisition on time. What is time? The Italians squander it. The French horde it. To the Americans it's money, and so forth. But, Santa Maria, to sit through a whole movie looking for an occasional ten-second smile? The photography and sound are lousy. Bogart looks pinched and puffy. Gina Lollobrigida is easy to look at. She has the clean and perfect features of a department store mannequin. The rest of the cast is competent, with Jennifer Jones looking surprisingly exotic and sexy. The grainy and furry images on the DVD don't even hint at the magnificence of the Amalfi Drive.But what's the point? A handful of greedy uranium-seekers are trying to catch a ship from Italy to Africa and they get mixed up with a wearisome proper British couple. The ship doesn't make it.It calls either for a stronger story to support the odd witticisms, or enough witticisms to make a strong story unnecessary, and it has neither.If you watch it, good luck. I hope you're not as disappointed as I was. "},{"Title":"What a chaotic mess!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, let me say that the version I watched had at least 25 minutes of running time cut out, which did not help the plot continuity.However, the parts that were left in were excruciatingly lame.  Humphrey Bogart looked like death warmed over... Jennifer Jones' potrayal of a British femme fatale was her worst performance I've seen to date....at least Peter Lorre, Robert Morley and Gina Lollibrigida were entertaining.  I can't believe this film was directed by John Huston.  Wow, was this movie awful. 2/10 "}{"Title":"Overlooked Dark Comedy","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  During the early 1950's, John Huston did a film that was poorly received but has now become a cult classic.  This movie is the sleeper in the filmography of John Huston.  The director does an excellent job in poking fun at his own films.  I believe this movie was made ahead of its time.  I can see why it was misunderstood as most people at that time were either expecting a comedy or a serious but not a dark satire.  Humphrey Bogart is great as usual as he just stands back, acts cool while all the lunacy is happening around him.Beat the Devil(1954) is a magnificent comedy with plenty of ironies and plot twists.  One of my favorite parts is when one of Bogart's associates have trouble pronouning Peter Lorre's name.  Jennifer Jones gives the best role of her life.  It was co-written by the great author Truman Capote.  This movie like many of Huston's films deals with cutthroats who are out for the big score.  Robert Morley does a wonderful job in paroding the performance of Sydney Greenstreet of the Maltese Falcon(1941). "},{"Title":"Is This Claptrap Or What?","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For such a talented group of people who participated in creating Beat the Devil you would think they could have come up with a much better product.Truman Capote's script was witty and Humphrey Bogart did deadpan some of those lines effectively. But the production values were so shoddy I could hardly believe John Huston put his name to it. Mind you, his two previous films before this were The African Queen and Moulin Rouge and both of them had superb cinematography. Maybe part of the reason that Beat the Devil has become a cult item is that it looks like something shot with a Kodak. A lot of the bad horror films that became cult items have the same look to it.Bits of The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca get spoofed here, but not well. Robert Morley is somewhat amusing in his recreation of Sidney Greenstreet. Gina Lollabrigida is quite sexy, hefting those two weapons of mass destruction around.Actually my favorites here are Jennifer Jones and Edward Underdown the pretentious English couple whose pretensions nearly do them all in. Still it's not enough. In fact I'm amazed that David O. Selznick who was known for interfering in all of his wife films allowed her to even do this one. Didn't help her's or anyone else's career.I'm sure the cast was grateful for a Mediterranean location and a tax write-off for Bogart's Santana productions. Bogart himself thought little of the film and who am I to argue with Bogey. "},{"Title":"In my country the female lips may move . . . ","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  . . . but the words are not heard, says the North African honcho near the end of BEAT THE DEVIL. This was an apt summary of the thinking in that part of the globe when this flick tried to warn the world of coming events in 1953, and--if anything--it's even more true today. After pretty much every new Terrorist Assault on Civilization, a female apologist persuades publications such as The New York Times and USA Today to run her ode to Political Correctness entitled We're Not All Like THAT. And, just as John Huston and Truman Capote revealed 63 years ago in BEAT THE DEVIL, these female words invariably fall upon deaf ears in her community. Within hours, days, or at most, a couple of weeks, the latest feminine Mea-Not-Culpa-Dey-Culpa unleashes another wrinkle, whether crock-pot bombing, sidewalk beheading, or newsroom firing squad. In this story, narrator Humphrey Bogart listens to a few too many female lips, and winds up hoodwinked. Today Bogart's been dead far longer than he was alive, and the world has much less of the stuff that dreams are made of to go around, thanks to all the Hoodwinkers who don't want us to BEAT THE DEVIL! "},{"Title":"A spy-spoof starring Bogey!","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The fabled John Huston directs this Truman Capote screenplay. Billy Dannreuther(Humphrey) is part of a group of international crooks--Peterson(Robert Morely, Julius O'Hara(Peter Lorre) and Ravello(Marco Tulli) that are stranded in Italy trying to catch a steamer to Africa. Billy's wife Maria(Gina Lollobrigida),starving for romance, is a bit uneasy when her husband meets Gwendolen Chelm(Jennifer Jones), the feminine half of a British couple waiting for the same steamer being repaired. Counting Mr.Chelm(Edward Underdown), there are now seven people ready to set sail to Africa, all conjuring a scheme to beat each other to lay claim on land that is rich in uranium.BEAT THE DEVIL didn't start out well with critics and viewers, but looking back some think this black comedy to be the epitome of a 1950's spy-spoof. For some strange reason, my favorite sequence is the evacuation of the sinking boat. Why didn't Miss Lollobrigida get more screen time? Bogart was effortless.Other players Bernard Lee, Saro Urzi, Ivor Bernard and Mario Perrone. "},{"Title":"An enjoyably light Bogart feature","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Billy Dannreuther is working for a group of crooks; they are planning to sail from Italy then head to British East Africa where they intend to acquire land which they believe contains uranium. Their boat is delayed and while they are stuck in Italy Billy becomes friendly with Mrs. Gwendolen Chelm who, with her husband, are also heading to Africa; apparently to grow coffee. Gwen is an unusual character; constantly making up stories to make life more interesting; at one point she suggests that Billy and his associates are doctors planning to carry out immoral experiments on the unsuspecting natives. More dangerously she tells Billy that her husband is intending to get involved in the uranium business; this comment is overheard by one of the gang and soon they see the Chelms as a threat to their scheme; a threat that might need to be dealt with. As well as the drama there is also romance as Billy and Gwen grow closer while simultaneously Billy's wife, Maria forms a relationship to Mr Chelms.If one watches this film hoping for a gritty film noir you will be sorely disappointed but if you are happy with something lighter you may really enjoy this. Having read other reviews I went in with fairly low expectations but found myself having a good time. There are plenty of laughs to be had; many but not all provided by Gwen's stories/theories. The cast do a fairly solid job; Humphrey Bogart is a good lead even if this is nowhere near his best film and Jennifer Jones is a lot of fun as Gwen. The supporting cast, which includes Peter Lorre, Robert Morley and Gina Lollobrigida are entertaining and amusing too. The characters are nicely varied; the bumptious gang leader, the man who thinks the world is a worse place because Hitler and Mussolini are no more and the drunken sea captain to mention just three. Overall I'd say that while the film is a bit messy it is a lot of fun with far more laughs than I'd expected. "},{"Title":"Ugly Old Males and Beautiful Young Females&#x85;That's and In-Joke","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Abysmal and Abstract, Off Center and Eccentric. in Other Words an Intellectual Hubris that Assumes Everyone will be in on the Joke. Most were Not and Even Those that were or at Least Pretended to be had to Take a Deep Breath and Say that They Liked it with a Curious Gurgle as if the Accolades got Stuck in the Throat.Because, Truth be Told, it is One of Those Train-Wrecks of a Film that is Jaw Droppingly Bad that the Brain Cannot Process how So Many Talented People Could be Involved in such a Mess. They must have All been Drunk, the Mind Says in Disbelief, and the Mind is Probably Right.The Movie Looks Awful, and that is Not a Comment on the Horrendous Public Domain Prints that are in the Bargain Bins, it is a Comment on the Film and how Awful it Looks. It is an Ugly Movie, Full of Ugly Actors, or in Humphrey Bogart's Case, Just Sickly. Every Male Character is Repulsive and Even More so when Placed Alongside Gina Lola Bregeda and Jennifer Jones. Both are Married too and Cheating on Their Respective Repulsive Husbands. This is a Joke Right? Ha Ha! Not Funny.There are a Few Funny Lines Sprinkled Through this Turgid Satire but Not Enough to Make it Much More than Anything of a Curiosity to Watch All of these Folks Go Through the Motions of the Movies Pretentiousness. To Illustrate just How Unfunny it is, Notice how Many Times the Ship's Captain Screams and Screams in Italian No Less. Loud and Louder Until the Ears Give Up and Any Attempt at Farce is Buried Under Decibels of Noise.Everyone is Thickly Accented and Much of the Time Hard to Understand, Not the Best Thing is a Wordy, Witty, Film. Jennifer Jones Steals the Movie but that Wasn't Hard, Everyone Else just Falls Flat and Fails to Make Much of an Impression. The Movie Seems Like it was Made by Intelligent Drunks on a Bender for Intelligent Drunks on a Bender. That's a Pretty Small Audience, like that of a Cult Movie. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Adventure","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Billy Dannreuther and his wife Maria are in Italy, planning to take a steamer to Africa, with four conniving criminals. They plan to buy land in Africa rich with uranium to exploit, and get rich off of it. When Billy wakes up one day, he finds that a man who had helped them with the plan was mysteriously killed in London. Going downstairs, he meets future fellow passengers, the Chelms; Gwendolen and Harry. Harry seems to be a stuffy Englishman, but his smart, attractive, blond wife is taken with Billy, and he invites them to dinner.They arrive at the restaurant a confused sort. Gwendolen is smitten with Billy, while Harry doesn't care much for him. On the other hand, Harry is smitten by Billy's seductive wife, Maria. Their steamer is delayed constantly, by a malfunctioning oil tank and a drunk captain. When Billy and one of his four acquaintances watch their car fall over a cliff, they are presumed dead, and one of the criminals lets Harry in on the secret, and Gwendolen confesses her love for Billy.When Billy and his acquaintance arrive back, everyone is confused, and then they get the call to board the steamer. It only gets more confusing, so I'll save you the trouble.When I finished Wise Blood, another Huston film, I was terribly perplexed. On one hand it was a very interesting film, on the other it left me cold, and confused. I didn't know how to review it, properly at least. I promised myself that if I ever came across a similarly perplexing film, I would think for a while before I wrote a review. When I first heard of this film, I immediately thought I would come across a similar situation. I mean, come on, have you heard the plot! Critically, it is also divisive.Roger Ebert placed it upon his Great Movies list, a list of the best films of all time, yet it has a 6.6 on IMDb. I was worried I would be overly confused by the plot and turned off by its craziness. What a surprise I found when I finished watching the film, and had a review already planned in my head.This film has been called a satire, but a satire of what? I cannot classify this as a satire, so what is it? The answer is very simple, it is an adventure film. I found myself laughing at many points, although it is not a comedy. It is certainly an odd film, yet it is entertaining to say the least and the tricky twists and turns of the plot are actually quite easy to follow.It seems like the whole cast is having a ball, with Bogart turning in the kind of cynical performance he is the master of. Jennifer Jones is blonde, and loving it. I haven't seen many films with her, so I can't quite judge her quality as an actress, but she is excellent as the devious Gwendolen Chelm. The typical English exterior is betrayed, as she reveals herself to be a scheming little devil with a voracious appetite, for love out side of her marriage.Peter Lorre, Robert Morely and Edward Underdown are all also excellent. The odd man, or should I say woman, out is Gina Lollobrigida. Her role as Bogart's young, sensuous Italian wife is certainly fine, but she seems to be in the wrong film. This may not be her fault, as it seems as if no one on this movie knew what they were going for. Her performance is a bit one note, which is never good, even in a adventurous romp like this film. To be fair she is never really given any stand out scenes.The screenplay seems incredibly muddled, yet it works in a very strange way. It seems that even working nights wasn't enough to stop Truman Capote from putting his own spin on the proceedings, and the dialog is one of the films strengths. Capote and Huston manage to keep the screenplay tight and lean, but some scenes could have been cut, and some are just unnecessary.This film can be found in the Public Domain, so the transfer isn't of the best quality. The cinematography is fair, but nothing truly stands out. The same can be said of the score, it works, but you don't find yourself humming it later on. The locations are beautiful and they work well for this type of story.Huston's direction reflects the tone of the story, relaxed, smooth and in control. It flows naturally, showing that Huston wasn't afraid to take it easy, while still remaining in command of his film.Overall, is it amazing? No, not really. Is it entertaining enough to serve as an enjoyable experience for 90 minutes? Yes, of course. It isn't thought-provoking. It isn't deeply psychological. It is entertaining, fast paced and likable. So yes, it's not bad.Beat the Devil, 1953, Starring Humphrey Bogart, Jennifer Jones and Robert Morely. Directed by John Huston, 7.5/10 (B+)(This is part of an ongoing project to watch and review every John Huston movie. You can view this and other reviews at http//everyjohnhustonmovie.blogspot.ca/) "},{"Title":"Not the Falcon","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Odd film. Made as a parody of the Maltese Falcon.Filmed on the fly, with Huston writing parts each day as he filmed.It has the look of one of those later Orson Welles films he made with his own money.It's worth a watch, but no where near as good as the Maltese Falcon.The synopsisA quartet of international crooks -- Peterson, O'Hara, Ross and Ravello -- is stranded in Italy while their steamer is being repaired. With them are the Dannreuthers. The six are headed for Africa, presumably to sell vacuum cleaners but actually to buy land supposedly loaded with uranium. They are joined by others who apparently have similar designs. "},{"Title":"The one by John Huston that doesn't make sense","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is cinematic hamburger set forth as steak. With its pedigree, this film should be much more substantial than it actually is. A flop in its day, the piece has found mouth-watering flavor among modern critics. But save for a few inspired moments, it doesn't seem like it's all the way done. The most interesting part is when Robert Morley and Humphrey Bogart watch their car plunge into the ocean, which may be a rather apt metaphor for the film plummeting at the box office. Next, the near murder of Jennifer Jones' husband on the ship makes no sense. But the film does pick up speed when they all land on shore and are facing a firing squad, but even that leads to a dull payoff, simply by allowing Morley's character to write a check and thus they are free? Why doesn't Morley offer a check in the beginning? Probably some scenes have been edited out where Bogart's character runs off. All too sudden, he is chummy with the government official. And the ending of the film, where we learn Jones' husband has made it to the plantation seems as if screenwriter Truman Capote and director John Huston have run out of inspiration or money to continue and finish it. I guess there could be a sequel, but what would be the point? Check please... "},{"Title":"The funniest serious drama ever","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just desserts are dished out with glee in this 'crime drama'. Each character is built up to be disliked enough that when the hammer comes down on them, the result are hilarious. No character ever rises above 'amoral' and most are just downright sleazy, so when each little plot is foiled, it's just more icing on this cake of a movie. The supposed main plot of the movie is vague, and takes a back seat to the characters who slowly sink in the quicksand of their behavior throughout the movie. Humphrey Bogart plays the 'arranger' for a quartet of the most inept criminals in movie history. How they got together, no one knows. What they did before who cares? What their brilliant caper is? Something about uranium and Africa I think. None of that matters. What matters is the expressions on their faces as one by one their ideas fail, their schemes implode, their Machiavellian machinations collide like bumper cars at the amusement park. They discuss murder, robbery, infidelity with banter lighter than air. Each of the actors plays their parts perfectly straight, one has to wonder if any of them were clued in on this prank noir. This is John Huston to the hilt, no holds barred, no character flaw left unexploited. A must see for any Huston fan. People that take their movies too seriously, may not 'get it', so your mileage may vary. "}{"Title":"Devilishly upbeat...","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beat the Devil opens with the arrest of four criminals seeming to come straight from cartoons' universe. Petersen (Robert Morley) is the biggest, fattest, obviously the leader, at the same height, there is the thinner Italian crook Ravello, and on the vertically-challenged department, the rat-faced Major Ross who makes Peter Lorre look almost like a conventional leading man.The least that can be said is that these guys don't quite exude truthfulness especially when they pose as vacuum cleaners' salesmen. When confronting an Arab sheik, Petersen uses some Pidgin English to explain his presence, the Arab reveals himself a worldly and most literate gentleman rightfully suspecting the men to be smugglers. Petersen then invites him to look at them, to see by himself that they don't have the 'working face' &#x85; the efforts these natural born crook-looking fellows pull to all look as respectable as possible is as desperate as hilarious.And as if it wasn't hilarious enough, Jennifer Jones intervenes, claiming that she's a British subject and therefore any harm done to her might create a diplomatic incident, to which the Arab dryly retorts that in his country, woman can move their lips but no word they say is ever heard. Yet later, the man reveals himself to be a fan of Rita Hayworth, a weakness that Bogart's character will cleverly exploit. Now, asking the purpose of the Arab sequence in the course of the story is as irrelevant as wondering where the film is leading up to, at that part. Beat the Devil is simply a big joke, an enjoyable, truculent and extremely entertaining one.It's the mark of great directors when they depart from their usual standards of seriousness and put the very trademarks they pioneered into self-parodying perspective. Beat the Devil is a remarkable demonstration of John Huston's caustic humor and self-detachment. You can tell that Petersen is a parody of Sydney Greenstreet from The Maltese Falcon and Morley plays the part to perfection, mixing his intimidating demeanor with irresistible goofiness. I knew there was comical potential in this actor when I saw him in The African Queen&#x85; and I'm glad Huston felt the same.Peter Lorre also reprises his suavely sinister character with a cigarette holder, only grinning when Petersen expects a reaction to one of his joke. His shining moment remains his unforgettable speech about time What is time? Swiss manufacture it. French hoard it. Italians squander it. Americans say it is money. Hindus say it does not exist. Do you know what I say? I say time is a crook. That line comes up early enough in the film, to warn the viewers that this is not a script to underestimate; indeed, it's as full of one-liners as the African lands they try to steal, are in uranium&#x85; and as priceless of course.And there is the scene-stealing Major Ross, the only character with no redeemable quality whatsoever apart from being funny short, ugly, old and with debatable political opinions. Believing Petersen is dead, he utters Mussolini, Hitler, now, Petersen and the worst is that he meant it as a compliment. This is a film where the bad guys bring the most laughs, and where the straight man is Bogart, as a freelance and cynical businessman, with an uncertain approach toward legal matters. He and his wife, played by Gina Lollobrigida, meet an English couple, the Chelms, formed by Jennifer Jones and Edward Underdown. Infatuations grow on each side but since the purity of their motives are questionable, so is the accusation of adultery.Anyway, this colorful gallery reunites in a small port in Italy waiting for the steamer to be repaired so they can go to Africa. The effect of the first frames is startling, the grainy texture of the copy is as poor and under-restored as a (coincidentally) Italian neo-realist movie and the amateurish quality of the sound makes it feel like set in the 20's. We're far from the grandeur and flashiness of Moby Dick and Moulin Rouge, or the menacing shadowy atmosphere of The Maltese Falcon and Key Largo. But this is still a John Huston's film, and only a director so capable of the best can pull so many efforts in a seemingly-worst and contribute to an unintentional masterpiece of B-movie.Through adventure, Film-Noir and comedy, Beat the Devil plays with the Hustonian's usual themes generally about losers trying to satisfy their greed only to become blinded by their own principles or weaknesses (sometimes both are the same) and this translates in Beat the Devil with the language of comedy. Whether it's through our criminal quartet, Jones who pretends her husband is a rich landowner, Bogart who gets sucked in the middle of a scheme, ignoring the pay-off, it's like a nihilistic escape whose only purpose is to create funny situations in the kind of exotic and international settings cherished by Huston.Billy Wilder mastered comic writing so much, he couldn't have left something purposeless to the story while John Huston took a novel, adapted it on a day-to-day basis with a 28-year old Truman Capote, and the result, as it seems, is a succession of situations where the character's reliability is constantly put in equation and where every secondary character has something funny to say, whether the imbibed boat captain who wants no trouble in his boat or Bogart's chauffeur who demands reparation after an accident, that Bogart gave him the car being beside the point.As if the story embraced its own adventurous and risky spirit, the result is a film that doesn't take itself seriously, which is not just ahead of its time, but of our own era of timid, star-studded and money-driven filmmaking. Beat the Devil was a gutsy movie, but 60 years later, it's regarded as a classic. I guess time did justice to it, proof that it isn't such a crook, after all. "},{"Title":"Bogart's worst; Jones excels","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Humphrey Bogart is anything but suave. He looks silly with a feminine silk scarf beneath a dress shirt and blazer. He is also stiff as a comedic actor although I understand that he is the straight man who never utters a humorous line. The others are intended to be funny, but they don't pull it off too well, especially Robert Morley and Peter Lorre, who have been in comedies but are more believable as bad guys.Jennifer Jones is great, only because she was born in Tulsa, OK and does a fine job with a British accent, something most actors couldn't do in 1953. Still, she is not a comedic actress and that contributes to the mis-casting and the ultimate flatness of the film.The plot is weak and disorienting. I watched this film during a day-long TCM tribute to Bogart, and fortunately, it was played during my lunch hour. Perhaps, in eating lunch, I missed the point and the comedy, but I think NOT! The remainder of the films were excellent, however, I have to concede that I've seen these Bogart films many times, the most often being 'The Caine Mutiny' which I had to watch in college for an ROTC class and have been hooked on this film since. I continue to see something new with each viewing. "},{"Title":"A noir spoof or..?","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wanted to see this movie simply because I was somewhere in the middle of a Humphrey Bogart marathon. Truthfully, I must say that the main plot did not amaze right from the start. Even though the amount of great actors is really terrific, the performances that they give are, sadly, on a much lower level than they should be. Not one of the characters that we see (Billy Dannreuther and his wife, Mrs. Helm and her husband, and the four crooks) stand out from the group. One thing I can say about the four main characters - the crooks - is that their comedic appearances almost burst me into tears. If it was not for the fact that it is hard to attach this movie to one particular genre, and even the director was not sure what the final outcome was, I would have to say that this is one of the first parodies of a classical noir cinema. However, paradoxically, if it was meant to be a parody I would not say that it is truly a good one. That is what amazes me about this movie - you are not sure what kind of a flick you are watching, yet, if you want to categorize it becomes even less entertaining. Still, the plot is enjoyable, because of the obvious conflicts and scams overwhelming all of the greedy and suspicious characters. The events that occur in the three different places (Italy, ship and North Africa) are somewhat adorable, because of the comedic subplots. And in the end even the great old saying comes in handy - where two fight the third one wins. It is, ladies and gentlemen, as simple as that. "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but overall it's a jumble","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I do like John Huston's films a lot, so I feel really bad about saying this, but I didn't like Beat the Devil that much. I do like most of the cinematography and production values, there are some very witty lines and there are some amusing scenes. And Beat the Devil has a great cast, Humphrey Bogart, Peter Lorre, Jennifer Jones and especially a suitably sly Robert Morley are very good in their roles and have good comic timing. On the other hand, John Huston's direction didn't work for me, he is a terrific director but you can tell comedy isn't his forte and I didn't feel that his heart was completely in it. The pace is also sluggish in places, but the real let down was the story. If I had to sum up the story in one phrase, would convoluted mess suffice? I loved the idea of it and all, and it started off grand, but then suddenly there is too much going on and it is hard to follow. So overall, I guess it's worth the look but I wasn't enthused with it, sorry. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Very mediocre","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A group of people travel from Italy to Kenya, Africa to lay claim to land rich in uranium deposits.The group consists of the good people and the bad people.Beat the Devil (1953) is directed by John Huston.It was co-authored by Huston and Truman Capote and it's loosely based on the novel by Claud Cockburn.Huston came up with much better than this.I just wasn't impressed with this movie.I couldn't get into it.Even with Humphrey Bogart in the lead playing Billy Dannreuther.And Peter Lorre in the supporting cast as Julius O'Hara.The curvy Gina Lollobrigida plays Billy's wife Maria.The late beauty Jennifer Jones portrays Mrs. Gwendolen Chelm.Edward Underdown plays her husband Harry.M of the James Bond movies, Bernard Lee, portrays Insp. Jack Clayton.Robert Morley is the slightly annoying Peterson.Bogie himself disliked the film.I'm with Bogie on this one.It mixes with many genres but none of them works so well.As a comedy it doesn't make you laugh, there's not that great feel of adventure, there's not enough drama, the romance part is off...But the movie isn't all that bad.It just happens to be very mediocre. "},{"Title":"Hungarians make the best gangsters","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bogart is Billy Dannreuther a man hired to purchase land by a group of swindlers wanting to buy African land rich in uranium. The movie revolves around the exploits of a gang of swindlers; they are a great looking bunch of guys, let me assure you that there are enough mustaches, eyebrows, accents and cigarette holders to make the girls blush and the boys want to imitate them.Throw in an Italian diva and a blonde bombshell and the drama/romance section is covered. The usual story, the blonde falls for the leading mans sexy American voice and charm but what made this movie stand apart from me was the use of comedy especially with the scenes involving the girls. This film does not contain over the top thigh slapping humor, but witty jokes that some might not pick up on. The Italian diva is a caricature of epic proportions; her breasts might have as much personality as her face and are used in a cliché but comical way that can rival Jayne Mansfield in 'The Girl Can't Help It. Miss Gwendolyn seems to be some what of a pathological liar, and pulls off an intelligent Marilyn Monroe like quality. Considering it is usually the blonde who uses their body to lure men, I liked the fact that it was different from the usual stereotype of 'The Blonde Bombshell'.The gang of misfits and molls travel on a ship to Africa, the ship sinks and they wash up on some unknown land. They are taken captive and questioned by an African man. They are let free partially on the grounds that Billy convinced the man that he does indeed know Rita Hayworth. They make their way back to Italy to be confronted by a policeman from Scotland Yard who is making inquiries about a murder. From here people come back from the dead, and everyone ends up with the man/girl that they want. And presumably the gangsters end up in jail after Gwendolyn rats them out.Beat The Devil has been labeled many things, Bogart's best movie (despite his looks) and..has been classified as many ..of the following genres,.. film noir/crime/comedy/drama/romance . It portrays so many of these genres brilliantly and is a film I could not slot into one category. This film is filled with style and aphorisms, quotes ranging from Lord Byron to Hitler and last but not least many of the characters memorable lines. Sure the film is flawed and is a little vague in some areas, I think people who hate it with a passion do not..get that it is satire; to me it was a fun film with style and I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are not many positive things that one can say about this film. The plot is developed in a very messy fashion, as if it had been written without any planning beforehand. The pacing is rather awkward and the film does not flow at all - rather the action seems to wax and wane. Bogart also looks like he is ready to drop dead in some scenes, as his makeup job makes him appear tired, sickly and very old. The film is apparently some spoof on Huston's previous works - 'The Maltese Falcon' and 'Across the Pacific' in particular. Some say that the humour comes through more on a second viewing, but after one viewing I have not found enough in it for me to consider re-watching it. The cast contains some big names, but as for the acting - it ranges from so-so to just plain awful. Yes, there are a few amusing lines and one or two amusing situations, but they are all haphazardly thrown around an awfully bizarre collection of events. The film has a popularity base similar to that which 'Plan 9 from Outer Space' has, if that helps for comparison. Not recommended here, however there are some out there who definitely like it for whatever reasons. "},{"Title":"Essential Bogie Flick","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beat the Devil, is in my mind one Bogie's most cynical and humorous performances and consequently his most naturalistic. His character is very much the same as Rick from Casablanca, but by now the war is over and he harbors no idealistic notions at all. He takes no-one seriously. Nearly every character in the movie is working an angle or hiding something with the possible exception of his wife played by Gina Lollobrigida.  Other standouts are Jennifer Jones as the spoiled rich woman and erstwhile Bogie lover; Peter Lorre as a hapless criminal and Robert Morley as the pompously ridiculous gang leader.  As directed by John Huston this is like no other movie from the time period in that it is actually shot on location where it is set on the Mediterranean coast.  An essential Bogie flick for movie fans.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable caper movie with a great cast","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well let's say a minor classic . There are some great lines and the characters are hilarious but the narrative is a mess. Particularly the second half of the film where there are so many plot twists and Bogart's ridiculous escape and the result of his capture show the writers were desperate to finish. The best part of the movie is the cat and mouse game that Bogart's character plays with his fellow criminals . My favorite exchange is early in the movie between Peter Lorre and Bogart Lorre- As a German I'm older at the age of Six than you'll be at Sixty.Bogart- I'll be sixty before you get to the point.It almost looks like an Italian neo-realist movie which makes sense in that it was shot in Europe.Still the story of an inept gang of crooks was not usually presented in caper movies of the time and for that it deserves a lot of credit. Robert Morely and Peter Lorre are especially excellent as is Jennifer Jones although extremely annoying, a good little film and worth seeing as it's probably Bogart's last. "},{"Title":"It smokes, it drinks, it philisophizes... at this rate I'll be 60 before you get to the point.","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What happened in this film? I couldn't tell you. One of the major downfalls of this film was the lack of quality that was used to transfer this film to DVD. I felt at times that I was watching a very old VHS version of this film. There is even a moment where you get squiggle lines at the top of the screen as if you are watching this film on a rackety VHS player. The fade in's and fade out's were horribly miscalculated. I am always a believer that you should let your character finish his/her line or action before you go to a fade, that way you don't have audience members straining to hear or to catch a final glimpse of what is happening. I am trying really hard to watch some of these older films. They are the backbone to modern cinema ... but can't they be any better. I am still waiting for me to discover that gem. I think that is my mission now. I want to see an older film that is virtually unheard of, but is movie making at its best. So, what was wrong with Beat the Devil you may ask? The fades were one aspect I had trouble getting over. Another was what the director was trying to do with Bogart. Trying to enjoy the spoof that the director, John Houston, was planting in the film was hard. What Houston was trying to do was spoof all of Bogart's prior films. This movie was like all of Bogart's films meshed together so to speak. While you don't normally see this in many movies (the only one that comes to mind is True Lies with Arnie), in this film it was done so badly that the humor was lost to confusion. This was one of those films that you have to watch, and your initial reaction is going to be the true feeling that you have for this film. I thought about re-watching this film to see if it got any better for me, but as I thought about it, I had to pass. My initial reaction was not good, and I had this feeling deep in me that it wasn't going to get much better with a second viewing. Maybe I was expecting better, I mean Truman Capote wrote the film ... that should mean something ... right? Finally, and perhaps I just need to see more of them, but I have trouble watching a satire without any jokes. Growing up in the era of Mel Brooks, I wanted scenes and words that I would just fall over with laughter about. This film carried none of this. There was only one scene that made me smile a bit (and perhaps it was because my throat was dry), and that was when Bogart's buggy went down the cliff and into the ocean. The only reason for me laughing at that was because it reminded me of Hawaii and our trip up a huge mountain!! Blach! Watch out for this one ... it's a doozie!!Grade ** out of *****  "}{"Title":"For the last time people...","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is HILARIOUS.  It is an ADVENTURE ACTION SPOOF of such films as THE MALTESE FALCON, TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE, and THE AFRICAN QUEEN, all done by John Huston.The script done by world famous writer Truman Capote was thrown out on the FIRST DAY OF SHOOTING.  John Huston, Peter Lorre, and Bogey just wanted to have fun.It is the first CAMP film and has become a cult classic.  I had SO MUCH fun watching it as I caught Jennifer Jones and Bogey actually LAUGHING at the end of their first romantic scene, you can't buy cinema magic more than that.It's a classic and a cult classic and should receive a MUCH higher rating than this one. "},{"Title":"How to beat a murder story to death&#133;","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an offbeat vehicle for Humphrey Bogart and Jennifer Jones &#150; not at all the type of film that you'd normally associate with them. And, this was arguably the first real comedy for both. But, on the plus side, it's a film that admirably suits the talents of Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, Gina Lollobrigida and the rest of the crazy bunch of crooks...Essentially, this story is a farce although it could have been a serious thriller; but instead it used comedic elements to take the edge off the nasty aspects of shady deals, corruption and murder. It's certainly not at the level of Arsenic and Old Lace (1944), nor was Huston equal to Frank Capra when it comes to comedy. So, in that regard, this film is not one of Bogie's best for me. In fact, the marginal sub-plots and low points in the story had me nodding off, almost.The basic story involves the efforts of three sets of people (Bogie/Gina Lollobrigida; Jones/Edward Underdown; and the four crooks, Morley/Lorre/Tulli/Banard) all trying to outwit each other to gain access to uranium mineral rights in North Africa. They're all sitting at Salerno, Italy, waiting, scheming and generally getting in each other's way. So, you need sharp eyes and ears to follow and take it in...which, on my first viewing years ago, was a bit taxing. That was just probably me, though.However, the occasional witty script from Huston and Truman Capote plus the over-the-top acting from Morley, Lorre, Marco Tulli and Ivor Barnard save it, to a large extent, from going down the toilet; they know it's a farce and act accordingly, I think. La Lollo and Jones spice things up, of course, and look suitably sexy and pretty as the occasion demands. Unhappily, in trying to sound very English, Jones didn't quite make it. I haven't read the book, so I don't know by how much Huston and Capote changed things; but Glynnis Johns would have been a better choice, in my opinion, in the part of Gwendolen Chelm. Being a joint US/UK production, however, no doubt accounts for what we all see.Makes you wonder whether joint productions are worth the effort...especially when trying to amalgamate English humour with American writers and director.For some reason that I can't fathom, the story is told in flashback and that actually detracts from the overall effect you know, to a large extent, what's coming, even if the details are yet to show. Maybe that was Capote's idea? Because it wasn't Huston's usual way to direct and develop a narrative.The locales and setting are great, especially the Italian coast around Salerno and the creaky old freighter used. But, this wasn't meant to be a travelogue.For Bogie fans &#150; including myself &#150; it's worth seeing, because he still does a good job, even if you don't have much sympathy for the character he portrays. The outstanding actors, for my money, are the four crooks and Edward Underdown as the seemingly hapless Harry Chelm.See the movie and you'll understand why, I think. "},{"Title":"Amateur hour","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  John Huston, Truman Capote, Humphrey Bogart and the gang must have had one heck of a swell time on location to make this film, partying down all night and improvising a scene or two between cocktails during the day. It's not such a pleasure to watch, however. There's no plot, no real characters (though Jennifer Jones seems to be doing some sort of Grace Kelly impression, or something, that makes you want to smack her silly) and the attempts at witticism are pretty witless. Even veteran improvisor Peter Lorre doesn't manage to make the meandering proceedings very amusing, though he looks awfully cute with his hair dyed Capote blond. "},{"Title":"Skullduggery and comedy in foreign affairs","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Only Sydney Greenstreet is missing from the cast of Beat the Devil, an entertaining comedy-adventure-mystery. But, Robert Morley fills his place very well. So, the cast is there, the plot and script are there, and one fine movie is the result. This film has a little bit of many things &#x96; intrigue, adventure, action, murder. And lots of other things &#x96; mayhem, romance, and comedy. Humphrey Bogart is Billy Dannreuther, a man who once had money and an estate in Southern France, but who now must deal with some shady characters for his future income. Morley plays Peterson, who heads a shady foursome that is out to swindle some wealthy mineral deposits out from under the nose of the government in Africa. The others of his quartet are Peter Lorre as Julius O'Hara, Marco Tulli as Ravello and Ivor Barnard as Maj. Jack Ross. Ross is their hit man.Gina Lollobrigida plays Billy's wife, Maria. Saro Urzi plays the captain of the SS Nyanga. And into this assortment of characters come an English couple, Harry and Gwendolen Chelm, who are going to South Africa to run a small coffee plantation. They are played by Edward Underdown and Jennifer Jones, respectively. Each of the women in this slightly sinister but mostly hilarious farce is openly attracted to the other's husband. Or so it would seem &#x96; so obvious to all. The story has some undertones of crime, but comedy and skulduggery rule the day. Distrust among crooks, unhappy marriages, fantasies of wealth and status, and just plain wild imaginations are the vehicles of the comedy in Beat the Devil. Look for the humor in many places. For one, there's Peter Lorre's name. He's an Irishman by the name of Julius O'Hara. That's laughable enough, but then his own companion, Ravello, can't pronounce O'Hara. The hit man, Jack Ross, is a pint-sized Nazi fascist. Everyone contributes to the humor in some way. Underdown is hilarious as the English snob, Chelm. Jones steals her scenes as Mrs. Chelm with her wild fantasies of her husband's past and her dream life. This is a sophisticated comedy that spoofs many conventions of the time. Even the mode of travel for this coterie of crazy characters is a sham &#x96; a broken-down cargo ship out of a southern French port. The movie is based on a book by British journalist and novelist Claud Cockburn. Truman Capote and John Huston wrote the screenplay. Huston also directed the film. The script for this film is quite crispy. Humorous subtleties are sprinkled throughout the story. Here is a sampling of funny lines and exchanges.Peterson sits down at a café table with Mrs. Chelm. Peterson says, I find it rather hard to believe that a man of your husband's position would go to Africa just for the coffee planting. Mrs. Chelm You're rather quick aren't you? In point of fact, he isn't. In point of fact he has a very special reason. Peterson So I suspected. Mrs. Chelm It has to do with sin. Peterson Sin? Mrs. Chelm Since the war, my husband has been almost exclusively concerned with spiritual values. He feels that if he can get away there &#x96; in the heart of Africa, he will come face to face with essentials. He wants to work out the problem of sin. The expression on Peterson's face is hilarious. Sin!? he repeats, as though he hadn't heard her further remarks. Mrs. Chelm Why yes, of course. Isn't that what we're all most concerned with &#x96; sin?Billy My conduct? Who do they think I am &#x96; their hired hand? Maria But you are, Billy. You are. Billy How kind of you to remind me. How good. How true. How kind.Peterson Or perhaps you have even other reasons? Billy Such as? Peterson That's for you to know and for us to find out.The major Mussolini, Hitler, and now Peterson. O'Hara A great man. A great loss. Ravello I'm going upstairs and read my Bible.Mrs. Chelm I was in love with him. Chelm What did you say? Mrs. Chelm I was in love with him. Chelm Really darling, have you no control over your romantic fantasies? Mrs. Chelm Please go away. Chelm He's dead, and I'm married to a fool like you. I'll just take these (aspirin) to Maria.Ship's steward in the hotel Ladies and gentlemen, I bring you the glad tidings. The captain is sober and the SS Myanga will sail at midnight.The shady foursome walks out onto the ship's deck at sea, and Mrs. Chelm is at a distance on the bow of the ship doing stretching exercises. Peterson calls out to her, Good morning, Mrs. Chelm. He lowers his voice and mumbles to his comrades, Let's hope she breaks her neck. "},{"Title":"John Huston Chills the Liver","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A fortune hunting couple (Humphrey Bogart and Gina Lollobrigida) join forces with a derelict group of four men (Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, Ivor Barnard and Marco Tulli) to find a uranium rich plot of land in Africa. While waiting for their ship to depart from Italy, they run into another scheming couple (Edward Underdown and Jennifer Jones). Soon all eight characters are drawn together in a race to see who can claim the fortune for themselves, according to the folks at synopsis central...An interesting mix of characters is wasted in this directionless, poorly paced attempt at a spoofing detective spy stories - like John Huston's own The Maltese Falcon (1941) - and wife-swapping. The legendary star appears tired, especially next to Ms. Lollobrigida, and not completely in on the joke. Though wasted, Ms. Jones contributes the best characterization; at least, she realizes how to strike the correct tone. Brought in to salvage the project, writer Truman Capote contributes some subtle wit; but, the resulting humor seems more dependent on accidentally bad filmmaking as it is on intentional comedy.**** Beat the Devil (11/24/53) John Huston ~ Humphrey Bogart, Jennifer Jones, Gina Lollobrigida, Robert Morley "},{"Title":"An Unfunny Mockery","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No need to recap what amounts to an incoherent plot.Only Bogart seems not in on the joke. Instead, he soldiers through as if this mess were Casablanca 2. Trouble is it was his production company Santana that took the hit when the movie flopped. He blamed director Huston, so their fruitful collaboration was permanently ruptured. Too bad. But the rest of the cast appears to be having a good time and why not. Here they are on the Italian Riviera, expenses paid, with few thespic demands. Heck, they just as well be on holiday. Certainly a blondined Jennifer Jones is having fun, as she turns in the most over-the-top performance since her over-heated senorita in Duel in the Sun (1946). Watch her smirk her way through every scene. Then there's rotund Robert Morley wallowing in his Britishness, while a diminutive Ivor Barnard strains at the leash like a rabid Chihuahua. Add a peek-a-boo Peter Lorre appearing unsure he's even in the movie, and you have a highly professional cast making a mockery. But then why should they take the proceedings seriously since the script was often put together the night before (Truman Capote). Maybe others can laugh at the results, a delicious jape, as it were. I can't. On seeing the results, Bogart called the movie a mess. As usual, he was right. "},{"Title":"What Ever It's Trying To Be It Fails","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a film that has be described as a  thriller ,  a  comedy  A romance  a  drama  and an  adventure  . In other words it has elements of being a cross genre movie . The cross genre movie was very popular in the 1980s when you'd get the likes of AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN and TOP GUN where the girls would flock to the cinema to swoon all over the hunky male star and get caught up in the on screen romance while boys would get involved in the macho culture of the military drama . In other words there's two distinct genres to the movie .Watching BEAT THE DEVIL you're aware there's no real distinct elements to the story There is indeed different elements at play here from a screenplay by Truman Capote but comes across as being very uneasy with itself as characters discuss love , fascism and other aspects of the human condition . This existentialist discussion might work very much better in a French New Wave movie but jars in a film that resembles a British B movie despite the exotic locations . For some reason everything has a dullness to it that one would never expect from HustonThis is a film that seems more easier to market down to the casting rather than the storytelling . Humphrey Bogart was of course a screen legend but he seems to lack his usual charisma . People on this page have commentated that he looks ill and certainly you get the impression that his heart isn't in this movie . Indeed everyone involved has been much better in almost everything they've done and explains why BEAT THE DEVIL is relatively obscure when you think of the talent behind and in front of the screen "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time but only partially successful spy spoof","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beat the Devil is the most peculiar studio film of the 50s. It deserves recognition for being ahead of its time (the main reason why the film maintains a dedicated and loyal cult following). John Huston realized how ridiculous the material he was working with was, so he called Truman Capote in to do a rewrite of the material to make it a very broad spoof. The result was the first intentionally campy film and the dialog is so over-the-top it occasionally calls to mind John Waters.The film deserves to be considered a ground breaker. No one else (certainly no other major filmmakers) were making films such as this. Still, its only partially successful. The comic performances of the supporting cast are quite entertaining. This film is filled with enough bizarre faces to rival any of the works of the Coen Brothers of Fellini. One can only hope that with the exception of Bogart, everybody else was in on the joke. Unlike many other Huston films however, this is a slowly paced film and is often so obtuse it becomes dull. I wish it had been slightly more coherent. Some of the lines work, but Huston seems to depend on the sheer absurdity of it all to provide laughs. Its a charming film but far from the cult classic it has been made out to be. This seems like a film that another viewing will be required to really appreciate it. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Looks very cheaply made","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I guess that I will go down as one of those who simply don't get this stupid movie. From the very beginning it looks and sounds like a cheaply made film with that unmistakable Made in Europe look. The actors in this abomination must have needed the money badly. Of course, any caper type film must include Robert Morley, whom many viewers seem to find witty and charming. I have always found Morley to be an unattractive and obnoxious man and he certainly delivers on that premise in this picture. I recently read where Bogart had nothing but bad memories of this film because, for some reason, he invested (and lost) a considerable amount of his own money in the production.  "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think that movie was so good. The story is not very interesting neither is it convincing. The acting is good but not great. In all, it's a movie you'd like to see once but probably not twice. I give it a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Forgettable, except for the SOUNDTRACK...","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, this movie is pretty darn forgettable.  Huge potential in the lineup with Bogart, Morley, Lorre and Lollobrigida as well, but now gone completely to waste given a script that must have been too full of dated social or political in-jokes.  As humor it's consequently droll to the point of catatonia.  If you want good Bogart directed by Houston, stick with Treasure of the Sierra Madre, the African Queen, Key Largo or Maltese Falcon-- this one's absolutely the last on that list..On the other hand, the SOUNDTRACK by Franco Mannio is a haunting Third Man Theme like piece that has tempted me to buy the DVD in the budget bins just so I can have it... "},{"Title":"Which one is the Wise Fool?","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the kind of film made by a film director of solid reputation like John Huston when they want to hang out with the rest of the guys in the Hollywood-hood and spend their off hours partying in exotic locations. Huston and Truman Capote ultimately tinkered with the screenplay together, a pair of self-indulgent jokesters, and however inspired, their efforts put together an offbeat little gem with a storyline that entertains at every complicated plot twist. It's a wacky story about a group of con artists each to a one demonstrating various levels of cunning and idiocy. Meeting up together in the scenic isolation of some southern Italian port town, they're all obsessed with getting to some unnamed country in British East Africa where they plan to grab for themselves a monopoly in uranium deposits. This crew consists of Billy Dannreuther and his wife Maria played by Humphrey Bogart and Gina Lollabrigida. Dannreuther is the seasoned soldier of fortune type, a wanderer of the world always looking for ways to make a million. Bogart, a consummate professional, would never put in a lazy performance but here he shows little enthusiasm and just looks weary and impatient. This, however, actually serves well for the character, Dannreuther being a man who's seen it all and takes nothing for granted. His Italian wife all bosoms, curves and pouty lips is an Anglophile obsessed with all things English from tea in the afternoon to a hunger for the rolling lawns of titled English estates. The couple are in uneasy league with a quartet of ne'er-do-wells, the key members being Peterson, played by Robert Morley, Ivor Barnard as Major Jack Ross, a loony homicidal fascist who believes Hitler and Mussolini had the right idea, and Peter Lorre as Julius O'Hara. O'Hara, so obviously a brand of O'Hara that Ireland never saw, pridefully expresses that O'Hara is a very respectable surname in Chile. He counteracts Dannreuther's frustration with the complications of their scheme by emphasizing what every con man needs to keep in the forefront To seem trustworthy is no more important than to be trustworthy. Time has not been kind to Peter Lorre who only age 49 in this movie looks significantly older since his appearance in Huston's 1941 The Maltese Falcon twelve years previous. We get a blonde Jennifer Jones of all things, apparently an effort to give her the vibes of the blonde noir babe practiced at duplicity. She's Gwendolen Chelm married to a stock-character British male, a member of the prissy, tight-laced breed, humorless and outwardly dull-witted. Chelm breaks into crisis mode when he finds he didn't pack his hot water bottle. The group of disreputables are waylaid on some North African shoreline after their African bound boat sinks, and taken in for interrogation and detention by horseback marauding Arabs and their leader. These turn out to be not a tribe of terrorists in the modern sense but terrifyingly stupid and intimidating. After Gwendolen rambles on in protest over their detainment, the chief of this band simply points out that In my country a female may at least know her words are not heard. He may not care what a woman has to say but he certainly is interested in what they look like. It turns out he suffers from a swooning obsession with actress Rita Hayworth, his dream girl whom he'd like to add to is harem. Whichever one of this crew scores the riches at the end of the game doesn't really matter. It's a winner for the viewer. "},{"Title":"A pleasure to watch .....","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A very pleasing JOHN HUSTON directed movie, back when great actors and dialog were the real special effects. The cast is stellar and wonderfully over the top - a cornucopia of various European accents. Ivor Barnard is particularly hilarious.Humphrey Bogart looked slightly jaded. His character wasn't too well etched. And the film isn't very cleverly put together and they seemed to be working on a low budget - most of the scenes have been shot indoors.But even then, it was a pleasure to watch. The dialog by Truman Capote is hilarious (we are at sea in more ways than one ) ) and politically incorrect. "},{"Title":"Absurd Comedy","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film was a great revelation when I first saw it 40 years ago. I love Bogie in everything he starred in and here he is quite subtle, low key,unpredictable in his interplay with the great cast. Yes, it looks at if it was filmed through a beer bottle as Jack L. Warner once wrote but that's due to all exteriors and a few interiors shot on location(the rest in London) The book on which it's based was a straight novel. John Huston and others including Truman Capote (during production) adapted it into a droll comedy.The original advertising for this film was mis-leading as it was not a straight adventure movie. The film was booked into good theaters but for some reason it flopped(yet Bogie's 3 other 1954 films were hits-SABRINA,CAINE MUTINY, BAREFOOT CONTESSA)Films back then didn't open all at once nationwide nor was there today's constant media / word of mouth access so its reception is puzzling. But,sometimes movies din't do well because of competition, time of year,poor theater venues.and in 1954 the competition from TV.And most movies back then played only ONE week because there were more theaters but LESS screens(no multiplexes)Bogie's Santana Production co-produced and he sold his company to Columbia Pictures just before he died so the public domain status is not due to his heirs.(Other companies have European rights) There are numerous cheap DVD versions in varying print condition but TCM had a showing last year and their print was OK.Don't expect a noir movie or a jokey comedy but enjoy the ridiculous situations, humorous asides and surprising plot twists . "},{"Title":"Of it's day...","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beat the Devil is a watchable film made so by it's heavyweight cast and it's Italian setting.Not strong on humour or dramatic moments, it holds the viewer through it's quaint representation of European culture of the period and the English, American and continental characters at play. The band music in the scenes set in the town square is quite haunting! "},{"Title":"A Grand Diversion.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To think this great comedy of errors was almost made as a straight action flick...the more I see this movie the more endearing it becomes.  Is it true that Truman Capote finished pages hours before they were filmed?  Maybe that's a method for generating truly distinctive offbeat dialog.  And it's great dialog!  Even the little parts get bravura speeches.  And the moments!  Jennifer Jones' counting thirteen backwards thirteen times,  Gina Lollabrigeda's Tea for Two, Peter Lorre's discourse on Time, Bogart's poor chauffeur lamenting his car, his beautiful car.  And a personal mystery When the cast is stranded on the beach of an unfriendly North African country, Robert Morley opens his mouth, but an entirely different voice says Awleo.  What is the meaning of this?  Who cares?  It's a feast. "},{"Title":"Whats with the bells?","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great characters and some great dialogue. But a chaotic plot and and production in general. Most of the time church bells are ringing in the background. Anyone know why Huston put those in? A must-see if only for the excellent cast. "},{"Title":"A Reasonable Black Humor Comedy","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Billy Dannreuther (Humphrey Bogart) is a smuggler living in Italy with his wife Maria Dannreuther (Gina Lollobrigida). His associates are a quartet of international crooks Peterson (Robert Morley), Julius O'Hara (Peter Lorre), Maj. Jack Ross (Ivor Barnard) and Ravello (Marco Tulli). The steam vessel where they are traveling to East Africa had some problem and is being repaired. While waiting for the repair, they meet Harry Chelm (Edward Underdown) and his wife Mrs. Gwendolen Chelm (Jennifer Jones), a couple owner of a coffee plantation and moving to Africa. Gwendole is attracted by Billy, and Maria by Harry. When the vessel is fixed, they embark together and while traveling, many incidents happen and the real intentions of each one is presented. Indeed  they are all interested in the uranium. This film is a reasonable black humor comedy and I liked it, but it is not my favorite Humphrey Bogart or John Huston film. I do not see anything special to be a cult-movie as it is for many persons. I bought a terrible Canadian VHS from `Platinum Disc Corporation' it is recorded in EP and has 93 min. running time, with an dreadful quality of image and sound. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Not Available  "},{"Title":"With a cast and director like that, what else do you need?","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bogey, Gina Lolobrigida, Jennifer Jones, Peter Lorre, Robert Morley and directed by John Huston - how could it fail in being a great movie? I guess after paying for the cast there wasn't anything left for lights, sets, music or sound equipment. The quality of this film is so poor it hurts to watch it.Yet I enjoyed the film. The majesty of the acting carried it. Leading all that talent was Jennifer Jones in a very funny film. It is worth watching but don't expect much.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating...","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As Spock would say, Most Intriguing. This move has some of the most fascinating characters playing with and against one another, and a delightful pace, so un-hurried as to be in another place altogether.This is the perfect movie for an afternoon of video watching, with as much wity repartee on either side of the tv screen! "}{"Title":"Tell me more about Rita Hayworth!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this brilliant satire at a sneak preview. At first no one laughed. Then you would hear a giggle in the orchestra, then one in the balcony. Finally the entire audience roared with laughter. A wonderful, witty film experience. "},{"Title":"Noir--where the genre should have gone","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie just screams enjoyable.  It's a first-rate comedy, with excellent performances from Bogart and the rest of the top-notch cast.  The problem is that it's easy to miss the jokes, and think this is a wannabe Maltese Falcon or Casablanca.  It has all the serious elements of Bogey's career.  But, like Schwarzanegger in Last Action Hero, Bogey learned to laugh at himself--and that is what makes this movie so great! "},{"Title":"Quirky, campy, cultish, and somewhat flawed","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This is a quirky kind of movie with an excellent cast who are not necessarily at their best, with a screenplay by a famed novelist, Truman Capote, directed by a Hollywood legend, John Huston, also perhaps not at their best. Adapted from the novel by James Helvick, Beat the Devil is morphed into something of a self-conscious comedic spoof by Huston of his classic The Maltese Falcon (1941). Here we have Robert Morley instead of Sidney Greenstreet as the greedy ring leader, and Ivor Barnard as the bodyguard with a knife instead of Elisha Cook Jr. the bodyguard with a gun. There is no Mary Astor, but Gina Lollibrigida, an Italian brunette bombshell, and a blonde Jennifer Jones appear as the female leads. Humphrey Bogart again is the star. Peter Lorre returns as a German named O'Hara (part of a running joke about Argentina where so many ex-Nazis became Irish settlers after World War II). But Bogey is now 55-years-old, a middle-aged roustabout--to quote (twice) from the script, apparently a good-natured Capote dig at the legendary actor--whose tar-stained teeth do so detract from his leading man role. (Gina, his on-screen wife, was 26.) And Peter Lorre has gone from a bug-eyed skinny little perfumed dandy to a fully rounded, tired, middle aged man. Alas, how cruel the camera!Nonetheless, this is interesting and diverting, full of double entendres and clever put-downs of all sorts, including jabs at marriage, English puffery and neo-Nazis. I understand the movie has overcome the disappointment of its original audience and has become something of a cult classic. I think those fifties matinée viewers probably missed most of the comedy and were offended by the easy adultery of the principals and the improper use of Humphrey Bogart. A year later he was wonderfully cast as Captain Queeg in The Caine Mutiny, where he gave one of his greatest performances.This is the kind of movie that Old Hollywood likes to watch nostalgically while satirically dissecting the performances, the script, etc., while nonetheless finding nuggets of humor, both intentional and inadvertent. It is, for example, possible to find some hidden meaning in the fact that the rogues, once aboard ship, break out into a lusty rendition of the anonymous chantey, Blow the Man Down. And it is possible to observe that during the scene in which Jennifer Jones easily beats her husband at chess with her back mostly to the board (afterwards she quips, Harry's been all out of sorts today. Usually he is a wonderful loser.), that what Bogart really wanted to do was get the scene over with and get back to his cigarettes and the chess games he so loved to play on location. One might also observe that had Peter Lorre been a little younger, and had they made a life of Truman Capote, the former could have played the latter with consummate ease.Speaking of location, this was filmed in Italy in black and white, clearly on a budget, and as such might be seen as a spaghetti comedy. "},{"Title":"Beat A Dead Horse","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an example of what is known in my house as the Vertigo Syndrome and refers to movies that I found unremarkable in the extreme and watched mouth agape as praise was heaped upon them from all angles leaving me, as it were, a lone Long Shot. In each case I've returned to the films seeking in vain for some evidence of quality, style, genius or, in some cases, even honest-to-God competence that had eluded me and in each case I came up empty. John Huston's last At Bat prior to this was Moulin Rouge so nothing wrong there. Alas, this was the first of many, many clinkers. As for Bogie he'd just come off Battle Circus, a ho-hummer if ever there was one BUT, he would go on to Sabrina and The Barefoot Contessa. Go figure. This is about as misconceived a project as ever came down the Pike. Start with a cast of principals as ill-matched as Sinatra and the Rolling Stones; here we have a complete set of actors who not only appear to be playing in different films they're not even singing from the same hymn sheet. Jennifer Jones, sporting an unconvincing British accent and equally unconvincingly married to Edward Underdown takes one look at a completely unremarkable, uncharismatic Bogie and is totally smitten. Bogie in turn is married to Gina Lollobrigida which is at best a marriage made in Swifty Lazar's office. Robert Morley is playing the poor man's Sydney Greenstreet opposite henchman Peter Lorre, who appears to have strayed onto the set from a Straw Hat production of Arsenic And Old Lace. The plot - and I use the word loosely - was clearly found scribbled on the back of a subway ticket that someone found outside the entrance to the IRT. I could go on but why should I waste more time on this drek. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jones has an endearing role","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I count this healthy and genuinely amusing spoof among the best movies that Bogart did&#151;and as one of Huston's best. For whatever psychological reasons, Bogart disliked it, but this says nothing about the quality of the comedy. On the screen, Bogart seemed to moderately enjoy the film; the most copious role is that of Morley. The actors are too good for such a film to be bad; the cast includes a lot of legendary names&#151;Bogart, Lorre, Morley, Mme. Jones, Mme. Lollobrigida&#151;an all star cast.The main quality of this quite sophisticated comedy is the level of the performances&#151;roles made with a flawless gusto, and the brio and fluidity of the movie, the pace, the cut, the comic flair.What Bogart brings in is his legendary persona; the script does not solicit him much otherwise .The same is true about Lorre. Morley is the one who injects a large dose of performance.Pére Huston was a hack, no arguing about that. Much of his filmography is trite slapdash&#151;even with ridiculous pretensions of intellectuality &#133;.Not only that he does not compare to the greatest&#151;Welles, Ford, Hawks and Walsh&#151;but,among his contemporaries, the directors that worked in the same epoch, many were better than him&#151;Ray,Maté,Mann,Karlson,etc.. At various ages, I liked many of his films&#151;like The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean, Prizzi's Honor, The Mackintosh Man, Reflections in a Golden Eye, The Misfits, The African Queen, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre &#133;. I did not like so much The Asphalt Jungle and The Maltese Falcon,and I disliked the kitschy ,phony The Night of the Iguana (except for a final tirade ,which I enjoyed hugely). "},{"Title":"The movie is so bad it is good","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Beat the Devil is so bad, it is like a double negative, and everyone knows that makes it a positive. From the film's opening when a brass band blasts tinny, off-key music in the town piazza, this film is a laugher. The characters are ridiculous. The plot--vagabonds in search of rare uranium--is as thin as a 10-cents comic book. Huston had fun making this movie. An adventurous soul, Huston enjoyed partying with actor Humphrey Bogart, and they did party in Italy. They had an auto accident while raising hell in the village, and Bogart got a broken nose. They got behind schedule and pressure from the producers came close to giving up the project, which would have kept this unusual film from becoming a classic film noir example. It was the first film for Sophia Loren. It won't compete with today's color spectaculars, but Beat the Devil is a fun old film to study and enjoy. "},{"Title":"It's Amazing What You Can Get For A Dollar!!","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Combine the inexpensive nature of processing DVDs with little or no rights remaining on a film and its amazing what you can find at your local Cheapo Depot. In this case it's a great John Huston directed film written by Truman Capote with a cast of n'er-do-wells that looked like they just fell out of a panel of a Dick Tracy comic strip! O.K., the film was made in the 50s. OK, it is in Black & White. OK Paris Hilton shows more pathos in her debut film then Gina Lollabrigida does in this one. But there is still an interesting story and the dialogue between Bogie and the Bad Guys is first rate! Peter Lorre, Robert Morley and Ivor Barnard lead an excellent supporting ensemble cast. And speaking of Peter Lorre if you are lucky, you may find the 1934 version of the The Man Who Knew Too Much (starring Peter Lorre)at the same Dollar Store. "},{"Title":"Finally caught this one on Turner Classic Movies.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'd wanted to see this one when it was first released but my movie-going was still rather strictly supervised by my parents who kept their eye on the Catholic Legion of Decency ratings and I'm rather sure this one was rated Objectionable in Part for All (though, with a few caveats, the prudes would probably let it pass muster today).So I made a point of catching it recently when it was scheduled to be shown on Turner Classic Movies, in a slightly truncated ninety-minute broadcast that took full advantage of Oswald Morris's impeccable cinematography. (Sorry about all those poor video copies that other IMDb-ers are complaining about! It looked just fine in the version I watched.)I can enthusiastically say that I join the company of those who admire it, while understanding why it was a box-office bomb when released. It's vintage Huston, in my opinion, with a cast that seems to be in on every joke. Jennifer Jones looks pretty good as a blonde and her part must have been a joy to play. It's the quintessence of ditzy-ness and she displays a flair for comedy that was terribly neglected throughout her career (except, of course, for the wonderful Cluny Brown, still shamefully unavailable on VHS or DVD). Gina Lollobrigida, no doubt reciting her lines phonetically (but fetchingly, of course) is a sight to behold, keeping her balance in high heels, alighting from a lifeboat on a North African beach!Other IMDb comments tell of the film's many delights (while a few lament some of the distractions and limitations which didn't bother this viewer at all). If you have a taste for sly humor, delivered with a nice dollop of just slightly dated sophistication, check this one out!  "},{"Title":"Fun Noir","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This unpretentious little film is good fun.  I particularly liked Jones' compulsive liar;  Bogart was a perfect foil for her.  Lolobrigida does nothing to justify the suggestive cover art, but fits comfortably with the international cast.  The unlikely quartet of crooks is amusing if you aren't taking them too seriously. The little twist at the end was quite unforeseen and leaves one chuckling.   "},{"Title":"This is the film that made black comedies fashionable!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With direction by John Huston, stars like Oscar-winners Humphrey Bogart and Jennifer Jones and an airtight script by Huston and Truman Capote, Beat the Devil should have become an instant hit. Alas, that wasn't the case. Pity, because what unfolds is madcap mischief and mayhem that only a cast like this could pull off! The story, which starts in Italy, revolves around a quartet of crooks (Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, Ivor Barnard and Marco Tulli) who have set their sights on a portion of uranium-rich land in Africa and attempt to claim it for themselves. Eventually, Billy Dannreuther (Bogart), his alluring wife Maria (Gina Lollobrigida) and the Chelms (Jones and Edward Underdown) join the four for the adventure. Much of the humor will be lost on the average viewer who tries to make sense of the plot, but that's part of the film's charm it DOSEN'T make sense, it's just fun. This movie is a direct example of the comic gift that Jennifer Jones (R.I.P) possessed. Her timing is terrific, just as it was in her only other comedy, Cluny Brown (1946). Why David O. Selznick felt it necessary to cast her in all of those gloomy dramas is a mystery. The film is now available on DVD, which will probably make it more accessible than the VHS version. A must-see satire! *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Classic","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite of Bogart's.  He plays straight man to Jones, Lorre and Morley, who are are all hysterically funny.  Italy has never looked so beautiful in a movie before.  John Huston directs with the lightest of touches.  This movie is enjoyable from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"rather dull","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I read somewhere that this movie has obtained cult status among some viewers. If this is true, I certainly can't understand why. To me, this appears to be a rather awkward and poor Bogart film that was written only minutes before it was filmed. The main problem is the characters just don't seem very developed--again, it's like they had the actors and crew but really hadn't prepared the story.All the actors did a sub-par job, though at least there was the lovely Gina Lollibrigida to look at during the lulls. Jennifer Jones' character was especially confusing and her talents were unfortunately wasted here. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Spoof","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Beat the Devil is a wonderful spoof of the classic caper flicks of the time. A group of criminals get together and decide to go to Africa and get rich off of uranium, but then they didn't expect to run into a girl like Mrs. Chelm.  Wonderful script is pulled off with an always steller performances by Bogart and Jennifer Jones.  Very funny parts and never boring.  *** out of **** "},{"Title":"A period piece","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just purchased the DVD of this film (along with a Walter Matthau film of similar vintage) and watched the movie this evening. Years ago I had tried to see this movie and just hadn't been able to catch it so this was an opportunity to make up for yesterday's failure. All in all, I'm very glad to have purchased the DVD.The performances are all rather good. Bogart, Morley, Jones, and Undertown are excellent. The scenery is wonderful (unfortunately the movie is B&W), the plot is amazing, and the ending is superb. It all hangs together well and I'm really glad that I finally got to see this very interesting film. "},{"Title":"Works Well as Offbeat Light Entertainment","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This offbeat, good-natured spoof movie works well as light entertainment. The cast is very good, and they hit a good balance in getting the most out of the script while not going over the top. The parody (or self-parody) nature of the material gives it an odd feel at times, so you just have to avoid taking it seriously.Besides Humphrey Bogart, the cast includes excellent supporting players like Peter Lorre and Robert Morley, while Jennifer Jones (who plays quite an amusing character) and Gina Lollobrigida add some charm. Even a couple of the minor characters get some worthwhile moments. John Huston's touch keeps it together well enough to make it watchable even during the sillier stretches.The story should not be taken seriously, since to do so would make it fall apart, but it does lead to some interesting and amusing situations that the cast make good use of, along with some humorous details and dialogue. The humor is not of the obvious or uproarious kind, but many of the subtle touches come off well. It's a little uneven, and all of these performers certainly made pictures that were more artistic than this one is, but this works well as a way of passing the time with enjoyable, non-serious entertainment. "},{"Title":"A very funny off beat comedy","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a gem of a motion picture, where all the leads were cast against type.  Bogart is wonderful to watch and it is the best thing Jennifer Jones ever did. Just think of Gina as a sweet lady who wants to be British.  It is a great take off on the film noir of the Nineteen Forty's.  Don't make a mistake of taking this film as great drama, it's not---just good fun!  "},{"Title":"A great spoof of international intrigue films, beautifully filmed with a great cast.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite comedies. It's a beautifully photographed, sophisticated spoof of international intrigue movies.  It is packed with talent; Bogey, Gina Lolobrigida, Jennifer Jones, Peter Lorre, Robert Morley, Truman Capote and the great John Huston.  It must have been a great big party to make.  The combination of clever dialogue, beautiful Mediterranean location shots, and great, colorful casting is hard to match. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are faults in this movie, but it's well worth watching just for the fine cast and often great dialogue. The villains are hilarious and also scary. Jennifer Jones and her husband are priceless.The penultimate scene when the motley group is being interrogated and appraised by a petty official in Africa have great ensemble acting.I haven't read the novel, but I suspect Houston and Capote used it as a point of departure and maybe never quite got on the same page, resulting in a somewhat awkward pace.But the save is in the characters and their voices. My favorite Peter Lorre, in a defensive tone of voice when someone questions his identity-- There's lots of Germans from Chile named O'Hara "},{"Title":"Has gotten better with age","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another film featuring the team of Humphrey Bogart (Billy Dannreuther), and director John Huston. Dismissed by critics when it first came out, this film has gotten better with age and is now viewed as not just a cult classic, but a classic periods. All around good screenplay by Truman Capote and Huston, with enough quirky twist and turns. Plus a great ensemble cast, Peter Lorre (O'Hara), Robert Morley (Petersen), Edward Underdown (Harry Chelm), Jennifer Jones (Gwendolen Chelm) and Gina Lollobrigida (Maria Dannreuther). While Bogart may be the big star, the film features well balanced performances by all. While the film is comedic the screenplay and acting do not allow it to overpower the whole of the film. In the hands of these masters it works &#150; big time!  "},{"Title":"The most underated movie ever!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is truly one of my personal favorites of all Bogart's movies.  The fact that audiences in 1954 didn't like it makes me wonder what they were on.  This is one of the funniest, brilliantly casted, entertaining movies ever. The comedy and silliness is what makes this movie special, this is definetely a must see for movie buffs of all ages. "}{"Title":"Beat the Devil","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From writer Truman Capote (Breakfast at Tiffany's, The Innocents) and director John Huston (The Asphalt Jungle, The African Queen, The Man Who Would Be King), this film featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, and that was good enough reason for me to watch it. Basically a group of international criminals Peterson (Robert Morley), Julius O'Hara (Peter Lorre), Maj. Jack Ross (Ivor Barnard) and Ravello (Marco Tulli) have to wait for their steamer to be repaired, so are stranded in Italy. They are joined by the Dannreuthers, Billy (Humphrey Bogart) and Maria (Gina Lollobrigida), who are posing as vacuum cleaner salespeople, but they actually plan to buy some land in Africa supposedly loaded with valuable uranium. There are people with apparently similar ideas, so it is all a big scheme that will see the most clever and determined brains get what they want in the end. This is apparently a spoof of the Huston adventure movies The Maltese Falcon and The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. Also starring Jennifer Jones as Mrs. Gwendolen Chelm, Edward Underdown as Harry Chelm, James Bond's Bernard Lee as Insp. Jack Clayton, Mario Perrone as Purser on SS Nyanga and Aldo Silvani as Charles - Restaurant Manager. Bogart does reasonably well as the head of the gang, Jones gets some good moments, and as the sly villain Morley has some amusing scenes with his posh English accent coming in handy, the other well known stars do fine too. I will admit that I did not understand the full story, and I didn't find myself laughing at much, but the adventure element is okay, and there are some relatively amusing moments, I'm not sure why it would be considered a must see film, but it is an alright comedy thriller. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"John  Huston can't beat anyone....","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...particularly when it comes to tongue-in-chick comedy.I've always been a John Huston fan,although among his bulk of work,there're fatally flaws.And I cannot really appreciate beat the devil.It was probably intended as a spoof on earlier works such as maltese falcon sierra madre or African Queen but it fails to excite me.John Huston cannot beat,say,Billy Wilder,when it comes to comedies.And his cast,with the exception of Robert Morley,is not that much funny.Jennifer Jones,the par excellence romantic actress ,is cast against type as a Marilyn Monroe-type blonde.Neither Humphrey Bogart nor Peter Lorre can pull it off in such a context.Only one line is funny ,the one about the female lips (not that much funny when we think of woman's position is these not-so-faraway-countries).This is a rather overlooked Huston works but perhaps deservedly soyou had better try some other overlooked moviesheaven knows mister Allison  Freud reflections in a golden eye,to name but three.Huston's oeuvre is so wide you can always find something of your fancy. "},{"Title":"Everything important sacrificed for everything trivial","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is just amazing....in the sense that it's an exact facsimile of any number of overscripted Orson Welles travesties. You'll swear to God that this is the Welles disaster he never got to make. It's caught up in surface dynamism, just like a Welles movie. It's shrill, and filled with histrionic outbursts. It's narratively belabored and desperate. It has no overall shape. Any overriding point or message is sacrificed to loud fleeting, momentary stimulation. Also, it features quite a few scenes where you can barely restrain yourself from shouting S.T.*.U! at the screen.In addition... it portrays an international batch of quasi-criminal jackasses that provides a crowd of showy bit parts. It takes place in some region that causes cultural friction. And there's a marching band that will not stop playing the movies theme. They could not have made a more Orson Wellesey movie if they were viewing Lady from Shanghai, Mr Arkadin, A Touch of Evil and The Trial, ('47, '55, '58 & '63) as they pieced this together in the editing room. If you like this mannerist, cacophonous pile of clutter, you are going to love all of those Welles titles. "}]