[{"Title":"Why we like the Creature.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"75 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Today, The Creature From the Black Lagoon is considered a classic. The film itself has become a cliche for the man-in-a-rubber-suit monster movie, and the gillman is now included in the pantheon of classic movie monsters -along with Dracula, Frankenstein, and the Wolfman.I was a teenager when I first saw this Sci-Fi/Horror gem on television in 1965--the film was already ten years old by then--and I loved it. Surprisingly--even after a decade of watching technically sophisticated, state-of-the-art, unbelievably realistic prosthetic, animatronic, and computer-generated movie monsters--today's teenagers still love the old rubber prototype of all swamp monsters -The Creature From the Black Lagoon. This is especially true of teenage boys. Why? Perhaps every adolescent male can relate to the film's star the Creature is horny, inarticulate, moody, misunderstood, not pleasant to look at, and is unbelievably awkward with girls -the ultimate teenage geek. We all remember this classic scene in the movie the film's beautiful heroine (Julie Adams) decides to take a dip, unaware that the Creature is swimming below her. The image is archetypal  the powerful masculine, and the overtly seductive feminine, beautifully juxtaposed in a stylized sexual union. Then, from the murky bottom of his lagoon, the Creature leeringly watches Adams as she performs an erotic underwater ballet, and he knows that, for the moment, he can only look, not touch. (Is the scaly one shy and insecure? Or does he simply have a Catholic upbringing?) Indeed, much of the film's imagery lends itself to Freudian interpretation.OK, so it's not exactly Beauty and the Beast -the Creature's passion is purely primal and elemental. But still, the fact that he restrains himself, satisfying his carnal curiosity with a simple caressing of Julie's ankles, and then retreats back to the gloomy bottom of his underwater sanctum to secretly watch her react in bewilderment, suggests he may be more human than he appears. But, alas, as any good Freudian will tell you, repression often leads to disfunction. And later in the film, in a brief, but beautifully filmed underwater scene, the Creature savagely drags the tantalizing Playboy centerfold down into the Freudian depths to his subterranean grotto -perhaps to hide her under his bed...where his mom can't find her. (I apologize for the metaphor. It's getting stale, I know.)The Creature From the Black Lagoon was directed by Jack Arnold (The Incredible Shrinking Man), who (from 1952 to 1960) directed a series of fantasy/horror films for Universal Studios, including Revenge of the Creature -this film's sequel. Arnold would certainly object to us reading too much symbolism in his gillman, but the Creature may not have achieved such enduring status in monster-mythology if not for the fears and anxieties of the movie-going audience of the '50s. Arnold's dramatic use of the Creature succeeds, of course, by exploiting the human fear of the unseen threat lurking below -a very primal, deeply embedded in the human subconscious, and one that's been ruthlessly exploited by filmmakers in countless horror films. But Arnold's beast may also represent a more intellectualized fear. In the 1950s (and beyond), the threat of nuclear annihilation was very real, and like the creature in Shelly's Frankenstein, Arnold's lagoon creature represents an elemental force of nature that, once discovered and awakened by science (even well-intentioned science), cannot be controlled -perhaps like the newly tapped, but untamed, power of the atom. Or (and this may sound like apostasy in one of John's pretentious, sophistical, over-intellectualized movie reviews, in which I've constantly and digressively wandered into the Freudian morass) perhaps the Creature is not a mataphor for teenage angst, forbidden knowledge, or cold-war anxiety. Perhaps the Creature is nothing more than a guy in a scary rubber suit chasing a pretty girl around a movie soundstage. But where's the fun in that?The Creature From the Black Lagoon is still fun to watch. Actors Richard Carlson (the sophmoric, but noble-minded paleozoologist) and Richard Denning (the ambitious financier) play off each other well. And Julie Adams is simply gorgeous in her custom-made swimsuit. Also, the beautiful (albeit black & white) underwater photography by James C. Haven is appropriately surreal as the men begin their search and descend into the black depths of the lagoon, they intermittently twirl and hover amidst penetrating shafts of sunlight from above; and as the camera pans the peaceful bottom-landscape of the lagoon, the gillman suddenly springs from clouds of disturbed sediment, thrashing through curtains of shimmering air bubbles and drifting weeds, determined and unstoppable in his persuit of the human intruders. But one of the best things about the movie is the music. Some of the themes--written by Henry Mancini and Herman Stein--are quite beautiful; for example, as the expedition slowly makes its way up the dark Amazon, an ensemble of gentle woodwinds can be heard -a soft, subliminal prelude that lets us know we are entering another world, a primeval world. And who can forget the Creature's signature theme--the brassy, bombastic, three-note progression of DA DA DAAAAA!--whenever Creech appeared on the screen?Of course, the best thing in the film is...the Creature. Jack Arnold suggested that the design of the gillman suit be based on the graceful form of the Motion Picture Academy's Oscar statuette. (Really!) The suit was designed and brilliantly crafted by make-up artist Bud Westmore, and there were two versions -one suit for filming on land, and another for filming underwater. On land, the gillman was played by Ben Chapman. Olympic swimmer Ricou Browning wore the gillman suit in the underwater scenes. The dry suit that Chapman wore was beautifully colored with iridescent greens and blues, and mottled with many other marine hues. The wet suit worn by Browning was a bright yellow -the marine hues chosen for the dry suit photographed too dark when filming underwater.Yeah, I really love this movie. I'm not sure why. Perhaps it's just one geek relating to another. You see, in the final reel, neither of us got the girl.  "},{"Title":"Another Universal Studios Monster on the loose!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon is a movie I saw on a Saturday afternoon TV show called Monster Movies. I loved it from the start. I now own the DVD collection and I find all the movies entertaining. The first of the series was, of course, Creature from the Black Lagoon. Richard Carlson, Whit Bissell, Richard Denning, Nestor Paiva and Julia Adams are awesome in their roles. A fossil is discovered of a prehistoric gill-man by a Dr. Maia. He enlists his scientist friend(Carlson) and the research team he works for that is headed by Denning. They travel up a river that ends into an area known as The Black Lagoon. Looking for more fossils, they discover the Gill-Man is alive! The Creature is captured and then escapes but is shot and severely wounded at the end. He sinks toward the bottom of the lagoon but don't worry; he made it back for two more sequels. The team of Jack Arnold(director), William Alland(producer) and Joseph Gershenson(music director, with help from young composer Henry Mancini) help make this film unique. The photography and locales are beautiful. The acting is superb and there is enough action and suspense to keep you at the edge of you seat. This is required viewing for 1950s sci-fi/horror movie fans. "},{"Title":"3 D or Not 3 D--That Is The Question","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of few truly great creature films, THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON is a surprisingly effective horror film concerning a scientific expedition up the Amazon to investigate an unusual fossil find--but instead of fossils the crew members encounter an underwater creature of considerable intelligence that is bent on their destruction.The script is a bit dated by modern standards, but the cast (particularly Julie Adams) is effective, and the creature is easily one of Universal Studio's most memorable creations. And seen today in standard black and white, the film is quite enjoyable. But it doesn't hold a candle to the original 3-D format, which I was fortunate to see not once but twice during the 1970s and 1980s. Simply stated, BLACK LAGOON's cinematography was probably the best of all 3-D movies to date. As with most 3-D films, there is plenty of coming at you cinematography, and many viewers will be able to pick out such moments when seeing the film in standard black and white--but in addition to these, the film used 3-D in a remarkably subtle way; virtually every scene in the film is designed for 3-D, and the effect is exceptionally memorable in the underwater sequences.I remain disappointed that the 3-D version of BLACK LAGOON--not to mention such other 3-D films as HOUSE OF WAX, IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE, and DIAL M FOR MURDER--has never been released in 3-D format on video or disk; instead, we must make do with such bottom-budget 3-D flicks as THE MASK, CAT WOMEN ON THE MOON, and the like. Admittedly, the impact of the format is lessened by the small screen and demands some careful color adjusting, and the effect requires the use of 3-D glasses--but it is a shame that we must settle for ghosts of the originals when we could easily have the originals instead. In 3-D format, BLACK LAGOON would easily be a ten-star film.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"This is the quintessential monster movie.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As many times as this movie has been copied, filmmakers still can't seem to get it right.  Considering that this film is considered a trend-setter, it's amazing how many rules this film BREAKS by today's standards.  It breaks the notion that full shots of the creature and lots of blood and violence are needed to create a scare.  In this film, all you need is a shot of the creature's hand and that piercing three-note musical motive played by brass instruments, and let the imagination fill in the blanks.  It shatters the notion that monsters MUST be computer-generated--a guy in a suit CAN be scary.  And it proves that black-and-white photography can be just as rich  as color photography.  The underwater sequences especially are both beautiful (almost surreal) and eerie at the same time.	And then there is the Gill Man himself.  It's as if the writers took the best qualities of his predecessors and combined them into the last and best (IMHO) of the Universal monsters.  Like The Mummy, he has lived long after he technically should have died; like Frankenstein's monster, he appears to be savage, yet shows intelligence and appreciates beauty; like Dracula, he is seductive.  Just check out the scene where he swims with Julie Adams (unbeknownst to her, of course).  I believe this is why he has achieved the status of a genuine icon, and deservedly so.  Here's hoping he swims the waters for a long time. "},{"Title":"Lonely In The Serene Lagoon","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unlike other sci-fi flicks from the 1950s, Creature From The Black Lagoon is not a film to laugh at. It's better made. Just by the title we know there's a monster lurking about. Yet, for the film's first 24 minutes we don't actually see it, only one of its claws. And that holding back of the monster's appearance fosters suspense and mystery. In addition, the film's B&W cinematography is good, for its time, with lots of credible underwater shots. And while the dialogue does contain lots of exposition, the film at least tries to educate viewers.There's nothing complex about the story. A scientific crew heads for the Amazon to do an archaeological dig, after a large fossil is found. The crew ends up at the Black Lagoon, a place of serenity, with its still waters, surrounded by palm trees and the sounds of monkeys and exotic birds. Through much of the film the peaceful setting together with soothing background music actually makes for a rather relaxing movie. Even when we see the monster, it seems lonely and hardly threatening as it glides gracefully through its watery home.I suspect that the film's popularity when it was first released relates to the creature's distinctive appearance, with those moving gills and those bulging dark eyes. And of course, back in those days, the film was made for 3-D viewing, a novelty then that made the monster seem more real. Today, the film has an ever-so-slight environmental theme, given that at least one of the scientists prefers that the monster not be harmed, and given that humans obviously are encroaching into its habitat.Because so much of the plot takes place underwater and therefore lacks dialogue, and given a runtime of only about 78 minutes, there really isn't that much to this movie. But what there is of it is interesting for its historical significance as a precursor to later sci-fi films, and for a monster that's not only photogenic but also alone and arguably lonely in a world that has passed it by, after eons of time. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the wonderful decade of the monsters...","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and perhaps the best 10 years in horror history so far. I think the creature movies from the 30's and 40's were absolutely great, but the 50's have something extra in my humble opinion. The most lovable monster movies were made during this decade and Creature from the Black Lagoon belongs to the absolute top ! My father keeps asking me why I show so much interest in movies that were made before even HE was born. Well...how could you not be in love with this era ??? Every single monster movie from this period gives me the shivers. They're just great. Creature from the Black Lagoon is part of the great Universal collection. It's almost half a century old, but it still hasn't lost a single bit of magic and the impression that it makes on people is still amazing. Like I said...one of the best. Dr. Carl Maia is on a scientific expedition somewhere deep in the jungle, near the Amazone river. He and his team find a fossil of something that appears to be a man-fish. The thing is a hand with gills. To find the rest of this extraordinary body he seeks help and finds it by other respected scientists Dr.David Reed, Dr. Mark Williams and Kay Lawrence. Together the travel to the place where Dr. Maia found the fossil. It seems that his crew got killed and it looks like they're about to find much more than just a fossil ! There still is a living fish-creature living in the legendary Black Lagoon. Soon the scientific expedition changes into a battle to come out alive of the Black Lagoon The location of the Black Lagoon really is one of the most breath-taking settings I've ever seen. The images of the wild, unknown jungle and the horrible noises of the animals makes you feel like your in the jungle yourself. The acting performances are outstanding and there's even a little room for comedy in this film. The character of Lucas ( captain of the ship Rita) breaks the tension from time to time by saying very funny things. The actress who plays Kay is one of the most beautiful woman who ever came on the black and white screen...heck, even the creature seems to think so ! Her name is Julie Adams and she played in a lot of good old-fashioned westerns like The man from the Alamo I recommend you check her out...you won't regret it. The Creature from the Black Lagoon was directed by Jack Arnold. This guy certainly knows what he's doing. He's also the one who gave us Tarantula, another great 50's monster film worth checking out. This film received 2 sequels. I haven't seen the second one ( the Creature walks among us ) but I can surely recommend the first sequel, which was also directed by Arnold. Revenge of the Creature only came out one year after the original and lives up to it. The only think that got lost was the tense atmosphere. "},{"Title":"THE GILL MAN IS FANTASTIC","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was thrilled by this movie as a kid, and still love it today.  For a small budget Science Fiction/Horror movie of the fifties, this is a great show.  It's well paced, well acted, has great music to accompany the action, and Bud Westmore's Gill Man is a marvel to enjoy.  Originally this was a 3-D movie, and thankfully, it looks so much better in regular flat screen.  I never really did catch the 3-D craze.This is a terrific adventure of Man out of his element fighting a Monster in his element.  The Gill Man is a thinking being, but, still a monster, who remembers the injuries done him by man and seeks retribution.  If the scientists had left him alone, he'd have left them alone. They were the invaders.And, thank goodness that they didn't have a scene of the kidnapped Julia making friends with the now peaceful Gill Man (to show his human side), only to have the heroes show up and kill him.  She was taken as bait to lure the humans into the Gill Man's lair.It spawned two sequels (yes, there were sequels even back then), and both are good in their own right, they just didn't achieve what the original did all the way around. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Da da Daaaaa","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Finding embedded in a rock, along the Amazon River in Brazil, what looks like a over-sized catchers mitt Prof. Carl Maia, Antono Morero, feels that he made the rock-hard discovery or the century the remains of an aquatic human-like creature, dating back to the Devonian Era. This discovery can be the the very first link to what turned out to become the human race.Getting an expiation together and going into the uncharted, and undiscovered, Amazon Basin Prof.Maia together with a crew of scientists lead by Dr. Mark Williams, Richard Dennings,get to his campsite. There they find that his two Indian guides were butchered by some strange monster from the deep. It turns out that this creature has been living in the lagoon for millions of years without any contact with the outside world. Now that his domain had been invaded and disturbed he's out for blood and won't stop until all those who trespassed into his kingdom, the Black Lagoon, are eliminated. The Gillman at first is a bit confused of what's happening and just goes out in the water to observe what the humans are doing. When it becomes obvious that their out to get him,dead or alive, and bring him back to civilization, as the scientific find of the century, he goes bananas and sets out to attack and kill everyone on board the science ship Rtia. The Gillman has just one weakness, he gets distracted by the beautiful assistant of Dr. Williams Kay (Julie Adams)whom the Gillman, or creature, wants to keep alive all for himself as a playmate as well as a mate. Even though Dr.Williams wants to go as far as killing the creature the sensitive second-in-command of the expiation Dr. David Reed, Richard Carlson, is dead set against it. Dr. Reed wants to leave the creature alone and just bring back photographic proof that he exists. This causes great friction between the two explorers. The creature meanwhile barricades the Rita into the Black Lagoon by blocking the exit route ,with logs and tree branches. Setting up the movie's finale conflict between man and beast or creature. The creature goes on the attack killing a number of Rita crewmen and almost rips Dr. Thompson's (Whit Bissell), another member of the expiation, face off Later the creature is put to sleep with the underwater knock-out drug Rotenone that Dr. Reed sprays in his face in a tense and deadly underwater encounter. Put in an underwater cage, on the Rita, the creature easily breaks out, after the effects of the drug wears off. Goes back into attack mode the creature has it out in an underwater battle royal with both Dr. Reed and Dr. Williams who he ends up killing. By dragging him down to the bottom of the lagoon and cutting off his air supply.The creature finally gets what he's been after all along, Julie, by boarding the Rita and snatching her up, while everyone else on board is looking the other way. In the end the effects of the Rotenone and a number of spear-gun wounds have taken the wind out of The Gillman, or creature. After taking Julie to his secret hideout or pad, an underground cave, the creature just about had it staggering along the shore, like a drunk, and plopping into the river with David and the crew of the Rita letting him get away. Eye-popping underwater photography makes the movie The Creature from the Black Lagoon one of the best horror films released in the 1950's. The Gillman does return in two more sequels,  Revenge of the Creature in 1955 and The Creature Walks Among Us in 1956, until he was finally put out to pasture, or sea, by the Universal Pictures Studios. "},{"Title":"We didn't come here to fight monsters, we're not equipped for it.","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of Universal Pictures, Creature from the Black Lagoon is directed by Jack Arnold, and stars Richard Carlson, Julia Adams, Richard Denning, Antonio Moreno, and Whit Bissell. The eponymous creature was played by Ben Chapman on land and Ricou Browning for the underwater scenes. The cinematography is by William E. Snyder and the score is composed by a trio of men, Henry Mancini, Hans J. Salter & Herman Stein. The story sees a scientific expedition at the top end of the Amazon encounter a Devonian Period amphibious creature. As the creature starts to defend its turf by attacking members of the expedition, in fighting begins to take a hold as the men argue about the best course of action to take. Should it be killed, or should it be captured for scientific research? Either way they need to act fast as the creature has taken a fancy to Kay, the sole female member of the expedition group.One of the better creature features that surfaced in the 1950s, Creature from the Black Lagoon was one of the film's made as part of the 3D craze that filtered out of Hollywood in 53 & 54. However, unlike many of those film's that were made in the format over those two years, this one has rightly managed to break away from its gimmicky beginnings to become regarded as a genre classic. There are many reasons why it is still well regarded and taken in appreciatively by newcomers.The story of course is nothing new, the old beauty & the beast theme can be traced back to the daddy himself, King Kong. But much like Kong, Arnold's movie thrives within the endearing story by getting the audience to sympathise with the titular creature. He is after all only defending his territory, he was happy wallowing down in the depths, remaining undiscovered for many a moon. That he is fascinated by the considerable beauty of Kay Lawrence (Adams sexy and gorgeous), is no crime either. The amount of sympathy garnered for Gill-Man is helped enormously by the illogical actions of the humans; who in turn go diving and swimming where legend has it men get eaten! This coupled with their bickering about pro science or trophy hunting makes it easy to side with the amphibious one.It also helps that the film is pretty brisk and only runs for 80 minutes, there's no sags or pointless filler. Too many similar film's of its ilk labour until the monster shows up and all hell then breaks loose. But under Arnold's (It Came From Outer Space/The Incredible Shrinking Man) astute direction, atmosphere and unease is built up by ominous talk and sightings of the Black Lagoon-and only initial glimpses of the creature's scaly webbed claw; accompanied by the attention grabbing theme music. And when the creature finally reveals itself it doesn't disappoint for its an impressive creation. A half-man/half-fish creature covered in scales, resplendent with gills and with cold, dark featureless eyes. It also has great characteristics with a distinctive swimming style in the water, and a lumbering Frankenstein thing going on when on the land. A definitive monster that would be merchandised for ever after.There's also technical accomplishments away from the creature itself, notably with the memorable underwater photography by Snyder, who uses a portable camera to flow with the swimming sequences, while his shadow and light work down in the depths is memorably mood enhancing. The three tiered score is also one of the best to feature in a B movie schlocker, three different composers, three different emotional strands; nice. Then there's of course the definitive sequence, the sexy underwater flirting as Gill-Man swims below the shapely form of Kay, beguiled by her, it's love at first sight. He's not the only one beguiled, we all are, as was Steven Spileberg, who would homage the more dramatic part of the sequence in his opening for Jaws 21 years later. Whilst last but not least it should be mentioned that there are little asides to ecological issues in the piece, something Arnold was want to do. Two sequels would follow, Arnold would return for Revenge Of The Creature in 1955 and then the John Sherwood directed The Creature Walks Among Us would round off the trilogy in 1956.It's the original that still holds up today. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Julie Adams how do you keeping so nice in the jungle?","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First the less than serious part That grungy boat sure had a very good powder room, curling iron, and closes iron. Julie Adams managed to always have perfect hair, wrinkle-free clothes, and full makeup in the Amazon jungle. Julie Adams is a sight to see, but they should have been somewhat realistic on her look. No wonder Gill-Man feel in love with her. Also, you would get drunk if you took a drink every time she changed clothes. At the end when all hell was breaking lose, she managed to change clothes twice.Now, it is time for the serious part of my review. The true story in this movie is an environmental one. There are two scientists. One of them is trying to preserve Gill-Man while researching him. The other wants to take Gill-Man to the lab at any cost - even the death of the new species. The movie is interesting because of the conflicts between the two men. That is what keeps the story going and keeps the story great. The other part of the storyline is pretty the typical beauty and the beast story. That part is done well too, but I liked the environmental theme aspect better.As for other aspects of this movie, the underwater cinematography is excellent in this movie. It is still a feast to the eyes over 50 years later. I wish I could get a copy of the 3-D version. Julie Adams is stunningly attractive as the lead lady. Richard Carlson and Richard Denning do an adequate job as the leading men. Like all the other Universal monster movies, this is a must see. "}{"Title":"Nature supplies many mysteries.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After finding a claw-like hand, scientists make a return trip to a lagoon off of the Amazon to search for relics. The major discovery is a 'gill' man with an eye for the female form. Julie Adams is most certainly an eye opener. Very interesting underwater and location shots. Run of the mill acting from Richard Carlson, Richard Denning and Whit Bissell. This was scarier seen through the eyes of a very young boy on the third row; but still holds your attention. Is this a classic or what? "},{"Title":"Genuinely Scary","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On a geology expedition to the Amazon the geology team find a fossilised hand in a rock . Taking the hand back to America the team are intrigued as to what type of creature it could have belonged to and get funding to return to the jungle only to find that the species it belonged to isn't in fact extinct Universal was the studio king of the horror movie in the 1930s and 40s . Cashing in on the science fiction monster boom of the 1950s this is a film that holds up very well to the classics the studio produced 20 years earlier . In fact if it had been made during the horror boom of the of the early 1940s it would have indeed been mentioned in the same breath as Frankenstein , Dracula and the Wolf ManWhat the film does so well is building up an air of menace . The audience don't get a full view of the Gill Man until relatively late in to the running time so the film plays along with the audience by giving glimpses of the monster via a webbed hand . In some ways the structure and feel of the film resembles that of James Whale's version of FRANKENSTEIN where the brooding menace of the monster hangs over the film even though it hasn't been properly introduced . All this is helped by music that can be dismissed as being a cheap trick scare tactic but it is nevertheless very good It's also a film that makes good use of underwater photography that must have been very difficult for the production team and yet they pull it off very well . THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON also seems to have inspired the marketing behind a certain film from 1975 directed by Steven Spielberg featuring a shark as a woman swims unaware that a monster is a few short feet away from her and the whole film gives an excellent sense of suspense sadly lacking in Hollywood movies nowadays THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON is one of these movies you remember watching on TV one night many years ago and as the years go by can be easily dismissed as a silly monster B movie but after seeing it again I was genuinely impressed by it all the way from use of music to make up and deserves a status befitting of a classic horror film "},{"Title":"Classic monster movie with a strong, erotic charge","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This classic monster movie also features one of the most erotic scenes I've ever screen. It occurs when the beautiful, delectable Julie Adams (playing marine scientist Kay Lawrence) swims freestyle across the lagoon while the Gill Man lingers beneath her. Director Jack Arnold shoots mostly from below and behind Ms. Adams and captures her incredibly sexy, athletic body with a true pervert's eye. It's amazing how much of Spielberg's Jaws is stolen from this movie -- in particular, the underwater shots of characters treading water as something watches them from below. Music by Henry Mancini is excellent, as is the stupendously brilliant cinematography by William E. Snyder. Simply a fantastic monster movie deserving of its rep. "},{"Title":"Nothing against other Universal monster movies, but this is the best of them all.","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't have anything against the classic Universal films from the 30's and 40's, but simply put, this was their best work. And what's really sad, this film's 2 sequels were vastly inferior, one of them even being lampooned on MST3K. Everything about this film was top-notch, though. Acting, directing, and especially the music, all great. I especially enjoy this because I met Ben Chapman, the guy who played The Gill Man, at a horror convention. Quite possibly, this is the best horror film to come out of the 50's. Sure, you've got to love The Blob for it's campy appeal, but you surely can't compare that film to this. This still stands out as one of the greatest monster movie even though it's been copied a million times. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but it is easy to see why people consider it a monster movie classic","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The dialogue is cheesy, overly-wordy and too heavy on exposition. Richard Denning has an obnoxious character and manages to be just as annoying. And the 3D effects lack sharpness and look rushed and somewhat dated too(look to the Vincent Price version of House of Wax to see how 3D in a horror film could be done well). Despite these flaws, and these are all personal feelings not objective, it is genuinely scary and a lot of fun and regarding monster movies of the 50s-60s it is one of the better ones. The underwater sequences are beautifully shot and very memorable, and the sets and locations have a great deal of atmosphere as well as looking quite exotic. The monster is essentially a man in a suit, you don't care here actually because unlike other monster movies of the era the suit looks great and the monster actually has a personality, managing to be menacing and poignant. The music score fits perfectly, the bombastic monster theme is creepy and not too predictable while at other times the orchestration is nicely understated. The story is simple(and perhaps somewhat by-the-numbers), not too simplistic but easy to follow, but doesn't ever feel ponderous, is suspenseful, has enough in the story and its action to keep entertaining and has a real sense of fun- and legitimate fun rather than guilty pleasure fun- to it. The most memorable and most genuinely scary was the scene with Julia Adams swimming alone with the monster lurking underneath watching her, it is frightening to a kid and adult as it plays on anybody's fear of venturing into the sea and to what is underneath lurking. Steven Spielberg's Jaws also explored this and to even greater and creepier effect. Creature from the Black Lagoon is smoothly directed and has some good characters. The acting has much criticised, but personally it didn't come across as that bad apart from Denning, Julia Adams is the most noteworthy but Richard Carlson is also a competent and likable lead. In conclusion, flawed but fun, has a great monster and has moments that do unsettle, which makes its reputation as a monster movie classic justified. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned man-in-a-monster-suit fun.","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take A classic for its day. Jack Arnold's CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON is, most likely, FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula's little cousin. A little-known relative of the more famous monster movie classics, CREATURE is nonetheless a nice trip down memory lane. Plot concerns a rouge swamp beast (Ricou Browning and Ben Chapman sweating it out in the decent monster suit) who falls for (what else?) a beauty on board a research ship, while the men find good fortune in capturing the beast and saving the gal (whose only real requirement is to scream her heart out). Those who remember stepping into the drive-way while the weird eerie music played on the opening black-and-white titles brings a sudden memory of being a wee bit scared if that rubber monster you now find cheesy so much nowadays. Still, despite stiff acting and cheesy effects gimmicks, CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON is a nice trip back to the good ol' days of monster pictures. Originally released in a 3-D.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Gillman Strikes!!","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As universal approached the 1950's they needed a new monster to follow in the footsteps of Frankensteins monster,Dracula,the wolfman,etc; they came up with the creature from the black lagoon a vicious yet sometimes playful monster,that likes a bathing beauty in the form of very beautiful Julie Adams(who looked very good in her little white bathing suit)the creature is sought by some scientists led by Richard denning and Richard Carlson,and whit bissell(teenage werewolf and teenage Frankenstein fame)along for the ride is sexy Julie Adams and boat captain Antonio Moreno,who likes to scare the alligators with his boat horn.the creature who is being hunted turns to the hunter.the creature was originally shown in 3d,and spawned two sequels and a popular monster model kit by aurora,that i had as a kid.the second creature movie was filmed in Florida,the creature joined the ranks of universal monsters and became a cult classic as well.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Gill Man tries to get lucky","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Creature From the Black Lagoon is a well-loved 1950's sci-fi classic. For 1954 the Gill Man's rubber suit was impressive, now it's plain silly. When members of a previous expedition go missing, Richard Carlson and Richard Denning smell something fishy and lead a new expedition into the Amazon to find out what happened. They discover the Gill Man, a prehistoric link between amphibians and man. The Gill Man has been without a Gill Woman for a darn long time which may account for why he kills everyone he comes in contact with. The Gill Man spots shapely Julia Adams on the ship and recognizes quickly that she has something he needs. She's a babe in a one-piece and Gill Man falls gills over fins for her. But Carlson and Denning, manly hunks that they are, aren't going to sit by and let some scaly fish steal their girl.Creature is a solid grade B film. The underwater scenes are interesting. The acting is standard for a grade B film. The Creature From the Black Lagoon spawned two sequels. A movie to watch with wise-cracking friends and popcorn. "},{"Title":"Jack Arnold brings a certain poetry to a low budget monster film","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While nowhere near as intelligent, thought-provoking and well made as Anderson's brilliant Incredible Shrinking Man, this is still smarter and more complex than your average monster movie, especially of its era. This creature is neither tragic hero, nor unstoppable villain. He's just a living being, a prehistoric half-man, half fish, behaving as his evolution has conditioned him, attacking invaders to his Amazonian paradise, attracted to the female human. The film is full of mind numbing exposition, mediocre acting, low production values and heavy handed staking out of its ethical positions; the humanistic scientist that wants to study and understand the creature versus the base desires of the expedition's financier who wants to kill the thing and bring it back to the world as a trophy. But there are sequence of power and even poetry, as the creature swims silently beneath the team's female scientist (and eye candy). There are moments her that Spielberg would echo in Jaws years later, but here the threat is more eerie and complex than terrifying. And watching the creature pathetically gasp for breath like a fish out of water is a sad and strong image (actually, a lot of the creature's movements, especially under water, are surprisingly convincing as something other than a man in a latex suit).While not, for me, the classic some see it as, it's still a solid cut above the dumb Saturday afternoon entertainment that has lead to our forgetting most of its cinematic cousins, but keeping this creature alive. "},{"Title":"I was there...","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've noticed that some of the reviewers that hated this actually love to watch it. Over and over. I have to separate the different levels of like and dislike with a film like this. Cheesy? That's a word that popped up several times, Yes it was cheesy, but lovable. Silly story line? yes. Less than stellar acting? Yes. Simplistic? Yes. Fun to watch? Yes. Like one reviewer said, They don't make em like this any more. I'm glad they don't. It was an era in film making that has passed and I appreciate films like this because they exemplified a time when we weren't very sophisticated. I'm happy to have grown up in a time like that, and that's why I watch movies like this one. Sophistication isn't all it's cracked up to be. "}{"Title":"A very entertaining ride down the lagoon...","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature From the Black Lagoon succeeds in so many ways, as to almost become an americanized Beauty and the Beast. Certainly there is much less poetry than in Cocteau's classic, but there is something quite good going on here.First off, there is the lovely young actress Julie Adams. She is ridiculously beautiful in this movie. Ms. Adams had true star potential. That she arrived in the era of television is a shame, because the old Hollywood star system could have made her quite a hot property.I'm always reminded of the reference to this movie in The Seven Year Itch, where Marilyn Monroe's character confesses 'feeling sorry' for the creature. I also had the same feeling.Maybe it's because the creature seems almost noble compared to the dogfight shenanigans of Denning and Carlson. Denning, the antagonist, wants to bring the creature home for a 'trophy'. Apparently, he feels the same way about Julie Adams, even though she is obviously more interested in the Carlson character.But Carlson's character, for all of his goodness, is fairly dull. There's the vague feeling that Julie deserves much better than either of these two lummoxes.Enter the creature (and the nice score by Henry Mancini!) and suddenly there is excitement.And although he severely mangles one of the ship's crew, the creature is ever so gentle with our lovely Julie.Frankly, this movie would not work as well without the presence of Ms. Adams. And the film holds up well these many years later. The creature's make-up remains credible (not laughable as so many old movie monsters can become).I always want to see this movie again....like I said, there's something good going on here. "},{"Title":"From the Amazon's forbidden depths came the Creature from the Black Lagoon.","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ~Spoiler~The Creature from the Black Lagoon is Universal's last great monster. He came almost two decades later than his brethren, but that's what sets him apart from the rest The Gillman was 3-D! I love the idea of 3-D movies but haven't had too many opportunities to see them on the big screen. I'm willing to bet that this was quite the theatrical experience in 1954. And for being over 50 years old, the costume is still pretty impressive. Sure it's just a rubber suit, but it's a good looking rubber suit (I love the updated look Stan Winston's crew did for The Monster Squad). The story is rather simplistic. An archaeological dig uncovers the skeletal remains of a creature who may be a missing link in the evolutionary chain from the time when creatures came out of the water to walk upon land. An expedition is led into the heart of the Amazon where the team finds more than they bargained for a living specimen. After a few failed attempts to capture the Gillman, the surviving members decide to flee the area. They might be done with the Creature, but the Creature isn't done with them. He's blocked the only exit from the lagoon and has his eye set on the lovely Julie Adams. It becomes a basic story of survival at that point. Soon after the Gillman struck, the nuclear age came about and it was all about giant spiders and such during the late 50's and 60's. I strongly recommend any creature aficionados catch Creature from the Black Lagoon to see where many classics are strongly rooted. "},{"Title":"The Gill-Man Gets His Sea Legs","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In South America, ecologist Antonio Moreno (as Carl Maia) leads an expedition; he is startled to find a webbed, but human-like, hand protruding from a rock. Mr. Moreno snaps the fossil from the rock, and brings it to ichthyologist Richard Carlson (as David Reed), for examination. Mr. Carlson is intrigued by the hand, and wants to find more of the Creature's remains. Carlson is also enamored with bushy-eyed beauty Julie Adams (as Kay Lawrence); but, so is Carlson's wealthy colleague Richard Denning (as Mark Williams). The group decide to boat the Amazon, and find the Creature&#x85; Created by Milicent Patrick (with Jack Kevan and Chris Mueller), the Creature from the Black Lagoon (or Gill-Man) made a big splash at the box office. Much of the time, the film displays a rushed, low-budget quality; and, it was made for viewing in 3-D glasses. Still, the movie entertains. The Creature is conceptually quite interesting; and, he has a great look. More importantly, the title character has personality. Mainly, this is due to his obvious attraction to Ms. Adams' character. Perhaps, he was the last of his type, and was responding to the mating urge? The underwater photography, by William Snyder, is superior. It's nice to see Moreno, a former silent film star, among the supporting players. Future Flipper producer Ricou Browning performs swimmingly alongside Adams. Mr. Browning was the underwater Creature, and Ben Chapman served as the surface Gill-Man. Only Browning returned, for the two sequels Revenge of the Creature and The Creature Walks Among Us. Watch out! ******* Creature from the Black Lagoon (3/5/54) Jack Arnold ~ Richard Carlson, Julie Adams, Antonio Moreno, Richard Denning "},{"Title":"One of the best in the genre","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon is the best of the later-era Universal creature features.**SPOILERS**Deep in the Amazon, the fossilized hands of an extinct amphibian creature is found, and Dr. David Reed, (Richard Carlson) is excited at the prospect it has on the existence of gill-men in prehistoric times. Dr. Mark Williams, (Richard Denning) who found the claw, agrees to an expedition to find more such pieces of evidence. Tagging along is Dr. Reed's assistant, Kay Lawrence, (Julia Adams) and together with a scientific team, tread into the jungles hoping to find the mysterious Black Lagoon, home of the fabled fossils. When a search for it instead finds that a living descendant is still alive in the lake, Mark sees it as a profit-building sideshow exhibit and orders his team to catch it. When they find that the creature has a strange attraction to Kay, David and her decide to help get the creature to safety, while the creature terrorizes the men aboard the expedition.The Good News In Universal's stable of monsters, the Creature is one of the most highly-regarded yet oddly not as critically accepted. I think this is one of their better films in their catalog. The Creature is one of the most recognizable faces ever, with the reptilian features, large external gills on the side of the head, and extremely emotive face make him an extremely likable monster. The best shots of the creature are no doubt him underwater, as the creature is simply beautiful to watch underwater. The graceful ease of movement of the monster underwater creates what are the quintessential series of movement and mannerisms that make the Creature so believable. He isn't as threatening as others make him out to be, and instead is a simple being defending his turf. This places him squarely in the King Kong model of beasts, and the similarities don't end there. The men wandering into a forbidden area, is driven by curiosity-turned-greed to capture and extract a remarkable being from its environment, a romance between the species, and a final conflict ensues between meddling man and the instinctive, misplaced animal are also themes common between the two films, and these only make it more endearing to audiences. Rooting for the creature is much easier than rooting for the humans, and that is precisely what the film must place a priority on. It wouldn't be fun to root for the humans in a film like this to wipe out the creature, and to put the audience into league with the monster is a great feat. It moves at a very fast clip, another plus as it's never a taxing watch, yet is pure and simple a popcorn movie in the same context as recent ones. It's never a boring watch. The setting is also quite inventive and unique, with the action taking place in the Amazon. A nice switch from the usual time-period films of the other monster movies, yet also one to allow a spectacular series of shots setting up the gorgeous locations. This is one of the best-looking films in Universal's stables.The Bad News I don't have any real begging complaints about this one.The Final Verdict This is a really great film that I can't find a whole lot wrong with. It's an exciting monster movie from the studio that pretty much invented them, and is one of the better films to come along. Highly recommended to all monster and classic horror fans Today's Rating-PG Violence "},{"Title":"Enjoyable 50's Horror Movie","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally, I've always been far more interested in the Universal collection of horror movies from the 1930's than from the 50's, but having just watched this I have to admit that it's a lot of fun, and at times even somewhat scary in places. The story revolves around the search for the remainder of a fossil from some sort of gillman that apparently lived in the Devonian era. Of course, the expedition discovers that gillman is still alive and quite capable of wreaking havoc! I thought this lacked a bit of the atmosphere that Universal's earlier stuff had in abundance, but the story was pretty good and, although there were a couple too many speeches from scientist David Reed (played by Richard Carlson) the performances from a largely unfamiliar (to me, although I think I remember seeing Whit Bissell in a Star Trek episode) cast were not bad. Director Jack Arnold did a pretty good job throughout of building suspense (there are a lot of scenes in which you expect something to happen and nothing does.) The whole monster falls for beautiful girl (in this case played by the admittedly lovely Julie Adams) is perhaps a bit clich in this type of movie, and I did find it passing strange that the creature, who lives in this environment and should be perfectly adapted for it, didn't seem to swim any better than the scientists who were after it! It would have been interesting to see this movie in the original 3-D in which it was apparently released, but still, this is good fun. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Gill-Man Cometh","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know how old I was when I first saw it. But his film's always left an impression on me. Of all the classic Universal Monster films, Dracula, Frankenstien, The Wolfman, the creature has always been my favorite.For it's time it is a special effects marvel a fully functioning body suit was worn and swam in through many of the films underwater shots(new film technology was designed specifically for it.).As far as stories go there's not too much to tell, an evolutionary missing link(I'm between mermaids and Bigfoot) is found in the Amazon, and a team of scientists dynamite there way into the ancient Black Lagoon that's been sealed away from the main river for centuries. Well then the creature shows up and abducts the ships only female (presumably for tea and hand holding) and so the guys go after the beast, and after numerous failed attempts and close calls, save the day and get the girl...but what if the creauture wasn't the only one of it's kind...well then watch the sequels I know I didn't. 5 stars because it's Friday, and my socks are black, ala just because. "},{"Title":"We didn't come here to fight monsters, we're not equipped for it.","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of scientists heads up an Amazonian river in search of the fossilized remains of an unknown link between man and aquatic life. But the team of researchers gets more than they bargained for when they encounter a living example of their prehistoric Gill-Man. After a member of their party is killed, the group decides it best to leave the Black Lagoon. But the creature has become enamored with Kay (Julie Addams), the only female on the expedition, and blocks the scientist's retreat. Will they escape the Creature from the Black Lagoon? As I think back to the late 60s, Creature from the Black Lagoon is one of the very first movies I can remember seeing. Its appeal to me was immediate and long lasting. The scenes of the creature's hand reaching up on the shore of the lagoon sent chills down my spine. And the four note musical introduction to the first images of the creature very nearly knocked me off the couch. Even at a young age, I knew it was a man in a costume, but that didn't matter. The creature design was awesome &#150; it was frightening and fascinating all at once. The underwater photography was breathtaking. The shots of the creature swimming just under Julie Addams were the stuff of nightmares. Creepy! The underwater fight scenes, the spear-gun, Nestor Paiva, and the hidden grotto &#150; I couldn't get enough of it. To my 5 or 6 year-old mind, Creature from the Black Lagoon was the perfect movie.I'm not 5 anymore, but my opinion hasn't changed much. The cool thing is that I still get a charge out of that hand coming out of the water, I still jump a little when the creature music blares at his first appearance, and I still love the shots of the creature swimming under Julie Addams. I don't think I'll ever get tired of any of it. "},{"Title":"A Thoroughly Enjoyable Film","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie from beginning to end was held together by the secondary characters. The star, Richard Carlson, playing David Reed, could have taken acting lessons. Nestor Paiva, playing Lucas, the boat captain was great all the way through the film and Richard Denning, playing Mark Williams put in a fine performance. Whit Bissel, playing Dr. Thompson was believable and Julia Adams, playing Kay Lawrence wasn't bad. Antonio Moreno, playing Carl Maia was so-so. I thought the stunt men and divers playing the creature stole the show. The scene of the clawed hand coming through the tent in the Amazon was phony and so was the clawed hand coming in the porthole of the boat, menacing Dr. Thompson. I counted 12 costume changes for Julia Adams from the time they got to the Amazon to the end of the movie (if you count one being when she took off her top and dove in the water off the boat when they were in the Amazon). The bat in the cave was phony and when the creature picked up David Reed was pretty phony but most of the rest of the work the stunt men did of the creature throughout the film was believable. I thought Henry Mancini did a great job with the music in this film. The scenes of the creature grabbing Mark Williams under the water and dragging him down was very believable and the music by Henry Mancini during this was pretty good. I believed the struggle that the stuntman, playing Mark Williams, made. I've watched this movie probably near 100 times because my girlfriend is in love with it and every time I ask which VCR tape to put in the VCR, she says, Creature from the Black Lagoon or just, The Creature. I'll keep watching this movie with my girlfriend because the underwater scenes are great and it's just a fun film. There's nothing scary about this film as far as I'm concerned. I always feel a little amorous when Julia Adams, playing Kay Lawrence, takes off her shirt and reveals a great body and a sexy swimsuit. I'd have to rate this movie pretty high because it's enjoyable. "},{"Title":"creature from the black lagoon!!!Awesome!","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Excellent movie!One of my favorites of this genre, great acting and the creature great for such and old movie.It is nice that film begins like some documentary so i had feeling that it's something for real.I would like to recommend few of such type of films , Attack of the giant leeches,Beast from the hunted lake and.I haven't seen yet movie revenge of the creature and i would like to look that movie. Even it is obvious that the men is the creature in this movie, it doesn't bother me at all. I am very interested in remake of this movie, especially because I want to see how the monster will look like.That could be very good movie. "},{"Title":"Creature From The Black Lagoon.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The underwater photography is excellent and the musical score is quite good. But I love the Creature. Here's a thought. You can laugh at all the old monster films and movie monsters from the old days. But no one ever laughs at the Creature, do they? He has never once been called corny or cheesy or hackneyed, has he? Nor will he ever. He is a superb design, imaginatively conceived and executed, that has withstood the ravages of time and the sneers and snide remarks of younger viewers and subsequent generations of viewers. What a fine, winning conception he truly is- an image for the ages in the realm of the fantastic and the unreal. I love the Gillman. Alongside the Wolfman, he is my all time favorite Universal monster. Period! As one critic so aptly said  He is a finny delight. Yes, and he always will be! "}{"Title":"Intelligent Script, ...","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really appreciate an intelligent script and this movie was no disappointment. Sure, it wasn't perfect and it wasn't scary at all (I write this some 50 years from when it was originally released), but it was pretty decent quality.The story revolves around a scientific expedition looking for the rest of a hand-skeleton that was found next to a South American waterway. Their hunt leads them to the paradise-like 'Black Lagoon' area - and trouble with an unexpected creature encounter.No doubt the movie was impressive when it came out, but for the viewer many decades later, it's a little dated. From the God created the heaven and the earth ... opener to the verbal comments which equate adult women to children, it shows it's age. Also, when the lead actress swims in the water, it's a little funny to see her swimming / depiction in 'water ballet' form - kind of representative of an idyllic 50's female icon.What really elevates this movie is the dialog and acting. Both are well done and believable. They give the movie a very serious tone and an air of intensity. I'm sure when it originally came out, this helped create a strong atmosphere ripe for fear and horror.For the modern viewer, this film is pleasant viewing - a decent way to spend 79 minutes in classic 50's monster-movie mode. "},{"Title":"A Creature with a Future","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not usually one to believe a studio's publicity material, but on this occasion I'm firmly in Universal's corner. Creature from the Black Lagoon is a thrilling movie in 3-D. An enormous amount of time is spent underwater because this was the first time the murky depths had been enhanced by 3-D. Without 3-D, it's just another boring parade of swimmers swimming the creature swimming, Polly Burson and Ginger Stanley swimming, Richard Carlson and Richard Denning swimming. If that sounds uninteresting (and it is&#151;we never even get a good look at either Polly Burson or Ginger Stanley, because both, for obvious reasons, are always filmed in long shots), Creature from the Black Lagoon is bound to disappoint unless Universal decides to dust off those 3-D specs. Even the Creature himself seems far less menacing when viewed flat&#151;thanks not only to the lifelike depth of 3-D but the fact that the film was designed to pass through two filters to reduce the brightness of the image. Only the climactic scenes in the caves (designed specifically for 3-D but still fairly effective flat) and two or three shots when the Creature stalks Julie Adams still come across with any punch. Mind you, Miss Adams is a lovely, lovely girl and she also proves dazzlingly effective in any dimension.Available on DVD through Universal. Quality rating a reluctant ten out of ten. Why reluctant? Well, the image does break up once, but it's not an important sequence. My main complaint is that&#151;for 2-D viewing&#151;the image is too bright. What I would have done (and I'm surprised this didn't occur to the Universal boys) was to print it in sepia. Oh, horrors! I can hear fanatics exclaiming. The original presentations were in black-and-white, not sepia! Wrong, boys! The film itself was processed in black-and-white sure, but the effect, when viewed through the polaroid glasses (and the projection filter) was that it was actually in sepia&#151;and the movie was photographed by both Bill Snyder and Scotty Welbourne with this effect firmly in mind. "},{"Title":"Jaws soundtrack predecessor?","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Borrowing is a time honored tradition in popular music and soundtracks. But for once I'd like one of these geniuses to just say - hey, I stole that idea from this old movie. No dice. At least not this time. Did anyone else notice the two note theme from Jaws as background music when the Gillman swims around stalking the beautiful Ms. Adams? I think I've heard this bit of a theme before in other movies but TCFTBL and Jaws have something in common, their preeminence as the best water villain movies of their times. Did John Williams do a little horror research in coming up with his chilling theme? "},{"Title":"A prime example of the monster movie!","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Universal were the pioneers of classy horror pictures in the golden age of the genre, and this Amazon adventure is perhaps their last great horror picture. The film follows many of the staples of previous Universal offerings, except this time the film doesn't follow an already established story (like the likes of Frankenstein and Dracula did) and the location is a much more important element of the story in this film than it has been in other Universal monster movies. Director Jack Arnold puts us firmly in the Amazon jungle, and all the foliage and animal noises combine to ensure that the action is set firmly where it's supposed to be. This location effects benefits the story immensely, but it also does something more important than that - it represents a triumph over low budget, and that always impresses me. The way that the action is kept mostly in one place helps this too, as it gives the audience the impression that the scope of the film is larger than it really is. Like all good monster movies, the story is thin and easy to follow; and it basically just follows a bunch of explorers/scientists who travel to the Amazon to do research after finding a half-man/half fish fossil.The script and acting in the film are less than brilliant, but by the same standards; aren't bad either and certainly passable for this sort of feature. The creature itself is, of course, the star of the show and it's design is both inventive and even somewhat realistic! Of course, the monster is purely fictional so it would be impossible for it to be truly realistic; but if there was a missing link between man and amphibian, I reckon it would look something like the creature in this movie. The idea of an undiscovered creature coming from the depths of the sea, an area still largely unexplored to this day, is fascinating; and arguably more terrifying than the idea of some unknown entity coming down from space, as the sea is a big part of our own planet. The film doesn't have much in the way of depth and themes, but there is a somewhat muddled comment on the idea of hunting and taking things out of their natural habitat. On the whole; this is an excellent creature feature and one of the best films that Universal ever produced during their golden age. If it's monster movies you want, you could do a hell of a lot worse than this! "},{"Title":"creature from the black lagoon","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the Creature From The Black Lagoon is wonderful film full of great actin, and nail biting scenes. I would recommend This film to people who love suspenseful thrillers. The film is in a way groundbreaking, many of the scenes are filmed underwater which at the time probably was not easy to do. The film also uses dead track many times mostly in the underwater scenes to increase the suspense and captivate the audience. The gil man which was the monster in the movie is considered one of the last universal villains. The costume and unique concept of Gil man made for a very entertaining film, the way he swam, and walked around on land really makes it quite captivating. I would certainly give the film a solid 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Classic Monsterpiece from the 1950's.","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard about it, I read about it, but I didn't see it until I saw it on Svengoolie. It's time for Matthew Praises where I praise the ever-living crap out of a movie or TV show. Today, I praise this lovable, iconic, 1954 classic. No, not Godzilla. It's an American movie. The Creature from the Black Lagoon. Seeing this movie, is awesome, thrilling and chilling. It is like King Kong underwater, where Spongebob Squarepants is like Dennis the Menace underwater (read my Spongebob Squarepants review). The make-up and costume design by Chris Mueller Jr., who later created monsters for other films like, The Deadly Mantis, Land Unknown (read my comment), and Monster on Campus, is magnificent with a capital M! The cinematography is beautiful and glorious, that it brings out this sense of wonder to this then-terrifying movie. Henri Mancini's score, is striking but he would later be known for making the catchiest songs he ever composed, the theme song to The Pink Panther and Inspector Clouseau. I enjoyed it, but does this movie deserve to be remade? No! There is a good reason why. Great movie monsters such as Frankenstein, Dracula, The Wolfman,, The Mummy, and The Phantom of the Opera (not to mention the big guys like King Kong), got remade a few times and I think that they have faced enough abuse to see them exploited and have comical/animated iterations of them. The lovable Gill-Man, he had two sequels and had a few cartoon spoofs, but a remake ruins the charm. In the eighties, John Landis wanted to remake this, but instead, there was Jaws 3-D. Joe Dante wanted to remake it and so did John Carpenter. Mr. Carpenter said in an interview that he will direct it with Rick Baker creating the title. It never happened. In 1996, 2003 and 2008, Universal planned to remake it. It looks like it didn't. It will be sad that if it did. In a world where there is nothing new under the sun, leave it alone. Guillermo Del Toro said he loved it, but refused to remake it. Great thinking Mr. Del Toro. It has been 60 years, and it is still an iconic classic, that didn't get remade. Bottom line Great creepy creature classic. I highly recommend it. Rated G, but there might be some scenes that are too violent and scary for children under the age of seven. Parental guidance is advised. This has been another Matthew Praises. "},{"Title":"Classic B-movie that's still enjoyable","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (67%) A movie that many know of, but much fewer have actually seen. So how does it shape up? Well it's a 60 year old B-movie that has lost almost any bite that it may once have had, but it's still a well put together and quite enjoyable monster movie. They tried to give this a degree of brains with some interesting ideas floating around, but about halfway through they gave up and the scientist expedition more or less turns into a tourist trap situation with plenty of screen time for old Gill man as the team get picked off one by one. Julie Adams was born for the screen, and this is well made enough for a fun and very nostalgic look back on a well known sci-fi classic. "},{"Title":"A Good Creature Feature","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon is a pretty decent old creature feature. The Gill-man is pretty cool and you don't see him in horror films often which adds bonus points to the film.The story is not that bad - a group of scientist searching for fossils that are ill-equipped to face the dangers of the gill-man. But it is the scientist in the film that I was not overly crazy about. To me, there should have been at least one of them wanting to study the creature a lot better - totally insisting on it with fierce intensity! It was just too many scientists there that did not want to use scientific methods - instead they wanted to hunt and kill the poor creature.Outside of the weird scientists the movie is still enjoyable for an older sci-fi horror film.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Richard Carlson and Richard Denning clash, but the Creature has its eye on Julie Adams","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finally I watched this film again, this time in widescreen, although not 3-D, and I was thoroughly impressed. I usually dislike underwater scenes and photography. Not this time! These scenes are amazing, because they are lit so beautifully and you can see all the action. Plus as they go deeper, the waters turn much darker. Plus fish are swimming around. Plus the vegetation looks and maybe is real.The Creature is among the best of Universal's creations. The story has the neat element of the Creature being intelligent. Besides being quite aggressive in trying to expel the human intruders, he blockades the craft that has brought these explorers into his back yard. And he wants Julie Adams for his own, shades of Frankenstein wanting a mate. Above water, there is an ongoing squabble between Carlson the pure research scientist who wants the Creature alive and Denning the research financier who wants it dead. The courage of these two men in diving into the unknown waters to hunt for the Creature is exemplary.The name of director Jack Arnold is always a sign of a movie you can count on. Think of Tarantula, This Island Earth, Man in the Shadow, The Tattered Dress, Monster on the Campus, and It Came from Outer Space, among others. "},{"Title":"Best seen in 3-D","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Technically very good &#x96; probably slightly better 3D than the technicolor 'Dial M For Murder' which was of a similar vintage. The claw effects coming out the screen are great fun and the creature seems to be lurking everywhere as soon as the explorers arrive in the Amazon (not just in the lagoon). There's a great cave lair which is nicely lit and looks great in 3D. Some of the black and white photography on the deck of the 'Rita' looks absolutely stunning. The swamp- like location photography looks very authentic. The design of the Gill-Man is actually very good indeed especially the breathing and movement of his gills &#x96; surprisingly realistic despite this being the classic grand-daddy of all the 'man-in-a-monster-suit' movies. The music builds into a crescendo every time the Gill Man appears and while this is effective the first few times (and the theme is very memorable) it does become a little repetitive. A surprisingly high body count for a film like this and no one seems at all perturbed by this fact &#x96; they just diligently go on with their exploration and testing of rock samples regardless. The rivalry between the two male leads becomes a little tiresome at times. None-the-less quite an enjoyable little romp &#x96; especially in 3D. "}{"Title":"The Gill-Man.","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold directed this memorable yarn about a scientific expedition into the Amazon(played by Richard Carlson, Julie Adams, Richard Denning, Whit Bissell, and Nestor Paiva as the captain) who are looking for fossils but instead come across a prehistoric(and still living) aquatic humanoid that they become determined to capture, though this creature is crafty and determined to survive, even as it seems to become infatuated by the lone woman aboard... Atmospheric and tense thriller may contain just a man in a suit, but it is a good suit that made a big impression on the audience, as did the sympathetic treatment it receives here. A big hit that led to two sequels. "},{"Title":"Creepy sci-fi horror film ranks with the best of the '50s creatures...","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aside from providing some quiet chills and impressive underwater photography, CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON proves that it doesn't hurt to deliver your horror film with photogenic leads Richard Carlson, Richard Denning and Julie Adams, all briefly clad to best demonstrate their physical attributes. Furthermore, they can all give decent performances worthy of a better film.It's the underwater photography of a gill-man lurking in the Amazon waters while Miss Adams takes a brief swim that sticks in the mind after watching the film. The sheer suspense of seeing how selective he is in following her from the lower depths is given some striking underwater photography and subtle background music that captivates any viewer. When and how will this predator strike? It sets the stage for any suspenseful scenes that follow--and there are plenty of them.Fans of sci-fi thrillers get their money's worth with this one, crispy photographed in glorious B&W. And while the story lacks what we might call originality today, it's a good example of how its slight plot of man vs. underwater monster should be made. "},{"Title":"Classic monster movie mightily improved by Jack Arnold's slick direction","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientific expedition led by a Doctor (Richard Carlson ) accompanied by his girlfriend ( gorgeous Julia Adams in a mesmerizing swimsuit) along with a motley group (Richard Denning ,Nestor Paiva, Armando Moreno, Whit Bissell) goes to remote Amazon in search of a missing link but they are forced to fight for their lives. In spite of the reluctant help of the locals they encounter a rare being , a deadly pre-historic Gill-Man who attack them . They come face to face with an amphibious and vicious fish-man.Unforgettable monster vintage of the 50s that originated several imitations , copies and rip-offs . Magnificent picture with sure sense of eerie atmosphere; it's first in a trilogy and features good acting and bone-fide screams provided by the creepy appearance of the creature that actually is a man in a gill suit incarnated by Ricou Browning . Some reviewers say this exciting film can be seen as precursor of 'Jaws'. Wonderful and lush underwater photography by James Havens . Rousing and vibrant musical score by Joseph Gershenson . This motion picture , originally in 3-D , is stunning and compellingly realized by Jack Arnold. It's followed by two sequels Revenge of the creature also directed by Jack Arnold with John Agar , Lori Nelson and repeating Nestor Paiva , in which the Gill-Man is caged and transported into a Florida aquarium and The creature walks among us by John Sherwood with Jeff Morrow and Rex Reason in which the monster again is trapped and submitted to plastic surgery in hopes of humanizing him. Rating  Better than average , worthwhile watching . The film will appeal to classic cinema fans and terror aficionados . "},{"Title":"One of the Best...","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That bathing costume worn by the movie's only female cast member, Julie Adams, is not the only reason for the film's success, but it ranks highly. Avid film buffs will also note how cleverly it was filmed, with peekaboo sightings centered on the sexiest spots even before pretty Ms Adams takes to the water in it. CFTBL is a reminder that if the film makers are thoughtful and clever enough, a low budget need not prevent box office success or critical acclaim. That this picture has survived strongly restores faith in Hollywood to some extent. Most of the acting was at least adequate, but it is the production values that make this one of the best horror movies of them all. Southern Fan "},{"Title":"Prototype for the Eco-Horror Genre","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many modern horror films deal with man's invasion, destruction or perversion of nature, either directly or obliquely. These modern films take their inspiration from 2 seminal classics. One is King Kong, the original 1933 King Kong, not that crap from Peter Jackson. We shall not discuss that one here, but rather the other seminal eco-horror film, 'Creature from the Black Lagoon.' The creature does not venture into the civilized world, dwelling only in the wilderness. He only attacks in response to the desecration of the fossilized body of one of his ancestors, and in response to actual attacks on his physical person. His violence is the natural response to man invading his territory and man trying to capture or kill him. The plot indicates a deep, subconscious understanding on the part of the script-writers that someday man would experience his comeuppance for abusing the natural world.This is a solid, entertaining and fun horror movie, and you can watch it with a 12-year-old without fear that you are damaging the kid for life. It's tight, disciplined, and moves fast with no fluff. The damsel, played by the beauteous July Adams, is quite splendid. If you like B/W horror and monster films, you will find this one very enjoyable, comparable to the original Godzilla in terms of quality.I just saw this film at a revival showing in its original 3-D. It is truly an awesome experience to see all the action and underwater scenes in this manner and I join the chorus of those cinephiles demanding that a home video 3-D version be released. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot on this is pretty basic. A bunch of people look for the missing link and end up getting trapped in a sinister lagoon. There, a really cool looking monster falls in love with one of them, and the games begin. I guess that there are occasional moments of cheesiness in this, but I seriously love this movie. When I was young, I went through a phase of watching only Pinocchio, and then went into a phase of watching only this. There are so many wonderful things about this movie. The creature costume is really wonderful, the music is awesome, the characters work surprisingly well, and the storyline itself is well-paced and very dramatic. And man, Ricou Browning can swim! That scene with him and Julie Andrews is seriously incredible. I'm not sure if I love this movie so much because it's so objectively good, or because I watched it so much as a kid, but I seriously have a thing for this. "},{"Title":"Creature from the Black Lagoon","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Top notch horror tale that has not lost it's appeal over time....quite shocking for it's time in the early 1950s when it was released...I was 10 years old when I saw it at the movie theater and how do you describe being scared that bad.....Universal had worn out the Frankenstein/Wolfman/Dracula genre in the 30s and 40s and Creature was a welcome addition to the Universal monster stable. The film became a smash hit when released in 1954 and every kid I knew back then was the kreetch when they went swimming anywhere trying to duplicate that twisting and turning side to side motion the creetch had.... The film was so successful it spawned two sequels, neither of which came anywhere near to being as good as the original..... The story was excellent - a half man - half fish being discovered in the ruins of the amazon jungle.....all the creetch wanted to do was be left alone but alas a team of scientists had other ideas. The creature is a very elusive monster to say the least and spears, rotonol, and bullets could not rein in him for the most part. When captured the creetch reacted in his own way - showing the beast that he was but not doing anything else except trying to escape. The creetch had a yearn for love also as he stalked the beautiful Julia Adams throughout the film and tried to win her over in the end. But alas beauty killed the beast and the creetch went to a subteranian grave at the end. This is a monster you had a heart for....somehow I wanted the creetch to escape and torment his attackers......for a small part of the film he did just that. Still one of the top all time monster movies.....a classic. "},{"Title":"Treading the dark waters of the Amazon.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" During an expedition up the Amazon, a group of scientists are looking to find more evidence of a fossil that was discovered, but they come face-to-face with a hostile half-man, half-fish creature. Who takes a real fancy to the lady assistant of the group and kidnaps her after escaping the cage that the scientists had held him captive in.This totally successful Universal classic creature feature is unquestionably a very influential imprint on the many horror / Sci-fi ilks that followed it. I have not seen the flick in ages, but the charm and polish was still there to considerate one of my all-time favourite Universal monster flicks. Originally, it was distributed in 3-D, but even without that gimmick it stands up marginally well. There's something crisp about these b/w Universal features and Creature from the Black Lagoon is no exception.It's stoutly directed by Jack Arnold with extremely potent cinematography (especially the superbly executed murky underwater shots) and a robust to melodious patchwork music score. Though it's the star of the production were the limelight sticks on. The creature was thought-up through Universal compared to their other monsters that were found through literature. Bud Westmore's astounding rubber design for the beast was vividly crafted and had an imposing figure and personality about it. Rounding off the solid production were credible performances from Richard Carlson, Richard Denning, Antonio Moreno and the simply gorgeous Julie Adams. No wonder why it's love at first sight for the creature! The to-the-point script rounds out the characters and situation they are in a durable manner. A King Kong aspect definitely shapes the premise, Beauty and the Gill-Man. And the leisurely story doesn't lean to far from its traditionally planned framework. In patches streamlining a certain eroticism found in some sequences breaks this mould. Director Arnold kicks away from sophistication to rally up genuinely compact suspense and an atmospheric air from its surroundings and natural sounds. It does have that uplifting feel of the scientists being out of their comfort zone, and we the audience acknowledge it too.One of the best monster flicks of the 50's era. Unpretentiously, adventurous fun that's quite a blast. "},{"Title":"Thing From Inner Space","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is how to do a guy in monster suit show. You simply must watch the making of on the special features that come on the DVD.When looking at this film you would have no idea as to the careful attention and effort that went into making of The Creature. Only the making of will reveal all.As most would know, it is so easy to do a less than pleasing manfish costume. It is too bad TV's Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea (1964-68) never had the time and money to make a creature that looks like the fishman in this film. CFTBL is a nice example of what Voyage/Sea could of been if it had a higher budget.However, if I have got you interested in Voyage/Sea, you might wish to track down the third season episode Thing From Inner Space (1966), the teaser for this episode alone (where a manfish suddenly appears out of the water and attacks a film crew on an island) is a refreshing tribute to the magic of The Creature From The Black Lagoon.This film is a winner, it would of been nice if Whit Bissell got more to do, but other than that, the film is very pleasing. "},{"Title":"It Lives","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favorite horror films of when I was a kid watching Creature Feature on Early Saturday afternoons and still enjoy to watch today. The film tells the story of a discovery of an ancient fossil fin that sends a group of scientists down the Amazon to find the remaining bones. What they discover instead is a live breathing relative thats not too happy to have intruders invading its Black Lagoon. Its man against nature as the group tries to capture, then escape, the creature whose gained a fixation on the lovely female scientist played by the beautiful Julia Julie Adams. I must admit while watching this film I cant help but stare at nothing but the lovely miss Adams when ever she's on screen. I can understand why the creature went cuckoo for coacoa puffs when he saw her too! LOL..Now whats really funny to me is that even in the amazon this lovely scientist has fashion sense and has at least ten, thats right, ten outfit changes while the men wear the same old rags. Some of those changes are within minutes of each scene that take place withing the same time frame give or take an hour in context. Even as the men around her are mutilated and massacred, the lovely Kay doesn't let that detract her from a quick outfit change, LOL. The only thing that puzzles me about the film is that its obvious to the watcher that the creature is enamored with the leading lady but at no time is this even mentioned nor confirmed in the film nor used or explored. Aside from that the film is top notch and one for the collection. I hope the up coming remake does it justice and hires a lovely leading lady that is a match for the knockout Miss Adams. I would suggest the sexy Angelina Jolie or even Jessica Alba...Hmmm "}{"Title":"great example of escapist entertainment","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature is rightly considered not just a classic horror film, but also a part American pop-culture. The filmmakers take a basically pedestrian scientific expedition encounters monster storyline and create a memorable piece of entertainment. The pacing is perfect, the acting is dead on for the genre and the monster himself elicits both shocks and pathos as the ultimate non-human anti-hero. Made long before the beginning of the modern environmental movement,the movie serves as a cautionary warning as to the encroachment of man into the natural world. This film is the perfect example of the ability of Hollywood to provide viewers with much needed escapism, even (or maybe especially) 50 years after its release. "},{"Title":"A blast in 3-D up on the big screen","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I caught Creature from the Black Lagoon last night at a midnight theater showing, in the original 3-D format. I also remember seeing it on TV, and I have to say the experience is very different. It's still a good monster movie if you see it on television (or home video), but there's something about the large screen and the 3-D glasses that really gives it that extra jazz. I found it amazing that this movie from 1956 managed to entertain an audience made up of mostly 20-to-30-somethings. The entire audience applauded wildly when it was over, something I never see at the movies anymore.Sure the film is badly dated and more than a little campy, especially the opening narration that brings together theories of creationism and evolution in an awkward crash-course in the beginnings of the planet. But once the action gets going, you really start to lose yourself in the weird world of the film. Absolutely none of it takes place in surroundings that are familiar to the average moviegoer. The early scenes take place under the ocean and in an aquarium observatory full of large fish (sharks?). Then the action shifts immediately to the exotic locale of the Amazon (heh heh). The scenery is outstanding, and I was really impressed with the slow approach of the camera as it glides over the very still water of the titular lagoon. I had to wonder what Kay was smoking that made her want to jump into that water and frolic around.Once the characters are onto the fact that they're in deep water with the gill man, the real fun starts. There are a lot of hoary monster movie clichs, including some funny stuff as the creature reaches its hand inexplicably out of the water to feel up...the riverside? In between monster attacks, there's a lot of humor, both intentional and otherwise. The audience I saw it with was quick to pick up on the sexual tension between David and Mark (!), and the character of Lucas delivers some amusingly memorable lines.But it's not all jokey, either. The underwater photography is truly exciting, especially in 3-D. For some reason I was taken by the part where David and Mark descend into the lagoon to collect rock samples from along the bottom. Just the idea of them swimming down there into unknown waters was really creepy, with or without the creature. The creature costume itself is great, too; I loved the scenes of him lurking in the plants along the bottom of the lagoon.If you get the chance to see Creature in a theater, in 3-D, then by all means don't miss out on it. It's like seeing it for the first time! "},{"Title":"A fantastic horror/science fiction film.","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Originally shot in 3D, this film re-captures the feel of the great Universal Pictures monster films of the 1930's and 40's.The Creature is a great tragic character, much like King Kong and the Frankenstein monster. The film is well directed and acted and is one of the most fun of the 1950's monster movies. The design work on the Creature costume is naturalistic and believable.It's theme of the human's corruption of nature is very timely for a 21st Century audience. In an age when humanity tries to tame nature, this movie gives us much to think about.While watching the film in its non-3D form, think about how the shots are composed for a full 3D effect. You can notice elements which work better in 3D and are not as effective on a 2D version of the film. "},{"Title":"Another great Universal Monsters movie!!!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Creature from the Black Lagoon is a classic film and I was amazed all of the swimming scenes in this film because of the time it was made. The Creature looks excellent as is everything else like the swamps,the boats,and the jungles. Good acting aswell. There are two sequels that followed this film and they are good but this is MY favorite of the three.  "},{"Title":"Sensational Classic Creature Feature","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Arnold is doubtlessly one of the most innovating and original Horror and Sci-Fi directors of the 50s, and this wonderfully creature feature is his most famous and, most likely, also his greatest achievement. Originally produced in 3-D, The Creature From The Black Lagoon (1954) arguably represents the American Monster Movie of the 50s more than any other film, and may be referred to as the last of the true Universal Horror Classics. Though I would not personally rate it as en par with Universal's absolute greatest Horror films such Frankenstein (1932), Bride of Frankenstein (1935), The Invisible Man (1933) or The Mummy (1932), this film is also an absolute must-see for any motion picture lover, which once again presents a tragic monster.With this film and its eponymous monster, Arnold created a cinematically new kind of monster. Though the great H. P. Lovecraft is not credited, his brilliant works about ghastly fish-people definitely served as an inspiration. Universal Horror films always were forerunners in terms of effects, and this one is no exception. Especially the underwater sequences are absolutely astounding, and the monster-costume is awesome.After an ancient fossil which might explain the evolutionary link between sea- and land-creatures is found in the Amazon jungle, a bunch of scientists including Dr. David Reed (Richard Carlson) and his beautiful young fiance Kay Lawrence (Julie Adams) go on an expedition into unexplored territory. In spite of warnings from locals, they enter a part of the Amazon from which no one has yet come back alive, and soon are confronted with a creature beyond their imagination... The eponymous creature is a classical example for the tragic monster. Though deadly, the creature is not terribly malignant, especially since the humans are the ones that are invading its habitat. The scientists' behavior is actually quite an interesting time-document at times (I simply cannot imagine any scientist throwing cigarette stubs into the unpolluted Amazon in a present day feature). The monster looks cool, and the costume is very-well animated. Though not particularly scary, the film is very tense and suspenseful. Julie Adams is drop-dead gorgeous, and I have full understanding for the creature's falling in love with her.Creature from the Black Lagoon is an essential Monster Movie Classic that shouldn't be missed by any lover of cinema. I have read that famous Swedish director Ingmar Bergmann loved the film so much that, after first seeing it, he would watch it on every single one of his birthdays. A remake is due in 2011, which of course is gonna suck as all the crappy remakes of classic Horror films that we are being annoyed with these days. Stay with this original and have a blast, watching it over and over again! "},{"Title":"A Drive-In Horror Classic","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature From The Black Lagoon (1954) Richard Carlson, Julie Adams, Richard Denning, Antonio Moreno, Nestor Paiva, Whit Bissell, Bernie Gozier, Henry A. Escalante, Ricou Browning, Ben Chapman, Sidney Mason, Rodd Redwing....Director Jack Arnold, Screenplay Harry Essex, Arthur A. Ross, Maurice Zimm.Universal Pictures, the studio behind the great horror classics like Dracula, Frankenstein, The Mummy and The Wolf Man, were still at the height of their success when they released their Creature trilogy, beginning with Creature From The Black Lagoon. In 1954, cinema was the new wave of entertainment and people left their homes and TV to escape into the movies. As a bonus, many of the more over-the-top sci-fi films were in 3-D, allowing audiences to really feel the action. And so audiences came to now the Gill-Man, a half-man, half-aquatic creature that became an icon of classic 50's drive-in horror movies. Directed by Jack Arnold, the film takes place in South America, on an unidentified lake simply known as the Black Lagoon in the Amazon River. A team of marine biologists and fossil-finders are in search of new forms of aquatic life but little do they know the horror that await them. Richard Carlson portrays David Reed, the head scientist, Julie Adams portrays his beautiful wife Kay, Richad Denning portrays fellow biologist Mark Williams, Antonio Moreno as Dr. Carl Maia and Nestor Paiva as their Spanish guide Lucas who tells them of the legendary Gill Man. The Gill Man is the last of its kind, a prehistoric creature still lurking in the river. The legend becomes all too real when they find themselves in the mercy of the Gill Man (portrayed by Ben Chapman and Ricou Browning in costumes for the land sequences and underwater sequences). A human touch can be seen in the scaly monster's eyes and body and even more when his voyeuristic tendencies take over. He spies on the swimmers and scuba-divers and falls for the beautiful Kay when she goes swimming alone. They attempt to capture the creature and sedate him but he goes on a murderous rampage before he is finally vanquished. Or is he ? Besides the exciting adventure plot, there is also the gorgeous cinematography by William E. Snyder. Filmed in the beautiful river wildlife of Florida, you'd hardly know it. Then there's the Creature himself, long associated with American horror cinema just as much as Frankenstein. Behind all the sci-fi and horror, there is a sense of poignancy to the tragic tale of a nearly extinct creature who is, after all, part human, seeking to understand the human world but belonging to the savage world of pre-historic man. This was the first film in the series. Revenge of the Creature and The Creature Walks Among Us were filmed in a hurry and released in 1955 and 1956 using different actors but same location and same formula. This first installment is the greatest of the three, with a terrific script, fine acting for this kind of film and not to mention dramatic almost dissonant Stravinsky like music by an uncredited Henry Mancini early in his career as well as Hans J. Salter and Herman Stein. Sit back, grab some popcorn and get ready for one of the all-time greatest horror classics from the 1950's, a decade full of horror/sci-fi film in 3-D. "},{"Title":"The coolest monster of all time!","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the greatest if not the greatest monster movie from its era. I have watched this one plenty of times throughout my life and recently was finally lucky enough to see it in its original 3-D format...well sorta; it was being shown outside in a park and unfortunately me a couple buddies stepped out to grab a sixer and as a result were only able to score one pair of 3-D glasses between the three of us. So i had to switch off between glorious in your face action and distorted but watchable scenes. Anyway this movie rocks either way but its the ultimate in 3D. Its a shame more people aren't lucky enough to view this classic the way it was meant to be seen. Either way its still a mandatory for any monster fans especially if you like the oldies. Its got a fast pace and the coolest looking monster ever! The Creature himself is a true pimp as well and digs checkin out chicks swimming in their bathing suits and even tries to swoop a girly up for himself. And believe it or not his rubber skin is still more effective over sixty years later than any of today's lame CGI effects. Basically if you're into anything from the original MUMMY movies to HUMANOIDS FROM THE DEEP you gotta see this! especially if you get a chance to peep the 3D version "},{"Title":"Creature","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie during AMC Monsterfest and thought it was an absolute masterpiece. I have been told above not to spoil the movie which is a little upsetting because I wanted to discuss the ending. I think that everyone who sees this movie will agree that the ending was humane.I am looking forward to meeting Ben chapman who is now 81 years old. He will be at a horror festival in Cherry Hill, NJ called Monstermania. For those who can make the trip, use the key words monstermania 2007 and you will be able to see all of the stars.I asked for this movie for Xmas and can't wait to see it again!!!!! "},{"Title":"Overrated but essential viewing","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fossil expedition is traveling down the Amazon.  They search for fossils in a small lagoon.  Unknown to them there is a prehistoric creature (that they call the Gill Man) still alive in the waters.  It gets a look at the one female member Kay (Julia Adams) and falls in love.  They try to leave, but it won't allow them....The story is overly familiar but this is the one that started off the 1950s monster cycle.  Let's get the debits out of the way  the acting is just OK (Richard Carlson and Richard Denning are bad; Adams is just called upon to look beautiful--which she does); there are really stupid things in the script (they bring along a spear gun on a fossil expedition?  Adams takes a swim in the AMAZON????); the movie was shot in 3-D...and it shows (countless scenes of the spear gun pointing at the audience).The good things  beautiful atmosphere; great music score; incredible underwater photography and an impressive creature. Also it is short (79 minutes) and really kicks into high gear during the end.This is now considered the best 1950s monster film--but I can't agree.  I did see it in 3-D in the early 1980s and I remember being very impressed then.  So, maybe with the 3-D it works better.  Still, worth catching.  I'm giving it a 7.     "},{"Title":"B-movie shocker with luminous 3-D effects","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON Aspect ratio 1.661 (Universal 3-D)Sound format Mono(Black and white)A scientific research team travels to a strange lagoon deep within the Amazon jungle in search of an ancient fossil which could provide evidence of a 'missing link', but their investigations disturb a humanoid creature which retaliates against their intrusion.Jack Arnold's classic monster movie wraps its underlying plea for ecological tolerance around a typical B-movie narrative set within the Amazon rainforest, rendered all the more vivid by 3-D cinematography. Plot and characterizations are pretty basic (Julia Adams' heroine is a soppy wimp who screams at the slightest provocation and is barely able to function under duress without the presence of fianc Richard Carlson), but the technical credits are superb, and Arnold pulls off more than a few classic set-pieces, notably the iconic sequence when Adams takes a swim in the lagoon and her movements are mirrored by the creature as it rises from the depths. Viewers are urged to seek out the original 3-D print, a masterpiece of dimensional photography and composition, especially the underwater sequences (supervised by Charles S. Welbourne), where characters appear to be suspended in vast spaces deep within the frame. Followed by REVENGE OF THE CREATURE (1955), also in 3-D.NB. Though photographed in Universal's dual-strip process, the movie was exhibited theatrically in single-strip Pola-Lite format, with the left-right images configured side by side on the 35mm film, vertically aligned, creating a 1.661 aspect ratio. A separate dual-strip version was also made available. "}{"Title":"A fun classic monster movie","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really love all these old cheesy monster movies and Creature From the Black Lagoon is no exception. My personal favorite monster of all time though has to be Godzilla the true king. But because of Godzilla I've been introduced especially more recently to a lot of other older monster movies including this one. I just watched this movie for the first time about a week ago with some of my family and as I'd expected I was really the only one who liked it which is pretty understandable. I mean these kinds of movies are definitely not for everyone and are really more of an acquired taste I think. I really don't have a whole lot to say so I'll be keeping this review pretty short.First off as far as cheesy monster movies go the acting in this movie was pretty good. Everyone played there parts well and did what they needed to do to make this an entertaining movie with a bit of heart. The set designs were all pretty good looking (for the time anyway). In particular I liked the scenes that took place inside the caves. The effects were of course terrible by todays standards but thats fine with me. The creature still looked interesting though at the same time pretty ridiculous to me at least but again thats just because here in 2014 I'm used to better effects so that sort of thing in no way took away from the movie. The creatures design is very interesting and unique looking at least compared to other monsters that I have seen.The plot is simple but more than enough to keep you entertained. A group of scientists discover a strange creature and it begins killing them off one by one. The creature takes a page from King Kongs book and falls for a good looking girl who is just kind of along for the ride. Which is something I always thought was weird because I just feel like a monster like Kong or the creature from this movie falling for a human is like if a human went to the zoo to pick out a lover but thats just me. Most importantly though Creature From the Black Lagoon was a fun and overall entertaining movie to watch.I'm giving Creature From the Black Lagoon a 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Better Monster Movies Made During the 50's","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One day while looking for fossils deep in the Amazon, Dr. Carl Maia (Antonio Moreno) discovers a strange amphibious hand protruding from a rock formation. Realizing that he has discovered something of great scientific value he rushes back to his office to try to arrange help in putting together an expedition to help him gather more samples. Prior to departing he leaves two men back at the base camp to keep an eye on everything. Once back at his office he is pleasantly surprised to see two fellow scientists by the names of David Reed (Richard Carlson) and Kay Lawrence (Julia Adams) who he has worked with before. When they hear of his discovery they immediately relay his findings to a person named Mark Williams (Richard Denning) who is only too willing to finance the expedition for the possibility of both fame and fortune. However, once they return back to the camp they find that both of the men left behind are dead. Not much later they discover the creature that killed them--and it wants Kay. Anyway, rather than detail the rest of the story and risk spoiling the film for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this is one of the better monster movies made during the 50's. Obviously, it doesn't have the graphics or advanced techniques used today but it was a fine film none the less. I especially liked the way the music complimented the horror along with the presence of Julia Adams who was definitely pleasing to the eyes. All in all I rate this movie as above average. "},{"Title":"A Subtle and Quiet Monster Movie","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beloved by many, this Monster Movie from Universal was their last enduring icon. But not their last attempt. That was The Mole Men (1956), that spawned one of those rubber masks in the popular collection of Halloween favorites (the best selling is Tor Johnson from Ed Wood's Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959), go figure). But if the Mole Men are largely forgotten today you sure can't say that about our friend from beneath the waters. There are a number of Psychological, Jungian things that could be sighted as to why The Creature has left such a lasting impact. One might be that he crawled out of the Primordial Ooze and also shares Human Physiology. This is a quiet Monster Movie. There is much going on here that is essentially an Underwater World that seems to anticipate Walks in Space. Man's reach for the Stars and the analogy of undiscovered depths right here on good old Earth is mentioned a couple of times.It is a Romantically rich Film that tugs at the Heart. A combination of subtlety and terror that is never heavy handed. A welcome change of pace from most of the eras Fright-Films. Whatever the reason for the Film's popularity and huge Fanbase, it matters not. The Creature from the Black Lagoon not only has an unforgettable title, but is unfathomably an unforgettable Movie. "},{"Title":"finally in real 3D","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Does this Universal classic need any introduction, I don't think so. I have seen it ages ago but nowadays it's finally out on Blu Ray and I must say it looks superb. I was a bit afraid that it would have a grainy look like some old classics have on Blu ray but Universal made their classic box indeed a classic.I won't go into the story because that's know for everybody but just have a look how it was shot. There's even a shot when Kay (Julie Adams)is swimming that has the camera going underneath her in the water which looked like shot duplicated in Jaws (1975). It even comes more alive here in the box because after all those years it's finally out how it must be seen, in 3D. And for such an old flick the 3D really works. Just look at the creature's hand being found in a rock. The nails of the hand are almost scratching you in the face. But not only that. The underwater scene's are looking marvelous too. Not only that. I'm not into flicks from the fifties and sixties but this here really has something to offer. It even has good acting. You know the classic reactions with their hands when a monster attacks, not this time. I was even surprised of the fact that Julie do walk around a lot in her swimming suit. And she even looks sexy for the time being.A classic indeed and a must have for all horror buffs out there. Of course it didn't stand the time concerning scariness and there's also no use of red stuff. It's low on everything but this time it worked. Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 0/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"There are many strange legends in the Amazon. Even I, Lucas, have heard the legend of a man-fish.","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a remake of this film in development. I can understand remaking Dracula or the Wolfman, but remaking the Creature is futile. I really do not see how they can possibly improve on this picture. Not even putting some WB starlet in a skimpy outfit is going to improve on Julie Adams, who was magnificent as the object of attraction for the Creature.Sure, the rest of the actors disappointed slightly, but they did the job well enough supporting the Creature in his quest for the girl. Featuring some great underwater photography, it was an enjoyable film, where, as you certainly might expect, neither I nor the Creature get the girl. "},{"Title":"Routine Except for One Thing","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An expedition to the Amazon encounters a prehistoric reptile-like creature that proceeds to menace them.As a horror flick the movie's not very scary. After all, the monster is little more than a guy in a cheap rubber suit with overgrown hands. As a weird exercise in cross-species romance, however, the movie's somewhat memorable. Once our undersea creature gets a look at the gorgeous Kay (Adams) in a white bathing suit, he goes into a love-struck mating dance, his swim strokes synchronized with hers, except she has no idea what's going on ten feet below her in the water. It's a memorable little water ballet and the highlight of the film.I guess the last critter to lust after a shapely woman was the overgrown King Kong and we know how that turned out. Nonetheless, here as well as there, there's something poignant about an impossible longing from a speechless creature even if he does lay waste to a number of human-type people in his love-sick quest. Anyway, I expect it's this aspect that's given the film its underground reputation. Otherwise, the film's well cast and smoothly directed by ace sci-fi director Jack Arnold. But hardly in the front rank of 50's sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Classic SF/Horror Flick from the Monster Movie Era Still Stands Up Well","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Genre movies have played an integral part in the history of cinema from even before Al Jolson opened his mouth and sang a song in The Jazz Singer of 1927. Nosferatu and other fair starring Lon Chaney, Sr, were some of the earliest mysteries, suspense, and horror films. But unlike the movie-musicals and romantic dramas which launched the talkies in the 1930's, genre films have often been relegated to B Picture status, and each decade has seen its offerings of whatever genre caught audience's fancies. The 1930's was the era of the gangster film and the horror film, a la Public Enemy, Little Caesar, Dracula and the Mummy, the 1940's was the era of film noir thrillers, such as Double Indemnity and The Postman Always Rings Twice, and the 1950's was the era of the movie monster. In the 1950's, movie monsters splashed upon drive-in theaters reigned in which the monster itself was the star of the show, inspired by the first bona fide King Kong feature released in 1933. Them, which starred giant Ants, Tarantula starring a giant spider, and the biggest of them all, Godzilla, a freak of atomic science creating a reptilian creature the size of Mt Everest, caused many a female movie goer to clutch their date in rapturous fright.One of the better installments from the movie monster era is Creature from the Black Lagoon. Despite the rather predictable dialog and cookie-cutter characters, Creature is still a decent viewing, for reasons other than the masterful script which, in certain scenes, almost rings of screen writing nearing the genius threshold of Plan 9 from Outer Space. However, what saves Creature is the creature itself and the plot if you're willing to suspend your 21st-century movie-going sensibility for about 90 minutes.The story begins with the discovery of an ancient fossil, a claw no less, surviving from several million years ago. Unlike most fossils, the claw appears to be both man-like and amphibious. A strange missing link between humans and frogs, I guess. An unlikely entourage of scientists, three male and one female, decide to survey the Amazon for more fossils on small expedition boat. Of course two of the male scientists have the hots for the one female, a manage a trois which isn't quite as romantic as King Arthur, Guinevere and Sir Lancelot. The lucky boy who currently has the girl exhibits the desirable trait of being the only voice of reason when the Amazon Lagoon may be their last stop. The other male, the female's former lover who got dumped a few years back, is as hot-headed and uncompromising as an oven set to 425-degrees. The female is supposed to be a scientist too, although her reason d'etre is more about her skimpy outfits than intellectual discourse and contribution, which is so typical of these genre films.Instead of finding more fossils, the team is invaded by a living example of the amphibious man creature. The love triangle between the scientists becomes a love rectangle two men, one woman, and one creature. What saves the film from becoming ridiculous farce is the monster himself, who, in retrospect, has much more character than any of the other males, except for possibly the Latin American captain of the expedition boat. The monster's motives are a bit typical grab anything that looks human with his man-crunching claws. And in later scenes, his presence allows our only female character to engage her vocal chords which, in retrospective, are designed to indicate the very complex and subtle emotions often associated with terror.The best aspect of Creature aside from the creature himself are the superb underwater sequences. When the rival males decide to battle the Creature, instead of each other, they take their gear underwater. The creature glides easily through the lagoon, making him a very believable amphibious creature. My understanding is the creature was played by a professional swimmer in the underwater scenes. Scenes on land and on the boat were another actor.All things considered, a fine 1950's low budget horror flick which may have lost some of its punch over the years but not its charm. The dialog is campy; one of my fav's is We didn't come here to fight monsters, we're not equipped for it. The young lovers squabble over who gets the girl and the scientific fame like junior high kids arguing over who gets to play quarterback. But the monster is still quite a site, constantly opening his strange mouth to breathe when he's on land. And this film inspired many later films with better scripts and bigger budgets like Alien and Jurrasic Park. The film has continued to be part of American b-movie culture with the creature making cameo appearances such as in Marvel comics and the Simpsons. A must-see for horror movie buffs. "},{"Title":"Scary in it's day still a respected classic today.","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After many years just watched Creature from the Black Lagoon and I must say for a film from 1954 it was well done. Probably even for that era the Amazon creature looked scary. Universal knew it could have success with it's new creation just like it's past success with it's legendary monster movies. The setting is exotic and creepy as a chief scientist David Reed(Richard Carlson)finds himself making a discovery along the beautiful Amazon jungle. And that's of a lonely and just discovered creature it's like half man and half lizard! To bring drama to the matter the creature becomes attracted to the scientists girlfriend the lovely and beautiful Kay Lawrence(Julie Adams). Then the rescue mission and chase is on! Overall this film is well done and it explores the imagination and discovery of a viewer even for a 50's film the art and makeup work for the creature was in top notch form. The Creature from the Black Lagoon is a memorable classic a legendary pop culture creation from universal. "},{"Title":"The iconic Gill-man","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Gill-man monster from the 1954 film The Creature from the Black Lagoon has become iconic in the decades since and I was curious to see how the film would stand up after almost 60 years (as of this writing). Besides its age, the film was shot in B&W, which is a huge turn-off to me, simply because color has a way of making pictures come ALIVE, no matter the age.I was pleasantly surprised to discover that the film holds up quite well. I thought the creature itself was going to look like a guy in a lame rubber suit, but that's not the case. It's clear that the filmmakers put a lot of effort into the appearance of the creature and the way it gasps for air, swims, walks, etc. In other words, there's a reason why the Gill-man is so iconic.It's easy to sympathize with the creature,as David Reed (Richard Carlson) does at the very end, since the Gill-man's just existing in its native turf. In other words, the humans are the invaders here. So, we can understand the creature's hostile reaction, killing many, and we can also understand why it hesitates to harm Kay (Julia Adams) and, indeed, wants to take her back to his grotto! Why? Because Julia Adams is totally gorgeous in the film! In fact, it's well worth catching just for her as she fills out those short white shorts perfectly, lol! There are some quality underwater scenes shot in Wakulla Springs, Florida, particularly when the creature swims underneath Kay unbeknownst to her, symbolizing sexual union. The rest of the film was shot at Rice Creek, Florida, and Universal City, California.FINAL WORD Although understandably dated, The Creature from the Black Lagoon stands the test of time. You just have to adjust your mindset to 1954 and the B&W footage.The film runs a short but sweet 79 minutes. "},{"Title":"2D all the way...","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature From The Black Lagoon is one of the more famous and many would argue, notable entries into the 50s Universal Horror library, but I would disagree with the 'notable'. On a technical front, this major release in the 1950s 3D revival era, is clearly worthy technically, as its 3D cinematography, though seen here in 2D, is clearly good, with arms and spears popping out of the screen and a well defined depth of field.This was originally released in Polarised 3D, not too dis-similar to the methods employed today, but as this format was expensive and difficult to project, it was rarely seen like this much after its initial release. Later it would be re-released in the 70s in anaglyph 3D, but this film's life has been seen 2D in most respects.Anaglyph 3D image from the 1970's Re-Issue Does it work though? Well, if you like a straight forwards 50s monsters flicks then yes, absolutely. It ticks all the boxes and delivers everything it promises, with macho men saving the girl and the day, second fiddle players dying steadily throughout and the leading lady stripping down to a swimming costume at every opportunity and taking a swim in the eponymous lagoon.But I'm not a fan of this type of Horror Sci-Fi from this era, so its charms don't really work on me. I found it to be dull, plodding and all too predictable but that is not a problem if you like the genre, its just that I don't, really. But it was watchable and its lean running time of 79 minutes meant that it didn't really out stay its welcome.Though, being a fan of cinema's technical processes and 3D being one of the most fascinating, I would like to see this in 3D at some point, just to see if the effect holds water as much as seems too in 2D. "}{"Title":"Jaws with claws...","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While it's by no means as scary as a British Petroleum oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON is easily the greatest man-in-a-monster-suit movie ever made; nothing I've ever seen, before or since, rivals Bud Westmore's rubberwear (and designing it's one thing making it a reality is quite another). As far as I'm concerned, this marine monster masterpiece need never be remade- re-released, yes; re-made, no. What would be the point? With the possible exception of John Carpenter, there's not a contemporary filmmaker CAPABLE of doing a better job than Jack Arnold. The final shot, of the gill man sinking slowly to the bottom of the black lagoon, is still poignant after all these years (and says something, I think, about Man's inhumanity). "},{"Title":"Going Into Unexplored Territory With a Woman","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Creature of the Black Lagoon is a fabulous movie. The creature is one of the best looking monster-suits of its day and it still looks great; the music is good; the underwater scenes were probably mind-blowing back in the day and still are; the theme of science vs big game hunter is great; the camera work is superb; the ending is sad but we are not sure why...what a brilliant film! Part of the fun is to watch for the wonderful monster movie genre conventions of the 50s as the film unfolds. One of these conventions is that someone remarks that the hero or heroine looks too young or attractive to be a scientist (watch for it twice in this film). Another convention is the respect and awe given to science and scientists, and the necessity of explaining and understanding any creature in scientific terms (usually combined with some really wacky notions). Probably the most fun convention is that the very top of the social pecking order is occupied by young, hunky, testosterone-intoxicated scientist men - the alpha males.On the surface, the plot is about a scientific discovery of a creature living in a remote area of the amazon, and what to do about this discovery. The main subplot of the story, which ends up almost taking over the surface story, is about Kay choosing between two men. Both are alpha male scientists, but one (Mark) is wealthy and successful the other (David) is dedicated and scientific. Because there are subtle relationships between these three people and the creature, the film ventures into deeper waters (so to speak) than most simple monster films.I like to think of Kay Lawrence (Julie Adams) as the main character of the movie. Yes I know that the guys get all the macho lines, do all the hero things, solve all the problems, while Kay may at first glance appear to do little but scream and faint and look pretty. But on closer examination Kay is shown to be independent, intelligent, adventurous and courageous. She is more fun, forward-looking, alive and human than either of the two alpha males. Kay dominates the camera shots too, which indicates the pivotal nature of her role. Note that in each scene, who Kay stands next to, and where she is placed in relation to the others is always important within the subtext of the story. The two alpha males don't quite behave as most alpha males of the genre. Usually, the alpha male is unambiguous and aggressive (if not predatory) toward the female. Here however, we have one male bitter and obsessed while the other is oblivious and dedicated. The males are more interested in competing with each other than winning Kay (watch how often the two men are paired in shots, but listen to their dialog as well). In most movies of this genre, the woman is decisive in choosing a mate. Here, because the two males are inaccessible, Kay's choice is necessarily ambivalent, and great complications develop as a result. In the end, Kay ends up with one of the alpha males, but it seems to me she is left with a socially acceptable but emotionally unsatisfying partner. It feels like she deserved better. Hollywood fell in love with Freudian psychoanalysis sometime around the 50s. This can be seen in many films where subconscious evils become physical monsters (Forbidden Planet is an example). This theme is used, if somewhat loosely, in the Creature From the Black Lagoon. Once the adventurers enter the Black Lagoon area, the creature can be interpreted psychologically as Mark's monstrous shadow, or double. Mark is embittered by Kay's rejection of him, he is murderous enough to kill for her (watch for the first appearance of the spear gun), but instead he tries to kill the beast (his lust for her), but is himself killed and the beast triumphs (lust wins over rational ego), so the beast attains full freedom to seize the girl (Kay is abducted only after Mark is killed). The film shows us what happens when two alpha males fight for dominance and the woman does not, or cannot, fully connect with one of them. Kay's hesitation to fully ditch Mark is what brings out the creature. At critical junctures Kay sympathizes with Mark, and the creature immediately appears. This is seen on the boat after the men return from their first dive - Kay expresses sympathy for Mark, but Dave is concerned that Mark might try to take her away from him (note how for David the focus is always on competition between he and Mark). After this scene, Kay goes for her famous swim and encounters the creature.Then at night, after the creature is captured, Kay has a bizarre conversation (in which science attempts to arbitrate love!) with Dr. Thompson about the growing tension between Mark and Dave.He says, Once you admit the simple fact that you are in love, which you have, then it becomes good idea to be the scientist about it. She replies, It's not as easy as you think and goes on to explain how she owes her success and her job to Mark. Right on cue, the creature breaks free and attacks. Again we have sympathy for Mark followed by an appearance of the creature.There are more points to be made about this love triangle + creature, but they remain beyond the scope of this review. Next time you watch Creature From the Black Lagoon, try seeing it from the perspective of Kay as the main character, and the creature as the dark side of Mark's passion. You might be rewarded with fresh insights, and an enriched enjoyment of an old favorite. "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi Monster film","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Creature was the last of the great Universal Monsters, and this film is certainly one of their best. It is campy, fun, suspenseful, and even wondrous. The film is about a group of scientists who search for a prehistoric half-man half- fish creature. Ben Chapman plays the creature on land, while Ricou Browning plays the creature in the water where he had to hold his breath for four minutes at a time. Bud Westmore does a great creature suit and actually produces something cool looking, not saying his make-up work for Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein is terrible, but I think that he and others will always stand in the shadow of make-up titan, Jack Pierce. The film's music is typical 50's sci-fi score and the performances vary, which makes it funny. Julie Adams plays the female scientist who the Gill-Man had feelings for, and Richard Carlson plays the main hero. There is some social commentary in this film about the environment, but that does not distract from how enjoyable this film is. Not a masterpiece, just a really awesome film. "},{"Title":"A bit dated, but the Gill Man is still one of the coolest monsters ever!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from The black Lagoon is about a scientist finding a skeleton of an unknown fish creature in the Amazon and takes to a lab for research. From there, a group of scientist go back to the Amazon to dig up the skeleton. They dig, finding nothing but a boat captain suggest to look at an old lake called the Black Lagoon, maybe the bones washed into the lake. They listen and go to find a creature that is dated from the beginning of the world who is full of evil and passion!This film is pure genius! I love the gill Man and his lust for the main actress. Sure the film bores me a bit but the film always kicks into high gear boring scene after another. The underwater scenes are cool and the Gill Man looks great! The ending leaves a perfect hole for a sequel where we can enjoy the Gill Man again. The big 7 is rewarded to this cinema classic, a bit dated but still works great! Go find a copy if you can and enjoy the Gill Man, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great classic monster movie","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've only just seen this move, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It is one film that actually lives up to the publicity and hype surrounding its reputation. The iconic scene of the creature carrying the fainted lady is there intact, as well as every classic monster stalking concept that has since been borrowed for most monster thriller stories since, I thought the reveal of the hand clawing at the riverbank was brilliantly done, as well as the attack of the native workers in the tent. And also the human drama plays along very nicely alongside the chase elements. The sexual rivalry between the two male leads over the female, as well as the philosophical dispute between business and scientific research was very well done. The ethnic boat captain was a great comic character also.The only scene I didn't like was the bit in the aquarium where everyone is discussing the need to mount an expedition, and they all give profound speeches and almost instantly agree to go. To me this seems a bit overly preachy and forced, even for classic films of this time. But that was really the only weak scene. Everything else worked brilliantly.This definitely is one movie that well deserves its reputation as a fun escapist masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Historic creature feature is memorable and fun.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released during a time when monster movies were soon to be the rage and a film could be titled anything and contain virtually any type of creature, this one has endured and amassed quite a following. Thanks are mostly due to it's director, the craftsmen who worked on the title creature and the charms of leading lady Adams. Deep in the Amazon, researchers find a fossilized claw that leads to an expedition up river to The Black Lagoon in order to locate any other remains. What they find, however, is a living example of the species and he isn't particularly pleased to have been discovered! One scientist, Carlson, wants to pretty much leave the creature alone and just study it and collect more information from the area. Another one, Denning, wants to capture it and bring it back to the US for experimentation and exhibition. Once the creature lays eyes on Adams, what the men want no longer matters as he begins to attack anyone who gets in the way of his courtship. The film (originally presented in 3-D, which doubtlessly enhanced all the shots of his claw coming out from behind rocks and other various items coming towards the camera) is almost quaint when compared to the slice-and-dice flicks that have come about in the half century since its release. It's more fun than scary, yet there remains some suspense and it's enjoyable viewing no matter what (and the first underwater encounter is still creepy as the Gill Man appears against some rocks and then juts out.) Carlson and Denning are both bland in their roles, though Denning, as the nastier of the two, gets a little more to work with. Adams is gorgeous and gives a performance that is surprisingly natural in that era of intense artifice. Somehow the film manages to be both campy and serious, schlocky and high grade all at the same time. The Gill Man's suit is a remarkable creation and the swimmer inside gets surprising mobility and speed going. It is ridiculous, however, when the humans are able to out-swim him. It's not possible for a man with a tank, face mask and flippers on to out-paddle a creature who lives underwater! The view of the scientists is fascinatingly bizarre. They explore this completely untouched area of the world and proceed to flick cigarette butts into the river and then poison the water, bringing scores of dead fish to the surface! Also, Adams hilariously changes clothes for every scene, apparently inspiring Ginger Grant from Gilligan's Island to make sure that no boat trip occurs without a steamer trunk of apparel. (Look for the scene in which Adams' ponytail wraps around one of the ropes on deck!) By the time she does an Esther Williams routine (in the Amazon River?!), as lovely as she is, the camp factor is in full swing. Other unintentional laughs occur when Denning and Carlson are duking it out below deck while a fully bandaged Bissell lies on a bunk, powerless to point out that the creature's hand is making it's way through an open porthole! Still, enough skill exists in the film to overcome most of the goofy aspects. The music cue that blares almost every time the creature appears is at once amusing, yet startling, and thoroughly memorable. It's odd to say that a horror film is pleasant, but that's just what this is. It's short, compelling, fun, captivating and endearing. "},{"Title":"Atmospherically suspenseful Universal Classic creature feature.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am still amazed with the level of fright conveyed by this production. The gill man was created by the effects department with a care and a creativity seldom seen in these older productions. They have always tried, but this time, they actually perpetuated a beautiful darksome myth with effects which were good enough to withstand the rigid tests of time. Even now, looking at the Creature, you can believe he was real; a living myth caught on film.If you are a fan of the 30's Universal films, definitely give this one a watch. Although it was made in the 50's, it bears the same darkling feel as the other originals produced some twenty years before, and a creative feel which belies its age of almost sixty years.This is a definite classic in the genre of horror and required viewing for those who wish to claim the status as fan of the genre. It is ripe for a modern remake.It rates a 9.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"One of THE great monster movies! Still amazingly fresh and entertaining.","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Creature From The Black Lagoon' is undisputedly one THE great monster movies. Inspired by the beauty meets the beast theme of 'King Kong' made twenty years earlier, it would in turn inspire countless movies since, either directly or indirectly. All horror fans owe this movie a great debt! However it isn't just a movie that is only of interest to horror buffs for historical reasons, it's still amazingly fresh and entertaining. Jack Arnold made 'The Incredible Shrinking Man' a few years after this, and both movies are classics. The script is above average, the direction excellent, the cinematography superb, and the acting is all pretty good. The monster (played by Ricou Browning in the underwater scenes, and Ben Chapman in the above ground ones) looks effective and is still pretty scary, Richards Carlson and Denning contrast well against each other (Carlson is the idealistic scientist, Denning the ruthless businessman), and Julia Adams makes a very sexy leading lady. Oh, and let's not forget the well loved character actor Whit Bissell! 'Creature From The Black Lagoon' is one of the 1950s best horror/SF movies and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Jack Arnold's best known film, thought not his best work . . .","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is director's Jack Arnold's best-known sci-fi film from the 1950s, although it isn't really Arnold's best piece of work.  It demonstrates much less of Arnold's poetic style than his other films (especially `The Space Children', Arnold's personal favorite).  But the creature itself is one of the screen's most effective full-body monster suits, designed by two ace make-up men, Bud Westmore and Jack Kevan.Richard Carlson (`It Came from Outer Space') is the star, Richard Denning (`The Black Scorpion') co-stars, and gorgeous Julie Adams provides the cringing heroine in the bathing suit.  William Alland handled production chores, and Hans Salter composed the famous and effective blaring-trumpet musical score.  Swimming champ Ricou Browning wore the creature suit in the underwater scenes (which he also directed),  and Ben Chapman played the creature on land.  Whit Bissell  (`The Time Machine') plays the bandaged scientist whom the creature malls.  Filmed in 3-D because of the success of `It Came from Outer Space', the previous year.   Screenplay by Harry Essex and Author Ross.The movie was successful enough to inspire two sequels (`Revenge of the Creature' and `The Creature Walks Among Us').  Today, `The Creature from the Black Lagoon' is equated with the great horror classics from the 1940s such as `Frankenstein' and `The Wolf Man'.  Naturally the 1987 movie `The Monster Squad' included the `Gill Man' in its roster of classic monsters.If you're a fan of Arnold's movies, we have something in common.  Lemme hear from ya . . . "},{"Title":"I Felt Kind of Sorry for the Creature--Marilyn Monroe","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since King Kong movie people have been trying to capture natural aberrations and take them back in order to make a few bucks. The creature in this movie is no exception. He is minding his own business; being sort of a fish and not hurting anyone (he's really no more dangerous than a shark, maybe less), when along come a bunch of insensitive jerks who try to pull him out of the safe haven. So he goes after one; so he runs off with a girl (he is a gill man isn't he?). He didn't start it. When I was young I saw this for the first time in a regular old fashioned movie theater. The suspense and terror were wonderful. Even though you can see the SCUBA tank on the back of the creature under his costume, the fact was that he was always lurking somewhere. Like so many poor souls, he is destroyed for doing what comes naturally. I always wonder about these sorts of creatures.Did they have mother or a father? Where else would he come from? What happened to them. Was he loved? We will never know because he never got a chance to defend himself. I look at this film as a classic of its type and I'm glad someone made it, even though it stands the test of time less well than others. I may comment later on the sequels which are pretty bad. "}{"Title":"I feel sorry for the creature. He just craved affection. (MM)","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS - I was just about 9 years old when I first saw Creature From The Black Lagoon in the theater, I remembered it but not much about the film. Now I see it again and am struck by how simple and crude it is by modern film-making standards. I am also struck by how callous the scientists are portrayed.The story is set up well. A scientist displays a hand and a team goes back to the Amazon to find additional relics of this prehistoric creature. There is a decent discussion about arrested evolution and the possibility that this creature might still be alive. Digging in rocks turns up nothing, so they hire a boat to take them down a tributary to a lagoon where they surmise artifacts might have been carried by erosion over the eons.Diving, they don't find artifacts, but encounter the creature himself.  We know it is a he because of his attraction to the lady swimming above him, and lesbianism had not been invented yet. He obviously is lonesome, not having seen a woman in thousands of years, so he is intent on carrying her away and both living happily ever after. Sort of like an underwater Tarzan.Unfortunately the divers don't understand this, and they want to capture the creature and bring him back for study. So they get this bright idea of spreading rotenone in the water, hoping for him to float to the surface like fish do.  But the creature doesn't. So they shoot him with spear guns, and later with rifles until he staggers into the water and is shown sinking, motionless, presumably dead. However, there was a sequel which I didn't see, so maybe he survived.The lady, played by Julia Adams, was along just for creating romantic tension on the expedition, and later for the attraction of the creature. She was 28, and quite attractive. She later had a full TV career as Julie Adams. The underwater scenes were shot in various clear water springs in Florida. Two different actors played the creature - one for underwater and another for those out of the water. Black and white, marginal sound, just OK acting, still a fun watch because of its historical film significance. This was pretty scary stuff back in the mid-50s, before space travel, Star Wars, Alien, and other movies with strange and often scary creatures. "},{"Title":"Last of the Great Universal Monsters","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Creature from the Black Lagoon is the last of the great Universal monsters, and a fitting transition from one era to another.  It bridges the gap between the old monster movies and the sci-fi/horror films, when audiences wanted fewer superstitious monsters and more scientific explanations for their threats.This movie is one of those where everything went right.  The script is intelligent and logical, the cinematography stylish, and the music appropriately eerie.  The Gill Man is both a terrifying and sympathetic character, brought to life by Ricou Browning's sinuous, graceful performance.  The other actors also create memorable, distinct characters (rare for what is essentially a B-movie), almost like they were aware this would be the last of the great ones and deserved the extra effort.And it all worked.  To this day, whenever I'm swimming in deep water and something I can't see brushes my foot, I still get a weird little chill...  "},{"Title":"Monster movie classic!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Creature has always been one of my favorite movie monsters and this movie is one of the best of the post-Wolfman-Frankenstein-Dracula etc.-days. Gill puts on an unforgettable performance and he could probably act in a Drama. He's really good at dramatic scenes. The babe here is one of the best Universal Monster Babes ever!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding Creature Feature","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A scientist finds a fossilized hand embedded in rocks along the Amazon.  He brings the specimen to a group of scientists who then undergo a journey deep into Amazon country in search of more artifacts.  What they discover is a living fossil,  a gillman from prehistoric times living in a black lagoon at the end of one of the Amazon's tributaries.  The setting is truly remarkable when one learns it is nothing more than one of the Universal back lots.  It enhances the action in the story and helps create the moody atmosphere.  The creature is a stunning monster, very life-like and animated.  The cast is first-rate with Richard Denning very good as a scientist more interested in money than science, Richard Carlson playing a good scientist, Nestor Paiva wonderfully playing a salty sea captain, and Julia Adams looking VERY nice in very short shorts and bathing gear.  Ben Chapman and Ricou Browning shared honors playing the gillman, the former on land and the latter doing an outstanding job in the water.  The water sequences are the real highlights of the film, however.  They are beautifully photographed and choreographed.  Certainly one of Universal's great monster films and probably their last great old-style one. "},{"Title":"Great monster film","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a beautiful film - great underwater shots, especially the one of the creature swimming along below the heroine. Nowhere nearly as campy as the other 50's monster flicks. Many movies have copied it since, especially the first Jaws. I give it a 9.5/10.   "},{"Title":"A definite cutting edge classic for horror and underwater theme!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"       This film was shot at Wakula Springs just south of Tallahassee, Florida.  The grotto scenes were done on a set at a separate location.      The underwater photography posed a big challenge along with the creation of a full functioning creature with underwater acting capability.  It was obvious that the creature was an actor in costume, but the retrofit for concealable scuba gear was a huge challenge!        The underwater filmwork was all black and white, which for the most part, was more simple than the color filming, which had not been perfected at the time.      There is a lot to appreciate in this film for those two items (creature & filmwork) alone, since today, we rarely see either an actor costumed for underwater acting, or filming for long segments or sequences underwater.  Most films in these categories today are special effects, mechanical creatures, and some shorter segments and scenes that barely do the job.....very lame when compared to Creature from the Black Lagoon.  The Gillman creature was very original and artistic.       The acting and directing on this film was very well done, and carried the viewer through the drama.        Wakula Springs, now a state park, was host to other films including Tarzan with Johnny Weismuller.  The park is still a splendid and pristine collection of scenery with native exotic birds, animals, trees and plants.  It also has a wading beach, touring boats, and an impressive antique lodge.     Sequels for this movie set a precedant.  Until this film, few could even muster a single sequel, but Creature from the Black Lagoon did manage to get two sequels, a plastic model (from Polar Lights), and several Halloween costumes promoting fame that has spanned over forty years!      "},{"Title":"Timeless classic","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's amazing that some 50's black and white monster movies can be so bad and some like this one can be so good. Great underwater scenes along with a good story, good characters make it the timeless classic that it is. Then of course Julie Adams in that white bathing suit.  "},{"Title":"The perfect monster movie!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No way I can say enough about this gem! My absolute favorite of all the Universal monster movies; a close runner-up (after It Came From Outer Space) for the title of Jack Arnold's finest film; a beautiful, poetic, haunting chiller that truly carries forward the folkloric spirit of the 1930s classics. The brilliance of the Creature's conception goes beyond the grace of Ricou Browning's underwater performance to the elements of his predecessors that he combines.  Like the Mummy, he has lived long ages beyond his time, is immensely old and alone; like Frankenstein's Monster, he seems to be a savage brute, yet shows gleams of intelligence and the appreciation of beauty; like Dracula, he is an abductor and seducer, who craves human company for inhuman reasons. Yet at the same time he's unique, as alien as any space creature, a mystery from the deep. Giger's elegant Alien and Sil (Species) are surely his descendants. And he's darn scary too! with his unpredictable temper and long razor claws. All this resonance plus a creepy, lyrical river journey into deep mysterious jungle, gorgeous black and white photography (including Haven's glowing underwater work), Julia Adams' beauty, Richard Carlson's square-jawed scientific integrity, and Antonio Moreno's entertaining character turn as the stout captain of the RITA.  Simply a classic! It's no wonder that, though the youngest and last of the line, the Creature has attained iconic status (and use in merchandising!) nearly equal to Dracula or the Monster. "},{"Title":"Beauty did this beast in too","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If anyone noticed the plot of The Creature From The Black Lagoon is taken quite a bit from King Kong. It was the luscious Julie Adams in a bathing suit that ultimately does the creature in.Adams is one of a group of scientists who are on an expedition to the Amazon River head waters looking for fossils. How much the better when a live specimen of something that has not been accounted for with fossils before. It will make the reputations of those on the expedition which include Richard Carlson, Richard Denning, and Whit Bissell.In any event the creature who probably hasn't had a little something something for quite a long while takes one look at Adams the same way that King Kong looked at Fay Wray and this creature's goose his cooked.Nevertheless trapping it or killing it in its native habitat ain't going to be easy. Therein lies the sum and substance of this film.Filmed down in Florida substituting for the tropic Amazon country, The Creature From The Black Lagoon was the latest in the series of horror films from Universal that spawned sequels. The Creature never had the sustaining popularity of Frankenstein, Dracula, and The Wolf Man. Still it provided good entertainment at those 50s drive-ins.And Julie Adams in a bathing suit inspired many a back seat Romeo. "},{"Title":"Stay outta my lake!","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of Universal's monster classics incorporates archeology into its plot. Creature from the Black Lagoon might seem a little hokey nowadays, but it's very much a pleasure to watch. To be certain, the title character is comes across as more of a star nowadays than he originally did not only is this piscine amphibious humanoid the most recognizable character in the movie, but the human incursion into the Amazon definitely throws our sympathy to the creature. If anything, the creature was lonely and was smitten with Kay (Julia Adams), but that jerk Mark (Richard Denning) wanted to kill the animal.Of course, we can just take pleasure in everything else that happens in the movie the corny music, silly dialogue, and obvious sets. But all in all, it's a very fine piece of work. Just remember it the next time that you go swimming in unknown waters. "}{"Title":"What's 350 million years between friends?","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fifties and the sixties were the golden age of the critter movie, that sub-genre of the thriller or horror film which deals with a group of people menaced by some monstrous creature. Creature from the Black Lagoon is one of the best-known examples from the fifties. It was filmed in 3-D, one of a number of such films produced during the brief 3-D craze of 1952-54. The plot is a simple one. A group of scientists are taking part in a fossil-hunting expedition to the Amazon jungle. While there they are menaced by an amphibian humanoid creature. Several members of the expedition are killed by the creature and the only female member, Kay Lawrence, is abducted. (Many critter movies, most famously King Kong, were based on the assumption that monstrous creatures are romantically or sexually attracted to human females, especially young and beautiful ones). Of course, Kay's fianc David has to be on hand to save the day. This film has become something of a cult movie, although it is admittedly no classic. Its main fault is that it takes itself too seriously. To modern audiences, looking back at the fifties though spectacles tinted by twenty-first century postmodern irony, its over- the-top style can look very much like a deliberately camp and cheesy affectation for the sake of comedy, but I suspect that in 1954 we were all supposed to take this sort of thing at face value. Although the film is not otherwise religious in tone, it opens with the Biblical line In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and to film- makers from the fifties taking the name of the Deity in vain for the sake of cheap laughs would have seemed uncomfortably close to blasphemy. The opening section of the film is a brief (and none too accurate) lecture on the geological history of the Earth and the evolution of life. (The scriptwriters could have done with a bit more information on these subjects, otherwise they might have avoided the embarrassing goof of having a supposedly expert palaeontologist suggest of a fossil from a Devonian rock formation that it might be a Pleistocene man. Only some 350 million years out, but what's 350 million years between friends?). The film's musical score is exaggeratedly dramatic and portentous, as is most of the acting, with the most banal lines being spoken in a tone of voice more appropriate for a recitation of a Shakespearean soliloquy or the Gettysburg Address. The monster is reasonably convincing during the underwater scenes, but on land he is all too obviously a man in a rubber suit. And yet the film has some good points which raise it above the level of most critter movies of this period. Despite the over-dramatic style of acting, the characterisation goes deeper than in most films of this type. Admittedly, the lovely Julie Adams as Kay has little to do beyond what is normally expected of the heroine of a critter movie, namely to stand around looking sexy in a swimsuit or pair of minuscule shorts, to scream loudly whenever the script requires her to and to be rescued at the end by her handsome, hunky boyfriend. Some of the characters, however, are more developed, such as Lucas, the crusty old captain of the steamer on which the expedition is travelling, and the expedition's leader, Dr. Mark Williams. Williams is in some way an unsympathetic character, willing to put his colleagues' lives at risk in his quest for scientific glory, but he does finally redeem himself. Even the monster is made more sympathetic than the average critter, with a suggestion that the humans are as much to blame for the fatal confrontation as it is, and that it only kills in self-defence.Many critter films have become famous simply for being bad. There are too many to list them all, but any film buff will have his or her favourite so bad it's funny example; mine is the British-made The Blood Beast Terror from the sixties, a prime candidate for any list of the worst films ever made. Creature from the Black Lagoon, however, is a cut above that category, a critter movie one can watch for reasons other than the desire to laugh at it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent but falls short of being a classic","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This slightly repetitive film will always have its fans - it probably works best in the original 3D - but once the creature is unleashed it becomes a fairly pedestrian affair, with good underwater photography but not much plot.The story concerns a scientific expedition's investigation of the Amazonian Black Lagoon of the title. A strange fossil has been uncovered in the region which may be the missing link between aquatic and land-based life. Richard Carlson, dependable as ever, is soon confronted with this Devonian survival - a six foot Gill-Man of fantastic strength and murderous intent. Possibly the last of it's kind, the film subtly suggests the creature's frustration at being unable to locate a mate - a marvellous sequence in which he parallels the strokes of Julia Adams when she takes a dip in the Lagoon - from underneath her! The lets exploit the creature sub-plot is straight out of King Kong, though on this occasion the expedition is unable to bring back it's prey - that would be featured in the sequel! The Gill-Man himself is a memorable creation, possibly modelled on Lovecraft's Deep Ones. Okay, we know it's a bloke in a suit, but it's a well-designed suit at least! Jack Arnold's direction gets maximum power out of it and at least one shot - of Adams coasting in the water - was pinched by Spielberg for Jaws.Good film, then, but not as good as say, Them, or that other Carlson movie, It Came From Outer Space. "},{"Title":"A Genuinely Hypnotic, but Sadly Average Film","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anybody familiar with the creature features that this film helped spawn can at least half-guess the plot. A scientist (Antonio Moreno) uncovers a webbed hand on an archaeological dig in the Amazon and quickly recruits to search for similar remains including Dr. Reed (Richard Carlson), Dr. Mark Williams (Richard Denning), Kay Lawrence (Julia Adams) and a curmudgeony steamboat captain (Nestor Paiva). As they travel deeper into the Amazon, they disturb the titular creature (variously Ben Chapman and Ricou Browning), who takes vengeance on the invading scientists.The film is most memorable for its exquisite underwater scenes, which equal parts haunting and horrific. The scene in which Kay swims in the lagoon (mirrored, unbeknownst to her, by the Gill Man beneath the water's surface) is beautifully balletic. Contemporary audiences will be struck by its similarity to the scene in WALL-E where WALL-E and EVE engage in a stunningly-executed space-set dance. It is easily the most memorable moment in the film, which brilliantly captures the creature's fascination with the engaging beauty of Julia Adams.The Creature is himself reasonably realistic-looking. Assisted by the lagoon's enshrouding flora and aquatic shadows, the Gill Man appears shockingly otherworldly (despite the film's very rational explanation for his existence). The moments where The Creature is half-surfaced (or, if you'd prefer, half-submerged) are when The Creature is most striking - both frighteningly alien and deeply sympathetic.For its numerous positive qualities, the film is sadly very average. The acting, directing and writing are all rather utilitarian, never touching on the excellence or originality of other classic monster movies (such as 1922's Nosferatu, 1931's Dracula, Frankenstein and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, 1932's The Mummy, 1933's The Invisible Mane and 1941's The Wolf Man). It is certainly worthwhile, but hardly more than merely noteworthy. Fans of monster movies and creature features alike will find this an incredibly entertaining romp, even if most can safely pass on what this film has to offer. "},{"Title":"Creature comforts","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got to admit I like the Creature from the Black Lagoon, the first real use of a full costume in a major motion picture. The way they hid the air tank so the actor can perform under the water, the under water segments are wonderful. But in close up you really couldn't see the Gillman's eyes for some reason, why I cannot tell you. But that was minor compared to how this classic feel to me. I love the characters, the storyline. The ending was a tad predictable but most sci-fi movies were predictable back then. I've seen a color test shot of the Gillman which really looks assume, it really makes me wish that they spent the extra money for color film instead of going with black and white. 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"Classic Universal monster film.","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon starts deep in the Amazon jungle where scientist Carl Maia (Antonio Moreno) discovers an unusual fossil in a limestone build-up, it's of a webbed claw the likes of which he hasn't seen before. Excited Maia goes back to the mainland where he hopes to put together an expedition to try & unearth the rest of the creatures skeleton, he manages to convince scientist David Reed (Richard Carlson) & his money hungry, fame seeking boss Mark Williams (no, not the snooker player but Richard Denning) along with Kay Lawrence (Julie Adams) & Dr. Thompson (Whit Bissell). The find themselves Captain Lucas (Nestor Paiva) who agrees to take them deep into the Amazon in his boat, once there they spend days searching for more bones but find nothing so they decide to head further up river to a place known as 'the black lagoon' where they encounter a slimy half man half fish type creature who takes a fancy to the pretty Kay...Directed by Jack Arnold Creature from the Black Lagoon is one of the very best 'man-in-a-rubber-monster-suit' type films that seemed so popular during the 50's & 60's, although in my experience it doesn't have that much competition. The script by Harry Essex & Arthur A. Ross certainly moves along at a nice pace & at only just over 70 minutes in length it moves along briskly, however the script still manages to paint some decent if a bit clichd character's with everyone coming across like they should, for instance there's the misguided one who wants to take the monster back to civilisation at any cost & then there's the hero who saves the day & manages to do what's 'right'. Of course no-one is going to sit down & watch this for it's character's, dialogue or deep storyline are they? No, we want to see the creature from the black lagoon itself & in this respect the film doesn't disappoint. The monster itself is rather good & even somewhat credible, well as much as it can be, & to start off with we just get to see it's clawed webbed hand but when it does finally appear it's quite a neat monster. It does the usual monster things like fall in love with the pretty girl, kill whoever gets in it's way & generally causes problems for everyone. The script makes good use of the monster & at giving it a human quality that tries to make the audience feel some sympathy for it without overdoing it & overall I thought it was an enjoyable monster film the likes of which they don't make anymore.Director Arnold does OK, everything is kept within the realms of possibility & he resists going overboard to create a nice tight little tale of mismatched love. Originally shot & shown in 3-D the DVD I just watched was definitely presented flat so I don't know if there is any opportunity to watch this how it was intended but I think it would have been interesting to see how it used the effect as nothing stood out as being 3-D apart from a scene when he monster sticks it's hand through a port hole & tries to 'grab' the audience. The black and white photography is good especially some of the underwater scenes which are well shot. The special effects are good & the monster suit is surprisingly pretty impressive, I've seen a lot worse in much more recent films that's for sure.Technically Creature from the Black Lagoon is well made although don't expect the big budget production value's & special effect of more recent Hollywood productions, you have to remember this was made over 50 years ago. The acting is decent & better than the usual stiffness from casts of this period who appeared in this sort of horror/monster film.Creature from the Black Lagoon is now considered a solid gold classic, while I won't say that I think it's the best film ever made it certainly still deserves to be seen & available & hopefully the recent DVD will keep it alive, I liked it & I think it's well worth a watch. Followed by two sequels Revenge of the Creature (1955) & The Creatue Walks Among Us (1956) & if that wasn't enough according to the IMDb it's slated for a remake as Creature from the Black Lagoon (2008)... "},{"Title":"One of the decade's best, but also revealing...","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a ground-breaker in many ways. It features the best underwater footage ever filmed up until that time and its plot elements, fresh for the day, are so shopworn that they are now cliche. The attraction of the Creature for Kay is handled especially well. The Creature must assume its rightful place alongside The Mummy, The Wolf Man and Frankenstein as a monster-movie classic. I don't want to ruin the film's importance for sci-fi fans, but what may be most interesting about this movie is that it can be used as a portrait of the social attitudes of the day Kay is a college-educated employee of the scientific institute that mounts the expedition, yet she has no input whatsoever in the proceedings. There's also one scene where Kay carelessly throws her cigarette into the water, displaying a great sense of environmental awareness. Finally, several local ethnic inhabitants are killed by the Creature, but nobody seems concerned until he starts icing the white European males.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant B movie.","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This island earth Tarentula and this film are nice B movies by Jack Arnold.The incredible shrinking man ,on the other hand,is a genuine masterpiece,thanks essentially to Richard Matheson's book which he adapted himself for the screen.A big difference.But do not deny ourselves a good thing.Creature has a fine black and white cinematography ,and its sequences in the black waters of the lagoon can grab today's audience,particularly the one when Kay swims ,followed by the man/fish.The characters are routine,the girl's part consists essentially of screaming,exciting Mark's jealousy and allowing a Beauty and the Beast trick,a poor man's King Kong.Special effects buffs will not get something out of it,but special effects do not necessarily make a good movie.Watchable,but you'd better choose shrinking man if you 've never seen an Arnold movie!aand make sure you see it before the impending remake! "},{"Title":"Fun and professionally assembled, but with very little wit...","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Originally made in 3-D, Creature From The Black Lagoon was a great matine attraction for kids in the 1950s, even though it exudes very little personality (the appeal was in the Gill-man himself, who was slim in physique, attracted to girls and 'misunderstood'). The Creature resides in the Amazon waters; he's smart enough to consistently outwit a group of scientists and crew members on-board a vessel (he climbs aboard ship without being noticed several times!) and is powerful enough to rip through a fishing net, yet he's rather pathetic with his fish-mouth half-open and his webbed hands held out in front of him like a sleepwalker. This Creature seems rather docile...so where does his rage and strength come from? The plot takes on a who-will-be-killed-next? theme, which is fine, but the Creature's attraction for Julia Adams is a puzzler (sure, she looks good in her bathing suit, but does he really have the sexual drive of a human male?). As the leader of the expedition, Richard Carlson gets all the hoary speeches about science versus greed, though he and Adams both look good soaking wet. For a low-budget monster movie, the photography is surprisingly good and there are some nicely staged, scary sequences, always underlined by melodramatic fright music. The grotto where the Creature presumably spends much of his time is a curio (the characters always enter underwater, yet they exit by foot on land) and the macho vying for the woman is dumbly amusing (she doesn't seem to mind). A tighter, smarter script might have made this a masterful thriller. Still, it's far more engaging than most of Universal's monster movies, including the two sequels which quickly followed. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Special-Effects Laughable Now, But Photography Is Still Great","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Only some pretty darned good photography saved this monster film from the '50s from exiting my VHS collection, as far as I was concerned. Eventually, it made it there anyway. I would like to see what this film looks like on DVD.The creature was not scary. Maybe it was to a little kid back in the mid '50s, but it wouldn't be to anyone of any age today. It's tough for any sci-fi film from 40 years ago and further back to have much credibility in today's world of special-effects. In this film, the creature looks like exactly what he is - a man dressed in a rubber suit!The dialog in here was generally Class B in nature and Richard Jenning as scientist Dr. Mark Williams was very obnoxious. I did like Julie Adams as Kay Lawrence.The good part, as mentioned, was the cinematography. Kudos to James Haven for his photography in this film. There are a number of his shots that would would make excellent movie posters. "},{"Title":"Lin Chen-Creature from the Black Lagoon review","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was impressed by the underwater photography, it is hard to imagine how these scene were shot.Monster action of flexible surprised me.photography is not only to take care of the people also can make the light show incisively and vividly characters and monsters have stereo feeling in the water.Although some lens see light changes, and some of them are virtual scene shooting, but in that time or use of the 3 d shoot, I was very surprised.This is an outstanding monster movie, although it is a black and white film, but the plot is paved and underwater photography is doing very well, even in the stunt is still popular today can be a look at. In the process of watching the film is indeed a lot of parts to scare me. It was not easy to shoot a horror film in the water at that time. This is the part of the film I liked. "}{"Title":"One of the all-time beloved Universal Monsters!","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Jack Arnold's Masterpiece remains The Incredible Shrinking Man, but this is a valiant effort, and the best of The Creature Series. Frankie, Drac, Wolfman, and the Gillman (with honorable mention for the Bug-Eyed Monster from This Island Earth) are my favorite Universal Monsters! I never liked The Mummy. The creature was hideous-looking and the head was extremely well-sculpted and dark green, with working gills and lips. (No bright-red lips as shown in the posters) The original does not play for intentional laughs, but some are obvious. (Terrible fake accents throughout.) The mostly-unoriginal music, patched together from several Universal films, is at it's worst when playing The Creature Attacks 3-note chorus. (Da-Da-Da) It is used every time the gill-man attacks, which kills the element of surprise. There is even a water ballet between the monster and the blonde bombshell, which is sensual in nature. Julie Adams (a Marilyn Monroe look-alike) looks unclothed in a white bathing suit underwater! (She isn't.) It's also not lost on me that the Gillman digs women! Best of the series, as #2 (Revenge) is just a big plug for Marineland. Walks Among Us has unoriginal themes about rehabilitating the monster, like 1940's Frankenstein sequels. Good video transfer, but my copy is not in 3D. It's a B movie with great 3D cinematography. All of the victims are insignificant characters except for the co-star! "},{"Title":"The last Gill Man is the last classic Universal monster","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic monster movie from the 'House of Horror', Universal Pictures the last monster to be added to the staple of 'Universal's original monsters', as well as the only monster from the Fifties in the bunch, since the rest of them were all released in the early Thirties and Forties. As a dessert to the creature cake, it turns out a damn tasty course, even though in many respects it's a poor man's King Kong. It's also an interesting transitional movie between Universal's classic studio monster movies of old and the typical creature feature science fiction films of the Fifties, courtesy of Jack Arnold, one of the most prolific directors of the genre in this decade (his other works include It Came from Outer Space (1953), Tarantula (1955) and The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957)). A band of scientists stumbles on the remains of an 'amphibian missing link', a Gill Man (never mind actual science here). However, the animal was not the only one of its kind, since a live specimen starts stalking the group, in particular the beautiful girl (Julie Adams) among them, resulting in an (in)famous underwater swimming duet between the pair. Sadly, the romance is one-sided as the creature finds out when he tries to get a little closer to the object of his fascination but is instead met with fear, violence and eventually greed as the explorers mean to capture the beast and take it back to civilization. However, the monster has some thoughts of his own on that subject and doesn't surrender so easily, with deadly consequences. Beautiful &#x96; and for that time, spectacular &#x96; underwater photography, a solid cast (including fan favorite Richard Denning, who starred in a number of Fifties' Sci-Fi flicks, not all of them as good as this one) and an excellent balance between drama, action and romance. One of the first movies to be released in 3-D during the short lived 3-D craze in the Fifties with which Hollywood studios hoped to lure audiences away from the new medium of television (unsuccessfully it must be said). "},{"Title":"Early precursor to Jaws","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon is a 1954 horror classic from Universal Studios. Directed by Jack Arnold, the film finds a crew of scientists, researchers and crusty sailors embarking on a journey into the heart of the Amazon. Here they encounter and battle a strange aquatic monster.The film would prove a huge influence on Steven Spielberg's Jaws - also released by Universal Studios - which essentially borrows its score, plot, POV stalking shots and several sequences. Both films, for example, feature iconic shots from the monster's point of view as a woman swims directly overhead, both feature similar aquatic attacks, and both feature similar action sequences with cranes and winches.Lagoon's plot is bare-bones, and it won't scare modern audiences, but for fans of early creature features, it is some kind of goofy classic. The film's underwater photography was somewhat novel for its time.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Why kill Zombies, Vampires, or Lagooners . . .","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" . . . when you can exhibit them at the zoo for big bucks? It must be more than 10 years since I've gone to the zoo, but I'd go tomorrow if I could see human-sized zombies, vampires, witches, and creatures from black lagoons! Yet, whenever they make a movie like this it seems some or all of the regular folks in the show are hell-bent on wiping out all trace of these potential money makers. It's really like looking a gift horse in the mouth! In CREATURE, a guy name Mark swims around for most of the movie trying to see how many spears he can shoot into the poor creature! It is as if Captain Ahab spent his whole life not even knowing that whales existed, and then on the day he finds out about them he immediately sets his sights on Moby Dick. That would make no sense. Men were going to Mars and the Moon constantly in 1950s movies. Well, if you can put a person on the moon, you certainly can construct a cage which could hold a witch or vampire or creature from the lagoon. In the case of a telepathic being, you would just use aluminum foil or something to block their powers, similar to the holding cell(s) for Magneto in the X-men films. Maybe it would be a good idea to exterminate the monsters from the ALIEN series. As for all the other humanoids and creatures, I say Put 'em in a zoo! I, for one, will pony up to see them! "},{"Title":"Watch those flippers! The creature is coming for you!","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thinking about classic film has always been a joy for me personally, especially the Universal Monster movies. You think about the time this was made, what that audience's reactions must've been like and instead of being bombed with over the top CGI effects, we get when men used to get their hands dirty making a film. With the classic Creature from the Black Lagoon, we had a man dressed in a suit who not only acted scary but could hold his breath for minutes under water and got some incredibly beautiful shots ever to be put on film. In the 1950's, it was a time to be obsessed with outer space creatures or things not of our world. Creature from the Black Lagoon was the last of the Universal Monster pictures to come out besides the sequels that followed. I think this was the underdog judging by the ratings here on IMDb because this is one terrific film with a tragic creature who just wanted to be loved&#x85;I mean can you blame him when he was checking Julie Adams out? But man against nature takes place again making you wonder what you should just leave be but letting your curiosity get the better of you.A geology expedition uncovers fossilized evidence from the Devonian period of a link between land and sea animals in the form of a skeletal hand with webbed fingers. Expedition leader Carl Maia visits his friend, Dr. David Reed, an ichthyologist who works at a marine biology institute. Reed persuades the institute's financial backer, Dr. Mark Williams, to fund a return expedition to the Amazon to look for the remainder of the skeleton. The expedition consists of Dr. Reed, Dr. Maia and Williams, as well as Reed's girlfriend, Kay Lawrence, and another scientist, Dr. Thompson. When they arrive at Dr. Maia's camp, they discover that his entire research team has been mysteriously killed while he was away. Lucas suggests it was done by a jaguar, but the others are unsure. The creature, curious upon seeing the expedition, investigates the camp site, but when its sudden appearance frightens the members, they attack it, and in response, the enraged creature kills them. Now the creature has it's eyes on the expedition, the crew members and the lovely girlfriend and to give them a true taste of what they've been looking for.I give this film a lot of credit for the make up and the under water shots. The creature suits were very effective and looked so flowing under water, it looked incredibly real. Much kudos to the actors who played the creature on land and under water. For the 1950's the under water shots are just amazing and look flawless. The actors did a good job, especially Richard Carlson playing Reed, a strong male lead and had such a presence on screen. Julie Adams was just beautiful and a wonderful character, despite being a female in distress, those were just the days, I get a sense of feistyness from her still and such intelligence. There were some good intense scenes, you really get the chills when you realize that the creature could be watching the crew any time and anywhere. Creature from the Black Lagoon was the end of an era and a good way to end it creating a great monster and gave us a reason to stay away from the water. Jaws may have taken the crown, but the Creature just gave him some good lessons.8/10 "},{"Title":"Be seeing him again real soon...","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That line above is from a song by Dave Edmunds on his Tracks on Wax album named after this very film - both are great fun and recommended. The story of course is King Kong underwater, right down to Gill-man taking a shine to the token pretty girl and trying to drag her down to his undersea lair. It's a pity the monster looks so, well, unmonstrous but if you can suspend that disbelief, there's much to enjoy in this better than-average B-movie. The little-known actors all suspend their own disbelief throughout and acquit themselves well even as a fishy game of And Then There Were None is enacted in their midst. The underwater sequences are well shot too and the director keeps the story moving in the short running time. However you can always tell when the Creature's about - the orchestra takes it up a notch or ten, plus it's invariably behind you, always the last place our intrepid heroes look. I watched the film more with a smile than a fright on my face but either way I was entertained so I'm not complaining. "},{"Title":"The Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954)","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found The Creature from the Black Lagoon to be instantly entertaining. The story moved at a good pace and didn't take much time to really get started. I like the way the camera doesn't specifically show when the creature kills one of its victims; it leaves more of the gruesomeness to the imagination of the audience. The film features noticeably exceptional camera work, specifically the long underwater shots of the creature swimming, and stalking the girl while she was swimming. I find it weird that the actors who played the  Gill-man weren't credited in the film. Boris Karloff was credited for Frankenstein (another classic monster movie) and he didn't even have any lines either. Overall a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Classic Monster Movie","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sure the plot is a little far-fetched, and the monster is a guy wrapped in rubber, and the film has its fair share of cheesy moments, but I think that stuff just makes it better. The dialog also has its silly moments and the acting is sub-par, yet I seem unphased by all of that and really enjoyed this film.Despite its B-movie qualities, Creature from the Black Lagooon does a great job of tapping into peoples fears and insecurities, and through that it becomes successful. The underwater visuals are spectacular, and this is a must watch 50s monster movie. "},{"Title":"No wonder they made sequels","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the only of the three I've watched. Part of the reason they wanted to make several is because of the excellent(and thus not exactly underexposed) suit. This, like King Kong, another classic that this bears noticeable resemblance to, has had an immeasurable effect on the world of cinema. It is easy to see what may quite possibly be the inspiration for Jaws in this, for example. This was directed by Jack Arnold, who also gave us the good Tarantula and It Came From Outer Space, as well as the outstanding The Incredible Shrinking Man. We are treated to another misunderstood monster, with the nifty twist of us being the invaders. The Creature does not come to us, we enter his territory. This has anti-xenophobic undertones, and it isn't sexist, if it is a tad racist. The characters are credible and well-developed, save for the obvious villain. Acting is solid, and this is well-cast(kudos on Julie's legs). This was shot in 3D, but it doesn't feel strange without the third dimension to it. The FX are nice enough. This has early underwater footage, and they look great. The music is marvelous and varied. There is a little mild violence and disturbing content in this. The DVD comes with a well-researched, funny and informative commentary track by film historian Tom Weaver, 11 and a half minutes of production photos and a 4 minute trailer. I recommend this to any fan of 50's sci-fi. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Random thoughts","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie from simpler times, but it introduced a new (and enduring) screen monster which, like all the best monsters, is imbued with a big helping of audience sympathy.Put yourself in the shoes - not that he wears shoes - of the poor old Gill Man. There he is, minding his own business, swanning around his lonely lagoon, probably ruminating sadly about being the last of his species, when this boatload of nosy busibodies roll up. First of all they completely destroy his peace and tranquillity, then they titillate and tease him by having this young hottie go flaunting herself by swimming around in a skimpy (for 1954) white swimming cossie, then they pump tanks full of drugs at him, and finally they shoot and kill him. Not exactly cricket, is it? What's a Gill Man to do? I doubt that this scenario was fresh even back in '54, but it was a good deal fresher than it is now, nearly 60 years later. So one must try to look at this movie from a viewpoint which is not totally wearied by the movie industry endlessly recycling plots which work. Although once can perceive a certain naivet in the presentation in this case, there is sufficient energy and imagination for this not to matter.The current flush of 3D material will, in my view, bring 3D to a much wider audience, ultimately by making home 3D viable for the first time. When that happens, I hope that the better 3D features from the 1950s 3D fad will be retooled for the new technology - I have only seen bits of Creature in 3D, but what I saw made very good use of 3D.The film as a whole has two major things going for it. One is the design of the Gill Man, one of the very best man in a monster suit designs. The other is the celebrated sequence where the Gill Man is swimming along below Julia Adams - a sequence of beauty, grace, menace and sensuousness unrivalled by anything on screen before or since.Addendum 1 October 2012 I have just watched the 3D Blu-ray newly released, and I must say that the 3D is stunning. There is only a minimal amount of jabbing things at the camera (thankfully) but the rest of the film makes excellent use of beautifully deep 3D, much more effective than many of the current movies released in 3D. Even the shots against a back projection screen work well. I doubt the movie looked this good when it was first released. "}{"Title":"Horror film is one of the genre's best","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This classic film is an underwater excursion into a lagoon's murky depths and remains a good story many years after its release. The plot is thin and far-fetched but the movie delivers in fine style. A scientific expedition, amid bickering and infighting among its crew, finds itself in a cat-and-mouse struggle with a prehistoric being for survival in the Amazon's backwaters. This creature, having sighted the party's lone female member, the pretty Julia Adams, changes the game's ground rules and the hunted becomes the hunter. The underwater action scenes are realistic and tense, and the lack of marquee names didn't hurt the movie at the box office. The cast is very good and gives the film credibility. The black and white lensing is excellent and the moody music score is just right for the picture's darker moments. "},{"Title":"Strongly Made Action by Jack Arnold; Scary and Intelligent; Well-Acted","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those who would trace the origins of the Creature from the Black Lagoon need to remember that the postwar period 1948--1964 was at its midpoint in the year of its production, 1954. Already, we as filmgoers had seen The Thing, experienced the great robot in The Day The Earth Stood Still, penetrated The Unknown World deep within the Earth and noticed Them and suffered invasion when It Came From Outer Space. Now,it seemed to movie-makers the right time to start creating monsters. Many were gigantic--Godzilla, Reptilicus, The Beast From Twenty Thousand Fathoms and the Deadly Mantis; but a few were variations on a more-human or anthropomorphic scale--Mighty Joe Young, The Blob, the TeenagedWerewolf and the Creature From the Black Lagoon. I trace this idea in general to the excellence of golden-age sci-fi authors' imaginative works; and to the challenge to the false postmodernist false certainties of both republican statists and democratic altruists, ideas which had been soundly repudiated by the Nazi and Communist threats to a stable and safe world order. The film begins simply as an elderly scientist (Antonio Moreno) is told of a fabulous monster in South America. While he is investigating near the site, the so-called black Lagoon, and studying a fossil of a webbed and clawed hand, his party of assistants, bearers and guides is wiped out. He assembles a well-equipped team, including scientists Willaims (Richard Denning), Reed (Richard Carlson), KayLawrence (Julie Adams), Thompson (Whitner Bissell) and skipper Nestor Paiva as Lucas, owner of the boat Rita. They go to the Lagoon, wary but hopeful. Paiva has heard the legendary tale, and adds details as to what they have been told. It may be more intelligent than anyone realizes., he warns them. The creature attacks and proves to be very powerful and extremely dangerous. This is after it had spied on Kay while she swam in the lagoon. Carlson is all for leaving; but even when Thompson is injured, Denning, his rival for Adams' affections, insists on their staying. They devise a knockout potion that affects fish and should work on the gillman Creature. With some difficulty, they do capture it. But it breaks free and escapes. The Creature then uses a log to block their exit from the lagoon for the small ship; in the attempt to free it, Denning is killed. And then Adams is kidnapped that night by the Creature who takes her back to his underground cave. The others follow, and, at the end, rescuing Adams, they shoot the Creature who staggers back to the Black Lagoon and seems to have been killed. But of course it was to return for two sequels, so we are left with some doubt. The cast is very good in this unpretentious and very powerfully-made thriller. Carlson is intelligent and sensible, Adams is lovely and bright. Denning at his best as the fame-obsessed Williams; as Lucas, fine actor Nestor Paiva has one of his best movie parts, while Moreno does well as the elderly doctor and dependable Whit Bissell is also very good as always. The music for the film was done by Henry Mancini and Hans J. Salter; the cinematography by William J. Snyder and the art direction by Bernard Hertzbrun and Hilyard A. Brown. Russell A . Gausman and Ray Jeffers did the set decoration, and Rosemary Odell supplied Miss Adams' wardrobe. Veteran director Jack Arnold deserves the major credit for the fast-paced directing; the script was provided by Maurice Zimm who is credited with the story and Harry Essex and Arthur A. Ross who did the intelligent screenplay. This is a very effective and much-copied film, as well-made a B scary film as one can find. "},{"Title":"Loved it in the 50's; Still love it...","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the 50's I saw the Creature series (3 movies) out of sequence. I first saw the Revenge of the Creature first, then The Creature from the Black lagoon much later. I didn't see the last, Creature Walks Among Us, until the late 60's.Universal sure had a way of using it's backlot to great advantage whenever they made a monster movie. The rickety, old boat chugging down the Amazon only to be stalked and then trapped by the Creature was a classic method of stranding both the characters and the audience in the middle of nowhere. The music was perfect for the story and the four note Creature intro remains one of the most haunting and jarring in the history of fright.While the sequel was arguably as good as the original, the third film lost just a step. It is well that another, fourth movie was not made at the time. The sight of the, now mostly human gill-less man, looking longingly out to his ocean home from the top of a beachside cliff and the his walking out to the sea and certain death ( since he can not longer live and breathe underwater) is a fitting way to end the trilogy.I only hope that if Universal should plan a remake of this American Classic, they will not computer generate a Gill Man, and will choose to retain the man in the Creature suit. I believe the audience subconsciously picked up on the human mannerisms of the actor playing the Creature and wanted it to be safe and to live on. Universal, Please don't fall into the Godzilla trap of a few years ago. Remember you don't mess with Icons.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good 3-D","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of scientists on an expedition in the Amazon discover a amphibious monster in an isolated lagoon.  While they try to capture the creature, the creature tries to capture their token female.  This film remains a sentimental favorite from the many times I watched it from ghost host theater from under the safety of my covers.  I even had the Super 8mm digest version in 3-D.  (Still have it as a matter of fact.)  Granted, the monster is just a man in a rubber suit, but it's a pretty good rubber suit, and the film does retain a certain charm even after all these years.  The cast and production is first-rate by B-movie standards.  Director Jack Arnold certainly deserved a better fate then directing episodes of Gilligan's Island. The movie features a number of taut sequences, nice underwater photography, and pretty good 3-D.  It is an entertaining film, but the triteness of the script keeps it from becoming one of the true classic of horror cinema.  Still, it showed Universal could still crank out a good horror when it was inclined to do so.  This is worlds above most of the competing American International product.  Always worth a look.  If you get a chance to see it projected in 3-D, definitely take advantage of it! "},{"Title":"Classic 50s sci-fi","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw this again tonight in 3D (outdoors).  Saw it when it came out when I was 7.  3D effects (are far from IMAX 3D) are fine and had depth.  Good flick which I've seen many times.  Better than It Came From Outer Space which was also shown. You know, how come this is not released in DVD in 3D with glasses??  Somebody's missing the boat.  Wake up out there.  I'd also like to see House of Wax in 3D again.  Vincent Price was really good in that, as were the 3D effects.  In color, the best 3D movie of its time. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere and Mood Oozes from the Black Lagoon.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do like this film!  Plenty of atmosphere and mood oozes from the Black Lagoon.  It's one of life's simple pleasures.  *********************MIld Spoilers Ahead********************************The Creature From The Black Lagoon is a long time favorite movie of mine.  It's a classic because it is so watchable time after time.If you watch The Creature From The Black Lagoon to critique the acting performances and the special effects, you are going to miss the beauty of this film.  It's all about mood and atmosphere.  It's all about the actors succeeding in their roles as corny scientists who buy into the silly notion of evolution in their intentionally confident wooden  performances.  It's about the music coming to a dramatic crescendo when the you see the webbed hand of the creature.  It's about the shadows and light in the photography. It's about the eyes of the Creature.  It's about going into the world of 1954 where these folks are on an expedition in hopes of making a scientific discovery and they end up in a creepy place but try to take it in stride.  In all of these areas this film succeeds brilliantly.  It uses visual images to spark the imagination and take us back in time to 1954 when these scientists considered themselves to be analytical and sensible.  Their world and time was different than ours.The Creature From The Black Lagoon is near the top of 1950's campy horror movies where the creature is a tragic character and the other actors play straight man to the creature's campy performance.  It's Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart's African Queen, science fiction style.  The interesting thing about the Creature From the Black Lagoon is that it doesn't let itself get bogged down by implausibilities because there are none in the minds of the characters.  The movie works and it's entertaining.  It's a 9/10 in my book.  Don't miss seeing it on a big screen TV in all of its glory.         "},{"Title":"Good in its sort","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although sometimes the characters act a bit dumb (like taking a swim by themselves somewhere in a river in the middle of the Amazone) and therefore get a bit annoying, it was still a nice and good film in its kind with nice settings (although to me not totally credible as being in the Amazone, but then hey, I've never been there) and underwater scenes of a kind that I have never seen in a black and white movie before. They alone make the film worth it. "},{"Title":"The Last of the Great Universal Monsters","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Six years after the final appearance of Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster and the Wolf Man, came this classic Univeral monster.  The Creature had all the qualities that made its predecessors great.  He was an outcast like the Frankenstein monster and you almost felt sympathetic for it because it was alone and the last of its species.  Also, you could see that it was very much inspired by King Kong as it pursues the character of Kaye (in a decent performance by Julie Adams).  This was truly the last of the great Universal Monsters. "},{"Title":"Universal Studios' best CREATURE Feature!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I miss the days of the old Creature Feature television shows on Sunday Afternoons.  Every Sunday after church my father and I would rush to eat dinner and sit down to watch Creature Feature which played some of the early Hollywood Drive-In Horror Classics, such as  Them, Night Of The Lepus, Day Of The Triffids, The Last Man On Earth, and the Universal Monster classics such as Frankenstein, Dracula, Wolfman, including my all time favorite The Creature From The Black Lagoon.     There is something about the atmosphere of this film that sets it apart from the rest.  Although, now at an older age the costume looks more unrealistic than it used to I still love this film.  It just feels good, and for the time it was filmed the monster looks terrific!   I definitely recommend Creature From The Black Lagoon to any young kid, who can't watch the gore yet, and even to the older Horror Cynics. who feel they got to have gore-o-rama!  Creature, to me stands the test of time!The Creature From The Black Lagoon  9 crows dead out of 10!   "},{"Title":"A fun movie.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Creature from the Black Lagoon is a fun movie to watch.  I wouldn't say it's very scary but it's quite entertaining.  The setting, in the Amazon jungle, makes it good just as an adventure movie.  I thought the underwater scenes were great.  They're very clear which I thought was good for a black and white 50s movie.  Probably the most tense moment in the movie for me was when they realized the Creature was purposely trying to keep their boat from leaving the lagoon.  I've seen this movie once and would gladly see it again.   "}{"Title":"Good classic film from Universal.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the best of the Creature movies. REVENGE OF THE CREATURE and THE CREATURE WALKS AMONG US ruined and destroyed the series. But, all by itself, this film is a classic of the genre. While not really scary, this movie entertains. The plot is original and different for the time. The creature costume was a little hokey, but still looked somewhat realistic. Better than the effects in the 70's feature APE where the gorilla looked like a cardboard cutout. And that was twenty years later. Its sad really how bad some special effects can be. But, luckily enough, the special effects in this film were okay. If you want some campy fun, see CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON. Its well worth seeing. Definitely better than some of the garbage to come out today....5/5. "},{"Title":"Gives B-Movies a Good Name","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The title alone conjures up images of So-Bad-it's-Good hilarity, butthis is actually a well-made little thriller; at times, it approaches thehypnotic. There are actually some chills--minor, to be sure, by today'sstandards, but a few scenes really got my pulse racing. Andspeaking of setting hearts aflutter, Julia Adams is a raven-hairedbeauty who gives Esther Williams more than a run for her moneyin the bathing suit department, while Richard Carlson and RichardDenning display surprisingly lean, fat-free physiques in their ownskimpy trunks.But, of course, the real star is the Creature. The fantastic makeupjob is quite spectacular, given the time period. Even on land, thecostume maintains its scariness; I particularly like the eerie shotsof the caged Creature staring up from his cell through the bars.The plot, as such, is ridiculous, of course--but we're thankfullyspared much of the ponderous scientific explanations thathamper other sci-fi B flicks, and damage the very credibility thatsuch long-winded speeches are (supposedly) meant to establish.Not too much time is spent pontificating on HOW this creaturecame to be, or how he's survived, or why no one's seen himbefore--the main goal is to keep from being the next victim of itsappetite.The DVD edition comes with a pristine print, a fun Back at theBlack Lagoon documentary, and the always-fun theatrical trailers.Definitely worth a look, and the epitome of 50's fun. "},{"Title":"An old classic - that half stands the test of time.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Creature from the Black Lagoon is a classic.  While it can't live up to the standards of a modern horror flick, the elements of suspense clearly distinguish this movie from the average 1950's horror flick.  Its popularity makes it a must see for anyone who wants to study the horror/sci-fi Genre of film; but only as an academic exercise.  I kindly rated it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Classic Monster Film","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1948, Universal gave us the lovely young mermaid in MR. PEABODY & THE MERMAID. This film gives us her lusty merman husband chasing after another cute fish in the form of Julia Adams.The underwater photography is skillful, and the atmosphere of the mystery below the surface of the sea is conjured up effectively. The themes of man's place in the universe and human arrogance in disturbing nature are well portrayed here with a rousing good story.After while, you might find yourself rooting for the Gill-man. As Marilyn Monroe observed in THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH, the Creature is kind of a nice fellow in an icky sort of way -- or maybe an ichthyological sort of way.It might have been nice if the lonely merman and Julia could have settled down and had a big happy school of fish, but he is of the sea and she belongs on land. Ah well -- the bittersweetness of love! "},{"Title":"An original,still as entertaining now as it was in the 50's although you're missing a lot without the 3D effect.i","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's amazing that Hollywood,which believes in retreads more than Firestone, hasn't revisited Gillman.One of the 50's new monsters, this creature feature had it all a great title, dueling Richards(Carlson and Denning),the attractive female(Julie Adams), 3D effects and an ensemble cast out there on the boat going down the Amazon, getting picked off one at a time by Gilly.  How many flicks have used that approach?  Besides Alien, Anaconda and every teen/slasher film?But the best thing about Creature may be the boat captain Lucas, played by Nestor Paiva,who injects the necessary charm to balance the thrill ride.  They brought the cap back,by the way,to pilot the sequel, Return of the Creature.  Maybe they should have called it Return of Nestor.    "},{"Title":"A savage creature from pre-history, looking for the right woman","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Creature from the Black Lagoon is a terrific monster movie spawned out of those halcyon days of the mid fifties.  In a way, it reflects some of those post war ideals, prevalent at the time, thoughts and visions of travelling into the unknown, of uncovering new secrets and breaking down old mysteries, of penetrating far beyond that which was previously known. The creature of the title was a masterful piece of work; combined with lush photography and some of the most beautiful underwater camera-work ever taken, this was literally a dream given form.  The creature certainly did have alot of passion pent up within his savage heart.    "},{"Title":"Good locations and great plot.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a great story line and good character acting. The movie locations and camera shots are clean and add real depth to this film. The background sound of blaring horns when the gill man appears is a little jagged on the nerves, but I suspect it was meant to be. Gets my blood pumping and goosebumps up. If you're in the mood for a film of this type with a strong plot, good acting, and suspense watch this one. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is very scary. It is well written. It has great acting. It his about some who one field trip after they find some bones. They look for more remains. They find a swap monster in Brazil. This movie is very intense. The sequel Revenge of the creature is a little better. The third Creature from the black lagoon movie The creature walk among us is also better. The forth Creature from the black lagoon movie the monster squad is also better. But still this movie is a must see. All the Creature from the black lagoon movies are must sees. If you like really scary movies then you will like this movie. If this movie does not scary you then no movie will. "},{"Title":"An iconic monster in a B-quality movie","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Version I saw DVD Box Set versionActors 5/10Plot/script 5/10Photography/visual style 7/10Music/score 7/10Overall 6/10There is a cadre of 50s sci-fi films that have stood the test of time and are now very highly regarded for their excellent stories, finely judged allegory and clever use of the technology available at the time.However, sadly The Creature From the Black Lagoon is not one of these. It makes the same mistake made by hundreds of films over the years, and places the emphasis on spectacle and populist thrills which have dated considerably and left it looking quite poor. Admittedly, the Creature itself is a design classic, and the DVD extras I watched revealed in fascinating detail the impressive craftsmanship that went into the layered rubber suit. Too bad about the badly acted, two-dimensional characters and formulaic, clich-laden story.For my full review, see my independent film blog on Blogspot, Cinema Inferno http//cinemainferno-blog.blogspot.co.uk "},{"Title":"But Is It Art?.....Naaaaaaaah! But pretty good schlock! See it!","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well.....last night I screened THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON (1954 Universal), starring Richard Carlson (died at age 65), Richard Denning (died at age 84), and Julia Adams in her swimsuit doing water ballet underwater swimming quite a lot of the time before the monster (a gill man) grabs her several times (she's still alive at age 84 this year....2010!)......Not a bad movie, though certainly not a good one. Quite a lot of very good, though ultimately boring underwater swimming scenes.....the movie must be about 30% underwater swimming...No credit at all for whoever played the gill man monster, obviously a stunt man wrapped in a rubber fish suit roughly the proportions of a man, but with a fish face head (but two arms, two legs, and who swam like a guy underwater, but with no aqualung).The movie was clever, and not badly done (relatively speaking).The premise was that a prehistoric throw-back gill man monster was found in a back-water location in the Amazon jungles of Brazil, and scientists went to 'bring him back.'Well....they got theirs. The gill man fights back.....gets captured, but escapes, gets speared several times, but just breaks off the spears stuck in him and swims/ runs away.Problem the movie didn't quite solve was how to stretch the simple premise (monster loose in the Amazon Brazillian jungle waters) into two hours worth of non-boring movie...how to keep the movie going, interesting.....Well.....now 84 year old Julia Adams was 28 when the movie was made, and she swims around in her one piece white bathing suit and fabulous, Pammy Grable style legs (insured by Universal Studios for $1 Million! so the publicity of the times went). Lots of tits and ass shots from Julia from the start of the movie all the way thru....they couldn't have kept people interested without her and her legs and screams.Pretty good low key acting from the two main guys, Richard Carlson and Richard Denning, and also from the comic boat captain with his Frito Bandito accent and sense of humor.The whole story takes place on a small boat and in the water (under it), and that's a lot of time in small places....made the movie cheap to make...important!Music was well done and important, and so was the editing often showing fragments of the monster gill man (esp. his webbed hand with BIG fingernails....big hand, come to think of it, considering the gill man was the size of a normal male dressed in a fish suit!).....I dunno.......The question (well...a question) is how to do TWO HOURS and keep it all going without spending BIG money of special effects (as in JAWS 1975 or KING KONG 1933)?CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON (1954) became famous and made a lot of money....but it was and is not work of art....just an icon of pop culture...no high water mark in cinema culture at the level of CITIZEN KANE or CASABLANCA. --------------Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Com and choose Tex Allen resume for contact information, movie credits, and biographical information about Tex Allen. He has reviewed more than 42 movies posted on WWW.IMDb.Com (the world's largest movie information database, owned by Amazon.Com) as of January 2011. These include 1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the Loving Couples (1969) 17 January 2011 4. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 5. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 6. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 7. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 8. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 9. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 10. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) 22 September 2010 11. Destination Moon (1950) 17 January 2011 12. Detour (1945) 19 November 2010 13. Die Hard 2 (1990) 23 December 2010 14. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl (1993) 19 November 2010 15. Jack and the Beanstalk (1952) 26 July 2009 16. King Solomon's Mines (1950) 1 December 2010 17. Knute Rockne All American (1940) 2 November 2010 18. Claire's Knee (1970) 15 August 2009 19. Melody Ranch (1940) 10 November 2010 20. Morning Glory (1933) 19 November 2010 21. Mush and Milk (1933) 17 January 2011 22. New Moon (1940) 3 November 2010 23. Pinocchio (1940) 6 November 2010 24. R2PC Road to Park City (2000) 19 November 2010 25. Salt (2010) 24 August 2010 26. Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1960) 21 January 2011 27. Sunset Blvd. (1950) 1 December 2010 28. The Forgotten Village (1941) 21 January 2011 29. The Great Dictator (1940) 1 November 2010 30. The King's Speech (2010) 19 January 2011 31. The Last Emperor (1987) 20 January 2011 32. The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner (1962) 9 January 2011 33. The Man in the White Suit (1951) 5 August 2009 34. The Philadelphia Story (1940) 5 November 2010 35. The Social Network (2010) 19 January 2011 36. The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974) 1 August 2009 37. The Thomas Crown Affair (1999) 14 August 2009 38. The Witchmaker (1969) 21 July 2009 39. Thousands Cheer (1943) 3 December 2010 40. Till the Clouds Roll By (1946) 24 November 2010 41. Wake Up and Live (1937) 27 July 2009 42. Witness for the Prosecution (1957) 1 August 2009 A full list of Tex Allen's movie reviews appearing on WWW.IMDb.Com with links to full texts of reviews is accessible via http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Yahoo.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments (paste this address into your URL Browser) "}{"Title":"I like the creature","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, the Creature or Gillman is kind of a combination between the Loch Ness Monster, Sasquatch and a frog. But that's just my opinion. And I like him. He seems more intelligent than many of the big creatures in the movies, has a motive for all that he does, and the costume works. So that's my take on the creature himself.The movie around him also has its charms. A scientist discovers part of a fossilized skeleton of an unknown creature and leads an expedition back to the site to try to find the rest of the fossils. They are amazed when they come across a living specimen of the fossil and surprised when it fights back when they try to capture it.The filmmakers have done a good job of building and maintaining an element of dread throughout the film, while still keeping up the pace so that it never gets boring. I mean, you know the creature is there, just not when it will strike. The underwater scenes are incredible, especially when one considers that this was filmed in the 1950's.Overall, it's not my favorite of the Universal classics, but it has a high re-watchability factor and has enough action and suspense combined with good pacing that one's interest is maintained. "},{"Title":"Beauty and the beast in the Amazon","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this several times on TV but I once actually saw it in a theater that brought it around again in the early 60's when I was a kid. It was a scary movie back then. It of course became more campy than scary but the underwater segments hold up well and the creature himself is still something I wouldn't want to see crawl out of a lagoon somewhere. Yeah, it's a guy in a rubber suit but Jaws was fake fish that got the point across pretty good too. This film spawned a couple of sequels in Revenge of the Creature and The Creature Walks Among Us but I don't recall ever seeing the third installment from a different director. Jack Arnold directed this and the sequel. He had previously directed It Came From Outer Space and would be responsible for a lot of 50's sci-fi flicks like The Incredible Shrinking Man, Tarantula, This Island Earth and Monster on Campus before a successful television directorial career in comedies and dramas that took him into the 1970's. Cinematographer William E. Snyder who had done such legitimate films as The Loves of Carmen, Blue Skys and The Flying Leathernecks photographed this film. Look for bad acting from Richard Carlson, Julie Adams, Richard Denning and Antonio Moreno but the story moves along OK. I see that Universal has plans for a remake with Gary Ross, who wrote Sea Biscuit, Big and Pleasantville, doing the screenplay. It's a beauty and the beast type theme and a good example of 50's monster movies and I would give it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A 50's horror/Sci-Fi That Does Not Disappoint","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon was made in an era when corny sci-fi films were coming out left and right. Bu Creature from the Black Lagoon changed the sci-fi industry after it was made and took it into a new direction. The movie is given thought and a plot hard to find in the infamous 50's.A scientific expedition is in progress. David Reed (Richard Carlson), Mark Williams (Richard Denning) and a few other scientists and locals are leading the project in search of fossils. After many days along the Amazon they become stuck inside a lagoon known as 'The Black Lagoon' and people have been disappearing around it. After a few days a few members are attacked by a mysterious half fish/half human thing. Through the chaos the beautiful Kay (Julie Adams) is abducted by the Creature and the crew men must make an attempt against this prehistoric monster and retrieve Kay.i use to watch this when I was kid on the VCR and found it to be awesome. Being fascinated with the subject of monsters and dinosaurs when I was a pip-squeak I found this to be the best film. the acting is great, Richard Denning and Richard Carlson are awesome along with everyone else. The make-up is pretty good for a 50's film. The creature is menacing and complex at the same time. This is a classic and should be seen by any horror buff film type person. Along with Dracula (1931) it is the best horror film I've ever seen.Creature from the Black Lagoon. Starring Richard Carlson, Richard Denning, Julie Adams, Antonio Moreno, and Nester Paiva.5 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Even I, Lucas, have heard of the legend of a man fish.","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just the name alone, Creature From the Black Lagoon conjures up all sorts of mental images of creepy, slimy monsters from murky underwater depths. And this 1954 Universal Film certainly delivers on that score, the legendary creature earning his place among the pantheon of Universal's all star lineup - Frankenstein, Dracula, Wolfman and The Mummy. The story however doesn't hold up as well as it's earlier classic counterparts, partly for it's lack of an enduring name star (Karloff, Lugosi, Chaney), and partly for it's more modern look, having been released in 1954. The film sets up the dramatic tension soon enough, within minutes we are treated to a quick glimpse of a fan shaped, webbed claw that eerily emanates from a swampy pool. In discussing the skeletal remains of an unknown creature discovered on a prior expedition, lead scientist David Reed (Richard Carlson) makes a prophetic statement about spaceships someday traveling to other planets. With financing provided by Mark Williams (Richard Denning), the scientific group heads off to the upper Amazon Valley to try to unravel the mystery. Among the group is Reed's fianc Kay Lawrence (Julia Adams), providing the obligatory love interest for both Reed and the Creature. In fact, the Creature's obsession with Kay is craftily handled from the outset, it's first encounter resulting in a synchronized swim in the river and a playful tease of Kay's feet before she ever sets eyes on the monster. The underwater photography is deftly done, particularly since so much time is spent there. What does get somewhat annoying though is the persistent bickering between Reed and Williams on the goal of the expedition. Taking the scientific approach, Reed wants to catalog virtually everything to do with the Creature and it's habitat, while Williams wants nothing less than to capture the monster to make his mark in the scientific world. All bets are off though when the Gill-Man kidnaps Kay from the boat and brings her to his underwater grotto. In pursuit, Reed emerges into the grotto and is approached by a giant flying bat - did anyone else get the impression that it was about to turn into Count Dracula?In somewhat of a standoff, Reed insures that the Creature is not harmed by the overzealous armed crew, as it makes it's way back into the safety of the lagoon. It appears to descend lifelessly into the murky depths, but even back in the 1950's the final fade seemed to scream sequel. And so it was, in two Creature follow ups, 1955's Revenge of the Creature and the 1956 film The Creature Walks Among Us, neither of which brought back any of the principals from the first film. "},{"Title":" A GREAT FILM CLASSIC OF 1954 !","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"                 When I first viewed this film in 1954 it had me spell-bound even in Black & White, seeing Julie Adams (Kay Lawrence) being chased by the Gill Man with her, at the time, sexy swim suit. Ben Chapman, a swimmer in a rubber suit made him a frogman. Designers Bud Westmore and Jack Kevan gave him a fierce fish-face, fins and flippers. The underwater sequences were fantastic in 1954 along with Richard Carlson(Dr. David Reed) trying to defend his sweetheart Kay Lawrence. There was a second film regarding the Gill Man called Revenge of the Creature 1955 which bombed out completely, with the Gill Man going out to sea.   This film has become an all time classic and was taken quite serious years back WHEN ! "},{"Title":"Universal's last great classic monster","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON (1954) *** Richard Carlson, Julia Adams. Above average classic B-movie horror story about a havoc wreaking monster from the ocean floor who is discovered by scientists in South America only to cause plenty of trouble.  So it's a guy in a rubber suit, so what! It's a scary rubber suit! "},{"Title":"Must for anyone who loves vintage horror classics","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well ok, so this is a horror film. Naturally it doesn't look very terrifying. Almost fifty years later Creature from the black lagoon looks...well, I'm out of words but you know exactly what I mean. Cheesy, low-budget b-flick. That grisly creature must be the most hilarious thing universal studios has ever created. What does it matter? Maybe the audience today watches Creature from the black lagoon with a different eye than the people of the 50's but what's the problem when audience still loves to see the movie. Today this is a funny, soothing and easy-going adventure and a sympathetic leap to the past. If you ask for an intelligent masterpiece look elsewhere. If you just want some harmless, innocent fun you should sit down, relax and enjoy Creature from the black lagoon. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Best","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is classic, worth repeated viewings, whether in 3-D or not. After a beautifully narrated and atmospheric quotation from Genesis, we are thrusted millions of years forward to the discovery of a fossilized webbed claw in the Amazon and the subsequent horrific adventure. The black and white photography both over and under the water is stunning and eerie; bone-chilling music adds to the suspense. Jack Arnold's direction is wonderfully rendered and well-paced. Julie Adams nicely plays the shapely scientist who becomes Beauty to the Creature's Beast; Arnold invokes sympathy for this Gill-Man,(only called that in the second film, Revenge of the Creature, by the way) a breathtaking costumed outfit that renders today's so-called sophisticated computer animation phony. Ben Chapman and Ricou Browning (both un-billed) take turns portraying the creature, beautifully miming his movements underwater graceful and poetic, on land shuffling and a bit awkward. Richard Carlson, Richard Denning, Antonio Moreno, Whit Bissell and Nestor Paiva are all well-cast. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Haunting Imagery Gives This Tropical Man-Fish Flick Lasting Value","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Mazzulla has provided an intelligent and well-considered Freudian explanation of why this predator-prey film continues to entertain young men. But what about the rest of us?After all, Creature from the Black lagoon really seems to have very little going for it. Presented by a troop of career B and B- actors, the most remarkable aspect of the cast is how good looking the protagonists are. The dialogue is wildly over-dramatic, and the plot has been used and reused hundreds of times before and after COBL in monster flicks of every shape and size. A paleontologist finds a new species fossilized in Paleozoic rock which appears to have characteristics of a fish and a primate. The science terminology and concepts in COBL is off, but not as bad as most of what I have seen out of Hollywood. What our paleontologist doesn't know is that his new species is still lurking around in a nearby lagoon. An expedition is launched, including two handsome young men and a young woman who are entangled romantically. The would-be lover of the beautiful but not very courageous Kay (Julia Adams) is also her employer (Richard Denning) and her actual lover is played by Richard Carlson. As opposed to a mere distraction, the interplay between these three, though not very well acted or scripted, helps build tension throughout the first half of the film - as the creature tentatively approaches the boat and begins to scope out his human prey. The story is essentially a well-constructed version of King Kong, Alien, It Came from Outer Space, and several other films, set in the Amazonian rainforest. The Director, Jack Arnold would later write and direct several hit TV shows - but what can be seen in COBL really just hints at his talent. Some of the cinematography is spectacular. the underwater scenes are all excellent - even the seemingly pointless swimming scenes are gorgeously shot and interesting, and the actor who performed the title role of The Creature did a wonderful job of stayng in character and inventing an inhuman personality. The creature's costume is terrific! When I first saw this film, I found the score startling and creepy. Today, its somewhere between annoying and hilarious.Creature from the Black Lagoon is a better film than it should be and not quite as good as its reputation. It is, however, a true classic and most definitely worth seeing. Popcorn and alcohol recommended, however. "},{"Title":"Creature from the Black Laggon","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The finding of a large amphibious hand leads a research team in a quest to find any form of fossil of past life..perhaps extra remains to back up the hand. What they do not expect is a living, breathing gillman who will kill anyone who threatens or draws near his habitat. In a fascinating developing angle, the gillman takes on an infatuation for the incredibly sexy Kay(Julie Adams). David(Richard Carlson)is the head scientist, and love of Kay's life, who was called to the expedition by Carl(Antonio Moreno)whose village help assisted in finding the fossil hand. Mark(Richard Denning), who is funding this expedition, becomes obsessed with catching the gillman because not only does it provide proof of existing undiscovered life, but sure to bring a heavy profit.Yet, one by one members of the Rita boat crew are being killed by the gillman as do various members of the scientific team which bring David to an unfortunate decision..leave their locale for safety forgetting the new discovery. Complications ensue when the creature blocks their passage out with a massive tree and Mark's desperation causes conflict. But, the major suspense comes from the gillman's desire to steal away Kay posing quite a threat as he tries to sneak on board various times.The underwater photography is magnificent, the rubber suit is excellent providing us with quite a monster, and the film is well acted. The fact that this film is intelligent made by a group of filmmakers desiring to make a good film, not just some sort of hokey nonsense to make profit. One of the very best, if not the best, Universal monster movies made. "}{"Title":"Charming Sci-Fi of the 50's","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Amazonas, the scientist Dr. Thompson (Whit Bissel) finds a fossil of a huge hand, and returns with an scientific expedition composed by the scientists Mark Williams (Richard Denning), David Reed (Richard Calson) and his fiance and Dr. Thompson's niece Kay (Julia Admas). In the Black Lagoon, they find an amphibious creature, which would be an evolution between fish and man. Mark hurts the creature while trying to capture it. Meanwhile, the creature falls in love for Kay. Creature From the Black Lagoon has a very simple storyline, but the underwater scenes are fantastic for a 1954 movie. Very naive and also very charming, it is an entertainment for the whole family. Watching it in the present days, we see that although being a team of scientists, there is no concerns with the ecology. The scene with the dead fishes, throwing the cigarette on the water or the the fate of the creature in the end of the story illustrate this lack of concern with the environment. In the present days, it would be considered politically incorrect. Further, the unappropriated clothes of Kay for a dense jungle are very funny. The scene when Kay is swimming in Amazonas river and the creature is following her underwater is amazing. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Monstro da Lagoa Negra (The Monster From the Black Lagoon) "},{"Title":"Marilyn beloved creature","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hear about this film but never have watched. Now, at last, I could see the final 20 minutes (the Spanish television channel I captured it do not use to announce previously nothing more than the movies show at the afternoon) and I enjoy it. I can realize very well the reputation of this modest but entertaining movie B series, a clear predecessor of more sophisticated creatures at sci-fi cinema. I can remember that Marilyn Monroe likes this tender creature -Richard Carlson is very worse- as she says to Tom Ewell at a sequence of The Seven Year Itch. I can imagine that the Black Lagoon Creature, a amphibious fish fallen in love for Julie Adams, must be very horrible by his time (1954) and that Julie Adams looks very erotic in her shorts pants. Today all that is very ingenuous. Customary to very unpleasant and realist creatures movies with tremendous and expensive special effects -who hide very often the lack of authentic talent-, you will find charming this movie. But don't forget that is a classic of the sci-fi. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Classic horror film","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Classic horror film that's a revelation when seen in its original 3D format.I think every movie buff of a certain age who enjoys horror films has a certain place in their heart for this thriller. "},{"Title":"Grade B Sushi","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Among all of the many bad movies ever made, some are bad in a good way; they might contain resonant ideas or images that long outlive the original context in which they were released and accepted. This is arguably one of those movies. Plainly, nothing that occurs above the surface is of any interest -- this is painfully bad 'man in a rubber suit' schlock (there's one slight exception). The egghead/photographer debates with the promoter/hunter over what to do with him.However, once underwater there are key visual bits. Most famously is the creature-perspective view upwards towards a water-treading Adams. She's not allowed to be nude, but it's suggested. This was blatantly stolen by Spielberg for Jaws.This seems to spend half of the running time underwater, and they successfully film the critter/man without a single air bubble escaping. Once above water, he's rather clumsy. He's even burned and has to extinguish himself in the lagoon -- note that this was the template used for the immolation scene in Scorcese's Cape Fear.The creature attempts to kill all of his masculine 'rivals', so he can kidnap and possess the girl -- a narrative straight out of King Kong. This sort of unrequited sexual attraction distinguishes the monster flicks from the slasher flicks (the Psycho-styled bad guys are emasculated and have to plunge knives). "},{"Title":"Fantastic film from the black lagoon","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some people call the Creature from the black lagoon the last of the universal monsters. This is true and boy, did they go out with a bang!This is my review on The Creature From The Black LagoonNOTE I do NOT believe in millions of years or the evolution theory so I'm just leaving them bits out, just like I ignored it in the movie.The plot goes like this; Scientists find a fish like claw sticking out of a rock down a tributary of some river in South America. They are curious to know what could've owned this strange hand. One suspects that the rest of the skeleton might have been blown downstream. He and the rest of the scientists head downstream into unexplored territory- The black lagoon. during their research they find out that they are in the habitat of a fish-like monster. Out of all the universal monsters (Wolfman, Drackula etc) The creature is probably the most diverse. The story feels more like a sci fi than a horror and there are no haunted mansions, creepy graveyards or bleak dungeons. Instead, the movie takes place in a very dark lagoon. Lots of the movie takes place underwater. There are scenes were the scientists go diving for bits of rocks to compare with the skeleton (Don't ask me, I'm no scientist!) Also is shows some very interesting scenes of the monster darting through the water towards it's prey. These scenes are phenomenal for a 50s film and it is evidence that you don't need CGI for everything which films now-a-days seem to have. I personally haven't a clue on how they filmed all these scenes. It's hard to describe on a written review but when you watch the film you will no what I mean.The acting isn't top notch but it's OK. The main character aren't really that memorable, but they don't need to be! it's the monster you watch it for!For a 50s film, the monster looks rather frightening, certainly for younger viewers. Even I found some of the scenes quite creepy. The monster hunts down all the scientists who have been travelling into his lagoon on a bust-up old barge. It's interesting to watch the monster react to the humans as if he could understand them. The man the the suit needs an Oscar! Constantly in the film, no matter how many times the scientists try to stop the monster, it just keeps coming back for more. This chemistry never gets old for me and it's just a joy to see the many attempts of the creature.The final 10 minutes really tip the scale of this little gem. We've got underwater battles with the creature. We've got the creature kidnapping a damsel in distress. We've got a got pursuit with guns and...erm.. claws. The last scene is just worth it alone. They finally hunt the creature down and, unfortunately, kill it. For me, this was rather sad that a fantastic movie monster was killed of in it's first film. If you are like me, don't fret! There is 2 more movies to sink your teeth into however I have not got round to seeing them so Icannot say wither they are good or bad.All in all, probably one of the best universal monster classics with great monster, fantastic hunt, an under water battle and some of the best cinematography ever filmed. There is evolution in it which I don't agree with, but bypassing it this is one of my all time favs. "},{"Title":"This Is a Universal Classic","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A strange prehistoric beast (Ricou Browning) lurks in the depths of the Amazonian jungle. A group of scientists try to capture the animal and bring it back to civilization for study.Various writers claim credit for this film, though Tom weaver (the expert) gives the bulk of the credit to William Allen. Apparently an earlier script, or maybe even pre-script, had an additional bad guy character and some sequences which are very much a retelling of the King Kong story. William Allen, the writer, freely admitted he was writing King Kong on the water. From director Jack Arnold, the Gill Man has since become one of the Universal monsters (though probably second tier, as he is not nearly as popular and appeared twenty years too late) and has achieved his own Legacy collection box set. You have made it to the big time, Gill. And, to be fair, even second tier Universal is better than most other monsters out there. Universal keeps trying to make the Metaluna creature a Universal monster, but... really?I met Ricou Browning, who plays the creature underwater, a few years ago. Great guy. Why do I mention this? Because he has been so forgotten, and I think he should be called out. Is he on par with Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi or Lon Chaney? No. But the fact he is not even credited is a sad comment on how he was treated.Why is this a classic? To be honest, I am not sure. It was a fine film, but nothing spectacular and really on par with much of Arnold's films. I do not know how this became a minor franchise... but hey, now we have it, and soon there will likely be a remake. As I understand it, the reviews at the time were not favorable, and appreciation has grown since.Howard Maxford calls it tame, but having effective underwater sequences. That is not a bold statement and one I must agree with. Perhaps this underwater stuff made it a classic? I mean, I guess people did not see that much before Jaws. Who knows? Mike Mayo claims the only reason this film succeeded was sex, the then-racy bathing suit by Julie Adams. I like Mayo's theory...The Creature plot anticipates the Italian cannibal film, which is interesting. We go from King Kong to the Creature, both sympathetic in their own way and wanting to be loved. But then we also have these white folks in the jungle going down the river, an image that exists in pretty much every cannibal film. Was it a conscious homage? Probably not, but I say it's there.Oh, and the film is educational, too I learned what rotenone is and how to use it against sea monsters. It's an odorless, colorless, crystalline isoflavone used as a broad-spectrum insecticide, piscicide, and pesticide. Science! "},{"Title":"Terrific creature feature","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a geology expedition headed by Dr. Carl Maia (Antonio Moreno) uncovers the fossilised hand of a giant sea/man creature, Maia recruits marine biologist Dr. David Reed (Richard Carlson) on another expedition back to the Amazon to find the remaining skeleton of the strange beast. They get the funding they need, and take a journey aboard a steamer along with a ragtag gang including Dr. Williams (Richard Denning), who may be in love with Reed's lady Kay (Julia Adams). When arriving at the site, they find the former camp decimated, and a dead body. An ancestor of the fossilised 'gill-man' may be lingering in the water with murder and terror in mind.Of all the monster 'creature-features' that flowed out of the 1950's, that mainly consisted of a man dressed up in a badly made suit or a leftover from a previous films' wardrobe department, the most iconic has to be the image of the gill-man carrying Kay, or coming out of the water. These films were quick and cheap to make, always had an eager marketplace, and were ripe for over-elaborate posters that were usually always far better than the film was ever going to be. The gill-man image is well remembered not only because it's a pretty cool costume, but also because Creature From The Black Lagoon is actually a good film.The creature-feature genre is always restricted to its formulaic plot devices and tick-boxes of screaming girlfriend, square-jawed hero, and a generally non-threatening monster than you could easily run away from if in real-life or had at least half a brain. But what places Black Lagoon above the vast majority is the fact that it makes the most of these restrictions. The monster itself, although clearly a man in a suit, is genuinely quite creepy. The scene where he watches motionless from his underwater cage, his mouth slowly opening and closing like that of a fish, is unnerving.The Amazonian backdrop is captured with a flair that goes beyond the film's budget limitations by cinematographer William E. Synder, something of a B-movie regular, and the underwater shots are mysterious and sometimes beautiful, as the two lead macho men battle with the gill- man and each other's testosterone. But most importantly, its riotously entertaining stuff, which differs from most pictures in the genre that usually have one entertaining scene surrounded by bad acting and boring plotting. It was never going to be anything more than very good, given it's limitations, but it is, and makes me sad to think that modern films will never be able to capture this sort of innocent charm.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Even I, BA_Harrison, have heard the legend of a man-fish.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the surface, Universal's Creature From The Black Lagoon hardly looks like the stuff that classics are made of a low-budget B-movie monster flick that borrows the age old 'beauty and the beast' theme from King Kong, opts for the 'man in a rubber monster suit' option, confines its action to virtually a single location&#x97;the Black Lagoon of the title&#x97;in order to keep costs down, and throws in the gimmick of 3D to get bums on seats. Dive in, however, and you'll discover a film that is rich in excitement, teeming with action, and alive with adventure.Under the guidance of ace director Jack Arnold (Tarantula, The Incredible Shrinking Man, It Came From Outer Space), this potentially hum-drum creature feature becomes a hugely entertaining exercise in minimalist B-movie horror, a little light on logic perhaps (only one gill-man?), but never offering a dull moment Arnold's deft handling of his derivative tale ensures that boredom is never an option; Bud Westmore's brilliantly conceived monster suit creates a lasting impression; the stunning underwater cinematography adds immensely to the atmosphere of the film; and as if that wasn't enough, there's the gorgeous Julie Adams in a swimsuit, whose ample curves understandably send the prehistoric gill-man on his hormone fuelled rampage.7.5 out of 10, happily rounded up to 8 for the lovely Ms. Adams, who kindly braves a swim in the Amazon to provide gratuitous eye-candy for us guys. "},{"Title":"Eerie, Suspenseful, Frightening - GREAT","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The introduction of the last, greatest, and likely most popular of the Universal Monsters; the Gill-Man! Filmed on location in Silver Springs, Florida. A beautiful and exotic place, but if you've ever visited, you wouldn't want to find yourself alone there at night! I could just picture in my mind the Creature reaching with his webbed claw hand for Julie Adams... Superb story about discovery of a man-like missing link creature of amphibious nature. The CFBL is an extremely powerful, scary, but plausible, monster armed with sharp claws. And, he doesn't like being chased or having his territory being infringed upon. So he reacts defensively by eliminating one-by-one the crew of a small research charter boat. And naturally, he wants the girl for himself.  The cast is top notch; famous horror/sci-fi stars Richard Carlson, Richard Denning and Whit Bissell plus Nestor Paiva and the lovely Julie Adams. My only regret is that this movie is only about 75 mins long. This one shoulda been at least two hours long!!! Don't miss it.     "},{"Title":"Great classic horror movie!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say enough of this great horror classic, since I keep watching it over and over again. Great location, film sequences, suspense, costuming, you name it, it had it. Can you imagine the color if they filmed it that way? Of course in black and white it's still effective. The Gill-man is number ONE! I highly recommend this film for all ages. Just one more thing to add Julia Adams is a GODDESS! All I can say is WOW!10 out of 10. Watch this movie! IT RULES! "}{"Title":"Universal's finest","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Creature From the Black Lagoon is the best of Universal's monster movies of the 1950's.  Great performances from the cast which includes Richard Carlson (It Came From Outer Space) and Richard Denning (The Black Scorpion).  The underwater scenes in this movie are very impressive.  The score is excellent and haunting.  Great scenary as well makes this movie a must see for monster movie fans.  The two sequels to this are also worth checking out.1950's monster movies don't come much better than this.  Great stuff.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Creature from the Black Lagoon is the last great Universal Monster","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the BEST Universal Monster Movies ever! Ben Chapman did a fantastic job of portraying the Creature without the use of any dialog. The movie has an AWESOME storyline and with the help of Hans J. Salter's intense musical score makes the movie a very intense & exciting experience. Milicent Patrick's design of the Creature makes this movie Monster one of the most sought after Universal Monsters. Also the underwater scenes in this movie are some of the most spectacular scenes ever to be filmed. Without a doubt this movie is probably the best Sci-fi/Horror movie of the 50's. Also be sure to check out the other two movies in the Creature series Revenge of the Creature & The Creature Walks Among Us, also highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Cack lagoon","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Creature from the Black Lagoon' may have spawned the inevitable sequels but the premise can't even support a 70-minute film, so God knows what the others are like. The movie has one idea an amphibious creature swims about in a lagoon. Oh, and it's a black lagoon. From there the writers were clearly stuck for something to happen, because nothing does, and the movie takes its time about it.The poor actors wade through the kind of pseudo-scientific dialogue typical of '50s sci-fi (the sort of thing that Whit Bissell is never far from), before they set off to find the hideous gill man, a lengthy and intense search for a monster from the dawn of time that consists of them paddling down a river for a while. The movie then repeats the same scene over and over again as the creature rises from the depths to attack the boat, an ear-splitting 'Deeerrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr!' honking on the soundtrack each and every time. The design of the gill man isn't too bad, although he is a bit of an ungainly swimmer for an animal supposedly at home in the water, and his face is a tad gormless. It looks as though every last scrap of underwater footage shot for the film was used, plenty of straggly weeds getting in the way of the creature flailing about in the dirtiest water this side of the toilet in 'Trainspotting'. It's a typical genre movie of the period, and it's unfortunately one that's no fun at all. It's repetitious and boring. "},{"Title":"Universal's best monster ever.","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Universal has long been known for their Classic Monsters Frankenstein, Dracula, The Mummy, The Wolfman...the list goes on and on, and there is no shortage of great monsters delivered to us by this studio.Of all the great movie monsters, The Creature from the Black Lagoon is the best of the best, and has become a favorite among many Monster Kids as well as those just discovering monster movies of a bygone era. Everything from the exquisite sets, the excellent atmosphere and of course the Creature himself are just pure monster movie magic.Not only has this prehistoric creature survived unchanged and undisturbed in the deepest regions of the Amazon for eons, we are surprised and somewhat delighted to see that the creature is scary enough to capture our imagination, but also human enough that audience members can relate to this missing-link. The Creature from the Black Lagoon is so well scripted that the audience members not only root for the Creature, but actually feel saddened by the Creature's demise.Stylish and memorable, The Creature from the Black Lagoon is a must-see for fans of classic movie monsters and those just discovering Universal's classic movie monsters. "},{"Title":"Classic of its inexpensive kind.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A couple of scientists hire a fishing boat to take them up a tributary of the Amazon to capture a living fossil. Some of them get away.That's about it for the plot, which I'm sure must be adequately described elsewhere. Just a few rambling comments seem called for.In Samoa there are tidal pools sprinkled among the jagged lava rocks of the coast, ranging in size from goldfish bowls to bathtubs. The natives have a substance similar to the one used in this movie to disable the gill man. I forget what it's called in Samoan but it's English name is something similar to rotinone. You scrape it into the water from a seed the size of a walnut. The Samoans use it to make the fish jump out of the pools. It doesn't make them groggy, as in the movie. It irritates the hell out of them and prompts them to leap out of the pool. This is both good and bad. Some of the tropical fish are colorful and shaped like boxes. I hated seeing them so irritated. But the mud skippers, an inch or two long and of an undistinguished gray, although they look exactly like fish, act more like tiny frogs. They don't need any initial prompting. They pop out of the pools and sit on rocks and look at you with their goggle eyes. I didn't mind their being irritated. Those eyes -- those staring eyes! Of course I realize there are good and bad among mud skippers, as there are among humans.Fossils. The scientists discover a fossil buried in a river bank. The fossil is rubbery. That means it is no fossil at all. Fossilization is a very complicated process in which each cell of the original tissue is replaced by a mineral compound, I think mostly some compound of calcium. Any real fossil is going to be made of rock. It won't flap when you wave it. And after a couple of million years it would have been disarticulated.But they got the fingers right. Five on each hand, or flipper, or pseudopod. A host of creatures probably crawled out of the primordial sea and were complicated enough to develop endoskeletal limbs. Some may have had two fingers, others ten. They all died out except the ones that just happened to have five digits. Now everything that has a skeleton and limbs with digits have five digits -- from humans to horses to bats to whales. The gill man may have been an evolutionary dead end but his family tree didn't branch off from the trunk until after those five digits had become the received number, early on. He has a thumb too, but it's not opposable like ours but rather more like an orangutan's. He'll have a good power grip but no precision grip. He may be a terrific swimmer but he'll never fix your TV set if it requires a screwdriver. And he'll have to hold a pencil like the handle of a hammer.Julia Adams. Why does she insist on wearing these tight shorts that simply serve to emphasize her succulent rear? No wonder the gill man is after her. Any normal male would immediately want to jump on her and pinch her. But then, as far as that goes, what did the gill man have in mind for her? Cross-generic reproduction isn't possible. Had the same problem with King Kong.For 1954 you weren't likely to find a sexier scene that Julia Adams with her dark, Audrey-Hepburn eyebrows swimming along the surface while the gill man swims in a suggestive position beneath her. The gill man may be a primitive evolutionary dead end, but he's nobody's fool.And what is he doing all alone in the Black Lagoon? Is he the last living specimen? If not, where is the breeding pool? The plot is full of such holes.For what it's worth, the heavy here is not so much the gill man as Mark (Richard Denning), who wants to kill him and bring him home as a trophy and as proof that the creature exists. The same argument is advanced now -- in real life -- about Bigfoot, if it exists at all. And Bigfoot, if the tales are to be believed, is a primate. Just like us.Back to the movie. It's an original, directed by Jack Arnold, king of the monster movies, and brought out by Universal Studios. I enjoy it on those occasions when it's on. It lacks all pretension and is simple minded, yet it's engaging. There isn't a dull moment in it and very little complexity to befoul our enjoyment of this simple cartoonish tale.Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A claw fitted hand made of plastic is reaching for you with a horrible score supporting it! Scary!","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this with my father recently and he had these memories of it being shown on TV as he was a kid. He told me of how scared he'd been and of the nightmares that followed. As we watched it together none of us could understand why, all we could do was to laugh at how silly everyone was and how horrible the score is. We both agreed that the creature was a piece of art though. This is one of the best movie monsters ever made put on film. Those eyes, and the blackness of the hollow mouth under water must have haunted the teenagers that saw this at theaters in 54-55.Being that the old classics such as this aren't scary any more they have to have other qualities in order to stay interesting for the audiences of today. Creature from The Black Lagoon has some of that, but not overly much of it. It certainly has it's share of charm though. The scene where the creature is swimming under water as the unsuspecting Julie Addams is swimming above him at the surface is a classical one indeed.I realize of course, that this film, as many others at the time, was shot to be presented in 3D, which is what makes some of the scenes in this film look especially silly. You know of what I'm speaking; the stretching arm scenes. Ooohhh.. I'm shaking! I normally don't have a problem with a film being black & white as it shouldn't matter, but here... Well, it harms the picture as it could have been so much more beautiful if it had been shot in color. But as I'm not a film historian of sorts I don't know if the technology was available at the time. I don't have the exact date. If not, that's a shame, but if it was Bad decision! Why the characters in these films always have to bring home their scientific finds intact and alive at the cost of their colleagues' lives remains a mystery to me. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Eeeeeeekkkkkk!!!!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the grandaddy of the fifties horror flicks and taken in that context it's great! The acting is of the wooden varierty common to the period. But the special effects and the underwater sequences are excellent. The pacing, something so very important in a scary, suspense movie, is impeccable. Schlock, yes. But fun! (I'm surprised Hollywood hasn't done a modern remake.)  "},{"Title":"Plenty of fun!","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ahead of it's time Classic Monster movie. I came to appreciate this movie after a 2013 London showing in some sort of drive-in in the middle of the river. It was a fantastic experience because the movie is campy and offers plenty of black humor situations mainly created by the presence of the creature, who may be ahead of its time. The settings are well done, the whole experience in the boat is tense, and the Creature is awesome looking!The lead female character is extremely sexy and loves to show off her legs plus she looks like Jennifer Connelly, which is a good thing ;)The campy situations and the nerve-tensing music may damage the experience but it is a fun experience nevertheless. "},{"Title":"How can this film have a score this low?!","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Presently, THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON has a very ordinary score of 6.9 on IMDb. This is odd, as it's a super-important picture AND it was so well made. I really can't understand this--especially since this is one of the best horror films of the 1950s.The film begins in the Amazonian basin. Some researchers of out looking for previously undiscovered creatures. Richard Carlson is an ichthyologist (guy who studies fish) and Richard Denning is the rich guy financing the expedition. Julia Adams comes along because the film needed a hot babe to put in harm's way. While the audience knows that they will stumble upon the creature (heck, it's in the film's title--I pity the person who is surprised when it appears!), the film does a great job of leading up to it. They show little teasers--such as a hand coming out of the water or catch a quick glimpse--but you KNOW it's coming! And, interestingly, at first you feel a bit sorry for the creature, as Denning is determined to kill it and bring it back to America to gain fame for himself. Later, however, the creature appears to be the hunter--and the film becomes tense and exciting.While the plot of this film is amazingly simple, there is a lot to like. While crappy sea monsters abound in horror films of the era, this one is far from it. Even today, more than 50 years later, you have to marvel at the costume that looks almost real. Heck, even the gills on the monster's neck flare in and out, as the special effects masters really pulled out all the stops. Additionally, the film had lots of amazing underwater cinematography--and it didn't end up looking like some back lot swimming pool, either, but a real freshwater lagoon! Great stuff and probably one of the most spectacular films of its day.So, you have a simple, yet interesting plot. You have amazing effects. You have great tension that builds and builds. What more could you want in a horror film?! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black LagoonIf humans did evolve from fish, why don't our fingers taste that good deep-fried and smothered in tartar sauce?And while the missing-aquatic-link in this horror movie would make a nice fillet, he's thinking the same thing about us.While on expedition to recover the remains of a humanoid-type creature with webbed hands, Dr. Reed (Richard Carlson), his girlfriend (Julia Adams) and other scientists begin to feel like they are being watched.Believing that the fossilized skeleton is resting at the bottom of the lagoon, Reed's crew dives below its surface. Meanwhile, on top, his lady attracts the fish-eye of Gill-man, a living ancestor of the enigmatic amphibian.Though it lacks a shadowy setting, this classic Universal Monster movie does feature one of the all-time great creature designs.However, instead of lynching Gill-man, the scientists should employ him to salvage submerged lumber for a chain of high-end reclaimed furniture stores. (Green Light) "}{"Title":"Another Classic for Universal","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) *** (out of 4)Classic sci-fi from Universal has a group of scientists traveling through the Amazon trying to locate the missing parts to a fossil arm they discovered. The group head into a deeper part known as the black lagoon where they find a creature live and well. This isn't my favorite genre film from Universal as I don't think it can compare to the likes of FRANKENSTEIN, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN or even THE WOLF MAN and I also think it pales when compared to IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE but with that said, there's no question this film still deserves its classic status. What works so well with the film is the costume of the creature who would of course become known as the Gil Man. The outfit is perfect and one can't help but look at it and be amazed at how human it looks and how much life the outfit is able to bring out. Director Arnold does a masterful job at using every opportunity to build up the suspense as to what the creature will look like and when we finally see the full thing you can't help but get a smile on your face. Richard Carlson, Julie Adams, Richard Denning and Nestor Paiva make for a good cast as all turn in good performances even though none of their characters are written too well. The underwater photography looks great for the most part and that includes the wonderful swim between Adams and the creature. The cave sets look terrific as does the entire set of the Amazon. There are still several flaws that pop up throughout the film and that includes some pacing issues but there's still plenty of fun to be had here. "},{"Title":"great 50's cheese!!!!!!!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you love bad movies, you can't miss this! it is cheesy and laughable, and the creature is really funny looking. Jack Arnold has always made good 50's monster movies, and this is one of his best!!!!!!!! One of the most entertaining bad movies of the 1950's. A MUST-SEE!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Totally Overrated","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot see how this movie is so raved about.It,s slow moving,boring and you have seen it all before.Julia adams could not scream to save her life.They should have used phyllis coates screams.I felt that The Monster of Piedras Blancaswas much better and that was underrated. I don,t even have creature from black lagoon in my video collection,that,s how little i care about it.The only thing this movie is better than is a trip to the dentist.So if you are looking for a night of movie entertainment that gives you thrills and chills that you can,t stop talking about,DON,T watch creature from the black lagoon.You will never get that hour and a half of your life back.  "},{"Title":"Attack of the rubber suit!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Incredible cheap made B-monster movie from the 50's that in a way is irresistible.The movie is made in a typical old monster movie style and everything is cheesy and phony. The best example of this is the monster itself The Gill-Man, it is so obvious that it's a guy in a rubber suit that now days it is laughable! But does it really matter? No, it doesn't, in a way it makes the movie irresistible.The story itself is simple and weak and is basically about the Gill-Man that comes out of the water every now and then to kill a person. For a horror movie it just isn't scary enough so I see it more as an adventure movie instead.There are some nice characters in the movie and the acting was way better then I expected. The underwater scene's with the Gill-Man are beautiful and very well done. Another thing I like is the Typical 50's B-monster film mood music that creates a nice atmosphere. The biggest mistake the film makers made is that they showed too much of the monster, they should have showed less so he would had been more mysterious and maybe even scary.Not a classic, but still very amusing and watchable and highly recommendable if you like old monster movies.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Universal's best","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well Universal's monster movies tend to be good, interesting story and characters, character development, so you actually get sympathy for them. I have seen this in Dracula, Frankenstein, The Mummy, Wolf Man, King Kong, The Invisible Man. I couldn't find that in Creature of the Black Lagoon. I understand how iconic the monster is and what an influence it must have been of later movies with water creatures however I couldn't help to be quite unimpressed by the boring dialog, the paper thin plot, the one-dimensional characters. Even with some 75 minutes duration I found it quite tedious to get to the end. The points I give it are because the monster looks good and threatening and the nice underwater scenes. "},{"Title":"Feature the Creature","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This older Black and White film is vintage horror.  filmed in dimensional black and white it remained suspenseful, but stilted.  The music is eerie, and the acting is stiff.  One can predict the outcome well, yet it remains a classic film for its genre.  There are, however, better horror films of that era. "},{"Title":"Dual worlds","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a film of dual worlds. The one above water is the human world of story-noise, explanations and cheap jump-scares , the world of bad storytelling and bad horror. Everyone bickers and fights, and with the exception of the woman, they are simply unappealing to spend time next to. The rubber creature looks much more fake in broad daylight, and we see a lot of it in closeup. Everything is off.As part of those explanations is the shoehorned reminder that outer space beckons with mystery, new worlds rife for discovery. That was a time when the excitement for space was much more urgent than it is now, when a lot of it has petered out by a better understanding of the practical difficulties and long-term planning required. This does not take place in outer space but is about about a similar desire to explore.The second world that is explored is one of inner space, discovery and submerged eroticism, the film simply lights up every time we swoop down there. The creature in its natural environment is imbued with magic of sorts, looks wide-eyed and curious. There is no talk, no story. Light is scarce, gauzy. Character is crystallized in the flow of action killer, photographer-explorer, dancer.Not all of the underwater photography is stunning, but some of it really is quite beautiful. The underwater ballet of anticipatory touch between awestruck instinct and swanlike female grace on the surface is sublime.That is a world where hallucinatory smoke rains down from mysterious beings above liquid skies, this is an actual scene in the film when the hunters try to gas the creature below, and one of the most poignant I have seen in a film. "},{"Title":"Gotta love it!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one's up-top of the Z grade sci-fi horror flicks for its incredible cheesiness! even as kids, the girls were laughing right along with the guys! It ranks in the top 10 of the worst movies ever made, right along with HORROR OF PARTY BEACH and DESTROY ALL MONSTERS! Back in the '60s I did a one-on-one interview with Ben whats-his-name, the guy who wore the rubber suit (printed in some long-gone and forgotten fanzine of the Chicago area. Yeh, it was stupid, all right, but another of those unbelievable so-called monster flicks of the '50s we all grew up watching and loved (still do!) Ah, yes, they don't make 'em like that anymore (Thank God!) "},{"Title":"We've just begun to learn about the water and its secrets.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSFor a creature feature this movie is fairly unexploitative. In fact, it goes nearly twenty-five minutes before we even get to see the creature's face. A more thoughtful offering than usual, its aquatic missing link musings may win the hotly contested most clumsy use of exposition in a Universal horror award but are still commendable. However, as is the problem with most of the studio's later output, there is little beyond the initial premise to keep things moving. Once it's established that there's a half-human monster at the bottom of the lagoon there's nothing to do except sit it out and wait for the creature to get killed. The laborious pace isn't helped with interminable tracts of nicely directed yet ultimately dull underwater sequences. The breaks between attacks are there to build suspense, though merely contribute boredom. While it shows commendable ambition for the studio, having 18 minutes of the film's brief runtime underwater means that a huge percentage goes without dialogue. Research reminds us that the movie was released in 3D, explaining this stance somewhat. Yet this is not an issue when you're watching a non-3D video release, highlighting the shortcomings of the script.But the biggest problem is the creature itself. Frankly, it looks ridiculous. Underwater, helmed by James C.Havens, it's passable, but on land under Jack Arnold's direction it's just a silly old man in a rubber suit. Okay, this is rather a shallow judgement, but then this is rather a shallow film. The incidental music is even more repetitive than the plot, and where is the creature's family? As a mammal he'd have to have parents or offspring, wouldn't he? Maybe the two sequels revealed this, or why he should have a soft spot for Julia Adams. I doubt it though, and I'm certainly in no hurry to watch them to find out.If this was made as a tongue-in-cheek parody it would be understandable, but the whole thing is performed so seriously - almost pompously - that it's impossible even to laugh with it. Did people really find this sort of thing scary fifty years ago? Creature from the Black Lagoon. No moral. No meaning. No point. "},{"Title":"not scary but OK B-horror","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the upper reaches of the Amazon, Dr. Carl Maia (Antonio Moreno) discovers a prehistoric webbed claw. He doesn't know that the species still exists at that site. He returns back to the States. He convinces David Reed (Richard Carlson) and Kay Lawrence (Julie Adams) to join him and find the rest of the skeleton funded by Reed's publicity-minded boss Mark Williams (Richard Denning). Meanwhile back at the camp, the creature attacks and kills everybody. The team arrives and assumes that there had been a jaguar attack.This is a simple low budget B-movie horror. The acting is stiff and the directing is limited. It's not anything unexpected from a B-horror other than the vast amount of underwater work. It's got the great title. It's more compelling as a concept than an actual movie. The movie is quite slow. The underwater shots are interesting but not exciting at all. It's not scary but it's a good 50s horror. "}{"Title":"The last Universal monster icon movie","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a million years there has been legends of half-human/half-fish humanoid creatures who have survived since the dinosaur age. A group of people like Dr. David Reed (Richard Carlson) with his fiance Kay Lawrence (Juliee Adams), Dr. Carl Maia (Antonio Moreno) and others have discovered a bizarre fossil as they go into the Amazon jungle to see if this kind of creature still exist, yet a Gill-Man is still alive as it sets his eyes on Kay as he falls in love with her and kidnaps the woman yet her boyfriend with others must try to save her.One of the greatest sci-fi and horror films ever and the last Universal monster icon movie ever in the franchise which began with the 20's versions of Hunchback/Phantom of the Opera then with Dracula in 1931. Universal had box-office success with the 3D Sci-fi joint It Came from Outer Space and they decided to do something different, Jack Arnold who directed this film had a concept for a film that is inspired by South American legends of gill-men and the 1933 classic King Kong especially the old story of Beauty and The Beast. The performances with style and atmosphere are superb, not only those but it gave an iconic monster in both the sci-fi and horror genres as the Gill-Man has became a beloved icon like the other Universal monsters making him a hit character as he is in merchandise over the years and even had a popular show in Universal Studios. The film was a box-office hit and one of the first major 3D films, this movie is a great work of horror/sci-fi cinema that is very influential "},{"Title":"Barely watchable","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that almost everyone has heard of, but few people except die-hard Universal monster fans have seen.  I now know why...IT SUCKS!  The acting and dialogue make you cringe (and not with fear), the plot is boring and repetitive, and the music is so over-the-top it gets annoying about 30 minutes into the movie.  Honestly, the main purpose to the film seems to have been to show off underwater cameras...which may have been novel in 1954, but quickly lose appeal for a modern audience.SPOILERS AHEAD...if someone can watch this movie and not get ticked off at the hero for insisting no one harm the creature, even after it kills multiple people and swims off with the heroine, I'd be impressed.The only really good thing about this movie is the Gillman costume.  Oh, and the fact that you can see the influence it must have had on Spielberg when he made Jaws (think of the winch straining to pull up the net).If you aren't a complete film geek, and just want to watch an enjoyable old horror movie, Frankenstein, Dracula, and King Kong are a hundred times better than Creature From the Black Lagoon.     "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made.","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honestly one of the most terrible films I've ever seen. Probably due to the fact that nothing really happens. The plot can be summed up in a couple of sentences1. A group of people travel to the black lagoon to find an undiscovered aquatic humanoid animal 2. They find the undiscovered aquatic humanoid animal 3. The creature attacks them 4. They fight back and win 5. They leaveExtremely simple plot. This could have easily been a short film, but it is stuffed to the brim with pointless filler scenes to make it a feature. The characters are all just your clich, average cast of action heroes that you'll see in every movie. 90% of the film is just pointless underwater footage of people scuba diving and the creature watching them. The scenes go no where and last several minutes. They also seem to be quite common.Finally towards the end, the creature eventually attacks and we get a little bit of dull, cheesy action that only lasts a minute or so. Then, in the last 5 minutes, they try to squeeze in the most underwhelming, dissatisfying climax in the history of mankind. Creature steals girl. Man goes after girl. Man shoots creature. Man rescues girl. Bam! Movie's over, credits roll.This might be the worst paced movie I have ever seen...and I've seen Birdemic Shock and Terror. "}]