[{"Title":"Much More Than a Western","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"134 out of 170 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane should be required viewing for anyone setting out to make a film. It tells its story visually, through subtext, and creates a realistic portrait of people; it is also emotionally and morally complex.  It is never stated that Shane had been a gunfighter; we just understand this, from his appearance and from what we glean through the dialogue.  Likewise, there are no overt moments of intimacy between Shane and Marion (Mrs. Starrett), but we are aware that there is a deep attraction between them.  When Joe, Marian's husband, realizes it, it is not because of anything he states, just a line at the 4th of July party, when Marian (in her wedding dress) is dancing with Shane  Looks like I'm fenced out, and what is spoken as a joke becomes serious as we watch the expression on his face.  The closest he comes to actually saying anything is toward the end, when he's going to ride into town to face Ryker, and tells Marian that if anything happens to him he knows she'll be taken care of.  Likewise, at the end of the film, when little Joey is calling across the plains for Shane to come back, he yells to Shane, Mother wants you, I know she does, and the words echo back, we see a close up of Joey, his expression changing, and we know the child realizes too that Shane does (or could) mean something more to his mother.Stevens also didn't make the bad guys black-and-white villains.  We understand that these men fought and tamed the land and are now being displaced by the homesteaders.  What they want might not be fair, but it is not completely unreasonable either.Most of the scenes, even the simple ones, play in montage.  It looks as though Stevens shot each scene from about 15 different angles and edited them together.  The effect is striking.Far and away one of the best films ever.  "},{"Title":"An immensely beautiful film, turned into a classic!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"112 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" 'Shane' is not a Western like Howard Hawk's 'Red River', nor a meditation on history and character like John Ford's The Searchers. It is the most tasteful achievement ever invented to create a legend, an instant myth... Only Stevens' meticulously picturesque visuals and his evident desire to treat Western as art, could have mastered the archetypal simplicity and vitality of 'Shane.'In 'Shane,' the good and evil govern Stevens' mastery of technique... With his golden good looks, his calm authority, and his almost magical magnetism, Alan Ladd is the mysterious lone rider called Shane... His antithesis &#150; a sinister figure all in sable &#150; and enemy, a merciless gunfighter from the Cheyenne area, named Jack Wilson (Jack Palance). Wilson is dark, dresses in black, and even drinks black coffee from a dark black pot... Shane sparkles with personality and presence... Wilson spreads menace and evil... Shane is 'the fastest gun alive' who shoots to kill only when it is inevitable... Wilson - wearing two guns, and walking with jangling spurs - is a psychopath and a sadist, a man totally without moral redemption...The film controls that mystical force that runs like a fine thread through a Western story - the mysterious gunslinger who rides into town at exactly the right moment that history requires him, fulfills his destiny and then rides on...There is novelty and charm in 'Shane' because the stranger, who appears from nowhere, is a man of exceptional quality, admired by a wonderful kid with bright face and resolute boyish ways... Shane tests the spirit of this little eight year-old boy, Joey Starrett (Brandon De Wilde) in the midst of all the tensions and excitements on that open range... What is admirable about Shane is not his skill with his gun, but his restraint in using it... Shane knows that Joey is admiring him for the wrong reasons&#151; even though he knows that if he kills Wilson, he'll have to leave the valley... He tells Joey 'There's no living with a killing.' However we want him to show Joey how brave and fast he is... The ultimate confrontation in that depressed and faint saloon gives the movie the quality of a fine album of paintings of the frontier...Joey's plaintive call ('Come back, Shane') is the famous cry of all the audience for a mythical idolized hero so complete and correct, who would not permit himself to be admired by a boy for living by the gun... The closing scenes remain among the most haunting memories in the history of cinema...The characters that Stevens' actors have drawn might be considered portraits of familiar frontier types- Marian Starrett (Jean Arthur) is the mother who criticizes Shane for initiating her young boy into young manhood by passing on his values... She is the little woman unsettled who always wanders 'What are you fighting for? She is the married woman who reveals an unspoken love...- Joe Starrett (Van Heflin), is the stubborn father and a hard working rancher determined, with his forcible patience and fortitude, to build a life on the land for his family...- Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer) is the evil aging cattle rancher who considers the arrival of homesteaders is reducing grazing opportunities for his herds limiting their access to water... He does everything to rid the land of the humble farmers...- Morgan Ryker (John Dierkes) is Rufus' brother/foreman, who invites Starrett to talk reasonably... - Chris Calloway (Ben Johnson) is the authentic cowboy who has had a change of heart and has quit Ryker's bunch... He warns Shane in the barn that Starrett is up against a stacked deck.- Frank 'Stonewall' Torrey (Elisha Cook Jr.) is the pale-eyed pathetic local farmer who, in a fit of fury and mad courage, attempts to challenge his tormentor... But an outraged amateur can never beat an accomplished professional... He is brutally gunned down in the first shocking and horrific showdown on the Western screen... Palance toys with the little man and kills him in one of the most realistic scenes staged until that time... Shane is an immensely beautiful film, stunningly photographed in color, rich in memorable and exhilarating moments... Every scene is composed with extreme care- The deer will raise its head and frame the oncoming rider perfectly between the branches of his antlers...- Shane's first appearance descending into a majestic valley rimmed by mountains, shining a pearl-handled 'six-shooter' gun...- Shane friendship with Joe Starrett, cemented that evening as together they swing axes in common task to cut and pull up a large tree stump...- Their energy battle (filmed through the windows of the cabin and through the frantic, kicking hooves of horses disturbed by their vicious struggle) to determine who will go to town to face Ryker's hired gun... - Shane slow ride into town for a showdown... The low tracking camera angle, the darkness, and the musical soundtrack emphasize Shane's heroic yet lonely position on the horizon, set among the wide view of the mountains...Certainly Shane is a romantic film, and yet it is full of integrity about time and place... It may be interesting to compare the idealized interest, attraction and love between Shane and Marion with the unspoken love between John Wayne and Dorothy Jordan in 'The Searchers.' In the latter film, Dorothy caresses Wayne's army cape and is observed by Ward Bond, who simply notices her gesture and looks away... In 'Shane', Marion implies her love for Shane as she cautions her son Joey about becoming attached to him...In Shane, Stevens combined so many elements that are 'classically' required and combines them so well&#133; He directed 'Shane' with great feeling, and turned it into a classic... "},{"Title":"Shane is a beautifully photographed film with excellent performances.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"84 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is an awesome film.  Loyal Griggs' cinematography uses the Grand Teton Mountains as a scenic backdrop in framing a simple story of ranchers vs. homesteaders in early Wyoming.  Alan Ladd stars as the enigmatic gunfighter named Shane.  Ladd has seldom been better.  He sides with a homesteader family (Van Heflin, Jean Arthur and Brandon DeWilde) against local ranchers named Ryker (Elisha Meyer and John Dierkes).  The Rykers hire a gunfighter (Jack Palance) from Cheyenne to drive off the homesteaders.  Shane tries to put down his gun and start a new life, but the plot inevitably forces him to a fateful climax with the Rykers and the hired gun.The film has a darkly realistic look.  Grafton's saloon is dark and moody, far different from the brightly lit and colorful dance halls in other Westerns.  The film is alternately bright and dark.  The sadistic killing of the homesteader by the gunfighter is a dark moment even though it occurs in broad daylight.  Director George Stevens took advantage of an afternoon thunderstorm and plenty of mud to make one of the most memorable scenes in the movie.  The thunder provides an appropriate backdrop to the confrontation between Torrey (Elisha Cook, Jr.) and the gunfighter.  This is little more than an execution and the gunfighter goes about his business with a cool, detached professionalism.  Although small, Jack Palance's performance as the gunfighter from Cheyenne is one of the most memorable in the film.Shane's background provides plenty of questions but few answers. Where will you go, Marian Starret (Jean Arthur) asks.  One place or another. ..someplace I've never been, Shane says.  All we know is that he's a gunfighter.  It becomes clear that he knows about gunfighting.  He's even heard of the gunfighter hired by Ryker.  Chris Calloway (Ben Johnson) and another cowboy are playing cards in Grafton's saloon when Shane walks in. Calloway starts to pick a fight.  The other man gets up and says Deal me out. . .Let's just say I'm superstitious.  Does he know Shane?  More than likely he does, but we'll never know for sure.  Shane's mysteriousness is one of the film's strengths.This is a film about personal relationships.  Shane and Joe Starret (Van Heflin) become friends.  The relationship between Shane and Marian Starret defies description.  Is it love?  Respect?  Whatever it is, it becomes clear in the late moments of the film that her husband has observed it, too. There is also a close bond between Shane and Little Joe Starret (Brandon DeWilde).  The film is told through the eyes of the boy.This is a film about good and evil, but good and evil sometimes overlap. Jack Palance represents evil.  His black hat, black gloves and black vest leave little doubt which side he's on.  The Rykers are bad, but they are not all bad.  Rufe (Emile Meyer) tries to make a deal with Starret and speaks with sincerity and feeling about his right to the range. The homesteaders are good, but one of them, Torrey, is a hot head.  Shane is a good guy.  Or is he?  Marian Starret tells him in one memorable scene that she won't be happy until all the guns are out of the valley--even yours.  Shane realizes this.  Despite his attempts to start a new life, he tells Brandon DeWilde after the final showdown at Grafton's  Tell your mother that there are no more guns in the valley.The image of death stalks through this film in many forms.  The scene where the gunfighter rides into town makes it clear that he is the messenger of death.  Shane tells Marian Starret that a gun is a tool, but she knows that it is an engine of death.  Guns aren't going to be my boys life, she says.  The scene where Shane shows Little Joe how to shoot demonstrates the power of the gun.  The shooting of the homesteader in the dark, muddy street is followed by his burial in a cemetery on a bright, sunny day set against the grandeur of the mountains.  In the final frame Shane rides out of the valley and through that same cemetery.  Death once again rides a horse.I really enjoy Victor Young's musical score.  The opening melody, Call of the Faraway Hills, has been frequently recorded and is only a little less familiar than The Magnificent Seven.  It is unfortunate that no-one has seen fit to make the score for this film available to collectors.  I keep hoping.Shane is a memorable film with fine performances.  The story of cattlemen vs. homesteaders is a familiar one, but it is told here with originality and feelings.  The characters, whether good or bad, are vivid and deep. I'll never get tired of watching it.  I only wish they'd make a wide-screen version available.  "},{"Title":"Hell Bent For Leather","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"88 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Considered by most a masterpiece and by a few 'a waste of film', 1953's SHANE is a mini-epic that tells of the arrival of the mysterious stranger who comes to 'town' and impresses the innocent and threatens the guilty. A good versus evil western was never been more defined. Alan Ladd plays the stranger in an outfit that has been criticized since day-one. He wears a buckskin shirt ala Davy Crockett and if I heard it once, I heard it a thousand times, that shirt ain't right! Well, 'pards, I ask you, Have you ever heard of Buckskin Frank Leslie? Just happens to be one of the baddest-ass real life western gunslingers who ever strapped on a gun-rig. Why they haven't made westerns about Leslie I will never know. Doc Holliday, known for reckless bravery, knew enough to stay out of Frank's way. And P.S. he was known for his 'patented' Buckskin Shirt. But I digress...Shane was directed by George Stevens who admittedly directs with a strictness that borders on fascism. And yet he pulls it off with aplomb. Ladd's character is criticized as well, because he is played by Ladd himself, an actor that is an easy target for certain critics. There's the old joke about Ladd standing in a hole (outside of camera view) to match the heights of his leading ladies, or by standing on a ramp or box so their heights in close-ups would be matched for love scenes. Is this the 'stuff' of western heroes? Not hardly. So here we have little Alan taking on one of the most vicious actors that ever played 'Satan Incarnate', the incomparable Jack Palance! Jack's 'Lucifer' is a messenger from hell hired by the bad'uns to save them all from Ladd's goodness. Jack wakes up shortly after arriving in town to assassinate another little man, Elisha Cook Jr., in a scene which was completely and shamelessly ripped off by Eastwood in 'Pale Rider'. The death is completely believable and establishes Palance's character as unstoppable.The characters in Shane are cut from a woodcarving, they glisten with familiar yet surprising motivations. Ben Johnson, the Sainted actor of westerns plays a very small part that almost steals the film. The bad guys in this film are a textbook rendition of meaness.But some say that the action is subdued in Shane. But I say the build-up is worth the wait as the final climatic shoot-out has been described by many western film scholars as the best that was ever put to film.Shane a waste of film? I think not.  "},{"Title":"A Western to haunt the memory.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"85 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A gunslinger, a farmer, a wife, a little boy, a dog, and some dastardly villains....I first saw Shane from the back seat of a '51 Ford, at a drive-in theater somewhere in Montana. The movie was new, and I was about 4 years old. From that time, I remember quiet male voices and the ring of spurs. Those sounds have lived in my mind for decades.Shane is a classic -- no, not a bang-bang shoot-em-up B Western, but it is a solid Western that gives fans of the genre some something to think about besides they went thataway. The scenery (Jackson Hole, Wyoming) is grand and was even moreso on the big screen. When well known Western novelist A.B. Guthrie wrote the screenplay, he kept fairly faithful to Jack Schaefer's novel. The movie makes a reasonable attempt, for that time, to look authentic in costume and gear, and gives fans of the movies of the '40s and '50s some interesting cinematic moments (see the small things, like how the camera was used to make Alan Ladd seem more heroic).I'd probably recast some of the secondary roles, if I had the chance, but Ladd's soft-spoken, gentlemanly way is just right for Shane, and Jack Palance is subtly evil.Yes, Shane contains a few clichés, but they weren't yet quite so cliché, in 1953. Besides, they were well done clichés, so, while you may recognize them, you probably won't mind them.But, what's Shane about, exactly?...Courage. Loyalty. Honor. Friendship.It will leave you wishing you knew what happened next.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of filmmaking","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"70 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Often mentioned as one of the greatest westerns ever, it is easy to see why.  This film stands as a masterpiece of the art, even more so since it was filmed so long ago.  It starts with a great story, the story of Shane (Alan Ladd), a quiet gunslinger who is trying to escape his past and befriends a pioneer family who have settled out west.  He attempts to settle down and become a hired hand to Joe Starrett (Van Heflin) and his wife Marian (Jean Arthur), but the ranchers who need to drive cattle through the homesteader's property are attempting to drive them out.  Shane tries to stay out of the disputes, but keeps being drawn in and is finally compelled to put his six shooter back on when the ranchers hire Jack Wilson (Jack Palance) a noted gunfighter to intimidate the farmers.This story is outstanding in so many ways.  It is a classic battle of good and evil.  It has its share of fist fights and shoot outs, but this film is more about principles than action.  It exemplifies principles and values that unfortunately have become outdated in today's society such as, character, integrity, loyalty, pride in accomplishment, persistence and the willingness to fight for what is right.  It is also an excellent human interest story and succeeds in getting the viewer to love the homesteaders and hate the ranchers.George Stevens directed this film late in a notable career and does a splendid job.  The locations were breathtaking, shot with majestic mountains in the background of almost every scene.  The cinematography was stunning, and the color rich despite the fact that it was filmed almost 50 years ago.The acting was superlative.  Van Heflin wins us over almost immediately with his high minded principles and unshakeable character.  He actually has far more lines than Ladd, who was more of an icon of strength than a vocal character.  Jack Palance is the archetypal western villain and went on in his career to become the most prominent and enduring villain in movie history.  His sneering arrogance and haughty gait made him the villain we loved to hate for decades.Elisha Cook, as Stonewall Torrey, had a prolific career as a supporting actor, with over 150 appearances in film an TV that spanned almost 60 years.  This is one of his best an most memorable roles as a fearless, proud and petulant former confederate that gets goaded into a gunfight with Jack Palance.  Brandon DeWilde as young Joey, gave a compelling performance.  One of the best scenes in the movie was when he asked Shane to shoot at a small rock and Shane shot it 5 or 6 times and hit it every time.  The wide eyed look of surprise was terrific.   Though he went on to do about a dozen mostly minor films, he was never able to capitalize on his success in this role.Finally, there is Alan Ladd.  I've often heard criticisms of his performance of being too low key.  I could not disagree more.  His understated performance made him loom large as an imposing figure in the film.  It created an almost godlike presence.  This strong silent portrayal is very attractive adding humility to his many positive qualities.  This unassuming style is also what made Gary Cooper so popular.This film is on my top fifty list of all time.  It is a magnum opus that the film industry can be proud of.  It combines great filmmaking, direction and acting with a memorable and morally instructive story.  This should be required viewing for any serious film buff.  A perfect 10.  "},{"Title":"Shane Leaves Powerful Memories","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"45 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I am little biased in favor of Shane because I was awed with this a young boy in the theater so it has some sentimental value. It certainly doesn't have the impact it did back then, but it will always be considered by many as one of the great classics in film history, certainly regarding Westerns.These classics, particularly the westerns, were good vehicles in promoting values and definite good vs. evil stories. The evil here is personified by Jack Palance. He doesn't have many lines but he doesn't need them. His body language in this film spoke volumes, and he was one scary dude. Even the dog gets up and moves when Palance moves! However, an unsung role (eighth billing in the credits) in here was the one by Emile Meyer, who played the real villain in here, Ryker. (Palance was just called in at the end.) A young Ben Johnson plays a member of his gang.Alan Ladd, meanwhile, is the hero, the man who comes to the aid of family man Van Helflin, his wife Jean Arthur and young son Brandon De Wilde. The kid, De Wilde, steals the film and made himself into a young star with his role here. Whether feverishly chewing on his candy while witnessing Ladd fighting the bad guys or his plaintiff cries for Shane! at the end of the film, he made a memorable impression.The only overdone part - as seen in so many old-time westerns - is the amount of punches people took, blow after blow, when in real life they would have knocked unconscious right off the bat! But, that's part of the genre, I guess.Shane was a forerunner of many of western that copied its successful formula. This movie was so famous that a lot of newborns were named Shane for awhile.Powerful is another adjective that describes this film - back then and still now. Great stuff! "},{"Title":"Simple peaceful lifestyles threatened by land grabbing ranchers and sinister gunslinger, saved by a weary reluctant gunslinger.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This western epitomises how a film should be made.Classic scenery and outstanding performances from all.  From the various cultures of the farmers bonding together through the harshness of farming life.  Happy to raise families on land built and developed by their own hands.  This is then threatened by the ranchers unwillingness to share the common land. Brutality and force is their tool, they try to force out the farmers (even resorting to hiring the gunslinger - Jack Wilson - Jack Palance).  One farmer holds the other farmers together (Starett - Van Heflin), though even his resistance is weakening until a lone retired gunslinger rides in to save the day...The sheer quality of characters and acting makes this film.  The friendly (though not always) banter over Torrey's rebel background, the bond amongst the children, the affection shown in all families.  The turning of Chris Calloway, the cold hearted nature of Ryker.Finally the performances of the main characters.  Van Heflin and Jean Arthur as the Starett's have a simple but loving relationship.  Their son Joey loves his parents, but is greatly impressed by the mystery and skill of Shane (Alan Ladd).Shane is reluctant to return to the way of the gun until Ryker hires a top gunslinger (Jack Palance).  Palance is the perfect clinically precise cold hearted killer.  Every aspect of his manner portrays cold efficiency (even to drinking water and mounting his horse).There is simple humour added, for example when Shane is hit with an Easy Chair.Even the two dogs could act ! When Shane finally confronts Wilson the dog in the bar skulks with his tail between his legs.The scenery and music were the icing on the cake.This film will remain a benchmark for all western's to follow. "},{"Title":"A sweeping and memorable movie","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"41 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  So much has been written over the years about SHANE; it's beautiful composition, its precise, if mechanical direction by George Stevens, and its good against evil theme, that there seems to be little left to say in the way of superlatives, but I will give it a try.There are so many scenes in SHANE that standout as epic.  They are like the jagged mountainscapes that dominate the picture A young boy, slogging around in a marsh, aims his toy gun on a deer grazing on some grass stems, the deer lifts it's antlers and perfectly frames a lone rider approaching in the distance,  a struggling family homestead held together by hard work, the father splitting wood, the mother baking in the kitchen, and always the mountains jutting upwards away off in the distance.We have a stranger, lean and handsome, dressed in fringed buckskin.  His dress and gun belt suggest something other than a farmer or rancher, yet we never really know, or ever know, of his past.  He is kind and modest, and takes time to address the boy as though someone worth talking to, You were watching me down the trail quite a spell, weren't you.  I like a man who watches things going around.....He can make his mark someday.  the boy smiles up at him, and an instant bond is formed, an idol worship in the making.We have snickering, troublesome ranchhands who spend any free hours swilling whiskey at Graftons General Merchantile.  I thought I smelled pig.  Which one of those tatter-pickers are you working for? Or are you just squattin' on the range?  this is the kind of menace that dogsany farmer who dares to come into town.We have Shane, although trying to lead the simple life of farming, goaded into a fight by a sweaty-faced cowpoke (Ben Johnson).   His bloodying of the cowpoke is like a violent ballet, graceful and cutting.There is a meeting of the homesteaders, huddled together by lamplight, trying to solve there problems by resolving to go into town all together so that they would have strength in numbers.  This is a rather sad scene since WE know that will be in vain.There is touching elegance to the 4th of July celebration where there is fiddle music and dancing.  Shane and Marion (the boy's mother) take a few turns to a reel..... dancing with others in the corral.  Van Heflin (the Boy's father) is symbolically shut out beyond the fence. Marion, they fenced me out he grins.  Yet we know that there is a growing affection between the two dancers.There is tension in the late evening when the head of the ranchers pays visit to the homestead.  Look Starrett. When I come to this country you weren't much older than your boy there........ How would you like to go partners with me.  It's sad because this is a real if clumsy attempt to be reasonable But as Shane would say on more than one occasion, it's no use.I could go on; the murder of the Stonewall at the hands of an especially evil hired gun from Cheyenne has great impact.  And, the final confrontation at Graftons one fateful night, is one of the best in Westerns.The characters are well developed and the story, while exiting, is a little melancholy.The best Western ever made. "},{"Title":"No More Guns In The Valley","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A lonesome stranger rides on to a homesteader's farm looking for water and right after him comes the big cattle baron with several riders issuing the latest of several warning to this particular squatter about getting off 'his' range. Something about the man's bullying attitude rubs the stranger the wrong way and he decides to stay and lend a hand.So begins the classic western Shane which has entertained millions since its release in 1953. It gave Alan Ladd his career role and resulted in Oscar nominations for Jack Palance and Brandon DeWilde in the Best Supporting Actor category. It could have revived Alan Ladd's career, but for a fatal career decision by his agent/wife Sue Carol.Shane was shot in 1951 completely on location in the Grand Teton mountains in Wyoming. Another reviewer pointed out that director George Stevens seem to meticulously shoot the same scene from many angles. He did just that and spent a year editing his masterpiece.But in the mean time Sue Carol made a decision for her husband to leave Paramount and sign with Warner Brothers. Had she held out and waited for Shane's release, she might have gotten a great deal from Paramount that might have included better parts. As it was Paramount had no reason to push this film at Oscar time, so Ladd got no nomination for Best Actor which he could have with some studio backing. By the time Shane was out, Ladd was with Warner Brothers and doing some of the same routine action adventures films that he was doing at Paramount. No classic roles for that man any more.The rancher versus homesteader is an old western plot story and there have been many films made from both points of view. Shane leaves no doubt that the homesteaders are in the right. The cattleman's point of view is eloquently argued in Elia Kazan's Sea of Grass by Spencer Tracy. That western icon John Wayne's been on both sides of the fence, in McLintock he's a cattle baron, in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance he's a small rancher and protector of the homesteader. Even Emile Meyer as Rufe Ryker does make a valid point that his kind settled the west when it was really wild. Van Heflin as Joe Starrett argues equally eloquently that doesn't give him the right to say no one else has any rights in the territory.Shane marked the farewell big screen performance of Jean Arthur. A talented, but terribly strange woman with a whole lot of issues, Arthur delivers a good performance as Van Heflin's missus. She felt she was miscast as a farmer's wife, in westerns she saw herself more in the frontier woman roles she did in The Plainsman and Arizona. And at that she much preferred screwball comedy to any western. They weren't making her kind of films any more as she saw it, so she left.When Shane's done doing what fate brought him to do in the valley he has to leave. For the community to grow there must be no more guns in the valley as he well realizes. So he leaves to an unknown fate, living in the hearts and memories of the Starrett family and the rest of the small farmers, especially young Brandon DeWilde.And in the hearts of all lovers of the western genre including this little cowpoke who saw him as a small lad on the big silver screen so many years ago. "}{"Title":"The Good, The Bad, and The Unexpected","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"69 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Whether or not Shane is, in fact, a great film is open to at least some discussion. But it is certainly among the most cinematic. One could set a documentary on garbage-collection in the Grand Tetons and elevate its stature by that fact alone. Put a film of real substance in such a setting and the table is definitely set. Shane is beautiful to watch, at times like a moving oil painting. In fact, the film's setting sometimes overpowers its characters, diffusing them into the vast scenery. It's easy to picture just planting signs in the ground that say `Town', `Homestead', `Cemetery' and foregoing set-design altogether.Shane never completely worked for me until I was able to stop seeing it purely as a western. Alan Ladd's title character is almost a total non-sequitur, more like a State Farm agent from 1950's Des Moines horsebacking through the Snake River valley of Wyoming, perhaps as part of a dude ranch outing. He's just all wrong. But there it is. Must the improbable Ladd, in his improbable fringed buckskins, be human at all? In the later Clint Eastwood films, High Plains Drifter and Pale Rider, both of which reference Shane wholeheartedly (all three films draw on the same fundamental myth) Clint Eastwood's characters, though certainly interesting and implicitly mysterious, remain rather superficially so (as though both wear signs that say `Supernatural'). Shane is truly mysterious, and perhaps even more unreal, because he is so completely incongruous. Just look past the costume. When Shane was made, The Twilight Zone had not yet appeared. But Rod Serling did not invent The Strange. He simply had the genius to recognize and tap into what was already percolating up into the general consciousness. As a possibly supernatural guardian of a vast landscape, Ladd's near-flatline characterization begins to make real sense.As was the case with the Eastwood characters, the disharmony required to call the supernatural guardian into human form has manifested and he has appeared. Shane comes from `nowhere' and eventually returns to that no-place, where even the innocent Brandon DeWilde may not follow. He resembles no one and exhibits few human traits aside from the most superficial. No one, neither sodbuster nor cowpuncher, knows quite what to make of him. He seems friendly but this may be just the side-effect of a complete absence of the reactionism displayed by many of the film's other characters, an entirely different orientation from the merely friendly. Shane is part of no relationship with man or woman and never will be, even though Jean Arthur's homestead wife, an orchid of womanhood transplanted into the high plains, chastely throws herself at him. Shane clearly returns her love, but from a place as remote and still as the summit of Everest on a calm morning. There are wisps of implication that Shane may have a past but they vanish quickly; subatomic resonances of Shane's transient human form. Shane is there. But in many ways he is not. Of course, director George Stevens probably did not ascribe to any paranormal vision when making the film. But things often happen even when they are not intended, certainly in art.The film proceeds somewhat formulaically until its chief villains, the cattle-ranching Ryker brothers call up a dark force to oppose Shane's angel of light. The Rykers pioneered the vast valley for open range, against nature and its indigenous inhabitants and are ready to kill to keep their range from being homesteaded. They summon the gunfighter, Jack Wilson, played definitively by the young Jack Palance. Palance's Wilson is a killer of such distilled lethality that just looking at him might kill you. Whenever Wilson is on screen, time seems to slow down as it is refracted by his menacing gravity (Almost all subsequent tv/movie gunslingers are his bitches). Wilson is, allegedly, from Cheyenne but that assertion is never confirmed by hard evidence. He simply appears. The first meeting of Shane and Wilson, at the homestead of alpha-sodbuster Joe Starrett ( Van Heflin), is riveting. The Rykers are making the rounds, issuing their final warning to the farmers, accompanied for maximum effect by the recently-arrived Wilson. Not a word is exchanged as the two entities unblinkingly size each other up. Dialog continues in the background but you barely hear it as Wilson, who has dismounted for a drink of water, places a foot in a stirrup then almost levitates back into the saddle, grinning like death, having never taken his eyes off Shane from the first moment, finally backing his horse out of Starrett's yard in order to keep Shane in focus. A later sequence where Wilson meticulously executes Elisha Cook Jr.'s homesteader, a punched-out Civil War veteran with exponentially more pride than sense, must rank as one of the most powerful ever filmed, western or otherwise. Rolling thunder clouds open for a moment and bathe the homesteader in bright light as he almost turns back on the way to his doom, then they close and roll on as he rejects his last chance.Shane, the film, owes much to its beautifully-rendered bad guys, who confront a rather bland, uni-dimensional good, giving it texture and motivation. Without them, the film might have remained just a western movie. Shane, the character, enters as something of a poster-boy cowboy hero. But, bathed in Jack Wilson's black light, he glows beyond that status. The Taoists assert that emptiness lies at the heart of all things; the wheel turns because the center of the hub is empty. Shane turns, to no little degree, because its hub is almost equally empty, the film moving in stately rotation around Ladd's near-blank, avenging angel. If Shane is a great film it is, possibly, as much by accident as design. It was meant to be a big, studio western in the style of that period. However, unforeseen chemical reactions occurred and the result transcended certain stylistic bindings, including its swelling, 'Big Sky' score, to become more than the sum of its parts.  "},{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane (1953) is about the enduring struggle of a group of 'homesteaders' fight to survive and build their families in the Valley of Wyoming. The Story focuses on the Starrett family which consists of Joe, Marion, his wife, and Joey, their beloved son. The eponymous character Shane is a retiring gunfighter who is riding into the valley and is trying to leave his mysterious and violent past behind him. When he enters the valley he is drawn to the Starrett home and as the film progresses, he becomes increasingly interwoven into both their family life and their fight against Ryker who, with the aid of others, is trying to drive them from the valley he wants for himself.The apparent simplicity of Shane is very deceptive. Stevens artistry as a director infuses this film with an eminent aura of an Arthurian legend, an outstanding quality that has resulted in it becoming one of the most imitated and revered westerns of all time. Its excellent depiction of the age old myth that is the mysterious wandering protector vs the evil bloodthirsty murderer is arguably one of the best in cinema. In his portrayal of Jack Wilson, George Stevens has put to screen one of the most celebrated villains of cinema. His violent and sadistic nature is brought to the forefront in one of cinema's most shocking visions - the killing of 'stonewall' Torrey. The entire scene is both visually stunning and superbly choreographed, a combination that runs throughout this film. The spectacular Valley floor and the surrounding Teton Mountains of Wyoming are brought to life by director of photography Loyal Griggs who received the films only Oscar (although it received six nominations). Instead of using standard 25mm lenses that would make the mountains appear very distant, Griggs used 75mm/100mm telephoto lenses that draw the mountains in, making their grandeur and beauty loom over the valley floor. This is apparent in many of the films beautiful scenes, one of which is Torreys' funeral, where the stunning landscapes of the valley are a backdrop to the sad and moving scene. This is just one example of the artistry at work in Shane, a film that boasts a wealth of Beautiful photography.The characterisation in Shane is wonderful. The film never tries to make us connect with the characters using forced dialogue. We get glimpses of their qualities and see their detailed reactions to what goes on and what is said. This is part of the way we get to know people in real life. This quality that runs throughout the film imbues the deep connection we feel with the characters and the understanding we have of them. Shane is a film that leaves a lot up to the audience and part of the pleasure is seeing a look or a reaction from one of the characters that we are able to understand and read into.Joeys' fascination for Shane's gun mirrors that of many adolescents and teenagers in society, who love to run around and play with guns. However George Stevens wanted to dispel the glamorisation of the six-gun and to emphasise the destruction they cause. In order to convey this message Stevens actually had the sound of gunfire magnified on the soundtrack &#150; a technique not previously attempted in mainstream cinema. Shane tells Joey just as he is about to ride off There's no living with a killing (or a killer). His sentiments represent societies view on killing &#150; no matter which way you cut it, the use of violence cannot be an accepted value of society. Computer games today glamorise the use of guns and make causing destruction and bloodshed fun, a trend which seems to reflect in cinema of today, where the acceptable level of violence portrayed in films is greater than ever before. Shanes honest portrayal of the devastating effects of guns and its condemnation of violence is a message as relevant as ever.Shane has a heart-rending and inspirational quality to it that elevates it above being 'just a western', and it becomes a fantastic mystical tale that deals with complex themes deep rooted in the fabric of society such as human nature, family life, the culture of the gun and identity. The films much debated and talked about ending is a testament to the great and lasting impact this film has had. "},{"Title":"A Western tragedy of almost Gothic proportions, with Alan Ladd as the quintessential good 'bad' guy...","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" At first glance, the Western genre is perhaps an unlikely vehicle for tragedy in a grand sense &#150; it probably suffers from more B-movies than any other. An exception, however, is Shane, which was produced and directed by one of Hollywood's greats, George Stevens. The plot of the film is well known, to the extent that some may argue it is simple. But the story of Shane, as a person, is timeless and complex, being the tragedy of a man unable to escape his past or as he says, towards the end, A man can't break the mould&#133; -- and three dead killers in the saloon are mute witnesses to that truth.While there are sub-plots that foreshadow the denouement, Stevens encapsulates the entire tragedy of Shane, visually and symbolically, with the spectacle of the opening and closing sequences &#150; no mean feat, in my opinion. As the Academy Award winning sound track begins, the film opens with Shane &#150; in faded (almost white) buckskin, off-white hat and mounted upon a palomino stallion &#150; beginning a long descent into a scene of natural splendour, a spectacle that symbolically epitomizes Heaven on Earth, so to speak the lush valley surrounded by white-capped mountains, and a glittering river meandering through the green pastures. The sun is high, the sky is blue, all is peaceful and Shane's head is high as he traverses, like a white knight, the valley floor to the farmhouse in the distance to meet young Joey, the farmer's son.When the awful deeds are done, however, and the plot has run its course, the closing contrast is stark, and diametrically opposed to the beginning wounded physically and emotionally, Shane rides up the mountain trail, with gathering storm clouds above and all around, to leave the valley forever, his buckskins and hat now darkened almost black from the falling rain. The lightning flashes, the thunder rolls and Death, once again, rides a Pale Horse -- but this time, away from all that is Good, in the valley below. His head bowed, his wounded arm sagging at his side, Shane finally reaches the crest of the ridge and disappears from view his Paradise Lost, and the echo of Joey's cry Shane &#150; come back! long gone. The tragedy for Shane is now complete.The acting throughout is as near perfect as is possible casting Alan Ladd as Shane was inspired, because his style of acting matched ideally the quiet, unassuming strength and power of the character of Shane. The only other suitable actor at that time was probably Glenn Ford, but I'm quite happy that Ladd got the part. And the evil personification of the gunfighter Wilson found its rightful place in the hands of Jack Palance, a much under-rated actor whose presence almost steals the movie (I did read somewhere that Jack Palance was, in fact, the fastest on the draw of all Western genre actors in Hollywood!). But, like Bogie's Rick Blaine in Casablanca who had to give up his dream to fight on, so also Alan Ladd's Shane has become the iconic Western 'good guy' who, despite all his efforts to shake off his past, must still carry on to fight his demons within and those others who continue to ravage his world.If you've not seen this movie, then I do heartily recommend it. And, for what it's worth, that great director/writer of the human comedy, Woody Allen, rates Shane as his most favorite movie. "},{"Title":"And my mother wants you, Shane! I KNOW she does!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  American cinematography doesn't get much more American than Shane. George Stevens' 1953 classic captures everything that was the myth and much that was the reality of the American West.Shane works on more than one level, as do most outstanding films. On its most basic level, this is, of course, a traditional Western. The basic macho American mantra `Leave me alone and I'll leave you alone; push me too far and I'll fight' is ever-present, as well as the theme of progress and order-although the coming of that progress, order and eventual civilization, of course, will spell the end of the very lifestyle these characters fight for.A huge comeback for Alan Ladd, Shane is also a very good portrayal of very real people, facing very real challenges. It is magnificently crafted, exquisitely filmed and wonderfully acted. Shane has to stand among the genre's greatest films.SPOILERS AHEADLadd revives a sagging career with a tremendous performance as the withdrawn, unobtrusive, yet proud and gutsy Shane. A mysterious character-we don't even know if Shane is his first or last name, Shane happens by the Joe Starrett farm and winds up staying for a spell. Starrett (Van Heflin) is the leader of a pack of homesteading farmers being harassed and threatened by an unscrupulous cattle baron, Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer). Although one can predict how the movie will end long before the climactic scene arrives, the build-up toward the climax is nevertheless rivoting.Aside from the traditional machismo, yet honorable male code of ethics, the film also displays a less often seen angle. As in The Searchers, the happily married wife (Jean Arthur) is obviously attracted to Shane. Although nothing inappropriate is done or said, the mutual attraction becomes obvious to Starrett-capped, of course, with the deliciously ironic line by young Joey Starrett (Brandon de Wilde) at the end, `&#133;and my mother wants you, Shane! I KNOW she does!'Another thing that lifts Shane above the normal genre fare is the deep characterization. These are not one or two-dimensional characters. The villains are no more cardboardish than the protagonists. When the bearded Ryker gives an impassioned speech to the Starrett family about how the old-time ranchers worked and bled and fought to make the area what it is, only to be fenced out of their water, etc., it may not swing many viewers to his side-yet it does show us that Ryker HAS a point of view. In the end, both Ryker AND Starrett proclaim that they are willing to kill the other to hang onto what they feel rightly belongs to them. While our loyalty stays with Starrett and Shane, the enemy is no mere sadistic cardboard bad guy. Even the delightfully sardonic gunslinger Jack Wilson (played wonderfully by Jack Palance) has some humanity. While he seems to truly enjoy his work (and his grin is as chilling as it would be playing Dracula 20 years later!), he does make an effort to avoid fighting Shane-someone other than the man whom he has been hired to kill.The other farmers are a fascinating collection, with pint-sized Confederate fireball Frank `Stonewall' Torrey (Elisha Cook, Jr.), lanky, cautious Swede Axel Shipstead (Douglas Spencer) and garrulous old fart Fred Lewis (the beloved Edgar Buchanan) and their families. I get a lump in my throat seeing Stonewall's faithful hound whine and paw sadly at his master's coffin as it is lowered into its grave. The entire cast is strong.Of course Arthur, as Marion Starrett, deservedly gets second billing behind Ladd. A sweet-natured beauty, she is obviously happy with her husband and son. Yet her eyes do roam onto the mysterious stranger in their midst. Little Joey is probably right; his mother probably DOES want Shane. Yet, as in A Tale of Two Cities, Shane does the `far, far better thing' and meets the gunman in Starrett's place-albeit very much against Joe's will.Overall, this is a very satisfying movie. Other than the music being a tad overbearing at times (such as Shane's fateful ride into town to face Ryker and Wilson), it is one that seems to be without any real flaws. Shane deserves its place as one of America's best films of its decade and one of the top Westerns ever made.  "},{"Title":"One of the best dozen or so movies ever made, of any genre.","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane1953 is a masterpiece on so many levels that it is truly difficult to know where to begin. I could start by comparing it with High Noon, a deserving and highly-praised effort which really cleaned up at the Oscars the previous year1952, but which now seems very dated and somewhat artificial in my opinion. By comparison, Shane feels as if it could have been made last month, by all of our best film professionals working together on what can only be described as a labour of love - - music, cinematography, screenplay, acting, production design - - everything.I saw Shane first when I was 8 or 9 years old, in the Daylight theatre in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, back in 1953 when it was first released. I have since seem this moving and beautiful parable at least a dozen times since then, and it keeps getting better each time, like a truly masterful piece of symphonic music with many layers and textures. The imagery in Shane is so deep and the story so full of mythological archetypes that the experience evoked in the viewer is timeless - - it is really about the hero's journey. And the dialogue in Shane is every bit as authentic, noble and powerful as it was when I first saw it as a wide-eyed little boy who was knocked right off his feet. The experience keeps getting deeper and deeper, as I get older. Shane is much more than a Western. It has more in common with the Saxon myth Beowulf or Homer's Odyssey than it does with other Westerns, or for that matter with most other movies. Shane is really an epic, an inspiring and beautifully made epic, which speaks to the very deepest parts of us, of what is means to be human - - - and to stand up on your own and be counted.Bravo to George Stevens! Bravo to Alan Ladd and the rest of a stellar cast. Without a doubt one of the best dozen or so movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Goodness That Gives Its Life","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Spoilers AheadOddly, the movie resembles most Unforgiven. Shane is not openly remorseful like William Munny but you sense there are dark things in his part. The lightning speed with which he draws at any little sound around him speaks to what he never discusses. Also, his familiarity with Jack Wilson and other gunfighters. How he questions how people wear their gun. Like Unforgiven, he is seeking to leave that all behind just like Eastwood. He leaves his gun at the ranch and goes into town hoping that at last he has found a peaceful place but it is not to be. To Marian and Joe his is an enigma, not so to the local big shot, watch him back down quickly when he spots Shane with the Starretts. This again, is another hint that Shane has a dark past. The sight of him evokes fear in others. Gradually, Shane is sucked into the war between the local low life boss and his henchmen. Like Munny, he tries to avoid it enduring humiliation at the hands of Ben Johnson. The movie parallels Unforgiven in that as events escalate, Shane is sucked into becoming again the man he wished to leave behind. The trigger is the cold blooded murder of Stonewall at the hands of the sadistic Wilson. When Shane sees that Joe has decided that both his wife and son have a better chance at living with Shane there; he decides upon the suicide mission to confront Morgan and Wilson. There is a great parallel here; both men are willing to die for Marian and Joey. It ends up in a knock down drag out fistfight over who gets the honors. Realistically, Hefflin was beating the smaller Shane who had to cheat a bit. The showdown with Shane and Wilson is one of the greatest scenes in any movie. Ladd's acting, with his angry, hateful intonation of,No Good Yankee LIAR, this even brings a smile of admiration to Wilson's face. There is much dispute over is or isn't he dying. You can see him slumping at the end; it is clear he took a hit from the shotgun. Yes, I think he is clearly dying; but he is dying happy. He protected them, giving them all he had left to give.I am not one of the votaries of DeWilde. He was good in Hud after he grew up. Here, his shrill shrieking did not endear him to me. If I were in casting, he would not have been selected. The movie has great moral power for it models the ultimate act of real love; giving your life for others. The ambiguity at the end was a mistake by Stevens. It should have showed him falling off of his horse. The nobility of the character, the level of acting by all the actors makes this the eternal classic it is rightly held to be. We all have to die; there is no better way to die than this way. Again, he did not send the positive energy; all real good, all real love is sacrifice. It comes with a heavy cost; sometimes, like here, you give your life's blood. It still is the right choice. "},{"Title":"A Classic Hollywood Movie I Love","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  ***** SPOILERS ******When discussing the science of screenwriting something that always crops up is the main protagonist`s internal conflict , most specifically the  need  and  desire  lines . If you`re confused what I`m talking about then it can best be explained by the eponymous hero in SHANE who needs to regain his manhood but desires the quiet simple life . The script by Schaefer , Guthrie and Sher is perhaps the definitive script to study for budding screenwriters and it hasn`t escaped my notice that many of the reviewers of this film have also been to film school. None of the film classes I`ve attended have used SHANE as an example of internal conflict but it`s probably the most obvious example of such conflicts within a characterBut this isn`t the place to discuss heavy screenwriting theories so I`ll just sum up why I love this film in three words  Script script script . This is an absolutely touching story of a former gunfighter who is falsely labeled a coward by the sodbusters and who has got to do what a man has got to do in order to save the day. Pure Hollywood fable I know but you`ve just got to love the scene where  Sodey pop   walks back into the bar and buys Calloway a drink followed by one of those OTT fist fights that only Hollywood can get away with . Come on admit it we`ve all been on our feet clapping and cheering for Shane in that scene .We get more manipulative Hollywood heart tugging with young Joey Starrett  It ain`t true Shane ain`t yellah  , but come on even a bitter and twisted cynic like me can identify with Joey`s hero worship . And the dialogue is just so memorable  The next time we fight the air`s gonna be fulla gunsmoke  . And witness the first confrontation between Shane and CallowaySHANE  you speaking to meCALLOWAY  I don`t see nobody else standing thereA line that that has become synonymous with Robert De Niro in TAXI DRIVER . It was Alan Ladd and Ben Johnson who used it first in SHANE more than twenty years earlier.And we have an ending where good overcomes evil once again . Cliched I know but did you honestly think we`d honestly see a bleak downbeat ending to SHANE ? This is the ultimate feel good movie and that`s why I love it . Strangely the only other westerns I like ( Which are THE WILD BUNCH , THE CULPEPPER CATTLE COMPANY and UNFORGIVEN ) are bleak , downbeat and nihilistic the complete antithesis to SHANEOne last point on internal conflict . I need to stop smoking but I desire cigarettes       "},{"Title":"A Lyrical Celebration Of Nascent American Communal Society, And A Lament For The Death Of The Frontier","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Wyoming in the 1880's is a beautiful wilderness of spectacular mountains and fertile valleys.  Into one such valley Shane, the lonely gunfighter, comes riding.He happens upon a local war between the ranchers and the homesteaders. Rufe Ryker, the rancher, won this valley from the indians and resents the squatters who have fenced me off from water.  The valley should, he believes, be open cattle range.  Joe Starrett is the natural leader of the homesteaders.  He sees the future of America in terms of communities - people should settle the land and work it, and build schools and churches.As Shane rides onto Starrett's spread, he is greeted by idyllic domesticity.  Joe is chopping wood, Little Joey is playing and Marian sings as she fixes supper.  Both Shane and Starrett bristle ... I didn't expect to find any fences around here, says Shane, and Joe takes Shane for one of Ryker's troublemakers.The tension subsides and Shane stays overnight.  The pain in his face when Marian serves a wedge of apple pie denotes a longing for a happy home life and the love of a good woman.  Marian, too, is affected by Shane.  She hides coyly in the kitchen, then brings out the best crockery for her guest.In return for the hospitality, Shane starts chopping at the stubborn old treestump.  Starrett joins him, and the two men toil to defeat the stump, bonding in friendship as they symbolically tame the frontier wilderness.Ernie Wright stops by.  He is a homesteader who wants out because of Ryker's bullies, but Starrett persuades him to stay. Shane agrees to work for Joe, because he sees that Joe is this community's anchor, and he will need help in the confrontation to come.The homesteaders keep to the valley floor, the cowboys haunt the township.  Farmers stay on their spreads, raising their families and working the land.  The cowpokes are single men whose only fixed point is Grafton's saloon.Old man Grafton has two businesses on adjoining premises, but they are separate universes.  Homesteaders patronise the general store, making expeditions for clothes, nails and food, bonnets for the women and candy for the kids.  The saloon is where Ryker's thugs spend their day.  The listless, pointless existence is enlivened only when a 'sodbuster' strays in, giving them someone to bully.Under orders from Joe not to get into trouble, Shane ventures into the saloon and is picked on by Ryker's men.  With enormous self-restraint, he allows himself to be humiliated.Joe calls a homesteaders' meeting.  The budding community looks to Starrett as its leader.  The farmers decide to do their shopping en masse, to minimise exposure to the cattlemen.  When Marian warns Little Joey not to get to likin' Shane too much, we know that she has fallen in love.The mass shopping expedition is a turning-point.  Shane settles his score with the bullies, and he and Joe, fighting back-to-back, take on Ryker's men and win.  This prompts Ryker to send to Cheyenne for Wilson, the hired killer.Wilson exudes evil.  The lithe, black-hatted gunslinger never works. He sits around the saloon all day, a brooding alien presence in the valley. At the face-off on Starrett's spread, Shane watches intensely as Wilson backs his horse out with sinister elegance.It is Wilson's function to goad the homesteaders into drawing against him, so that he can gun them down.  'Stonewall' Torey is the obvious first choice, being a recklessly brave hothead.  The confrontation is a thrilling piece of cinema ... Shipstead's three plaintive cries which almost pull Torey back from the brink ...the bleak, muddy street .... the awful inevitability.The funeral is another cinematic triumph.  The mourners are dramatically silhouetted against the vast sky as the dog pines for his dead master.  Down on the valley floor, the township with its saloon glowers like a stain on the landscape.The homesteaders are all for quitting until they see that Fred Lewis's place has been set ablaze by Ryker's men.  This has two plot consequences. The sodbusters now resolve to stay and build a community, and Starrett decides to ride in and settle things with Ryker.Shane cannot allow this.  He knows that Joe is no match for Wilson. Starrett hints that there is a certain appropriateness about being killed in this way.  He knows that Marian will be looked after, and that Shane will stand up to Ryker ...And so the two friends fight.  This is a cataclysm for Marian and Joey, and it shakes the foundations of their world.  While the fight proceeds, out of our view, Marian and Joey hurry from window to window, as if in a shipwreck.  When the camera moves out into the yard, we see the fistfight through the legs of terrified horses.  Dogs quiver in fear.  The Starrett universe is in turmoil.In the final scene in the barroom, Shane tells Tyker the cruel truth - the old man has lived too long.  Ryker's dream has passed from the earth. When the violence is done, Shane rides off into the dawn, wounded and alone. He knows that his dream, too, has passed him by.The dawn symbolises the new era of peace and prosperity in the valley. As Shane leaves it behind, Joey's innocently ironic words echo back from the sierra - And mother wants you.  I know she does! "},{"Title":"The noblest hero and the wickedest villain in any movie ever made.","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The character of Shane is so selflessly noble in this movie that only a truly gifted actor could play the role and still be believable. Shane is such a good man that, at one point, he pretends to be a coward in order to avoid fighting a man he could easily kill in a gunfight. In the end, after killing the irredeemably wicked Jack Wilson, Shane does not exult in triumph. His face takes on a look of deep sorrow. Then he praises the dead Wilson to the boy Joey, and tells the boy that, there's no going back from a killing. Wonderful, and Alan Ladd does it all with a quiet, gentle dignity that is truly heroic.Jack Palance plays evil gunfighter Jack Wilson. Wilson is the most hateful, frightening villain ever to appear in a movie. Wilson taunts the valiant fool Ernie Torrey into drawing his gun, and then gleefully shoots him down. Then he laughs about it.I think that Shane is about the necessity for remorse. Shane, who bears a burden of remorse for a past life as a gunfighter, does his best to renounce violence, only to be forced against his best intentions to kill again. Because he is a good man, and wise enough now to know that killing is terrible, his heroism is extreme, because he must bear not only the danger of fighting but also the pain of remorse even if he survives the fight. Wilson, on the other hand, is perfectly evil because he feels no remorse for killing. He enjoys it and is proud of his capacity to do it. Wilson has no soul.I am the only one I know who thinks this, but I think that Shane has been mortally wounded at the end of the movie, and is going off to die alone, rather than let the boy Joey witness his death. Nobody else gets this out of the movie, so maybe it's just me. "},{"Title":"The best Western of all time!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies and the best Western of all time. If you have not seen this movie you are missing one of the really great movies. Shane does not put his guns on until the end but when he does!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Things Change","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Perhaps my favorite western! The opening of the proud buck drinking from the stream as Shane (wearing his buckskin) rides by reflects the changes taking place. The film symbolizes how each wave of change is resisted by the previous. Shane understands that his time and the wide open ranges are ending and it will be the newcomers who will be doing their part to settle the land. The cattlemen are products of their time trying to hang on. Beautiful photography. A tale of temptation, loyalty and character that seems missing in todays world. Jack Palance is heartless and the gunfights are still the best. The film set a new standard for the genre in 1953. It is unfortunate that it was made just before the advent of widescreen. It is interesting to see the gun debate issue in such an old film. "},{"Title":"The Unseen and Unspoken elevate Shane to its iconic status ...","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Exploring the struggle of hard-working homesteaders against ruthless cattlemen, Shane highlights the ambiguity of the frontier code, sometimes noble and sometimes savage, while Wyoming's green valleys and isolated mountains provide the perfect escapism for a lone rider to bury a painful past. Whether you take the word 'western' as an indelible chapter of America's history or a state of mind, Shane is one of these immortal classics.Indeed, the Western genre isn't just the most prolific; it also is the most representative of American Cinema. Yet, a few western films ended up being recognized as masterpieces on their own. Shane is one of the few that did, and without the 'John Ford' stamp. But maybe George Stevens didn't realize he was making a masterpiece that would stand the test of time and influence other movies, including non-Westerns. But does it really matter? Most of the American Film Institute's Top 100 movies (including Shane) were not originally meant to be masterpieces.And the casting strikes as the most remarkable oddity. Montgomery Clift and William Holden were planned to be cast as Shane and Joe Starret and Katharine Hepburn as Marian. Would the film have suffered from an all-star cast? Not necessarily, but it would have considerably damaged the impact of the story in my opinion. Clift would have been too credible as a tough guy able to handle Ryker's men, and Holden exudes so much macho-charisma that I can't picture him in a lower rank than Clift. As for Hepburn, her strong personality would have turned the tacit subplot in a battle of egos where the main story would have been totally diluted.Now, Alan Ladd as Shane is unusually short for a hero and handsome in an effeminate way and his legendary buckskin outfit (more fit for a circus act) doesn't help. More a tenderfoot than a lone rider, his voice yet exudes a confidence, a quiet strength inspiring both fear and respect. When Joe, taking Shane for one of Ryker's men and asks him to leave, Shane wants him to lower the rifle. He can leave but as he says I like it to be my idea. Shane is aware of his nonthreatening look even more when he's confronted to the towering Jack Palance or Ben Johnson, but through his resistance and eagerness to fight, he literally embodies the fight of 'little people'.Interestingly, Shane carries the same political undertones than many revisionist westerns of the late 60's and early 70's. Even Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer) reminds of the corrupted Morton who ordered to kill the McBain clan in Once Upon a Time in the West (whose funeral scene is borrowed almost shot-to-shot from Shane), or the businessmen who tried to buy Warren Beatty out in McCabe and Mrs. Miller. Ahead of its time, the film even avoids Manichaeism when Ryker claims that he's among the pioneers who pacified the land and therefore has a legitimate right on it. But Joe doesn't just stay for the land but for the principles, for his own freedom. In a way, if he ever left, he'd like it to be his idea. That's the frontier spirit.Van Heflin is perfect as the man who tries to be like Shane, but reckons they're not in the same league. And it's not William Holden, at the peak of his seductive power that could have played a man more aware of his weaknesses than his strength. Naturally, Marian is a fitting wife to a man like Joe, she's fragile, sensitive yet caring and loving. Jean Arthur, the unsung heroine of Capra's movies, still has this little nasal voice that makes hard to believe she's 53 in Shane'. But she's not the strong willed woman of Capra films; she doesn't want to see the MEN she loves in trouble. And she makes it quite obvious that there is a chemistry between her and Shane, something miraculously imperceptible in the story but perceptible on screen.It's not visible because the genius of Shane is to tell the film from the perspective of little Joey, played by the late Brandon de Wilde, who idolizes a man like Shane, and loves him as a fatherly figure. Joey, like the viewer, witnesses the juxtaposition of two visions of the West. And the dilemma is even more interesting for Shane because he's given a unique chance to bury his past and live a peaceful existence with Marian and Joey, if he lets Joe killed by Jack Wilson, a gunfighter hired by Ryker, wearing a hat as black as Shane's is white. Palance plays Shane's evil alter-ego displaying violence in possibly one of the most cold-blooded killing scenes ever captured in film, when he shoots Elisha Cook's ill-fated character, a shocking moment referred to in Eastwood's remake Pale Rider and more notably in Altman's McCabe & Mrs. Miller.For a western, Shane is a film of a few gunshots but each one is loud and startling, like carrying an inner significance in a quiet place where the future of Old West is jeopardized. People like Shane, Wilson and Ryker are already living ghosts, while America is already building its future. And Shane is one of the Cinema's greatest heroes because he chose his destiny and had the wisdom to vanish after an act of generosity, a sacrifice like only the frontier spirit could have inspired. And he leaves Joey with his family, and an answer to the existential model to follow. As he said, one can't get away with killing, and like Marian, he doesn't want guns in Joey's future.And maybe the iconic concluding line Shane! Come back! shouted with a chilling echo while Shane's silhouette slowly disappears, might reflect the desperate cry of an America who wants to reconcile with the agonizing spirit. Shane features many archetypes of the Old West myth but it's the level of unseen and unspoken, and maybe its magnificent finale that elevates it to its iconic status. "},{"Title":"so sad this movie is rated so low","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" each time i review the latest leaders in great movies, Shane keep sliding into the sunset, who in their right mind could possibly do this, this epic western has it all, landscape, acting, realism, set decorations, cinematography,sets, you name it, this one delivers it all, i find it so sad, that the younger people cannot appreciate a true classic, and keep supporting the cynical works of Tarentino, and The Coen boys, i guess my opinion does not matter, after all, i am well over 30, so what do i know eh? This movie has a lot more substance than the remakes and the silly rubbish that is being made, and we call this progress? God help us all,and one might want to check out all the fickle changes in the ratings, what a crock,pay attention to the movie, and stop being a simple witness at these quality movies, i simply do not understand, but then again, that is only my humble opinion, YIKES! "},{"Title":"The Fourth Wheel","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is many things - Here is my interpretation of what makes it so special - The mysterious Shane (Alan Ladd) comes to town and gets a job working for a family The Husband (Van Heflin), The Wife (Jean Arthur), and The Son (Brandon de Wilde). They are a Perfectly Wonderful Family. Shane manages to fit in nicely. He is, however, more handsome and heroic than The Husband. We (The Viewers) want The Four to be a family, but there is one man too many&#x85; Slowly, Shane takes the place of the father - The Wife is attracted to him. The Son, less able to hide his emotions, replaces his father with Shane. We, the viewers, are torn - but, we identify with The Son, and subjectively replace the nice family's father with Shane. But, we know it's Wrong.That's my interpretation of the underlying plot of this movie&#x85; which is magnificently done. The writer, director, and actors play these parts beautifully, and subtlety - watch Ms. Arthur emotionally ask her real husband to just hold me after tending Shane's wounds. Look at Mr. Heflin's face when he is fenced out at the dance. The adults never say anything - it's like a second, silent movie is playing itself out behind the scenes. Significantly, the adults never give in to temptation.The film's protagonist is The Boy. The Viewer sees the film through his eyes. Mr. de Wilde does a great job. As an innocent young boy, he is unable to contain his feelings as well as the adults; so, he pretty much comes out and says Shane has replaced his father. There is nothing wrong with The Father, and his family should be maintained - but we can't resist hoping, somehow, Shane can replace The Father.In the end, we get the chance to see our secret desire shouted out. You'll see how it ends. It can't spoil the film - since everyone has commented on this particular scene - but the final moments, with de Wilde calling out for Shane to come back, are agonizing.There are violent scenes, but I would recommend showing this film to children; then, discussing their feelings about the characters. It's a great way to teach many things - trust, desire, love, friendship, and faithfulness. ********** Shane (4/23/53) George Stevens ~ Alan Ladd, Brandon de Wilde, Jean Arthur, Van Heflin "},{"Title":"a well-acted, visually beautiful film","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Reading comments critical of Shane reminds me that two people can have much different reactions to the same film. I have seen Shane at least 20 times over the last 35 years and still identify with those who think very highly of the movie.While I know that child actors can sometimes deliver their lines in a forced or self-conscious way, Brandon DeWilde's high-pitched voice does not annoy me, as it does a few people who disliked the movie, and though Alan Ladd may not exude much ruggedness, in my mind his mild-mannered but firm style allow him to more than adequately portray Shane himself.As for the movie's pace -- too slow for some viewers -- the weekly routine of homesteaders in the 1880's most likely included planting gardens, rebuilding fences, or traveling en masse to the general store. Gun duels on the main street or brawls in the town saloon probably seldom occurred. Even if Shane presents a largely idyllic image of managing a home and farm on the frontier, the lifestyle of many characters comes across as plausible. That some people consider Shane too devoid of thrills may reveal more of what they require of a movie to feel entertained than what keeps Shane from meriting more acclaim. For me, the awesome natural setting does more to enhance the film than would have any additional action, and the time taken to establish identities and personalities amongst the homesteaders and ranchers serves a fundamental purpose - to show that the residents of an isolated tiny settlement in NW Wyoming find that their uneventful lives have significantly changed after the arrival of a stranger on horseback.I have sometimes wondered if the viewers critical of Shane were born too recently to feel impressed by a film made so long ago, especially if they had had exceedingly high expectations beforehand because of having read or heard that they were about to see one of the best films of its genre, a classic. At the same time I have also asked myself if those who have nothing but superlatives for Shane would not have responded differently if they had not first seen the movie until the last 5-10 years.I first saw Shane as an 11 or 12-year old in the late 1960's, when my mother, upon seeing that CBS was going to broadcast Shane as its Tuesday or Thursday movie of the week, made a rare exception and allowed me and my brother to stay up beyond our 900 pm bedtime so that we could watch the movie. "},{"Title":"A truly WESTERN movie of it's time","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Sitting in a South London movie house balcony, in the afternoon, on a slow midweek, with hardly anyone there but my overseas visiting mate and me,expecting to be bored by another one of those tired Alan Ladd movies(it was all there was for us to do that day, but the film was a first run)when suddenly it was SHANE. A basic but gripping story line that drew our minds straight into a true western story... Classic western plots fitting together, family of tired hero, supportive wife, curious son and threatening cattlemen... and when Jack Palance came into view...everything got better still. I think of that classic of westerns almost every week and often hear the boy Brandon calling at the fade out  Shane....Shane... Ah,those were good times... "},{"Title":"A story that grows in meaning as time goes by","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a film that has so many hidden meanings and unanswered questions, that the nuances linger long after great westerns of their time like 'High Noon' have faded, locked in the genre and time. The resonance of 'Shane' is such that it continues to stir admiration and controversy, even today. It's true that the characters, especially Shane himself, are iconic rather than real, but there is a central truth that hits home, and hits hard, if you have the sensitivity to appreciate it in the first place! Anyone who can sit unmoved through the final sequence where Shane rides off, alone and wounded, has to question the state of their own soul....and the final shoot-out between Shane and Wilson contains so many classic lines and scenes that it's difficult to see how any sensible person can add a negative comment to it - magical film-making in anyone's book (including Woody Allen's - asked by the New York Times to review his favourite film, he chose 'Shane').Alan Ladd was not perhaps everyone's choice as the enigmatic hero - even Jack Schaefer was not impressed at the casting - but the quality he brought to the role was, I think, the significant factor in the film's ultimate mystery. Even Jack was suitably impressed when he finally saw the film.The character Alan Ladd created has stayed in the mind of those who saw the film in 1953, as well as those new viewers who perhaps enjoy it on DVD (thereby nevertheless losing the real cinema effect). How we would love a sequel! Would some of those questions and mysteries be answered? Probably not. And perhaps it's better that way. "},{"Title":"More than just a western.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a powerful movie about a gunfighter who settles down with a homestead family. The movie has themes such as family value, loyalty, friendship and courage, central in it. The movie inspired many other later formulaic genre movies and was truly a bar-raising movie, back in the early '50's.It's a western, also with action in it but the movie above all is a family movie. It's a movie for everyone to watch, even those who aren't really too fond of the western genre. The story is touching and powerful, with universal themes in it. The movie works out as good the way it does, due to the fine story itself, it's directing from George Stevens and the fine performances from the cast.In its core the story itself is quite simple. It's never made complicated and is about real people and real situations instead. Though the movie is of course melodramatic at times, it doesn't really ever feel forced. It's just because of the style of film-making of the '50's and the musical score, that some sequences might have an overly present melodramatic feel now by todays standards. The movie is about good versus evil. A couple of friendly and non-violent settlers are being bullied around by a cattle-driver, who wants their land. When Shane sees this injustice he takes matters into his own hand and decide to stand up against Ryker's men. It all sounds incredibly formulaic by now but back in 1953 it all was quite new and refreshing. Basically every western genre cliché that we know by now are features in this movie, some for the very first time.The story, simple as it is, is told really great. It makes the movie really a warm and powerful one to watch. It also leaves room for some typical genre action, such as for instance a good old fashioned saloon fight.The movie is beautifully shot with some atmospheric landscapes. No wonder that the movie looks visually so good, director George Stevens used to be a cinematographer during the '20's and early '30's. His work for the Laurel & Hardy movies in the '20's is his most notable and best known work. The movie also has some great editing, that took over a year to complete and some good camera-work, when it comes down to its positions and close-up work.The main character Shane is perfectly portrayed by Alan Ladd, who has a kind though still tough looking appearance. Jack Palance was also truly great as the ruthless gunfighter, hired by the Ryker's. He's scary and tough looking character. A real good villain that you love to hate but he only is in the movie shortly though, toward the ending of it. Ladd and Palance would later star again together in Once a Thief (1965), that is a fairly enjoyable movie to watch.A timeless classic. Still as powerful as ever, with a classic and much debated last shot(s).10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Arguably, the best western ever made","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw this film when it was first run in 1953 -- and I was an impressionable boy of thirteen. Alan Ladd had been one of my screen heroes ever since I had seen him in This Gun for Hire a few years earlier.I so idolized Ladd in his portrayal of Shane, the gunfighter, that I have seen the movie dozens of times since, and own a DVD of it. However, this does not affect my ability to judge the film itself on its own merits.The story and the film are timeless. Its setting, the screenplay, the casting, acting performances, attention to authenticity and detail; all combine to make this film one of the top few westerns, and possibly, the very best ever made. "},{"Title":"Highly watchable Western  in which a drifter resolves  a conflict between  a bunch of settlers and wealthy owner","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a classic Western about usual confrontation between cattlemen and homesteaders. A strange and weary cowboy named Shame comes to defense peasants in their struggle against the nasty owners , as the gunfighter fighting to stifle the conflicts between homesteaders and cattlemen who hire a hired hand . A drifter (Alan Ladd) comes to a farm in the Old West just in time to reckoning gunslingers and owners . Shane attempts to settle down with a homestead husband named Starrett (Van Heflin) , his wife named Marian (Jean Arthur was over 50 years old ,she was, in fact, ten years older than Emile Meyer and Katharine Hepburn was originally suggested for the role of Marian) and a son , but a smoldering settler/rancher conflict forces him to act. He is a mysterious gunfighter who comes to the aid of countrymen from a greedy wealthy owner (top-notch Emile Meyer as grizzled old cattle baron Rufus Ryker) trying to encroach on their land . Meanwhile , the Good Stranger is idolized by their son (Brandon De Wilde). As the wealthy owner contracts an outlaw as hired gunfighter (Jack Palance) to kill Starrett and Shane. Well crafted and sweeping Western with interesting screenplay written by A. B Guthrie , including memorable dialogue and important phrases , as the movie's line Come back, Shane! was voted as the #69 of The 100 Greatest Movie Lines by Premiere in 2007 . Agreeable Western packs drama , thrills , go riding , shootouts and some moving action sequences . It's a high budget film with good actors , technicians, production values and pleasing results . Alan Ladd is unforgettable in the title role coming to help a group of struggling homesteaders . Director George Stevens originally cast Montgomery Clift as Shane and William Holden as Joe Starrett , when both decided to do other films instead, Shane was nearly abandoned , a bit later on , upon seeing a list of actors under contract to the studio, Stevens cast Alan Ladd, Van Heflin and Jean Arthur . The scene where Alan Ladd practices shooting in front of Brandon De Wilde took 119 takes to complete. Good casting with several prestigious secondaries as Edgar Buchanan , Ben Johnson , John Dierkes , Elisha Cook Jr , and special mention to Jack Palance as a downright nasty pistolero . Exquisitely shot in CinemaScope by Loyal Griggs who deservedly won Oscar Best Cinematography , with a magnificent photo tography on impressive exteriors and snowy mountains backgrounds , being filmed on location in Big Bear Lake, Big Bear Valley, San Bernardino National Forest, California and Grand Teton National Park, Moose, Wyoming . Thrilling as well as sensitive musical score by Victor Young , though the music cues for the climactic ride that Shane takes to the showdown are from an earlier Paramount film, ¨Rope of sand¨ . Although the movie is generally remembered for its blue sky vistas, the weather was actually cloudy or rainy for a great deal of the shoot ; however, if you look beyond the mud in the town, you can see that the ground is dry , obviously, part of the town had been watered down . Meticulous care was taken at all levels of production. All the physical props were true to the period, the buildings were built to the specifications of the time and the clothing was completely authentic , director George Stevens even had somewhat scrawny-looking cattle imported from other areas, as the local herds looked too well-fed and healthy . The motion picture was directed in sure visual eye by the great George Stevens . In 2007, the American Film Institute ranked this as the #45 Greatest Movie of All Time and ranked #3 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre Western in June 2008 . Many years later , Clint Eastwood directed ¨Pale rider¨ , this film is made in somewhat similar style to ¨Shane¨ , and which so much cloning of ¨High plains drifter¨ also directed by Eastwood only this time the drifter appears to have been sent from hell rather than heaven to right from ordinary injustices . This classic Western ¨Shane¨ as good as the notorious ¨Pale rider¨ is splendid in every way . It was followed by a TV series starred by David Carradine and Jill Ireland , equally titled ¨Shane¨. "}{"Title":"They don't make westerns any better than this one","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw this western as a boy, and fifty odd years and many viewings later, it still holds my attention. It is a tale of courage, loyalty, friendship and morality, but told in a non sentimental way,as seen through the eyes of a young boy. The acting is superb, Alan Ladd plays to perfection the hero in an understated way and the supporting cast play their parts with perfection. Although the basic plot is simple, the good guys are being driven off their land by the bad guys, a stranger rides in and takes up their cause, eventually vanquishing the bad guys, the sub plot goes much deeper, even to the extent that it is shown that even the bad guys have a point, if not justification, for trying to regain the land that the homesteaders have cultivated. They just do not make movies like this anymore, if this film were to be remade now, no doubt we would see Shane in bed with his friends wife, graphic violence, digital special effects and a proliferation of four letter words. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's doubtful that anyone's going to read this, but Shane is one of my Top Six Westerns. The word I would use to describe this film is, lyrical. It has a beautiful, wistful look that exemplifies the best of the genre, and certainly due to the remarkable talents of George Stevens, his trademarks all over this film classic. Although I've never been a huge Ladd fan, alas, his efforts here remain his best, in my opinion. While quite small in stature, his vocal command was in full bloom, and what I especially liked about his performance was his BODY LANGUAGE. He carried himself with a degree of grace and elegance that belied his diminutive size. As somewhat of a gun slinger aficionado, the way he carried and fired his gun was a thing of beauty... an effortless, fluid, natural movement that looked totally authentic, certainly adding to the Wild West mythic of this wonderful film. P.S.&#x97; My friend was an actual stand-in on this film, and was partly responsible for one of the most memorable shots on the movie. Remember when they were laying the murdered farmer into the open grave? The reason the dog was reacting to the coffin being lowered is because MY FRIEND WAS IN IT, WHISTLING AND ATTRACTING THE ATTENTION OF THE POOCH. It was very low tech, but it worked beautifully! "},{"Title":"compelling and moving","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Somehow this movie had eluded me until quite recently. It's as old as I am, so I would have expected to have seen it on TV at some point. But I never did. I'm very glad to have finally caught up with it, as it's clearly an important work. Alan Ladd is, of course, the man himself, very good indeed as the outsider in a settlers' community, finding himself drawn into the quintessential frontier quarrel between farmer and cowman.SHANE, as its story unfolds, accumulates emotional power, generated in no small measure from the emphasis on young Joey Starrett's point of view. Once seen, who could forget the shot of hitherto hard-man Emile Ryker seen from below as he argues his case? It's so unexpected! There are many such felicities in this film.The unspoken understanding between Ladd's Shane, Jean Arthur's Marian, and Van Heflin's Joe, is beautifully done - excellent writing, performing and directing. As for Brandon de Wilde as young Joey - there really can't be enough praise. The famous ending is real lump-in-the-throat stuff.After SHANE and HIGH NOON, it would appear that the Western fell out of favour until the so-called 'spaghetti westerns' revived their fortunes. SHANE's melancholy tone certainly presents a world in which it's harder and harder for a man to do what a man's gotta do. Of course, when the man - and the woman - finally DO what they have to, after such restraint the power of the act is all the greater.Even though so much of it is seen through a child's eyes, SHANE is very much an adult picture - about contending rights and wrongs, about shades of grey, about not acting upon first impulses. I found it a compelling and moving work. "},{"Title":"Not as Good as It Could Have Been","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is one of my favourite novels and so I've always been a bit disappointed in the movie. The book has so many subtleties missing from the film e.g. in the book Shane rides onto the Starrett ranch not wearing a gun, which automatically tells us something about the man.And in the book, Shane silently reveals the pain of his past when he's showing Bobby (pointlessly renamed Joey in the film) how to shoot.Apart from this I think my main problem lies in the casting. Besides a suitably menacing Jack Palance (in part apparently due to his fear of horses), none of the cast impress. Alan Ladd looks too wimpy in his frilled top to look significant and Jean Arthur, normally one of my favourites is frankly too old and reserved to be a believable source of the sexual tension that appears between Marion and Shane in the book.A fine western; but it could have been a great one. "},{"Title":"A man has to be what he is Joey, can't break the mold.","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a weary gunslinger, one day he happens upon a homesteader family and begins to do chores for them, he finds an inner peace that he long thought was behind him. Sadly his peace is short lived because a strong arm cattle baron is determined to drive all the small farmer families off their land, and Shane finds himself drawn into the escalating conflict.Taken from Jack Schaefer's popular novel, Shane holds up today as one of the most popular revered Westerns because it has mass appeal to the watching public. It's main plot strand may be of a simple good versus evil type scenario, but it's the surrounding veins that enthuse the films heart with maximum results. The story plays out thru the eyes of a young boy, Joey Starrett, he worships Shane for the guns he can sling, whilst simultaneously not recognising his own father for the honest hard working man he is, this of course is not lost on the mother of the piece. The family axis then comes to the fore as Shane quickly becomes aware of his moral fortitude, and this gives us a fascinating inner picture to run alongside the outer evil cattle baron versus farmers story. Within this warm family environment Shane hopes to find redemption, but sometimes a man has to do what a mans got to do, and this leads us to the films crowning glory.Alan Ladd is Shane, wonderfully attired and playing the character with just about the right blend of gusto and tenderness, perhaps dangerously close to stiffening up at times, Ladd however nails it and gives the Western genre one of its ever lasting icons. Van Heflin, Jean Arthur, and Brandon de Wilde play the Starrett family, all of whom come out with much credit, whilst Jack Palance leaves a lasting impression as the dark knight, deadly hired gun, Wilson. Brutal yet sweet, and seeping positive morality into the bargain, Shane is a film for the whole family to enjoy, oozing fine work from all involved, it is a smashing and permanently engaging film. Sometimes when one revisits the film it feels like it is the prototype Western, all the genre characters are so vividly evident, but it's a testament to director George Stevens and his crew that Shane holds up to the iconic status it has garnered. Loyal Griggs won the best colour cinematography award at the 1953 Oscars, within three minutes of the opening credits he well and truly deserved it, as good an opening sequence as genre fans like me could wish for, and of course the rest of the fabulous Big Bear Lake location in California is sumptuously filmed.Both as a technical piece of work and as a shrewd story of some standing, Shane deserves every bit of praise that has come its way over the years, oh yes!. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Call me Shane.","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I think films can only be compared by genres and so you can't state which one is the best film ever made. As for westerns, I think Shane rates second only to High Noon but not by far. The story of the mysterious gunfighter that gets mixed up with the Starret family's problems -amd they are huge- is perfectly narrated by George Stevens. Alan Ladd reaches the peak of his carrier playing Shane and surely was Steven's direction what took an excellent performance out of him. Van Heflin was always a correct actor and here looks as a real good one. Brandon De Wilde renders an incredible acting for a boy his age he never matched later in his short carrier. And there is also Jack Palance easily the meanest lone gunfighter ever to appear in a western movie. The whole cast is perfect as well as the location site in Jackson's Hole, Wyoming, USA. Shane is a story of friendship, loyalty, principles and the redemption of a gunman surely more used to mind his own business than to care about other people's problems for no pay. As soon as Palance appears around 45 minutes after the start of the film we are waiting for the final duel with Ladd and it is worth waiting for! We may sound not original but for sure they don't make movies like this anymore; if not, compare Shane, -if that could be possible- with Clint Eastwood's The Pale Rider a really bad remake indeed! Its hard to match a masterpiece. As publicity spots said back in 1953 There has never been a movie like Shane. "},{"Title":"***Spoilers!!!*** Don't watch the trailer before the movie on DVD!!!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane tells a great story of people trying to eke out a home and living in the West when there wasn't much else before them. However, we don't know much about the main character and his past as he rides into the dusty town that's trying to get started.Much of the action is between a conflict between a cattleman named Ryker and his group versus some homesteaders, like the Starretts, whose land Ryker wants for his cattle.Shane beats up one of Ryker's men, so Ryker is impressed and tries to buy his services. However, Shane has become friends with Joe Starrett and wants no part. Ryker then sends to the nearby town of Cheyenne for a tough, fast gun for hire named Wilson.Fortunately, I watched the trailer after the movie. It's far too revealing!!! But it's got a great shot of a bus in the background. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  It is fascinating to watch both the Westerns and Film Noir of the 1950s because they expressed clearly the conflicted character of a nation transforming suddenly from a New Deal to a National Security State. Whereas the Noir focus primarily on the dark side, a claustrophobic urban maze in which the characters yearned for an impossible return to the horse farm of their childhood, with the Westerns there were two parallel tracks, celebrations of the building of a new community coinciding with the disillusionment that followed the realization of this new establishment. Films like She Wore A Yellow Ribbon and Shane focused on the aspirations of the time while movies such High Noon and Last Train From Gun Hill reflected who we actually were or feared we were becoming.Shane was an incredibly influential movie, which is often surprising to us today. Both Woody Allen and Akira Kurosawa admire(d) the film and the latter's Seven Samurai bears a striking resemblance to it. The imagery is impressive, particularly in the last half-hour that includes a stunning cemetery scene, an earth-shattering fistfight in the farm yard, the final gunfight in the dimly lit saloon, and the last image of Shane riding through the monuments on Cemetery Hill, the snowy Tetons above him. It includes what is probably the most impressive, realistic western town ever filmed, tiny and spare in the immense landscape. All the dwellings are gritty, realistic, and dominated by the landscape's red earth, green grass and black hills, blue mountains and sky, and soft low clouds.The film is filled with shots through windows, windows that allow the outdoors to intrude inside, the Tetons over a diner's shoulder, or that link action in the farm house with that in the yard, as in the opening moments. Shane and Mrs. Starett are separated physically by windows, watching the other through them, most memorably in a great scene in the rain.Jack Wilson's (Palance) arrival is memorable due to its strange, ghostly quality. He enters a saloon through a pair of swinging doors, walking slowly towards the camera. The image slowly fades, to reemerge with Wilson nearly across the room, still slowly walking. Then the film cuts to a subjective shot of the bartender on the stairs above, then back to Wilson leaning against a wooden support in the bar. It is a stunning and surreal moment, and the black clad gunman is more a shadowy manifestation of death than a person.Some might fault the story for being `clichéd'. However, this is a somewhat thoughtless approach to the movie. Guthrie's script and Steven's film was a conscious attempt to mythologize a standard tale of a gifted stranger saving a community from the elements of chaos, the mythology of a progress not only technological but, more importantly, moral. This is the mythology of a people that genuinely believed in a Manifest Destiny, a special mission, a naïve faith. It is strange today to think of the audiences that were watching these movies, immigrants in Hell's Kitchen watching Hell's Hinges or coal miners in West Virginia watching Buck Jones (almost as surreal as Pakistanis or Arabians watching Italian Westerns in the 1960s). It makes you wonder what they thought about the action on the screen. Did they, like the boy Joey, want to be Shane or, like Shane, want to be Starett? And what did the audiences in the defeated axis, Italy and Japan (soon to make their own Shanes), see as they watched the screen?Shane tries hard. He changes his buckskins for `store-bought' clothes, doesn't wear a gun. But, try as he might, he can't become one of them, one of the farmers in the valley, and it is questionable as to whether he would ever really be excepted as one of them, as is indicated by their reactions to the fight in the saloon or the scene when Torrey brings news of Wilson's arrival. Kurosawa, and later Sturges, was to expand on this basic incompatibility of the idealized but dangerous hero(es) separated from the distrustful farmers in Seven Samurai.Filmmakers other than Kurosawa appear to have made their own versions of the story, including Sergio Corbucci's The Great Silence, a film that increased the ambiguities and ended in a stunning reversal. It is a frozen, bleak, mute anti-Shane from the other side of the mirror, an image not only flipped and thus altered subtly, but actually profoundly displaced.Riding through a biblical landscape, Eastwood's High Plains Drifter is a familiar mysterious stranger now abstract and surreal, a justice and self-satisfying vengeance intertwined and transformed into divine retribution for the sins of a community that conspired with murderers to obscure a secret at the heart of community, a secret which is dissolving the mortar that holds together the mining company, the town and law, marriage and friendship. Of course, it is an open secret, but, in a uniquely American fashion, it is unspoken and virtually a crime to mention (in a new `Rule of Law'). He has not ridden out of the silver, shifting mirage above the salt flats to save the people of this place but to deservedly punish.David Webb People's script for Unforgiven appears to be yet another return to the same story and is something of a merger of these two images, Shane and Silence (It is interesting to note that Eastwood was interested in remaking Silence in the early 1970s, but instead appeared in the pedestrian Joe Kidd). Such were the evolutions of the aspirations of this movie and these moments, like a child changed by time and experience into the strange adult figure looking out of the mirror, that, in a sense, Shane `grew up' to become William Munney (another gunman trying to become a pig-farmer), finally truly accepting his credo that `A man has to be what he is, Joey. You can't break the mold. I tried and it didn't work for me.'`Deserves ain't got nothing to do with it.' (Munney, Unforgiven)  "},{"Title":"A story that grows in meaning as time goes by","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The idea behind the screenplay (and novel) are hardly new, but there is a central truth inside the lines, and the depth becomes more and more apparent with each passing year....Alan Ladd played the role of his life (and should have been at least nominated for an Oscar!), and Van Heflin and Jean Arthur were just as convincing. The essential feeling though is a sadness that such loneliness is unfulfilled...the saviour of society becomes once more the outcast, and rides off alone into the mountains from where he came......what becomes of him? How we long to see a sequel telling us more....and there is so much more we would like to know about the feelings between Shane and Marion, very subtle and understated, but frustrating for us, the silent voyeurs of these feelings.There are many classic scenes - Shane and Joe uprooting the stump, Shane proving that he is not a coward by turning the tables on Calloway, then Shane and Joe fighting the whole bunch with the same exhilaration and comradeship that they showed when fighting the tree stump.....the confrontation between the marvelous Jack Palance as Wilson, the gunfighter, and 'Stonewall' Torrey, the way the light changes, the day turning from sunshine to dark, a foreboding of what is to come as Torrey ends up on his back in the mud, gunned down mercilessly by the madly grinning Wilson....Then, that climactic and atmospheric night in the saloon, when Shane rides alone to face Wilson and Ryker......what a fantastic setting, the still saloon, the heartbeat drum gently, madly throbbing as the dog practically slithers across the floor, the atmosphere so dense and tense you can almost taste it......Shane and Ryker share that memorable dialogue that leads inevitably to the confrontation between Shane and Wilson, the same words of insult used by Wilson against Torrey being turned round and thrown in his face by Shane before the guns blast......Then that finale, almost shocking, draining in its intensity, as Shane rides off alone into the mountains, wounded and lost to the wilderness once more, as Joey cries out to him in vain, his voice echoing in the mountains as the figure of Shane rapidly vanishes into the dark forever.......As the years go by, the story, which was always gripping enough in any case, becomes more and more interesting, raising questions that can't be easily answered, which is one of the reasons why 'Shane' has outlasted other Western classics of their time such as 'High Noon'....the film is a source of constant inspiration..... "},{"Title":"Repeated viewing recommended, especially for those, who don't like westerns.","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I wasn't born in US and I'm only in my 40's, so I never even heard about Shane before this summer. One reason being I don't like westerns in general - just find them formulaic and violent for the sake of violence (although I'm a great fan of the Godfather franchise, so maybe it's not the violence that turns me off in westerns). The other reason being that while John Wayne and Clint Eastwood westerns dominate our TV screens, westerns featuring Alan Ladd (including Shane) are shown with the frequency of Halley's Comet. I finally saw Shane on Netflix two months ago (only after reading glowing praises of the film from Woody Allen, because, frankly, Shane's poster is a huge turn-off) and I've been watching and re-watching it ever since!!! I even bought a DVD of this film to join the only seven other movies I watch whenever possible (yes Godfather I is among them). Shane is filled with great performances from the slinking dogs, to the title role of Shane - and everyone in between. I cannot imagine other actors playing these roles, just like I cannot imagine a different director, different cinematography and different musical score. It's like reading a Great American Novel but in pictures. It's timeless. And this is largely due to the excellent editing and George Stevens - Alan Ladd pairing (unhappily never repeated). Alan Ladd is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors (since Shane I looked up some of his other movies - his noirs are excellent). Despite great talent, most directors (and certainly the studio executives) didn't know how to use him at all. Not so with George Stevens he knew he got the right stuff here (the fact that he wanted to work again with Ladd on Giant shows how much he appreciated Ladd's talents). Stevens worked him hard but he got what he wanted in spades. The intensity Alan Ladd portrays on screen is electrifying. Even when he is off center in the shot, the eye travels to him. His body language is subdued but his eyes are especially expressive. While Brando needed cotton balls to produce the truly memorable performance, Ladd just has to shift the light in his eyes to make the chills run down one's spine. Actors don't operate in vacuum and excellent cast helps make Ladd's appeal even greater. On a flip side, however, other players are shown against Ladd's persona as if he was the canvas that makes their colors stand out. In short it's a symbiotic relationship. A lot has been written about the fact that the only people on the set shorter than Ladd (other than the kids) were Jean Arthur and Elisha Cook Jr. So what? He was larger than life - especially as Shane - and that's what the movies are about - the illusion. There are also some criticisms about his buckskin outfit and long golden locks. If you think they are too effeminate for a gun slinger, just watch the scene where Shane shows off his shooting to Joey. I sure as heck wouldn't want to be at the business end of his gun. And again the face Shane shows for a split second when he fires the gun - you know this guy can kill (and most likely has killed) a man. If you want action like Die Hard 8 or Mission Impossible 7 - don't bother to watch this movie. If you are looking for western of The Good, the Bad and the Ugly ilk (or any Wayne vehicle) - don't bother with Shane either. But if you like to watch Kurosawa, Jean-Pierre Melville or Coppola (especially The Conversation) - give it a shot. You might really enjoy it. Then again, you might have to watch it a couple of times to really get into it. I'm not sorry I did. "}{"Title":"Solid Gem of its Genre","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Along with its obvious echoes of the specific period in Hollywood, SHANE stands out as one of the most enduring western classics. George Stevens, the California-born director who invented his own approach, brought something powerful and captivating in this work. Clearly, the movie reveals typical western landmarks, including the uncomplicated nature of the plot, certain idealization, no sophistication of characters, no duality of human nature and the geographical context as the backdrop. The centerpiece, however, are the characters that George Stevens and screenwriter A.B. Guthrie, the Professor at the University of Kentucky, supply with a 'western flair.' The most appealing one is, of course, the protagonist, Shane - a rider from wilderness heading for wilderness.In George Stevens' notes, as the director's son points out in the disc commentary, he wrote You have to feel that Shane is on his way somewhere. The word 'way' sets the tone for the entire movie. Therefore, a viewer cannot ignore the obvious link between the geographical background and the characters who are incorporated into the context of the magnificent Teton Mountains. In this idyll, recalling the opening scene of simplicity, the story of genuine, good hearted homesteaders struggling against the cruel cattlemen takes place. In between comes Shane, he is not exactly the Shane of the book, there is liberty taken with the original literary source (he is not a man worn all in black) but he is, undeniably the courage incarnate and the embodiment of all values. Initially, Montgomery Clift had been considered for the role but, at the moment, we might say FORTUNATELY, Alan Ladd was finally cast for the lead. Thanks to him, we have a straight and strong protagonist supplied with necessary vitality. Combining the energetic interpretation of a brave man of honor and the flamboyant portrayal of a temperamental man of choice, Alan Ladd leaves barely any viewer indifferent to his screen achievement. Equally skillful at fighting at Grafton's as supporting the homesteaders, his scenes are filled with vital action and increasing tension.Our attention is also drawn by other characters. Let me start with the goodies...A young boy, Joey, seemingly the other protagonist of the story played by Brandon DeWilde is another great child acting achievement. Awed by the sound of gunshot and inspired by Shane's independence, he entirely holds the gist of the finale, which aids it, simultaneously, in its impact. His father Joe (played by Van Heflin) appears to embody certain combination of decent yet naive attitude, sometimes ridiculously naive. The major 'goodness incarnate' occurs to be Stonewall Torrey (Elisha Cook Jr) whose courageous toast to the sovereign state of Alabama and cruel death along with the touching funeral constitute the movie's major scenes of heartfelt emotions and touching sentimentality. Jean Arthur gives a nice performance as the female character in the story, the one who manifest certain animosity towards gun and an almost idealized mother and wife. Ben Johnson, a famous radio presenter at the time, plays Chris, the only character who undergoes change. Now a little bit about the baddies...Here, everything might be focused on the performance of one man Jack Palance as villainous Wilson, one of the Rykers, the cattlemen who become a true nightmare of the homesteaders. He is given considerably short time on the screen, yet, his performance supplies the movie with the essential western depiction of wickedness.And where is George Stevens noticeable particularly? On the subject of his concern for the test of time, we can all agree that Mr Stevens succeeded in this respect. SHANE, in spite of its three strip Technicolor, has not dated. The director's style, however, is most clearly revealed in 'observing camera' where action is in the eyesight of a character and a viewer. Consider, for instance, the scene of the fight where little Joey is showed to be observing the scene, actually, the same manner as viewers do. It is nicely observed in the disc commentary that the scene is energized by who is watching it (Ivan Moffat and George Stevens Jr). To the artistic advantage of the movie, it is important to add great music score by Victor Young which heavily relies on folk songs, including The Call of the Faraway Hills and the costumes that place the characters within the historical, geographical as well as genre context.SHANE is an essential classic western very highly recommended and a film where truly great Hollywood echoes. Strong solid ground of reputation and a gem of its genre. "},{"Title":"my key to liking Shane.","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had a problem with Shane, I saw it for the first time in 1957 when I was 14 years old and my way of thinking at that time (as of many guys of my age) was that I had outgrown westerns of the conventional type, with good guys like Roy Rogers and Hopalong Cassidy, and was looking for more complex heroes like the James Stewart-Anthony Mann and the John Wayne-Ethan Edwards. Alan Ladd-Shane was too much like the first group I mentioned, and it took me until recently, even though I saw the film many times to finally admit it was a great film. What changed my mind was the book Five Came Back from Mark Harris, which tells the story of George Stevens (among other directors) in the army in Europe during the war, and how he was traumatized by what he saw in the concentration camps. Shane was deeply influenced by this trauma, showing the differences in the lives of a gunfighter(Ladd) and a typical family (Heflin, Arthur and De Wilde), and how killing changes a man. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I watched this movie first when I was about 13 years old with my Dad.27 years later, and Dad gone, I rented it from the library to see if I could remember much about it.The cinematography is fantastic, as is the score and all the performances were right on. I read a few reviews and comments about the child actor being annoying, but I found him to be a sweet kind of innocent conscience to the movie, the spur that eventually makes Shane take action and take up the gun. Not to mention, that kid can run like the dickens! It's a simple story with many moving scenes. When the people of the town pause to say the lords prayer at a funeral, it's hearkens back to simpler times. I misted up at that scene, and I'm not Catholic.The other great thing about the movie is that I could empathize with the 'bad guy', who was simply an older guy with a massive chin beard who yearned for the way things were.I noticed during the opening credits that Jack Palance was in it, an actor I enjoyed (but my 13 year old self obviously didn't know). Palance is great, not a huge role but one he was perfect for. Along with Ladd, the tension between them whenever they're on the screen together was palatable.And the mountains.. Were they real? Amazing. "},{"Title":"Well-Remembered Western.","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" George Stevens directed Alan Ladd as Shane, a drifter and retired gunfighter drawn into a conflict between a cattle baron and homesteaders, like the Starretts(played by Van Heflin, Jean Arthur, and Brandon Wilde as their son Joey) Shane is staying with the Starretts, and cannot sit idly by while they(and others) are being forced off their land, especially when a thug(played by Ben Johnson) and a notorious gunfighter(played by Jack Palance) start terrorizing and murdering... Well-remembered western is a bit overpraised but still entertaining and interesting, with fine performances and memorable final scene offsetting the familiar and predictable plot. "},{"Title":"Stills Hold Up Today As An Enjoyable And Entertaining Movie,","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a great movie with a very good story line and a very talented cast of characters.The movie holds up very well today as a very good and enjoyable western,mainly made so great because of Alan Ledd's fantastic performance as the title character.The movie has a lot of heart and you will definitely enjoy if you are into classic movies.A gunfighter decides to settle town in a quiet town with a family he gets along very well with,however other residents of the town do not agree with him living there and they want him out and he has ruined the simple innocence of their neighbourhood.-8/10 "},{"Title":"an unusually heart-warming western","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This was probably one of Alan Ladd's greatest performances which Ladd does well as a lonely gunfighter with no permanent home who drifts to a remote area of Wyoming, but before he knows it, he will be helping the abused homesteaders there. He portrays well a person who is practically forced into being brave and wearing his gun again. (Ironically enough, Shane is actually braver than the people who are initially critical of him.) Ben Johnson acted well his part of a mean man who hated homesteaders, and Jack Palance(who, I understood, did not have a friend in his hometown because he was convincing as the mean villain he very often portrayed) delivered a superb portrayal as a mean, cold gunslinger. Van Heflin showed well his ability as the large, sometimes-slow but common sense homesteader Joe Starrett, and the very experienced actress Jean Arthur definitely allowed viewers know that she was a very attractive lady who, though married, to Joe Starrett was very much taken with Shane. Brandon DeWilde, as a preteen-ager here, was outstanding as Joey Starrett, the young son to whom Shane became his hero; he showed future promise of acting at this young age. This George Stevens-produced movie was equal in quality to the modern western Giant. Wyoming looked beautiful, with the occasional green grass and the beautiful snow-capped mountains in the background. Atypical of most western, there was ingrained in this movie excellent character study. And yes, the story was definitely heart-warming. And too, I was taken with the opening music and the closing music as well. It had all the elements of a good western, or of a movie of any genre. "},{"Title":"A Gun Is A Tool.","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Gunga Din director George Stevens' classic movie Shane ranks as one of the ten most influential westerns in Hollywood history. This straightforward but memorable oater about an itinerant gunslinger that rides into a remote Northwestern valley on the eve of a range war and takes sides with a family of homesteaders against a cattleman had been done dozens of times before as a B-western. Stevens and scenarist A.B. Guthrie Jr endow this Spartan tale with an articulacy rarely seen until later classics such as The Magnificent Seven, They Call Me Trinity, and Pale Rider came along to imitate it. Lenser Loyal Griggs took home the Oscar for Best Cinematography, and Shane is a gorgeous oater to watch with those craggy Teton Mountains rearing up in the background. The Academy nominated it for six Oscars Best Picture, Best Director for George Stevens, Best Screenplay for A.B. Guthrie Jr., and two Best Supporting Actors nods for Jack Palance and Brandon de Wilde. Conspicuously missing from all these awards is Victor Young's simple but evocative music. Alan Ladd delivers a devastating performance as a buckskin-clad gunslinger, and he is matched every step of the way by Van Heflin's grimy sodbuster. Nobody can forget either Elisha Cook Jr. as an unrepentant Southerner or Walter Jack Palance as an evil hired gunman. Mind you, actress Jean Arthur provides more than just window dressing as the lady of the Starrett household. The 'go for broke' saloon battle where Shane and Joe fight back to back with their fists against a larger number of cattlemen is the first taste of what is to come. The scene where Shane teaches little Joey how to fire a revolver is seminal as is the scene when Cook faces down Palance in the muddy street. The final Prove it gunfight between Shane and Jack Wilson is one for the books. According to an associate producer Ivan Moffat, Stevens&#x97;who was a World War II veteran&#x97;wanted to show the impact of violence in all its brutality. Okay, the brutality of this western for contemporary audiences is negligible. Nonetheless, Shane represented the first time in Hollywood history when a man got shot and fell backwards instead of forward as had always been the case. Shane is a timeless tale forged in the crucible of the Biblical yarn of David and Goliath. Anybody who loves the television show The Waltons will see where the producers got their ending as everybody said 'good night' to everybody else over a long shot of the Walton house. The ending with little Joey scrambling after Shane screaming his name as the eponymous hero out of the valley rides away is unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a classic -- no, not a bang-bang shoot-em-up B Western, but it is a solid Western that gives fans of the genre some something to think about besides they went thataway. The scenery (Jackson Hole, Wyoming) is grand and was even moreso on the big screen. When well known Western novelist A.B. Guthrie wrote the screenplay, he kept fairly faithful to Jack Schaefer's novel. The movie makes a reasonable attempt, for that time, to look authentic in costume and gear, and gives fans of the movies of the '40s and '50s some interesting cinematic moments (see the small things, like how the camera was used to make Alan Ladd seem more heroic).I'd probably recast some of the secondary roles, if I had the chance, but Ladd's soft-spoken, gentlemanly way is just right for Shane, and Jack Palance is subtly evil.Yes, Shane contains a few clichés, but they weren't yet quite so cliché, in 1953. Besides, they were well done clichés, so, while you may recognize them, you probably won't mind them.But, what's Shane about, exactly?...Courage. Loyalty. Honor. Friendship.It will leave you wishing you knew what happened next. "},{"Title":"Excellent...","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A gunslinger, a farmer, a wife, a little boy, a dog, and some dastardly villains....I first saw Shane from the back seat of a '51 Ford, at a drive-in theater somewhere in Montana. The movie was new, and I was about 4 years old. From that time, I remember quiet male voices and the ring of spurs. Those sounds have lived in my mind for decades.Shane is a classic -- no, not a bang-bang shoot-em-up B Western, but it is a solid Western that gives fans of the genre some something to think about besides they went thataway. The scenery (Jackson Hole, Wyoming) is grand and was even moreso on the big screen. When well known Western novelist A.B. Guthrie wrote the screenplay, he kept fairly faithful to Jack Schaefer's novel. The movie makes a reasonable attempt, for that time, to look authentic in costume and gear, and gives fans of the movies of the '40s and '50s some interesting cinematic moments (see the small things, like how the camera was used to make Alan Ladd seem more heroic).I'd probably recast some of the secondary roles, if I had the chance, but Ladd's soft-spoken, gentlemanly way is just right for Shane, and Jack Palance is subtly evil.Yes, Shane contains a few clichés, but they weren't yet quite so cliché, in 1953. Besides, they were well done clichés, so, while you may recognize them, you probably won't mind them.But, what's Shane about, exactly?...Courage. Loyalty. Honor. Friendship.It will leave you wishing you knew what happened next. "},{"Title":"The Costs of Being Human","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Basically, we're watching farmers defy the barbaric way of the gun in the Old West, with a solo rider helping a settler protect his land despite hired brutes. Seen even more sensitively, we find that the rider and the farmer's wife sense a draw to each other. And that Shane is moved by the adoration of young Joey, the farm couple's son. Repressed human drives are a big part of this particular Old West hero's throughline. It's not that a deeper meaning waits in the fathoms. It's that all of these levels synchronize, making the movie more multifaceted than an easy parable. Apparently, Shane is the gunslinger who means to leave his past behind him, who longs for the kind of home he finds on Joe Starrett's farmstead. Someone has to brave the vicious Ryker. Shane is that man, albeit he knows that if he does, he'll have to abandon domesticity again. Yes, the film succeeds on that level, but if that were its sole effect, it would've become dated. There are exciting ambiguities, dilemmas and trials, not least in Alan Ladd's title character.No one-man show about some macho gunslinger like John Wayne or Jim Stewart, our focus is really on Van Heflin's humble homesteader Starrett, but all along we're keeping an eye on humble Shane, waiting for him to feel it's his place to step in. He doesn't enjoy barroom brawls and gun duels like football games. He doesn't even feel it's his place to advise Joe against a confrontation. He wants none of it. That's what makes him brave and heroic when he does take on Ben Johnson's pent-up Calloway and a room full of his valley bully buddies. He's not an invincible man machine. He bleeds, hurts, sympathizes.Shane's honestly seen as no physical contest for the hired guns looming over him. He rides into town with buckskin trimming and goes to the store to purchase dress slacks and an open-collar shirt that practically emasculate him compared to Ryker's husky, bushy brutes who seemingly live in the saloon. His first visit there establishes the entire story's feeling. Dressed fastidiously, he orders a soda and is mocked. Calloway belittles Shane's plowing tasks. The altercation ends with Calloway tossing his whiskey on Shane's new shirt. Meanwhile, little Joey is so head-in-the-clouds with awe that Shane becomes a paternal rival, notably teaching him how to shoot a gun. During a fantastic fight, Joey watches gleefully while eating a candy cane. On Independence Day, Shane and Marion dance. Joe watches, not showing apprehension, just acknowledgment of the new dynamic.As a Westerns, it all amounts to a barroom shootout, though first there's an uncommon amount of discussion. The people in the valley are not uncomplicated figurines. They grapple with thoughts about their doings. Ryker twice attempts to sway Joe to his side, and once attempts to recruit Shane. Ryker and Wilson have a muted and contemplative tête-à-tête about the possibility for brutality toward Torrey, another local farmer. Joe absorbs the settlers in arguments about how to counter Ryker's intimidation. The one character without much to say is Wilson, the notorious killer from out of town. He exists mainly as an ominous presence. The entire picture develops toward the inexorable reality that Shane must ultimately handle Wilson and Ryker's posse. If Shane survives, he can't stay, not just because he has been branded by killing, but because there's no tolerable reconciliation for his sentiment for Marion.So, he could let Joe confront the bullies and end up like Torrey, which is what Joe aches to do. That would leave Marion and Joey in poverty of a man. But Shane incapacitates Joe to avert that. He respects Joe too much. Or does he? Shane is so hushed, so inflowing in his uncommunicative retreat from common interactions, it's like he's denying his brutal capacities as long as he can, and then allows himself into a scenario where he's fated to draw on them, after which he'll ride on to repeat his lonesome cycle elsewhere. "}{"Title":"One Of The All-Time Greats","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I am specifically talking about Westerns, perhaps my favorite genre. I would put Shane in 2nd place in this category, right after The Magnificent Seven. I've seen Shane many times, the 1st time when I was 11. It still has the best bar fight ever put on film, even if Shane should have been out cold by the time Starett showed up. It has 2 loathsome villains in Jack Palance and Emile Meyer (who sounds like a cowboy/ longshoreman). It also has a 'good' bad guy in the character of Ben Johnson, and a swaggering Elisha Cook, Jr as a southern homesteader. Many readers spend too much time outlining the plot, which is a waste as most of us have seen the films we are commenting on. I just wanted to check in on my (2nd) favorite western - if you haven't seen it, where have you been? "},{"Title":"This film will be enjoyed by future generations as it not dated and has a great historic value because of it's authentic look at life in the Old West.","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw this film in 1953, when I was 12 yrs old and have never seen another western that matched it . It was almost a perfect movie. George Stevens who was himself a cinematographer before he was a director must have had a big say in it's photographic style. The cast was almost perfect also, except Alan Ladd was a bit too well dressed and clean for a gunfighter. Jack Palance was never better. Brandon De Wilde gave one of the best performances I have ever seen from a child actor. Too bad he died in his twenties. I have the DVD and play it often. When it's on TV I watch it also. I have a beautiful recording of the theme by the New Zealand Symp. Orchestra. LOVE THE MOVIE. J.J. "},{"Title":"farewell to the tradition","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane George Stevens is not my favorite director. As a fan of James Dean, I thought 'Giant' such a botch and a waste of a great talent, it ought to have been banned. But there's no doubt that in 'Shane' Stevens accomplished something of a miracle.Of course, there's a lot wrong with the film, and it hasn't aged well because of its flaws. First and foremost is the casting of the young boy actor, one of the most annoying child-actors to be given an important role in any film. Then there are the lag moments of which there are way too many; and the moments of inter-cut between location and sound-stage exteriors are not handled well. Finally, the dialog is just a little too pat, and borders on becoming instant cliché.So where's the miracle? First and foremost, it's a remarkable story, one of the finest in American film. We know Shane is a loser as soon as he starts working as a farm-hand; he works hard and does it well, but it clearly doesn't suit him; without the conflict with the ranchers, he would eventually have grown restless and moved on. His growing interest in the farmer's wife is another nail in his coffin; in another time and place he would have run off with her, but time has reached a point when he can only hopelessly pine away. So the conflict that brings him back to gunfighting is actually a blessing; it gives him a chance to deal with the fact that his own personality won't allow him the tender mercies of a common farmer's life.Fleshing out this story are remarkable performances from a remarkable cast (child-actor notwithstanding); gorgeous location photography; fine interior camera work in small spaces; an editing style developing natural visual conflicts between close-ups and full-shots. Stevens also wisely presents the moments of violence in the film in a manner that is flat-on and rapidly paced - there's no effort to make it appear more dramatic than it actually is.Finally, the theme of the film continues to haunt many of us; it is not simply a farewell to the tradition of the cowboy, the gunslinger, the cattle-rancher; it's the discovery that the great frontiers discovered from the 15th century on have all been well-mapped and closed off. There are no new territories to be explored, and we have entered an era when we need to learn to live with that, and with each other, without violence. 'Shane' allows us a moment to feel regret for that loss, before we must surrender regret as well. "},{"Title":"Among the greatest of all westerns","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" One of the great westerns but, like High Noon, it is a film that drifts in and out of favour. It's very classicism now can almost seem old-hat; the virtues of a well-made movie, a tale well-told, dismissed for lack of innovation and yet it seemed innovative at the time, a 'psychological' western rather than 'an oater' with as much emphasis on the characters and their relationships with each other as on the action.And it is a film in which the characters and the action stay in the memory Shane, the gunslinger who wants to settle down and put his guns to rest, a White Knight out of Camelot come to help the Starrets in their time of need; the Starrets, Joe, the decent homesteader forging out a new life in a new land for his wife and son; Marian, his wife, strong yet vulnerable, the lynch-pin of the family but stirred perhaps romantically by Shane's presence and Joey, the ten year old son who finds in Shane a father and a brother and an idolized hero out of the mythical tales of his own imagination. (The film deals explicitly with childhood loss; as Shane rides off into the sunset who can ever forget Joey's resonant pleading of 'Come back, Shane'?).Nor does it short-change us on the action sequences either the bar-room brawl, the killing of Elisha Cook Jr's Torrey, (by Jack Palance, one of the westerns most iconic villains), and the final gunfight, as inevitable and as classic as any in the movies. It didn't make a star out of Alan Ladd; he was that already, but it gave him his definitive role, the one that fitted him like a glove. And as the Starrets, Van Heflin, Jean Arthur, (in her final film) and the young Brandon DeWilde, (his best performance), were the perfect embodiment of the frontier family.As a director George Stevens, too, has fallen out of favour. There is no denying A Place in the Sun, Giant, The Diary of Anne Frank and most especially The Greatest Story Ever Told suffer, for the most part, from an enforced solemnity and a measured pacing in style that borders on the funereal, but it was a style that not only suited Shane, giving depth to Jack Schaefer's novel and transforming it into something classic and truly enduring. "},{"Title":"Memories of childhood, February 6, 2007","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I have seen this film so many times that I only see it again when I am alone at home. Each time my wife or children catch me watching a Western they say  Again Shane ! . The thing is that I like to see the original English version with a nice volume in the loud speakers of my home-cinema. The music is fantastic. The dialog also. With all the ambiance and action in my memories I have always dream of buying a small ranch. And finally I did buy one some years ago in a beautiful wild valley far away from civilization near the mountains of Tetuan ( my home town). People say I am crazy to buy land there, but I just cant stop it. I am a romantic. It's fun to have a horse ride in this scenery listening to Shane's music and heading to the village dreaming to enter Crafton's to meet Ruyker and Jack Wilson ! ... My rating  positively the best western in history. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story of human conflicts in a western setting.","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is one of the two finest westerns I have ever seen! The cast and direction, music are of the finest. Thsi film is movie making at its finest. This film goes far beyond the shoot em up westerns. Subtle interactions between Shane and Miriam are subtly expressed. Good and evil are clearly defined with the plight of the farmers vs the cattlemen well defined but in a harsh manner. The actions of Riker and Wilson leave no room for a settlement with honor, it must be settled with gunfire. The sets, the characters, the language is most authentic. The wardrobe is of that era! The music score by Victor Young adds to the overall excitement of the film. The sum total of this film is marvelous! "},{"Title":"Cinematic Poetry","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A vast landscape of unknown territory and land as far as the eye can see. Speckled along the way are roads leading to hole in the wall towns. It is in these towns and farmlands that the blue collar farmers and families can be found. It is in these places where men with too much power feed off of the weak and humble. Good versus evil. That was the old west. This is where Shane would be found.A man and his family caught in a heated land dispute are at their bitter end. It is either move out or prepare for the worst. Literally out of nowhere, a rider approaches. With him is the cool, calm, and collective attitude that only someone with many years in the saddle would have. Beneath this shroud of compassion lies a quick-draw killer. The likes that this family has never seen before. The man is referred only...as Shane.Director George Stevens brings to life the story of one family and how their lives and the lives of those around them would be changed forever thanks to Shane. Alan Ladd immortalizes his character Shane as one of the toughest and most complex characters. A man who seems to wander from place to place in no hurry or direction, finds himself in the middle of a fierce land battle. Instead of fleeing, he decides to weather the storm and help these helpless people earn a decent living.The family Shane encounters first are the Starrett's. Joe, Marian, and Joey Starrett take Shane in after he proves himself to be handy around the farm and it doesn't hurt to have a fast gun when the Ryker's come around. They are the so called land owners who try to run every one off of the land so they can have some room. These pioneer homesteaders find the will to persevere through each other and Shane.The fight between good and evil is as old as time itself. The biblical battles on the plains of heaven between angels and demons all the way through to the war on terror. There will always be a conflict between opposing forces or ideas. Which side is good and which is evil is a matter of perspective. Maybe these farmers are a bunch of squatters. Stevens is on their side. The Ryker's are evil from his view of the script and the camera.What better place to have this struggle than on the open range, where the cattle graze and the horses thunder across the plains. Stevens is an artist with the camera from beginning to end. The opening credits alone are a masterpiece. Magnificent panning shots of the lush wilderness following our mystery rider. Rather than film the entirely shot in front of a screen, Stevens used real locations for a more authentic look.Film can be looked at as light beamed through celluloid onto a screen. In certain cases, poetry is project onto a canvas where the story paints a picture that penetrates the audience. Shane is truly an experience to be seen by the masses. "},{"Title":"A classic American myth","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This film is a classic American myth - and I am not using myth in any pejorative sense.What is most interesting is to compare Shane with Clint Eastwood's Pale Rider. The myth is exactly the same except that Eastwood reverses who is good and who is villain. I am referring not to the hero but rather the people who are protected or attacked by the hero. What does this reversal say about how America has changed between 1953 and 1985? In Shane the hero defends the settlers who come AFTER the cattlemen and are a symbol of progress. In Pale Rider Eastwood defends the gold panning miners who arrived BEFORE the industrial miners who come second. Nevertheless, in both films those who came second represent progress. So, why does Shane defend progress while Eastwood attacks it? Are we no longer interested in progress - or has our understanding of progress changed? Films are capable of raising truly deep social and philosophical questions - and are at their best when they do so. "},{"Title":"Classic western with unusual but effective pacing...","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" 1st watched 4/10/2010 -- 7 out of 10(Dir-George Stevens) Classic western with unusual but effective pacing still strikes a chord even after fifty years since it's release. The story is about a wanderer, named Shane, and played by Alan Ladd who happens upon a family led by Van Heflin and helps them defend their farm against an evil rancher named Ryker(this theme has definitely been repeated in other westerns that followed). Initially, he helps by working for Heflin's character and befriends his son. Not much is known about his past, but he melds right in with the family and the other farmers. The fighting intensifies with the ranchers and Shane shows his fighting prowess and then kind of becomes an insurance policy against the threats of the ranchers. The style of the movie is interesting because it's paced slowly as if the events occurring are all part of their regular life and not necessarily out of the ordinary. I guess this was the intention of the Director, George Stevens, but it is so far removed from current Hollywood movies that it seems a little odd and makes it sometimes hard to follow. Despite this, the characters are given time to be understood by the audience -- not necessarily by what they say but more by how they respond to their situations. This is a movie I would like to watch again -- just to pick up things I may have missed on the first viewing. I guess this is a mark of a good movie and this one certainly is that despite the simplicity of the story and the unusual style. "},{"Title":"As good or as bad as the man who uses it","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" In the 1950s we see a rise in a new subgenre - the revisionist Western. It was partly inspired by the bolder political climate of the times, but also because a format whose clichés had become old Stetson despite still being popular was perhaps ripe for a bit of myth-busting. These pictures were somewhat hit-and-miss, often because the entertainment got lost behind the message. Others, especially High Noon, might be successful and critically acclaimed, but were controversial because they had no real respect or understanding for the people and mythology of the West. This is where Shane is different. Shane is a hard-hitting genre subversion while at the same time a tender homage.Shane was written by A.B. Guthrie, a man with very few screen credits, but the author of a series of very prestigious Western novels, so he certainly knew his stuff. His screenplay is filled with many familiar Western trappings - the stranger in town, the antagonism between cowboys and farmers, the saloon fight, the stand off. And director George Stevens shoots each one faithfully, with an emphasis on both excitement and humanity. And yet he gives Shane one crucial difference from the run-of-the-mill horse opera. The plot may be a bundle of clichés, but he makes the people and situations seem real. The characters' clothes are grubby and worn, as if they have been lived in and worked in every day for years. We see Van Heflin genuinely chop through a log. Most importantly of all, the gunshots are startlingly loud, and when shot people are thrown off their feet as happens in real life, rather than falling slowly to the floor with a bad case of heart burn, as shooting victims tended to appear in pictures of this era. Shane is a true product of Western mythology, but it also allows us to appreciate the human and emotional consequences of that way of life.Stevens' respect and love for the genre and its people is borne out in his style. His view of the west is idyllic, with landscapes that are not only breathtaking, but appear safe as well as green and bountiful. The interiors are shot rather oddly, with varying angles and rarely a mastershot, so you can't figure out the shape of a place. For Stevens, it isn't the space that is important, it's the people within it. Some directors were aces at juggling several players within the frame. Stevens more often gives each character their own shot, which means a lot of cutting from person to person, but is a nice technique because whoever is on screen at any given moment is briefly the focus of the entire movie. Stevens uses a multitude of reaction shots, often on the periphery of a situation, to show us varying attitudes, set up future involvements (for example Ladd and Jack Palance silently eyeing each other up while Heflin and Emile Meyer talk), or even keeping a character arc going. A good example of the latter is a brief shot of Ben Johnson looking rueful at the beginning of the funeral scene. Up to now his character has been nothing but an antagonist, but this shot prepares us for his performing a good act later on, without making him too obtrusive just yet.We are treated to a cast that is absolutely spot on right down to the smallest parts. First off, Alan Ladd in the title role. You know how gnarled and worn John Wayne looked by the time he hit his late 40s? Ladd was ready-made like this as a young man. Van Heflin and Jean Arthur were two players it was impossible to dislike, regardless of how sympathetic or otherwise their characters were on paper. Brandon De Wilde's performance is very special, because he acts like a real child, rather than a child trying to copy grown-up actors. Jack Palance fulfils his type as a menacing presence, but shows he can really act with it. Then there's Ben Johnson, the realest looking cowboy on screen since Tom Mix hung up his spurs, adding to the air of Western authenticity. Elisha Cook Jr. plays, as he usually did, a jumped-up twerp who is a foot shorter than he thinks he is, but his position here makes us realise how much sympathy we can have for a guy like that, as well as how good an actor he really was. Finally an honourable mention goes to Ellen Corby, a brilliant performer who deserved better roles then and deserves more remembrance today. Her part here is small, but she gives it the necessary impact.It's worth bearing in mind that George Stevens was not only the director of Shane, but its producer as well. The fact that he could do this shows how things were looking up for the industry. You see, in the late 40s Hollywood was in a bit of a crisis, with many of the smart producers of the 20s and 30s either out of action or out of ideas. On the sidelines were many independent producers and producer-directors who didn't really have the sense or the wherewithal to come up with anything exceptional. But by the 50s things had changes and balances were being struck. A man like George Stevens now had the experience and respect within the industry that he could come along to a studio like Paramount with a personal project, get the cast he required, take advantage of top studio staff such as cinematographer Loyal Griggs, costume designer Edith Head and composer Victor Young (whose score is so in tune with the feel of this picture), and bringing old friends like Ivan Moffat and Fred Guiol on board as well. And what's more, because he had the knowledge and discipline of those canny producers of the previous generation, he is able to give us a picture which is a thing of beauty and a joy forever. "}{"Title":"A total masterpiece by George Stevens","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I must admit I was never a western movie fan. But Shane is no ordinary western. It is so good, so grand, so wonderfully filmed, edited and acted that I must rate it among my favorites of all times. George Stevens made 3 great films in the early fifties A Place In The Sun, Shane and Giant. The other 2 are great, great films but Shane stands alone. Stevens choice to film with the background of the beautiful mountains of Grand Teton National Park adds so much to a film that one can see took great pains to re-create the look of the frontier days right down to all of the sets and wardrobe. Alan Ladd was never better and Van Heflin and Jean Arthur give wonderful performances. But it's the young Brandon deWilde that steals the movie. His performance and the way he looked up to Shane right to the end is terrific. He was one of a few outstanding child actors who was able to become a great adult actor in films like Hud and In Harm's Way. It's a tragedy that he died so young. I am sure he had many great performances left in him. "},{"Title":"The quiet gunslinger rides into western history","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There's a conflict between a powerful cattle baron Rufus Ryker and a bunch of settlers.Shane, a mysterious gunslinger rides into the valley and starts to work for homesteader Joe Starrett and his family.Shane is immediately liked by Joe's wife Marian and their little boy Joey.Little Joey wants to be a gunslinger like him.Shane gets right in the middle of the conflict.He finds it his duty to help the settlers.It's not going to be easy.What a fine and beautiful western here is.Shane (1953) is directed by the famed director George Stevens and it's based on 1949 novel by Jack Schaefer.Alan Ladd is perfect in his role as the quiet gunslinger Shane.Van Heflin as Joe Starrett is terrific.And you have to like Jean Arthur as Marian Starrett.Then Brandon de Wilde as Joey Starrett.He's young but what a stron performance he gives.This actor, who sadly died in a road accident at the age of 30 in 1972, was nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.And so was Jack Palance, who gives a great performance as a nasty villain called Jack Wilson.Emile Meyer is great as Rufus Ryker.And I always like the performance of Elisha Cook Jr., who plays Frank 'Stonewall'Torrey in this movie.Ben Johnson is very good as Chris Calloway.There is a lot to remember from this movie.Take the ending for instance.The boy witnesses in the saloon as Shane beats and kills the bad guys.Shane rides away and goes yelling after him Shane, come back! knowing, he never will. "},{"Title":"A Tale of Men as Told by a Boy","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is one of the most copied and imitated films of all time. Director George Stevens masterfully captures the alienation and aloneness that he no doubt learned in Europe during World War II, but with the unique twist of having it told from the point of view of an innocent boy. It is this master's touch, along with iconic performances by Alan Ladd and Jack Palance, that gives Shane its enduring quality and merits viewing by modern audiences.The plot is simple, which is what works best in Westerns. A loner named Shane, played by Alan Ladd, rides onto an isolated farm, tries to settle there peaceably, and finds himself thrust unwillingly into a dangerous situation. Jack Palance (Wilson) is a hired gun brought in to eliminate a local tough guy's (Emile Meyer) opposition among homesteading farmers. Brandon De Wilde plays Joey Starrett, son of the local landowner whom Shane is working with, who reveres Shane because he has all the skills - fist fighting, gunfighting, riding - that little boys admire, but adults realize are just ways to get into trouble.The Stevens touch is evident throughout. Multiple angles on every shot the quiet loner ultimately vindicated, broad, sweeping Technicolor vistas. Shane is an epic in the small sense, without the historical sweep of a Giant but just as dramatically showing the impact of larger events on a local community.Everything is seen through the eyes of a child. When Shane and Joey's father (Van Heflin) have a dramatic fistfight which indirectly defines the rest of Joey's life, it is seen from a child's perspective, through the feet of a nervous horse with all of the farm animals raging in the twilight. Shane's relationship with Joey's mother, replete with hints of attraction between the two, is kept completely innocent as a boy would imagine it. Shane is a man of few words, a child being unlikely to remember words as much as he would visuals. The film is packed with sentimental touches, not least the opening shot of Joey seeing Shane from afar, a deer turning to watch the lone rider as well, and the ending of Joey plaintively yelling farewell.Imitations abound in classic films such as Pale Rider, Unforgiven, and The Shootist. Clint Eastwood appears to have based much of his early career on imitations of the mysterious Shane outsider character, such as in his Pale Rider. Variations on the climactic shootout scene can be seen in John Wayne's final film The Shootist (watch out for the hidden guy with the shotgun, Duke!) and Eastwood's directorial pinnacle Unforgiven. When Palance moves the coffee pot out of the way at the end, it has the impact of the hit men buckling up in 1968's Bullitt. It is a simple story, but captured with signature flourishes in iconic fashion.Well worth viewing, at the top of the 1950s Western pile along with High Noon. "},{"Title":"A Reflection About the Human Condition","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" SHANE it's not only one of the greatest westerns ever made. It's also, mainly, a deep piece about the human condition, showing as background the fight for the land and the values related. The common division about the good guys and the bad ones receive here a new treatment you have people who wants to work his acres and build a better future for their children, in opposite for those who wants only to own the earth.The arrival of an enigmatic professional shooter, trying to find another way of life, begins to bring justice for the distant valley, far from order and law. The film uses all the usual western elements and symbols to represent his intentions the man who rides alone, the idolatry of the little boy, the spiritual love, the fight in the saloon, the funeral, the final duel. Everything glowing under the fantastic Loyal Griggs' cinematography, turning the beautiful landscape as a crucial part of the conflict. The classic Victor Young's score completes with heroism and poetry the huge drama, pointing emotionally the scenes and the great performances of all cast. Ladd, in his best role, have superb pauses, perfect as a man looking for a second chance. The natural approach of Heflin as a rude and honest farmer adds the counterpoint for the sensitive acting of Arthur and DeWilde. But the real highlight, indeed, is Palance, all in black, with his bizarre silhouette and strange face, marked by a provocative and cruel smile.Director George Stevens was at his peak when filmed it. Every frame is really a cinema lesson. The last ten minutes are probably one of best achievements in film editing (thanks for editor William Hornbeck and Steven's brilliant decoupage). Two years before he produced A PLACE IN THE SUN (1951), and three years later released GIANT (1956). The three classics are a vast vision about several aspects of America's history that must be seen for all. "},{"Title":"Jack Palance moves the goal posts as a baddie","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I'm an old geezer now but still remember like yesterday the first time I saw Wilson,portrayed by Jack Palance utter the words  prove it  . Looking like a true figure of malevolence clothed in black , slightly bandy and sneering with an evil half grin at Shane ( Alan Ladd) before Shane plugged him with his Colt .45, sending him to hell .Do films these days make such an impression ? I think not , the story line of good over evil , the stunning scenery, the interplay between Ladd and Palance, a cameo by one of the finest action cowboys (Ben Johnson) and the fist fight with Shane were and still are in my opinion riveting. The despair as Shane realises his day as come and rides off to die in the mountains accompanied by De Wildes plaintiff cries are unforgettable. A truly classic western. "},{"Title":"What a Difference a Director Makes!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Alan Ladd was one of those great actors who might have been.  Ladd's deadpan persona, which some have criticized as wooden, was the essential element in the suppressed emotion which would serve him so well in his greatest role, that of Shane.  In following Ladd's filmography, it's fascinating to see how the quality of his work is related to the complexity of the character he plays.  The more complex, it seems, the better Ladd's performance.  And of course, the enigma of Shane, the character's inherent complexity, lends itself perfectly to Ladd's talents.Sue Carol, Alan Ladd's wife and agent, didn't care for directors, preferring the actor-as-producer rather than director.  While this business approach contributed to great wealth and influence for the Ladd dynasty, it did not lend itself to the artistic achievements of which Ladd was capable.  Whether this was of concern to Alan can only be conjectured.However, one thing is certain, when Ladd was given a strong director, such as Raoul Walsh, Michael Curtiz, Edward Dmytryk  or George Stevens for Shane, the results were dramatic.  What may have been his finest performance was also his last, in Dmytryk's The Carpetbaqggers.  As the enigmatic Nevada Smith, was Alan Ladd replaying Shane? "},{"Title":"The best of the best","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Brandon De Wilde and Alan Ladd star in perhaps the most famous ending in movie history. Almost no one can forget, once having seen little Joey calling after a fast riding Alan Ladd, fading into the sunset, Shaaane, come    baaaack. This jewel of a movie stands for what we Americans stand for when we are at our best. There is the power of the little man against the big man, because he is armed with right. The righteous victory over the unrighteous. Who didn't feel a thrill as Shane rode into town to take on Jack Wilson, alias Jack Palance, simply one of the best villains ever. And when the black hatted and black hearted Jack Wilson was shot,Oh Lord didn't he fly backward, just as a person hit with a powerful bullet will be knocked back and down. Van Heflin was wonderful as the soft spoken big man who could fight like the strongest man. Jean Arthur was nearing the end of her career when she played the mother who would give it all up to save her man. Other notables were Edgar Buchannan and Ben Johnson. The Searchers and High Noon are great movies, but I think this is the best of all Westerns. "},{"Title":"A 10 rating of a great, well made and performed western.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I can't count the times I have watched Shane. I'm 65 years old and I saw Shane when it first came out. I think I can almost recite the players lines, I've seen it so much. The actors are so real and effortless in their performances, and the scenery is breathtaking. One thing that impresses me so much is the camera work. The fight scenes, one in the saloon and the one in the farmhouse yard, are outstanding. Alan Ladd and Van Heflin played their roles so naturally. I think Van Heflin did his best work in this movie. As for Brandon DeWilde, what a performance! He is perfect as Joey, so awestruck by this quiet stranger with the big gun. His curiosity and questions are so real. I think the greatest camera work is right at the end. When Shane rides off around the back of the store coming toward the camera, the camera switches to Joey coming off the porch to follow him. At that moment, the camera picks up Shane disappearing around the corner from the rear. What a outstanding and realistic piece of camera work and directing. George Stevens did a masterful job on this movie. It's going to be on again this month. I plan on watching it again. What a movie!!!  "},{"Title":"The first best movie I've ever seen!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I was young when I first saw this movie. What I saw was two quiet heros, Shane, with the confidence not to have to display it. And another, Joe, who is put to his first test. Both become better men as a result. Joe's son becomes the benefactor of their actions. A classic that I watch every chance I get, like tonight. "},{"Title":"Arguably the greatest western ever filmed","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is arguably the greatest western ever filmed, and certainly one of the most imitated. Alan Ladd stands about ten feet tall as the big-hearted gunfighter who defends a family of sodbusters against the unscrupulous acts of the local cattle baron. As touching and riveting as the day it was released, this is one of those rare movies, like Casablanca, which is timeless in its appeal. The cast is magnificent, the direction is excellent, and the plot is irresistably engaging. It may not have been the first, but it is, without doubt, the best of the feel-good westerns. In this film, Alan Ladd and Jack Palance  define for all time the white hat/black hat, good guy versus bad guy scenario which has become so cliche in lesser movies over the years. If you've never seen Shane, don't rent it--buy it. You will want to watch it over and over again. I love The Wild Bunch, Clint's spaghetti westerns, John Wayne's classics, and the venerable High Noon, but if I could own only one western, it would have to be Shane. "}{"Title":"One of the finest Westerns ever made, a beautiful film","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is quite simply an American icon.  It is one of those films that will live on forever because of its simple, but true, conception of America. Here we see the frontier in a microcosm, the mountain men, the cattle ranchers and the homesteaders.  We understand the conflicts and we sympathize with most of the characters (even the bad guys, well except for Jack Palance, he is just a b****rd ;).The story is timeless, with the hero being heroic and the villain being villainous, but Alan Ladd really brings something to the character of Shane... really establishes something deep and unique in the loner from the mountains.  Shane has become the archetype for many, many bad films that have followed it, so the story is not something that we will find unfamiliar... in fact, we jaded viewers will probably find it overly familiar, perhaps even hokey.  But if we can look past the seeming hokiness and look into the soul of the film, we will find something truly beautiful and worthwhile.We will the heroism of Shane, the self-sacrifice (that really FEELS like sacrifice in this film).  We will get an understanding of the conflicts that plagued the lives of those on the frontier.  But most importantly, I think that we will get a sense of the innocence that America once had about what it was and what it was doing.  I watch Shane at least once a year (I used to watch it with my Dad before he died, but now I do it alone), it revitalizes... makes feel that America might not be the terrible place that it seems sometimes... that there might be this innocence that we can still tap into if we need to.  Shane is one of those touchstone films, and for that I love it.Any society that could make a film like Shane cannot be all bad.Plus, the fight scenes are pretty damn cool ;) "},{"Title":"Towering, quoting New York Times about 20 yrs ago","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One of my absolute favorite movies, I named my son after Shane. There are so many memorable lines, the cinematography, the history of the west during this changing time. What is the relationship between Jean Arthur and Shane? I think there is an underlying plot concerning their relationship.  Is this Jack Palance's first film? I,ve seen it about 10 times, and there's only about five movies that I can say this about. Momma, I love Shane "},{"Title":"Alan Ladd walks tall","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  What Alan Ladd lacked in physical stature he made up for in a superb performance as the mysterious gunfighter who befriends homesteader Joe Starratt's(Van Heflin) family. From the majestic opening scenes of the beautiful Wyoming countryside to the very finish, this is a magnificent western. The basic story is not an unusual one for this genre. The Ryker brothers have reared cattle in the area for many years and object to families claiming land to set up homesteads. The Rykers' policy of violence against them is brought to a brief halt by the intervention of Shane. Sadistic gunfighter Jack Wilson(played memorably by Jack Palance) is hired to redress the situation but Shane proves that he is the faster on the draw in the inevitable showdown. The story is given extra impetus by having the young son of Joe Starratt playing a pivotal role. Young Joey grows to worship Shane and this is an important aspect of the tale. The final scene has Joey calling to Shane to come back as Shane decides that the only thing he can do is to move on. There is no living with a killing he tells Joey(not only has he despatched Jack Wilson but also the Rykers in the final shootout). The audience of course understands that the affection that has developed between Shane and Joe Starratt's wife(played by Jean Arthur) is an important factor in his decision. Like all good heroes, Shane makes the selfless choice).   "},{"Title":"If not the greatest Western, it's mighty close","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I like Shane as good now as I did when I first saw it back in the 50's. From the saloon fight to Shane's fight with Joe Starrett to the final showdown with Wilson, and all the scenes in between, like Chris (Ben Johnson) the bar bully who came around to be on Shane's side to that dog walkin' across the floor when Wilson shows up to the folks lookin' over the catalogue, the opening music score is great. It was entertaining to read all these previous reviews. "},{"Title":"One of the five best western movies yet made.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Alan Ladd's and Jack Palance's portrayal of professional gun fighters of the old West is unmatched, and is critical to the presentation of the story. It is a gunfighter film, and the gun fights are the best ever put on film.  I leave the philosophical explanations to the philosophers, and as for the lovers of GOOD westerns, this is one of the best.   "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Finest Western Movie Ever Made","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Set in the majestic Grand Teton National Park, the scenery is incomparable; the sets are very realistic; and the characters believable.  Here is a movie that presents the classic struggle between good and evil in a way that clearly separates right and wrong while leaving enough mystery to sastisfy the viewer.In a time when we all need some heroes to worship, Shane is a timeless classic, a masterpiece to give us strength and gladden our hearts.  If you are a man, you will easily relate to the strength and determination of a man like Shane.  If you are a woman, you will ache with compassion for him.Do yourself a favor.  Rent or buy this film today.  Then sit back, enjoy Victor Young's wonderful musical score, and prepare to be taken to another time and place, where strength of character counted for something.  I can not recommend this movie too highly.  "},{"Title":"Removing Stumps","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Regular readers of my evaluations know that I am generally tough on old westerns, unless they are pure.Its not because they were bad or ineffective when they were made, but because the ground has shifted under them so that many now deserve to be disowned. These westerns, combined with war movies, did more than reflect American attitudes, they defined them &#151; defined what it meant to be a part of this experiment of a collective social contract. So, just as many are repulsed by overt racism in old movies, so am I at many of the Wayne-Ford school which spawned a destructive political movement. The worst of these celebrate violence as a manly attribute and adherence to a code of honor above all. But there are what I consider pure westerns where the sense of place conveys an honesty. Many of those old Gene Autry movies, though trite were pure in this sense. It's not a dogmatic, cosmic honor so much as a sense of friendship and justice. Its not a sense that somehow God will even things by making the good guy prevail by being more effective at violence. This little film is pure. And it is wonderfully cinematic. Its pure in the story, where the evil rancher makes a pretty compelling case. He isn't intrinsically evil. He thinks he is being wronged. It is a case of competing rights, which is the true (and heartening) American story. Our hero isn't haunted, merely reluctant. The story comes so very close to implying a romance between him and the wife of his friend, that it shines in deliberately avoiding that tired trick.Its a bit cloying to have our designated on screen representative be an unrealistically dog- like boy (deliberately reflected in a loyal puppy elsewhere in the story).But its worthy in another respect as well &#151; its editing. Usually the method is to provide two of the following grand Technicolor vistas, dynamic movements of animal groups, silhouettes, dust, distant solitude. What Stevens attempts is something more documentary- like, avoiding all that. Its striking because of what it is not. The place is damp, real. The light is dark, as it actually is. The fights aren't noble or comic.His technique was to shoot every scene countless times and them burrow into an editing room endlessly making combinations, each one affecting some other, remote part of the film. He was obsessive over the consistency of tone, so even in films where he fails, you can setting into the world he creates. He drove the actors nuts, but it really is worth it. This is clean, consistent and pure. It is worth watching.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Realism and pure fiction.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane ,like some other Stevens ' movies is torn between realism and western clichés.The farmers 'life is depicted in minute detail.Consequently the best scenes are these which deal with ordinary lifethe dance is one of these perfect moments,ending with two children waltzing ...But the peak must be the funerala dog lays its paw on its master's coffin before it returns to the earth.All the farmers stand in the sunset and realize that they can all stand together and build a village with a church, a school.... and a graveyard,one of the men hastens to add.But everything which directly deals with Ladd's character is hackneyed to a faultalways winning,always getting away with every fight with barely a scratch,it's some kind of prototype for these eighties rather mediocre movies,the likes of Rambo.The cinematography,as always in Stevens's movies ,is a feast for the eye. I particularly love the last Heflin/Ladd fighting,which manages to transcend tritenessviolence seems to contaminate the whole farm,as the cattle and the horses go crazy.Stevens 'science for filming a scene from every angle works wonders here. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Professionalism at its Best","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There's no point in going over the story of a gunfighter who tries to retire and fails, nor in pointing out the historically incorrect conventions that were observed (the fastest draw wins). I'll just mention some impressions.It's about as good as any Western ever made because almost everything falls into place in ways that are both expected and novel. Victor Young's score is an example of the craftsmanship involved. The main theme is trite. It seems at times as if there were too much music, like a Disney Nature Film. We're used to long periods of silence now, except in mindless action movies. But Young's score is reversing the usual ratio of music to non-music and it works almost as well. Whereas dramatic music is usually saved for action scenes, the action scenes here are shot with only a few natural background noises, which serves to underscore the scene. Some of the music is kind of innovative too, the main theme aside. Young throws in an inspiring little Baroque tune, counterpoint and all, while the two men are heaving away at the recalcitrant tree stump (and the viewer bumps along with them). He provides a Leitmotiv (Dixie) for Old Stonewall Torrey. And that suspense music that precedes the shootout is maddeningly suspenseful, the tympanum and trumpets throbbing away in some crazy time signature like 5/4.Editing. Superb. The guy got everything just right. Under Stevens it is a finely structured job. There are no shock cuts, no sudden jumps, no infinitely slow dissolves. It's all barely noticeable. A few examples. When Palance enters Riker's saloon for the first time, there is a floor-level shot of him slowly opening the swinging doors and beginning to walk towards the camera. A dissolve brings his legs about fifteen feet closer, that's all. What is accomplished by such an unusual device? It subliminally engages the viewer who isn't quite sure what happened, it quickens the pace because we don't have to watch Palance's boots cover those fifteen extra feet, and it introduces an overall note of dis-ease into the scene. One more example. In the final shootout Shane whirls around and plugs Morg Riker on a balcony. Morg throws up his arms and drops slowly onto the railing before crashing to the floor below. At the moment of impact there is a shot of his body raising some dust, seen from Dewilde's point of view in the doorway. The shot is only a few frames long but adds momentum to an already furious engagement.The Sound. The Sound Department should get an award. I can't remember ever witnessing a more effective use of sound, both in terms of background noises and in terms of simple gain or volume. Horses nicker on the sound track and interrupt conversations whose content we can already guess -- as if we were standing next to the speakers. We see Shipstad riding towards Joe and Shane, who stand in the foreground. Shipstad is at a distance, maybe two hundred yards away, and we can barely make out his panicky calls -- Torrey dead! When Shane is teaching Joey how to shoot, he abruptly whips out his pistol and fires it three times and the blast is LOUD -- not the bangs we have heard in previous movies. Shane's final insult to Wilson (I've heard you're a low-down yankee liar) is recorded at boosted volume. Boards creak when they would creak in the real world. A dog howls in the background during a fist fight at night.Stevens' direction is so superior that it doesn't need much comment, but again I'll mention just a few innovative instances, which are done without drawing attention to themselves. Our first glimpse of Jean Arthur is through an open cabin window, and all we see is her figure whisking past the opening. Can you imagine how easy it would have been to vulgarize this exposition? Joey sees Shane approaching and tells Pa. Pa turns to the cabin window and calls out, Marian, a stranger's coming. Cut to a shot of the open window as we see Jean Arthur rush to it, stare out at Shane's figure, and maybe shade her eyes from the sun! It could so EASILY have been done by the numbers. Note too how, during this scene, the score blends both the main theme and the tune Marian is humming (Bringing Nellie Home)without a stitch of the seam showing. One more example near the beginning Joe makes a reference to Shane's gun and we are given a brief shot of the gun belt and pistol hanging from a chair -- but it is OFF CENTER rather than in the middle of the screen! It may sound dull but no major Hollywood director had done things like this before.Location shooting was at Jackson Hole, with the cloud-shrouded Grand Tetons butting up against the sky.Not that the film is entirely without flaws. The script leaves a little something to be desired. Stay where you are. I can drill you. Don't push it, Callaway. I wouldn't push too far if I were you. It'd be easy to get him to draw. Lines like that belong in a Monogram oater from 1935. And Alan Ladd in the principle part has the right sonorous baritone and the right body language but fewer facial expression than even Ben Johnson.But we should leave it at that. See this through the eyes of a contemporary audience, and preferably on the big screen, to truly appreciate this finely done piece of work. "},{"Title":"Lots to like here...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I was named for this film, for one thing....Everyone here is pretty much a big fan of this, and so am I. It IS a little slow moving, and yeah, having a guy who was basically Michael J Foxx's size(Ladd) play a Clint Eastwood/Bronson type role does make ya wonder, but sod it-Cagney was 5-6 and no one had trouble seeing him play a baddie all those years. Ladd does pull it off, for what its worth.Palance is effective if somewhat underused here. I like the run of classic character actors, ala the Ryker brothers-Myer and the other bushy haired guy; Ben Johnson, who was one of the best ever at this kinda thing, Elisha Cook(Icepick on Magnum),  Grandma Walton(Ellen Corby), etc. It really is top notch.You have to like the scenary, esp. with the Grand Tetons in the back, its a beautiful area they shot most of it in. I enjoyed seeing the period detail-bad lighting, muddy roads, barren landscapes-exactly what is to be expected in that time and place.Of course, the kid is great-and I like seeing Jean Arthur in a final performance too. You see her mostly in the '30s-stuff like 'You Can't Take it With you', for example, I don't think Westerns were her forte. But she is good here.I forgot to mention Edgar Buchanon, he always lent a lot to whatever he showed up in, too.Van Heflin was a rock and helps tie this thing together with a solid performance as the stolid, resolute father/famer. You can't fault him here a bit. He too is kinda forgotten nowadays.I consider this to be a classic, something like a **** star rating would do it justice, sure.Not as great as the Searchers in me book, but right there. "}{"Title":"Shane came back","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane (1953). Re-re-re-watch and again enjoyed it. This was possibly my first introduction to Alan Ladd back in the mists of time and when I think of him, it's Shane I see.Paid a bit more attention to the gang of bad'uns this go round as someone on CFB had posted a quote from the cattle boss. Could see his side of the problem but not sympathize with his methodology at all.Fun, as always, watching Walter Jack Palance drinking his coffee and waiting until he was needed. Poor Elisha Cook... saddest movie moment was when the man who teased him with his harmonica playing switched to playing Taps.Always liked Brandon deWilde and Jean Arthur and Van Heflin and they all were just right, imo. Watch for Grandma Walton and Jane Hathaway as homesteader wives and Ben Johnson ! My only minor complaint was that the fight scenes were just too long and too much heavy artillery (chairs, bottles, bare knuckles applied in total knockout punches that don't end the fight etc). I like Western bar brawls but this one, this time, not so much.All in all... a forever favorite and not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Shane is probably one of the best of the movie westerns!","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had originally watched this as a teen but for some reason, I don't remember being too impressed with it. Now, 30 or so years later, the themes seem to resonate with me more like the homesteaders defending their living quarters against the cattle rustlers intent on plowing through or the gunslinger trying to reform his ways. Alan Ladd got the character that made him an icon when he accepted this role as the title character with Jack Palance becoming one as well in one of many times playing the western villain. A couple of players would eventually become characters in Paul Henning sitcoms-Edgar Buchanan-another homesteader here-would become Uncle Joe on Petticoat Junction and Nancy Kulp-one of the homesteader daughters here-would become Jane Hathaway on The Beverly Hillbillies. I also recognized Elisha Cook Jr. from The Maltese Falcon as a transplanted Southerner and Ellen Corby-who I mainly knew from It's a Wonderful Life-my favorite movie-as well as from a previous George Stevens movie-I Remember Mama. In summary, I'll just say that Shane is perhaps one of the best westerns ever made outside of any one of John Ford's filmography. P.S. I also enjoyed the commentary on the DVD by George Stevens Jr. and associate producer Ivan Moffat. "},{"Title":"Slow, dull and tedious at times- but visually stunning.","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a 1953 western film, directed by George Stevens and stars Alan Ladd as the titular hero, Shane as well as Jean Arthur, Van Heflin and Brandon DeWilde. Shane is often regarded by many as a classic western and labelled as 'culturally, historically or aesthetically significant' by the Library of Congress in 1993. Shane no doubt has beautiful cinematography with jaw- dropping, eye popping shots of the Wyoming landscape during its opening scenes. However, the film suffers from one of the worst offences possible, especially for a western- it is too drawn out, too slow and has dreadful dialogue. most notably from the interactions between Shane and Joey. In these much of the dialogue doesn't hold up today showing it's awful ageing by today's standards- some of it unfortunately sounding down right disturbing. Continuing with this is the atrocious acting by Brandon DeWilde- his character Joey is extremely irritating throughout with an ear-piercing pitched voice and either under acting or over acting depending on the scene, this as an audience turns us away from the character leading to us not care for some of the more 'emotional' scenes. Shane also seems to have a surprising lack of action scenes, this resulting in the film seemingly trudge along at snails pace. Another flaw with Shane is well, Shane himself. Alan Ladd is extremely dull and emotionless for most of the film, Shane neither grows on us or seems to develop with the story- it isn't until the end when we really finally appreciate Shane as a character with a crowd-pleasing finale and generally pleasing closing scene. Overall, Shane while many to be considered a classic western masterpiece, certainly in it's beautiful cinematography and authentic western scores it shines through- but with a snail-pace story, some terrible acting and dialogue and some poor characterisation holds it back significantly as a personal opinion. 6/10 "},{"Title":"classic western","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Weary gunslinger Shane (Alan Ladd) rides into a sparsely populated Wyoming valley, and right into the middle of a fight between ruthless cattle baron Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer) and the settlers. Youngster Joey Starrett is immediately taken with Shane. Joe (Van Heflin) and Marian Starrett (Jean Arthur) give the stranger a job. Ryker tries to drive the settlers out with men like Chris Calloway (Ben Johnson) and hired killer Jack Wilson (Jack Palance).The picture is beautiful. The setting is idyllic. The color is bright and the landscape seems to come out of an old master's painting. The story is basic and repeated throughout movie history. It is the very young Joey that brings a side of fresh, innocent point of view. It is old fashion and the quintessential western of good versus evil. "},{"Title":"This is undoubtedly one of the greatest westerns ever made.","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Beautifully crafted, this quintessential tale of the old west features magnificent cinematography from Loyal Griggs. Against the unbelievably dramatic backdrop of the Rocky Mountains, peaceful homesteaders try to withstand the efforts of the local rancher to drive them off what he considers to be his land. Into the tale rides Shane (Alan Ladd). Befriending homesteader Joe Starrett (Van Heflin) and his family, he becomes involved in the conflict.We are never told that Shane is a gunfighter, but we and the Starretts know this instinctively. Shane finds something he might never have known before; a sense of belonging, a familial love for the Starrett family. Not just Joe but Joey (Brandon De Wilde) his son, and Marian (Jean Arthur) his wife. It's the unspoken love between Shane and Marian that gives the film much of it's emotional power. Although unspoken, Joe becomes aware of it and accepts it, knowing that his wife and Shane are above suspicion. Joey is aware of it too, eventually speaking of it in the films final scenes.Seen largely through Joey's young eyes, this is a mythic tale portraying a time when good and evil were easy to recognise. Jack Wilson (played by Jack Palance) enters the story as a force for evil. Dressed largely in black, the contrast between Wilson and Shane, in his buckskins, is stark.Alan Ladd was simply never better, finding particular nuance in the expression of his unspoken love for Marian. Van Heflin also gives probably his finest performance as the solid, upstanding Starrett, accepting that someone else might be better able to take care of his family than he is. Jack Palance is extraordinarily menacing in a role with few lines, using his physicality to great effect. Jean Arthur as Marian is the heart of the piece, her love for Joe, Joey, and Shane holding the story together, and the silent affection she holds for the titular character beautifully conveyed by expression.Full of iconic scenes, George Stevens creates something special. Shane riding towards the Starrett homestead framed between antlers; Shane and Joe working together on a tree stump and forging a bond of friendship; a bar brawl to end all bar brawls; Shane shooting a rock for Joey and the violence of the gunshot; the first shocking killing; a funeral played out in a harsh landscape against the beautiful mountains; the distress of horses and farm animals conveying the violence of a fist fight; and then the finale. And then we have Joey and Shane, creating possibly the most iconic scene of all.This is undoubtedly one of the greatest westerns ever made. For this viewer, it also one of the best movies to grace our screens. It is simply a wonderful piece of work from all concerned. "},{"Title":"My First Western, A Classic Western!","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane did not disappoint, as a tale of a former gunslinger traversing the western frontier attempting to leave his weapon yielding ways in the past. When he happens upon an area inhabited by settlers, Alan Ladd's Shane defends the family he runs into against a gang of brothers and their lackeys who are trying to drive out all of the settlers (homesteaders) whom they feel have encroached upon their land. Because of this defense action the homeowner Joe Starrett, who had been single-handedly responsible for maintaining the morale within his group, asked Shane to stay and work on his land with him and his family. Although initially reluctant, Shane agreed to stay, and forged quite a friendship with the homesteaders. This kinship did not come without its challenges. Shane was tested many times against the Ryker gang, attempting to remain nonviolent committed to his drive to leave his six-shooter behind. Watching the various times Shane walks into a battle with the Ryker gang leaves the audience intrigued, and wondering if he can refrain from his old ways, especially under the harsh circumstances of this current rival group.This 1953 western classic was beautifully filmed against the backdrop of frontier life. Open spaces, mountains, plains, and plenty of wildlife fill the screen and create a pleasing ambiance for the viewer. This was also my first experience seeing Alan Ladd on screen and needless to say, I was not disappointed. Ladd balanced his strong presence on the screen with his softening heart for the Starrett family, especially the youngest member of the family, Joey. This could have been a difficult duality to conquer, but Ladd proved a strong enough actor to do so with ease. The ensemble cast was a joy on screen, and the chemistry seemed to flow quite naturally. The film was not overly scored, nor did it need to be, being a frontier piece. The lighting was set low, which was mostly appropriate for not only the setting, but also for the devolution of mood that occurred throughout the film's morality tale. At times, the lighting should have been a little sharper for visual purposes. The technical aspects of the film were more than adequate for its time period.I quite enjoyed Shane. The multiplicities within film come together charmingly to ensure that Shane doesn't live on as just another western, or morality tale. The quest of good vs. bad, might vs. right will seemingly always be questions that human beings must answer. These differences are illustrated on screen with Shane donning a white hat, and his antagonist clad in a black hat. It seems to us that this is Shane's business, traveling from town to town righting wrongs and helping those who cannot adequately defend themselves. It seems as though he knows no other way than the perpetual savior granted, a role that suits him well, but we are left wondering if it is a role Shane himself is happy to serve. It seemed as though the everlasting loner longed to end his nomadic life and find a woman, as Mr. Starrett continuously suggests, and to be a part of a family. The audience will never know if Shane ever puts down roots, but it was a wonderful story to see unfold before he rode off into the sunset. "},{"Title":"Shane another classic western","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This film is widely regarded as one of the classic western films of all time, and I agree. Its a very good film. Films like this one specifically promote the values of good versus evil.Jack Palance plays the villain in this film, he doesn't have much to actually say but the key to this film is Palance's body language he is extremely scary. Emile Meyer and Ben Johnson also play good parts on the evil side.On the good side Alan Ladd is the hero in this piece he comes to help a family played by Van Helflin, Jean Arthur and De Wilde (who is just so adorably cute).It still amazes me how many punches these people could tolerate they would have knocked me out after one blow! I believe it inspired many a father to name their child Shane thereafter. "},{"Title":"Another world","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Watching this beautifully shot movie gave me, somewhat strangely, the same feeling I had watching The Night of the Hunter. We seemed to be another world, one with good and evil like ours, but more naive and innocent. The physical setting under the mighty Grand Teton mountains, the beautiful colour cinematography, the simply told story of good triumphing over evil, the constant presence of animals of all kinds, and especially the constant return to Joey's perspective on the unfolding events all contributed to this feeling.Alan Ladd's Shane was the slenderest, gentlest gunfighter hero that ever was. And Jack Palance's fixed smile (or rather mean grimace) was perfect. Jean Arthur was at the end of her career, and perhaps a little miscast as the young mother and wife.It was the filming that really stood out. Every scene was memorable, particularly&#x97;for me&#x97;the funeral scene, the opening scene with Joey taking potshots at a deer, and the fight between Shane and Starret, much of it showing not the fight but Marian and Joey's fear, as well as the fear of the horses and cattle. "},{"Title":"Simple and effective. An annoying kid though.","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a traditional old-fashioned hero movie. Stranger comes to the country; he is of course strong and shoots well; he protects the innocent. The bad guys are wholly bad, only becoming a little less bad to give more contrast to the ultimate villain.The story is not complex. It is just about ranchers bullying settlers, centering on Shane's experience being with one of the families. There are no sub or side-plots, just the escalating conflict. The movie paces itself quite well and the story has a traditional and steady rise up to the climax. It was quite interesting and well paced.The acting is a mixed bag, but there is a very clear culprit to point out.There is a kid named Joey played by Brandon de Wilde. He is in this movie a lot as one of the main characters and he is absolutely terrible. Everything about his scenes is uncomfortable. The camera hangs on too long until he stops moving his eyes and says something. His delivery is excruciatingly fake. And maybe it is a sin to comment on an actor's looks but his buck teeth, squinty eyes and and giant forehead in combination with his manner of speaking just make him seem ...special.Dialogue overall has ups and downs. There are parts that sound like they were written by an unschooled person for a comic book, and Joey is the concentrated juice of that style. Weird thing is, there are also moments when it suddenly gets deep and grown up.The villain is really good though. Snake eyes, evil smile, everything about this guy is wonderfully psychotic. He is played by a certain Jack Palance who I thought was wearing some special mask for this movie, but that is actually the guy's real chin! In fact, this bad guy pretty much makes up for the boy's acting, but is unfortunately not given as much screen time.The cinematography's alright, although has imperfections here and there like a noticeable cut in the middle of a scene or the day-for-night scenes (it was the CGI of those days wasn't it). I can tell at one point that a man whistles but the makers dubbed a word being said over it instead. Hoping no one would notice? Also, this is not a point against the film so much, but it is a point of contention. The motivations of the good characters are weird. The farmers are no fighters and have families. They insist on standing their ground against a number of armed men and the main character only seems to encourage this behavior, knowing the danger this brings to the families. It sounds increasingly more stupid and irresponsible as the movie progresses and things become more dangerous.Have I mentioned I hate the kid? I really hate that kid.Anyway, the film is a feel-good traditional western. It is a bit thick, but it makes sense and it is for most part enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A western classic","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" George Stevens' Shane is western movie unlike any other western movies that I have seen before and ranks with great westerns like The Searchers (1956), Pale Rider (1985), The Cowboys (1972), The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance (1962), Unforgiven (1992), and much more. The movie tells the story about a former gunfighter turned drifter who calls himself Shane (played by Alan Ladd) is hired to protect the land of a homestead family the Starrets(each played by Jean Arthur, Van Heflin, and Brandon DeWilde) until they find out that a man named Ryker (played by Emile Meyer)and his gang of outlaws wants their land and could do anything in his absolute power to take it over from the family, which forces Shane to go back to his gun-fighting days and saves the family property from land takeover. Stevens' direction for the film is just plain excellent for which to me it is kind of similar to the way that Howard Hawks directed Rio Bravo (1959). And to those people who didn't like the movie I would dare you to watch it again. "}{"Title":"Right or wrong, it's a brand. A brand sticks. There's no going back.","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A weary gunfighter named Shane (Alan Ladd) tries to settle down and live a peaceful life with homesteaders. But conflict between the homesteaders and a rancher may force him to pick up his gun again.Low-key, thoughtful western with beautiful cinematography, excellent direction, and a fantastic cast. Alan Ladd does a solid job in probably his most famous role. Jean Arthur and Van Heflin are both terrific with strong, sensitive performances. Jack Palance is chilling as a hired gunslinger. The final showdown between he and Ladd is powerful stuff. Wide-eyed hero-worshipping Brandon De Wilde is one of the most memorable parts of the film. He makes the ending one of the most unforgettable of any western. It's often parodied but it's very good, in my opinion. Ben Johnson has a small role as one of the bad guys who has a change of heart (I was just askin' about sody pop...pigs and taters and one thing and another). His fistfight with Ladd is pretty bloody and realistic for the time. I'm used to seeing him play not-quite-John-Wayne parts. It was a nice change of pace. The fine supporting cast includes Edgar Buchanan, Emile Meyer, John Dierkes, and Elisha Cook, Jr. Deservedly called one of the best westerns ever made. Can't recommend it strongly enough. "},{"Title":"The overall rating is wrong","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There is something wrong when a movie such as Shane garners an overall rating of only 7.7. Shane is considered to be one of the best Westerns (and movies) ever filmed. The camera work, cinematography, acting and storyline are all top notch. I did not give Shane a rating of 10 only because I felt that the graveyard scene was a little too drawn-out and slow. Yet, the overall movie is excellent. The final shoot-out in Grafton's Saloon is one of the best of all time. In fact it IS the best of all time. It is brief but it blows your socks off. To anyone who feels that Shane is not such a great movie, perhaps some day you will learn how to appreciate and critique movies that deserve commendation. "},{"Title":"Great little western","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Must say I'm impressed. It feels different from the average western somehow, and I can't quite place it. It's very minimal, set in a small patch of country and a tiny town with homesteads scattered around it. The photography and composition is beautiful, the setting looks like a world in itself, closed off by the giant mountains. Alan Ladd's performance is also excellent, he seems almost like a golden virtuous statue. The visual storytelling is excellent, I love the opening when he rides into the homestead, the kid watching through the bushes, and when he suddenly goes out and starts hacking at the tree stump and Joe joins in. Terrific film, recommended. "},{"Title":"One of Hollywood's most powerful productions","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A powerful movie that significantly raised the bar for western movie productions until the emergence of the spaghetti westerns ten years later. A common western film theme of the skilled gunfighter (Alan Ladd as Shane) trying hard to steer away from his violent past; in this case finding solace in settling in with a homesteading family. But, evil comes a calling and the gunfighter is forced back to his gun to save his adopted family from evil land-grabbers who up the ante by hiring a professional gunfighter (Jack Palance). The theme itself is far from unusual for western movies. The difference in this production was the clever way the storyline was shrouded in mysteries. Mysteries that make the viewer think and think and think. One measure of a successful movie production, in fact, is its ability to keep the viewer thinking about what he or she saw, many weeks, months or even years later. Did the homesteader's wife (Jean Arthur) fall for our hero? Did her son (Brandon De Wilde) admire our hero more than he did his farmer father (Van Heflin)? The ending was the most intriguing puzzle of them all; does Shane ride off wounded into the night to die alone or is he off to simply rejoin the ways of the gunfighter in realization that it is not possible to escape being a gunfighter and simply reenter the productive hardworking civilian family life. In support of the first case scenario the production has the hero gliding through a graveyard as he rides out of the movie into the night slightly slumped and nursing a stiffened wounded arm. The second scenario is supported by a handful of innuendos sprinkled throughout the movie about the endless fate of gunfighters to remain part of that violent subculture, unable to simply revert into a peaceful profession.The boy's admiration for the hero, best illustrated in his desperate cries for Shane to come back, as the hero rides out of the movie into the night, touched the hearts of a whole generation of young boys growing up in the 50s and 60s becoming one of the movie industry's most iconic scenes ever. Whether the boy's cries are interpreted as cries for a departing security screen or as cries from a broken heart; coming of age boys learned that as you admired your father, it was also perfectly permissible to simultaneously idolize an alter hero role model as portrayed by the mysterious savior riding out of the mist to sacrificially face up to evil that threatens the order of which you are a part of.The breathtaking majestic mountain scenery of the blue-gray Grand Tetons in Wyoming as backdrop was a valuable addition to the Shane story adding an ingredient of natural awe to the unfolding subplots of the storyline. The theme song of the film The Call of the Faraway Hills parallels the backdrop of the entire story. The hero image is cleverly played up in the production as the camera tracks our hero's long horseback trot at dusk into town for the climatic showdown, with the soundtrack accentuating the image of the lone hero riding back into the life that he had failed to shed. The power of this movie is its ability to glorify the gunfighter as it wraps him in pathos. "},{"Title":"My love is Shane-less","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had seen clips of this film over the years, and I finally sat down and watched it all the way through this afternoon-- thanks to TCM and my DVR. Sorry to say that while some parts worked for me, as a whole much of it did not. And I am afraid that if I list the many reasons why, the SHANE lovefest attendees will take me to task! But here goes anywayThere are at least a half dozen things that do not work for me in SHANE. Number one, the relationship between the boy and Shane-- Joey seems to either have a crush on Shane (especially in the beginning) or to be mentally incapacitated to the point that all he can do is gawk and gush at anything Shane says or does, which comes off a bit odd and makes Claude Jarman's character in THE YEARLING seem much more normal.Number two, the casting of Jean Arthur who was past fifty at the time this picture was made-- she should have been playing Joey's granny. The close- ups have that Lucille Ball in MAME sort of blurriness to them.Number three, the music good as it is truly upstages most of the acting and so does the scenery. And so does the dog. But the music is definitely too much in some spots, and it should have been used more sparingly. The way it plays now, some of the music is so sweeping and melodramatic I half expected to hear Jean Arthur's character say the chickens weren't laying any eggs and that the music would swell up and we could collectively sigh (and cry).Number four, the fact that Palance was underused (maybe a little bit of his meanness goes a long way but I think he is used much better playing the same type of role in OKLAHOMA CRUDE twenty years later).Number five, the painfully slow narrative that is camouflaged by quick edits where characters do not even move, which only draws attention to the fact that the editor is trying to save the story from becoming too dull or tedious.And number six, the fact that all the poor folk are good upstanding citizens when I have yet to find any community where all the people are perfectly virtuous and one individual of power is the only corrupted member of society. It doesn't seem very realistic. "},{"Title":"What IF Shane Came Back??","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I just figured little Joey would have more of an impact on Shane's decision to depart, but much to me and ma's chagrin he went a whistlin off into the sunset. I found many elements in this film surprising. I never saw a Western attempting to provide an 8 year old's POV. I kept expecting a secret romance reveal between Marion and Shane, nary a touch save for the bandaging scene. The typical Arizon/Utah redstone backdrop was replaced by the majestic Tetons, which stole every frame, truly breathtaking! I did not expect Shane to keep his cool under fire during the first saloon provocation, and I mean COOL! Another unexpected element was the fierce evil portrayed by Palance, amazing talent with just a look and that black glove. I found the pairing of Van Heflin and Arthur quite odd, she is a mother of an 8 year old, married 10 years but these folks look more like grandparents. I did not even find her charming in Mr. Smith, so unexpected role for her in this venue.So, with the many non-formulaic aspects of this film, I discovered a masterpiece. Perhaps, one too many bug eyed mugs from Joey, think even the dog was guilty of same, the subdued dialogue and action made for such a surprising epic for a western.High recommend for Wyomming picturesque shots, Alan Ladd remains alive at the end fans, Jack Palance's preview role for City Slickers and kids with a crush for gunslingers. "},{"Title":"Shane - a timely message from George","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shortly after I borrowed a copy of Shane from the library and watched it for the umpteenth time, came the news of another mass shooting from the U.S.A. &#x96; California to be exact. George Stevens message about guns has fallen on deaf ears for too long. Stevens had covered World War Two as film-maker and knew the reality of guns. He was disturbed by how they were being depicted in films &#x96; particularly Westerns. Guns were being glorified and their impact on the human body trivialized. In Shane the six-shooter is shown to be a brutal and cowardly instrument of death that even the good guy Shane cannot logically defend by claiming it to be a tool like any other that is as good or bad as the man using it. Jean Arthur's character, Marian, replies that everyone would be better off if there wasn't a single gun in the valley and adds the rider &#x96; even yours. Marian knows that it is the gun culture that is dangerous and that arguments about good guys and bad guys miss the point. Stevens does a great job of re-sensitizing his audience to the brutal nature of the handgun by emphasizing its sound. The film's soundtrack is kept at rather low levels until Shane demonstrates his ability with his gun and then the gunshots leap out at us. Whilst Little Joey is thrilled, the adult Marian and hopefully the adults in the audience are left shocked by the noise. The sound, of course, has been exaggerated but it is as if Stevens is doing this in order to emphasize how the popgun effects of previous westerns have minimized the effects of guns. I don't think that there is a more brutal depiction of a gun murder than that of Stonewall Torrey by Jack Palance as the smirking assassin, Jack Wilson. Again, it is probable that a bullet could not throw a man backwards as violently as was Torry but I am pretty sure that Stevens was emphasizing how the balletic fall forward deaths of many westerns of the time had only served to desensitize the audience to the brutality of the weapon. I,like little Joey, played gunfights in the backyard with toy guns with (caps were generally unavailable) vocally-produced sound effects of pow-pow or kish. We dramatically clutched our chests and fell forwards, counted to ten and then jumped up and returned to the fun. We had been brought up on the fantasy and unreality of T.V. and film westerns. Shane was the first film to make me do a rethink about the romanticism of guns. Torrey's death seemed real as did the whole film. The clothes were clothes (homemade or store-bought), not costumes from a Hollywood costume company, and the faces were those of people who may have really lived in the north west of the U.S.A. in the 1880/90's. Jean Arthur is the prettiest woman in the film but even she had a thick-set body of a pioneer woman. She was in her 50's at the time and I am sure that Stevens didn't want a glamorous actress (by modern day standards) to give a hint of unreality to the film. As Shane leaves, he tells Little Joey to go home and tell his mother that there are no more guns in the valley. I am sure he meant six-guns that are designed to kill people. For those who want to argue about the necessity of guns for pioneers, there was still a rifle at the Starrett homestead but it wasn't kept loaded. It was there to provide meat or as protection but it was not the same as the guns Shane or Wilson carried. I hope Joey grew up strong and straight as Shane wished and that he grew up to know the difference between fantasy and reality. I thank George Stevens for helping me to realize the difference between the two. Oh, by the way, I am not naive enough to think that anything I have written could change minds. If watching Shane doesn't make you do a rethink then nothing will change you. And it was made by a real life American who risked his life filming war and was steeped in the realities of pioneer western life as well as that of the Native Americans. But don't go listening to George. What would he know? "},{"Title":"Shane and the American Male","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If a culture makes a people, Shane made the people--at least the men--of my generation. The Shane - High Noon - Man Who Shot Liberty Valance theme still resonates in our minds Do what's right, despite the opposition, despite the lack of support from others. BTW, it's too bad the kid, Brandon De Wilde, was killed in a traffic accident at age 30 in 1972. He still lives on, though. Victor Young's music is first rate. If a culture makes a people, Shane made the people--at least the men--of my generation. The Shane - High Noon - Man Who Shot Liberty Valance theme still resonates in our minds Do what's right, despite the opposition, despite the lack of support from others. BTW, it's too bad the kid, Brandon De Wilde, was killed in a traffic accident at age 30 in 1972. He still lives on, though. Victor Young's music is first rate. "},{"Title":"The quintessential Western myth, as presented by George Stevens","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane can best be described as an archetypal Western. In the movie, a lone gunslinger rides into town and is quickly drawn into a conflict between a group of homesteaders and a ruthless cattle baron. Western plots along these lines are a dime a dozen but here the simplicity of the story actually represents a shrewd distillation of Western mythology. In essence, Shane is to the West what Beowulf is to Scandinavia.Playing the titular gunfighter, Alan Ladd doesn't say a lot, nor does he have to. Neither does his counterpart, Jack Palance's 'man in black', Jack Wilson. These men are larger than life; heroes and villains on a mythic scale. In essence, we see these characters through the eyes of young Joey Starrett.The film garnered a pair of Oscar nominations in the Best Supporting Actor category. The aforementioned Jack Palance's menacing performance was recognized, as was 11-year old Brandon de Wilde's touching portrayal of Joey Starrett. Van Heflin didn't receive any accolades but he contributed a vital performance in the central role of Joe Starrett. The rest of the supporting players (including Jean Arthur in her last film role) all upheld the high standard set by the others.George Stevens' direction was rewarded with an Oscar nomination but, while it was indeed ably handled, I felt that it lacked the verve of previous pictures of his like A Place in the Sun & Gunga Din. Perhaps it could also have benefited from widescreen presentation, which was just then coming to the fore. Meanwhile, Victor Young's score is decent but nothing to write home about.In the end, the story's simplicity, combined with the gravity of the portrayals, invests the film with an elusive quality that is difficult to quantify in words. What would be seen as cliché in a lesser film is here elevated to mythic status. As a result, Shane is undoubtedly an essential American Western worthy of mention alongside the films of John Ford. "},{"Title":"Still A Great Watch...","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Alan Ladd heads a fine, mostly B-list, cast in this iconic western from the golden age of operatic presentation.He's the mysterious stranger 'Shane' riding out of oblivion. Shane might be a lethal man to confront. Yet he's a basically good man, too - one for whom bad decisions in youth have tainted his destiny with bleakness. He is fearless in a fight, and peerless with a gun. These qualities enable him to behave with restraint and modesty. The insecurities that cause most of us to feel threatened don't influence him. And here he comes, a distant horseman exquisitely filmed in the golden sunlit, broad sweeping vistas of Americas west.Shane is handsome, youthful and amenable, yet there's something mysterious about him too. That combination of fearlessness and modesty make him enigmatic. You can tell there's more to him than meets the eye. Something hitherto undisclosed sustains that quiet confidence.He's the perfect character for a child's hero. And young Joey, watching his arrival will soon worship him. Van Heflin is the able rancher called Joe Starrett. He's a match for Shane in most ways but a gunfight. Not so handsome, perhaps; yet Joe is just as stout of heart and sound in character. Each have taken their decisions and applied their skills to life. There is an immediate bond of mutual respect. Joe's wife, Marian, also admires him. She finds him attractive in a way that any woman would. Yet she's a good wife who would never willingly compromise what she has. And Shane wants to outrun his troubled past; he would never lead her astray, out of respect for them both as well as their son.Yet a man may be doomed to accept his destiny. Shane's arrival is apt to the moment; there's trouble between the smallholders and a baron who wants them out. Ony killing will resolve the issue. This movie sets-up and quietly runs the plot of classic western opera at a pace that's near perfect. The littleness of human purpose seems etched into the vast wilderness. Characters are simple, but neatly described. I particularly like Elisha Cook Jr's character as the prickly former Confederate. Script is equally straightforward and believable. It's a treat to watch.Good and bad in conflict, goodness prevails at a price.There is nothing particularly outstanding about this movie. No one element outshines another. The result is just better than its parts. Clint Eastwood re-made it as 'Pale Rider' as part of his western revision. His was also an excellent work, but not better. The slightly languid pace of 'Shane', epitomised by the lines 'Someone's coming pa,' 'Well, let them come,' may not suit the impatient, but those who are willing to set a spell gain a handsome reward. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Marvellous","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The final gun fight is just outstanding. Everyone is trying to avoid a fight except Jack Wilson, an imported gunfighter who kills the southerner. But then Shane decides to bring it all to a head and goes into town to finish it off. He drives the action towards finally shooting Palance/Wilson and the cattle ranchers. The final few words are designed to provoke the fight...So your Jack Wilson. I've heard about you. What have you heard Shane? That your a low down Yankee liar - the same words used by the southerner before he was shot. Prove it whispers Palance and so finally gets his just desserts.It is just magical film making. "},{"Title":"a sagebrush classic, but it needs a big screen","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The American West was always too large to accommodate mere mortals, so when Alan Ladd first rides into view, framed by the antlers of a noble stag, we know the stage is being set for a two-fisted myth of epic proportions. The title character isn't just another reluctant gunman; he's a knight-errant of the sagebrush, troubled by the violence in his past but unable to refuse a helping hand (and gun) to peaceable homesteaders in conflict with greedy ranchers. Women admire him, men respect him, little boys adore him (listen to the passion in young Brandon De Wilde's voice when he speaks his idol's name), but Shane is cursed with the brand of a loner and soon has to move on. It's a thin line between legend and cliché, but for all its stock characters and familiar plot lines this slow, stately prairie romance still packs an emotional punch. And when the enigmatic hero finally rides off into the sunset, with De Wilde's farewell cry echoing off the majestic Grand Tetons in the distance, he succeeds in trading one myth for another, more enduring image, becoming an immortal icon of the silver screen. "},{"Title":"Shane, the greatest of westerns","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is, in my opinion, the best of westerns. Indeed, there is some controversy about its quality. Many agree that it is not as good as it propagates, but everything in life is like that. Surprise is if it was unanimous, something almost impossible to have. Exists in Brazil, a book by Paul Perdigao, called Genesis and Structure of Shane, which discusses the movie on virtually all conceivable aspects. It is a book that should be read to better understand what the film only suggests. Interesting to note that in any list of best westerns produced by critics and connoisseurs of cinema, Shane figure. The French critics, one of the most respected worldwide, elevated him to the category of classic, turning him into a paradigm of Western genre. Commonly, in any survey, is one of the five best westerns cited. The film eventually became a kind of standard that would have been the occupation of land in the settlement of the American west and the conflict between the landowners who had driven the Indians, and settlers who went there and tried to settle in land, free from the point of view of them, and already occupied from the point of view of those who came before. And, more than sixty years after its completion the film remains current, not aged. Curious that every time we see a new detail gets our attention. George Stevens, truly, was a director details. The main actor, Alan Ladd, who had never played roles of greater importance, has, under the direction of George Stevens, the best moment of his career, having conferred surprisingly enormous credibility to the character, getting very hard to imagine another actor in the role Shane. There is a nobility in this character, who succeeded Alan Lad, impressively, forward effortlessly, which is perhaps the strongest point of the public's identification with the character. Other important determinants of identification of the film with the audience, perhaps its high degree of reality and simplicity used to report the facts. In it, notes the importance of family, friends, courage and fear, arrogance and greed, unselfishness and friendship, determination and hope, respect and ethics, and renunciation. All this masterfully generated by the competence of George Stevens, based on the novel by Jack Schaefer and script A.B.Guthrie Jr., and magnificent photograph of Loyal Griggs, awarded the Oscar. The cattleman Rufus Ryker, played by Emile Meyer, highly convincing, is another highlight of the film, because we also know the other side of the story from the point of view of those who arrived first on wild lands and were forced to fight with the Indians, taking care of her and refusing to admit settlers began arriving. Emile Meyer, for this exquisite performance, should also have contributed to the Oscars, which demonstrated such competence. Jack Palance in the role of the diabolical Wilson is another equally important detail, making Wilson is recognized as one of the greatest villains in cinema history. And Shane is certainly one of the most poignant end of cinema history. After the inevitable and built deadly duel, comes the farewell between the kid Joey, played by Brandon De Wilde, and Shane, whose sequence actually takes the viewer to incorporate the feelings of the child at the time, the film , his idol and leaves, in our reality, the movie ends. Asked Woody Allen, well recognized director and recognized world authority on the subject film, which was, in his opinion, the best movie ever made. His response was immediate I do not like westerns, but I choose Shane. The great mystery of Shane is if it, in the end, after to have eliminated those that oppressed the small farmers of the valley, would have survived, since even so it was wounded. It, also, hides the gravity of its wound, when the small Joey perceives blood in its arm and it only smiles saying that it is all good. It would have Shane died in the end of the film? As much the book how much the film leaves this doubt. In the book it is said that they would have had notice of somebody of name  Shanon , that it could be, but does not have evidences of that would have survived. In the film, Shane appears in the last scene transposing the mountain with the fallen head and the arm, as it had been fainted. "},{"Title":"Among the finest westerns ever made.","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" He was a gunslinger trying to reform and settle down.The Starret's farm seemed like just the place to do it.Soon,though,he is forced to put into play the very way of life that he is trying hard to forget as he sets out to protect the Starrets as they and their neighbors are threatened by a group of land hungry outlaws.Shane is storytelling at it's finest.Alan Ladd is nothing short of great as the title character,and we also see a great performance from a young Jack Palance as one of the thorns in Shane's side.Along for the ride is an adorable little blue eyed blonde boy whose performance is guaranteed to melt the heart.Shane is simply one of the finest westerns ever made and no fan of westerns or great films in general should miss it. "},{"Title":"He was his own man","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane was ahead of its time for the early 1950's, and one must remember that when watching it. It may be thought to be riddled with clichés,but to a certain extent it made those clichés.A quiet stranger (Shane) comes to town. He befriends a family (The Starretts), and takes a job with them as a farm hand. The family all fall for the stranger, each in their own way. The mother flirts, the son hero worships and the father has a friend to take on challenges with.The stranger, Shane, soon discovers that the local quiet is being threatened by a large cattle rancher (Ryker), who feels he has a claim on the area because he first settled it, and now the small farmers are fencing off land, using the water and making things generally more difficult for him.The rancher tries many ways to get the small farmers to leave or give up and work for him, he sees Joe Starrett as their leader and he tries to negotiate.Shane tries hard not to be drawn into the local squabble. However, problems escalate, and Ryker hires a gunfighter (Jack Wilson). Shane feels he doesn't need to prove anything to anybody, but his growing friendship for the family sees him drawn in. Once drawn in he knew there was no going back.Jack Palance is excellent as demonic bad guy Jack Wilson. There was the air of inevitability when he entered the scene. "},{"Title":"They Call me Soda Pop","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I picked up the DVD for $7.99 the other day at Harmon, but I've seen the movie once or twice before. In the past I've come away impressed with the characters and the scenery. Van Heflin, pre 310 to Yuma and of course the character actors Ben Johnson, Elisha Cook, Jack Palance & Edgar Buchanan. Costar Jean Arthur is a standout.This viewing leaves me thinking about all the contradictions you find in Shane, Joey & Joe. Shane is a gunslinger, but very slow to anger or fight. He can work a farm if he has to. Starrett is a farmer but is very able with his fists and nearly fearless. Joey is faced with two fathers and initially leans to the gunfighter side. Marion is also torn between the two men or two sides of a man.The law is nowhere to be found in this film. Rare for a western with no Sheriff or US Marshal. Gunslingers obviously fill the void.Last unique element in this film is seeing a badguy- Chris (Ben Johnson) changed to good guy on the basis of a barfight. Sounds hard to believe but it works.This movie could generate a flood of masters theses. Bottom line, a great movie. Didn't mean to ramble. -0 "},{"Title":"The loveliest opening to any film.","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The very opening shots are of a distant rider, framed in the antlers of a drinking deer that turns to look; only fleetingly for a second or two, but what perfection; or was it perfect luck? It is worth remembering that George Stephens was at the D-Day landings in 1944 and knew about death and warfare so gratuitous violence is eschewed in this film as it would detract from the primary task of tension building and character portrayal. Stephens was no pacifist and sentimentalism for the dispossessed farmers is kept to the briefest of episodes. The dog at the graveside was the closest to this, but Stephens could be forgiven for this tiny glimpse. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece of symbolism and storytelling that continues to prove itself as one of the most important films of all time","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The symbolism in Shane is the same kind of symbolism that is explored throughout many films that exist under the Western genre or even into other genres totally unrelated in many regards. The message is the same the true nature and reality of violence, destruction, and killing is a terrible soul-killing experience that nobody should ever want to endure. While it may be fun to pretend to be a gunfighter, as Brandon De Wilde's character displays numerous times through the course of the film, when it comes down to taking the life of another man to save your own, you'd want to turn back time and start all over again and do whatever possible to avoid it. That's the real point behind the title character of Shane, magnificently portrayed by Alan Ladd. Ladd was the perfect choice for Shane. To start off, he has the weary, beaten appearance to him. He's tired of living the way he does, tired of being tempted into using his six-gun, and tired of having to depart from every place he goes into, leaving behind a few new gravestones in the cemetery.Shane almost symbolizes that when a person does choose to actually follow the path devoted to killing, then the person becomes a gun for hire. Expendable, nothing more than a machine designed to beat out the others until a newer, better design is created somewhere down the road. The character of Jack Wilson, portrayed in an Academy Award-nominated performance by late actor Jack Palance, is one of the greatest Western villains of all time. Although he isn't shown seeing gunning down a particularly large number of people in the film, he doesn't need to show his true cruelty and violent behavior, as well as his cold look on the lives of others, or maybe even his own life. And he is unique as well, displayed through out the film, particularly in his first appearance.Also starring along with Ladd, Palance, and De Wilde is a cast of entirely talented and wonderful actors and actresses. Van Heflin plays another character similar to the one he portrayed four years later in another Western classic 310 to Yuma. And he is even more convincing and realistic in this film as a tough, never-say-die rancher who only wants to prosper and to be allowed to prosper. The other main villain of the film, effectively portrayed in a new perspective by Emile Meyer, is the one who stands in his way. Neither one of them really wants trouble or violence, neither one of them wants a shot fired in their direction. But both are just simply too stubborn to allow the other to get away with what they want.Shane is a truly great Western film and one of the most important films of all time. Not only is very symbolic and pulls off with its messages very well, but it also keeps the audience drawn into the story and the characters, treating them as real people rather than just actors rehearsing their lines to perfection. And it is worthy of preservation in the Library of Congress, which it has been. "},{"Title":"Suble Humor In Shane","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Another poster remarked on this film's lack of humor compared to the westerns of John Ford. There are no clownish Victor McLaglen characters in Shane; still, the humor is there, but it's subtle.When Shane first goes into town with the Starrets, Joey asks Shane why isn't he taking his gun. Shane replies  I didn't know there was any wild game in town. Shane selects some shirts and pants at Grafton's general store. Grafton Young man, you owe me two dollars and two bits. Shane (with a look of shock) It's been a while since I bought storebought clothes. Lewis (who's been watching the whole thing) Dollar don't go very far these days. After the big fight, Marian is tending the bruises of Shane and big Joe. Joey I thought you were a goner when he hit you with that chair! Shane It was an easy chair, Joey! Shane is repairing the barbed wire fence that Riker's men have torn down. Joey Shane, what would you do if you caught them going through the fence? Shane I'd ask them to please come around by the gate. Joey Aw, Shane! At the farmer's meeting, whenever Torrey speaks, the harmonica guy plays 'Dixie'.I love the way the dog slinks out of the barroom when the satanic-looking Wilson walks in.Riker I like Starret too, but I'll kill him if I have to. Wilson You mean I'll kill him if you have to. "},{"Title":"Classic Story of  Confrontation in the Old Western Frontier between the Best and Worst in Mankind;and Selflessness Wins in THE END!","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Director George Stevens' Masterpiece! After a period of nearly 54 years, this writer finally, at long last has seen SHANE! I can fully remember when it was playing here, locally at the old Ogden Theatre, here in the West Englewood Neighborhood, Chicago. My older Sister, the late Joanne Ryan, used to drag my then 7 year old behind just about everywhere!(But to show you that Joanne was blameless, I couldn't go to the show 'cause I had to be at St. Theodore's Church that Saturday, as our class had rehearsal for our impending First Communion!) Well it seems that all the rest of the neighborhood did see it, and did leak little bits and pieces, but not enough to do any harm.If you are looking for any message in this, it may be difficult to pinpoint any single one. The intelligently written script puts a great deal of emphasis on several different aspects of pushing West. To begin with, we are presented with the picture of the pioneer family in Miss Jean Arthur, Van Heflin and young Brandon De Wilde. They are portrayed as being tough, but not necessarily rough, in their (and their Neighbors)attempt to settle, and keep working the land, in spite of nearly constant threats and intimidation from the ruffians and gun fighters, who were bought by Cattlemen's Dollar$, in order to make life impossible for the Pig Farmers, as they were called.Enter another Gun Fighter. Only this time it's Shane (Alan Ladd), who is as tough as nails and can shoot with anyone. But, he is so different than so many others. You see, he is a gentleman and a decent man at that.At first, after being given an extremely hostile reception at the Starrett Family's Homsteasd,by Joe Starrett's(Van Heflin) pointing his shotgun at him, Shane rapidly becomes friends, helping with turning away some desperadoes and signing on as a hired hand-farm worker.A good deal of the story is seen through the eyes of son, Joey Starrett(Brandon De Wilde) and his natural Hero Worship of Shane. And all along, the Mother,Marian Starrett(Jean Arthur)cautions him, not to get too attached to Shane, not to listen too much to Shane, etc. Hhhmmmmmm, it makes you wonder! Following the inevitable collision course, when Shane has to face down the Super Nasty Killer Gunman, Jack Wilson (Jack Palance),that, although he would be welcome to stay with the Starretts, Shane just rides off. As for why, well it wouldn't have occurred to me at 7, or maybe not even at 19, but this writer is now 60 and it seems that at there has been a little wisdom retained here, just a little.It appears that in the story that there was a real attraction developing by Mrs. Starrett (Miss Arthur) towards Shane; one which seemed was reciprocal. Being a truly decent man, Shane just rode off into the Sunset, never to come back.As for any message from this movie, this SHANE, well I got one, and it's my own thought process that come up with it, all by muh self! There's no doubt that there is a conscious effort to portray the scum bag, rotten bastards that preyed on the good people on the frontier, any frontier. They also want to portray the decent folks like the Starretts and their Farmer Neighbors. But even more so, we want to give praise to those rare individuals, the 'Shanes' of the world.And sadly, as we see in our every day Nightly News Reports, there are an awful lot of those degenerate robbers/rapists/killers out there in the 21st Century USA. Be it in the rural areas or the Big Cities, there're too many Jack Wilsons(Jack Palance). Here's hoping and praying for more Shanes to ride up on the scene.Please, Dear Lord, make it so! "}{"Title":"not typical good guys vs  bad guys","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is a complex character. He was a gunslinger ie murderer and yet we relate to him as a Saviour, at least he is from the perspective of the homesteaders/ squatters. So is Joe Starret a squatter? Is Ryker a thug or a rancher with a legitimate cause to fight?Mrs Starret ,loyal and dutiful wife and mother and yet 'lover' of Shane. Little Joe maybe the only 'innocent'...atleast until the final scene as pointed out by another reviewer. Is the adult world really black and white or shades of grey? I dig this movie because it's got me thinking. "},{"Title":"shannnne! come baccccck!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" much like the later Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid this one comes across as a character study masquerading as a Western.the setting is not classic Western(Wyoming),but the plot is(a conflict between ranchers and farmers).Shane(real name?)shows up in the area(the gorgeous Tetons)presumably as a former gunfighter,although this is only implied until later.for some unexplained reason he sides with the squatters(even though he gets a better offer from the other side.therefore he is trying to change as a person,much like the country itself. one of those films where there are no weak performances,especially Alan Ladd(another under-appreciated star) and a child actor named Brandon De Wilde(who was tragically killed in an automobile accident some years later).beautiful photography, even for today,adds much to the story.some will say this is a slow plodding tale,but this probably tells you how much movies have changed in 50 years.Oscar nomination for Jack Palance(but not Alan Ladd)as the personification of evil-hired gunfighter Jack Wilson.one strange thing about this film is the amount of sexual tension(both in actions and dialog),unusual for a film of this genre.only problemthe music sometimes seemed obtrusive.otherwise this movie is filled with great imagery and moral questions. "},{"Title":"A Great Western---A Great Story as Well!","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It has been 53 years since this movie was made, so it may be a little dated today. What was very exciting back then may seem a little tame today after Star Wars and all of the special effects in place now. Something like comparing Peter Jackson's King Kong with the previous King Kong made earlier in the 1930's. Both were excellent films for their time.When I watched Shane so long ago when it first premiered in the movie theatres, I thought it was one of the best westerns I had ever seen. It was more than a western really, it was really a study into the characters of the people in the film, how they reacted to adversity and danger, sometimes bravely, sometimes cowardly, sometimes foolishly. My only disappointment after reading the great book before seeing the movie was Alan Ladd portraying Shane, since the real Shane in the book was of dark complexion, quite tall, lean and wiry tough, hardly a description of Alan Ladd, a short blonde actor. Another disappointment was Alan Ladd dressing in buckskin, when in the book Shane was dressed in black from head to toe, almost like a symbol of death if you crossed him.Despite these disappointments Alan Ladd did a very good job in the film, Van Heflin and Jean Arthur were great in their roles, and the movie was almost stolen by the bad guy Jack Palance. Another great thing about the film were the sound effects, especially the shot that Palance fired to kill the brave but foolish little homesteader from the porch.Shane is one of the best western movies ever made in my opinion, mainly because the story was so good and it was told so well. "},{"Title":"Mythical","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Very often genre films tend to become stale, cliché-ridden, and over-imitated after a while, but this cycle also means that a film will soon break the mold and transcends its own limitations. In the case of Western, this revolution happened in the 60s, however, the previous decade brought three films that were of huge importance for that change High Noon, Shane and The Searchers. Of the three, George Stevens' Shane may be the less complex in terms of story, but it has a surreal aura of ambiguity that shows the film's true caliber and makes it reach mythical levels.At its core, Shane, is the tale of a lonely traveler named Shane (Alan Ladd), who on his way through the plains meets the Starretts, a family of settlers who are being abused by cattleman Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer), who claims the settler's land as his own. Shane decides to stay with the family and to work for Joe Starret (Van Heflin), quickly being accepted by the family, specially by little Joey (Brandon De Wilde), who idolizes Shane for his skill as a gunfighter. And soon this skill will come handy as Ryker's actions become more and more violent.However, Shane is not only about the family being helped by Shane, the story (based on Jack Schaefer's novel) explores Shane's attempts to attempts to settle down and the inner conflicts that make him go back to violence, making it the story to be also the tale of Shane being helped by the Starretts. And from here a whole series of conflicts arise, as the mysterious Shane becomes part of a community that both loves him and fears him, and this constant battle with his past makes one of the most important themes of the film. Even when we have no idea of Shane's past, it's all evident that it's not a nice one, and that it inevitably will return to haunt him.Director George Stevens took this complex tale of honor and transformed it into a mythical portrayal of the American West. With a superb cinematography (that won an Oscar) and an excellent use of color, Stevens delivers the perfect combination of the real West (with historically accurate settings and costumes) and the West we dream of (with surreal landscapes that seem to be out of a canvas). However, Shane is more than outstanding visuals, as Stevens choice of leaving some details even more ambiguous than in the book give the film an unnatural aura that makes it feel atemporal, unique, and in a word, mythical.Alan Ladd may seem like an unlikely choice for the gunfighter named Shane, but maybe this created the desired effect of mystery the character needed. Ladd makes an excellent portrayal of this quiet, lonely man who for once attempts to socialize after living in the wild for so long. It's like a clash of worlds what happens inside him as the wild can not leave him go for long. Van Heflin, Jean Arthur and Brandon De Wilde play the Starretts, and the three have a big chemistry that make them look like a real family. Jean Arthur particularly delivers one of her best performances as Joe's troubled and beautiful wife. The cast features Jack Palance Ben Johnson and Elisha Cook Jr. in supporting roles, with the three being top-notch in unforgettable performances.It's almost impossible to try to find flaws in Shane, not because it doesn't have them (as every film has its share of goofs), but because it's beauty outshines whatever flaw it may have. However, it's safe to point out that it's pace at times becomes too slow, but soon it recovers its power as the ending approaches. It's mixture of realism with surreal landscape may be distracting at first, but it's easy to get used to it. Still, Shane heavy use of symbolism is so subtle that one can enjoy the film in many levels, from a simple gunfighter tale to a complex story about the end of an era.Personally, Shane has now become one of my favorite films, so I may be a bit biased towards it, but despite this, I can honestly say that this is a movie to be enjoyed no only by Western fans, but by fans of cinema in general. As it paved the way to great films like High Plains Drifter and Pale Rider, it's safe to say that Shane is required viewing. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Shane, the movie of my childhood","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I first saw Shane with my father when I was four years old. Its been one of my favorite films for over 50 years. Its a very simple story, filmed in the pre-special effects era, but it is very effective. one of the most authentic features is the ramshackle town, with the one combined general store/saloon, sitting isolated on the vast prairie with the Grand Tetons looming in the background. The ride back and forth to town is well portrayed, and contains portents of the final shoot out in the saloon. The tension of the final confrontation begins well before Shane arrives at the saloon, his crossing of the river for the last time blends with Joey's exposure to the harsh realities of adult conflict. The fourth of July celebration, as a break from the backbreaking labor of the homestead site, is one of the focal points of the movie, as is the mournful funeral of one of the homesteaders I always wondered why this film resonated so much with me over the years, I found out later that my own grandfather was shot to death in a range dispute with employees of a large rancher. Many years later I saw a picture of his funeral, and the similarity to the funeral in Shane was haunting. This is one of the classic cinematic portrayals of the American experience. "},{"Title":"Brandon De Wilde is God","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" 'Shane' is a western told on an incredibly grand scale. It tells the tale of a would-be-retired gunfighter who gets a job as a farm hand on a farm which is trying to eke out a living despite a land-owner's claim that the land is his! Soon, tensions boil over and Shane has to make tough decisions on whether he wants to continue old habits.What really makes 'Shane' work, I believe are the performances, everyone from Van Heflin as the rancher, to Jean Arthur as his wife, and Jack Palance as Shane's gun-slinging foil. All are dynamite here. The one minor glitch I had, ironically enough, is the guy playing Shane himself, Alan Ladd. I felt Ladd, while good in this, just wasn't believable as a gritty character. He's just too soft lined for me.Oh, one more thing. Brandon De Wilde.. Now THERE'S a child performance for you. He's just awesome in the movie, I'm just surprised he didn't get nominated for an Academy award for best supporting actor. Sacriledge! "},{"Title":"A Movie  Anyone Would Like","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A very good movie, not as well made as my personal favorite (Once Upon A Time In The West), but still a very good movie. This movie is another western that made me feel like I wished I had been born a cowboy. Shane is so good. I just love Shane...stealing a quote from the movie. Shane (Alan Ladd) seems to make you feel at ease without any effort, a real class act, someone you wish you knew personally, and had as a friend. He is the proverbial good guy. The movie itself is done well, but has only a few real exciting scenes, mostly a display of morals and the struggles of good verses evil. I found some of the characters dialog to be overboard, but not to the excessive. Shane is a very scenic picture, with a few touching moments with Joey, the homesteaders son. I own a copy on video and watch it a couple times a year, Shane is that good. All in all, not to be missed, if you like Alan Ladd or have never seen him before, buy it, rent it, or what for it on TV. It's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good western, but fairly disappointing","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Good western, but fairly disappointing. I've been looking forward to watching Shane all my life. It is one of those movies which are now part of cinematic mythology and folklore. It is referred to in songs (Roger Waters' 1980s track Pros and Cons of Hitchhiking springs immediately to mind).Thus, now that I finally managed to see it, it is disappointing to discover that it is far from brilliant. Don't get me wrong - it's a fairly good movie - but its is not a masterpiece. Slow moving, overly goody two-shoesy hero and plot, too clear-cut good vs evil theme, a weakish performance in the lead role and another performance that is one of the worst in cinema history. (Yep, I'm referring to the kid with the bad haircut. Incredibly annoying.)This said, setting and cinematography are fantastic, action scenes are good, and the plot is pretty good, despite the slow development.Not the classic I was hoping for, but it'll do. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Mythic realism. That's the perfect term to describe director George Stevens' 1953 classic color Western Shane, one of the most unlikely great films I've ever seen. That's because much of the 117 minute long film plays out as if it's cheesy, with its lone, virtuous gunman who stands apart and above all others (a precursor to Clint Eastwood's characters in Sergio Leone's revolutionary Dollars Trilogy of spaghetti westerns), as a western version of the fathers of perfect nuclear families of the Eisenhower era sitcoms. Yet, below is a roiling realism that only serves to heighten the mythos, by contrast. This is the tension that is so unusual, yet remarkably powerful. I may have, when a boy, seen this film, in black and white, on television, for some scenes resonated as if I'd seen them long ago. Then again, such a seeming familiarity is part of the province of myth, and why this film achieves its greatness. It's a greatness that is wholly distinct from the more modern sort of Western that Leone pioneered in the following decade. Leone's films' greatness (especially his westerns) was based upon a knowledge of film, as a medium and art, whereas Shane reaches far back into the eons, to portray its lead character as something akin to a god, in a way as primal as the Gilgamesh epic. In this sense, what many of the film's detractors view as corniness, is archetypal characters and behaviors. But Stevens leavens this with well written characters and situations, and, to his credit, with believable villains who have real motivations, ones which actually gain a good deal of sympathy in the viewer.Shane has so many elements that modern cineastes tend to look down on- a defense of basic human virtues, a hero that is not tortured nor clay-footed, and a triumph of real honor, yet it is a better, and, yes, greater, film than just about any other western directed by anyone not named Leone, and is certainly greater than any of the westerns that starred John Wayne in them; which, by comparison, almost always reek of artifice, on some level. In many ways, it is a filmic myth that shares many elements with the myth delivered in Herman Hesse's novella, Siddhartha; which features a similar hero encountering his own rather diurnal opposition, but in a manner that elevates him, and his tale, to something more. But it also features a child-like perspective that wipes away any possible excesses of these pre-Modern 'sins,' and in this regard the film joins two other worthy and underlooked films as classics of filmic child portrayals Toho Studios' 1969 Godzilla's Revenge and 1944's The Curse Of The Cat People, directed by Robert Wise and produced by Val Lewton. Its mythic realism is so endemic to Shane that, strange as it sounds, the first and greatest film that comes to mind in matching it, in that regard, is Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. Yet, one can also see direct influences from it note the scene where the family goes to sleep, and Joey and his parents say goodnight, along with each other's names, and Joey ends the scene by shouting out to Shane, who sleeps in the barn, 'Goodnight, Shane!,' and one can see where the 1970s television drama, The Waltons, got its episode ending sequence of family members shouting goodnight to each other.Shane is a film that spans the range of the human and cinematic experience, and it does so in a way that is classic, in the best sense of the word; from a scene where Shane and Starrett remove a tree stump and bond to the final image of Shane's lonesome ride back to the mountain skies, and is a pure fable. But it's a great one, and that's not an understatement. "},{"Title":"Shane -- A Review","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There are always going to be great westerns. So I will not make this review a nostalgic one about the way movies used to be made. But I don't think you are ever going to find a western past or present that has the rare quality of Director George Stevens' Shane, a film about a gunslinger who tries to settle down on a farm until he discovers that he cannot change who he is.Alan Ladd is quiet, humble and unassuming as the gunslinger Shane, and yet he is also charismatic and has a captivating presence on screen. You can tell that the camera loves this actor from the moment Adam Ladd first appears on firm. I won't spoil the plot, except to say that this western does many things really well. Adam Ladd's Shane is the quintessential American hero; the sort of person who every American aspires to be, but cannot quite match. The villains in this movie are spectacular, especially Jack Palance as gunslinger Jack Wilson with his Mephistopheles grin. If Satan ever got a role in a western, he would have been Palance's Jack Wilson. The gunfights are among the most electrifying action scenes ever put in a western or any film for that matter. Finally, the use of music in Shane is brilliant. In many scenes, the music shows us the very human side of Shane. In other scenes, the music is used to great effect in create a dark, sinister and tense atmosphere.Aside from Alan Ladd and Jack Palance, other great performances include Jean Arthur as Marian Starret (wife of Joe Starrett), Van Heflin as Joe Starrett and Brandon De Wilde as Joey Starrett (their son). "}{"Title":"Still Golden Age Hollywood's Must-See Western, Still a Masterful Work","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Filmmaker George Stevens' (A Place in the Sun) meticulous mastery over the cinematic medium has never been more present than in this 1953 classic, a film that managed to reinvigorate the then-tired Western genre thanks to the director's stunning sense of composition and his sure hand with an excellent cast. Haunted by his traumatizing experience heading up a combat motion picture unit during World War II, Stevens made far more sober, serious-minded films afterward that focused on the plights of society's outsiders. This time, the outsider is primarily the eponymous gunman, but that sense of personal isolation is felt one way or another by every principal character in the film. Written by A.B. Guthrie Jr. and inspired by the infamous Johnson County War (which also inspired Michael Cimino's infamous disaster, Heaven's Gate), the story unwinds slowly as a reformed gunslinger stumbles upon a resolute conflict between peace-loving sodbusters and threatening cattle ranchers in 1870's Wyoming. Tensions escalate when Shane's bloody past comes back to haunt him as he defends the homesteaders, in particular, the Starrett family.Shane becomes close to the family, especially the young son Joey who worships him as the hero figure that his father cannot seem to be. Complicating matters is corrupt cattle baron Rufus Ryker, who wants to rid the valley of the farming families to allow his cattle to roam free. When Ryder recruits a ruthless outlaw named Jack Wilson to instill fear into the farmers, it forces a showdown with the inevitable consequences. For a western, there is one major fist fight and surprisingly little gunplay; however, the impact of those events has strict dramatic purpose and brings a pervasive sense of mortality to this oft-told story. Character actor Van Heflin (Airport) is often overlooked in reviews of this picture, yet he effectively provides the film's sometimes precarious backbone as Joe Starrett, the moral compass for the homesteaders. In her last big-screen role, Jean Arthur brings a subtle poignancy with only a hint of her past scintillating charm as his wife Marian. Stevens coaxed the 51-year-old Arthur to make the film after a five-year absence from the screen, and she slips easily into the painterly backdrop emerging almost fleetingly as a conflicted woman with an unspoken affection for Shane.Much more demonstrative in his love for the gunslinger is ten-year-old Brandon De Wilde, who gives an indelibly memorable performance as Joey. In one of his earliest roles, Jack Palance barely has any dialogue or screen time for that matter, but he makes every menacing moment count as Wilson. Nevertheless, it is the underrated Alan Ladd (This Gun for Hire) who brings the picture together with a superbly rendered performance in the taciturn title role. Known unfairly for his misperceived diminutive stature (he was actually 5'6), the actor vividly captures Shane's sense of honor and remorse with a barely concealable fury. You will likely recognize Ben Johnson (The Last Picture Show), Edgar Buchanan (Petticoat Junction), Ellen Corby (The Waltons), and Elisha Cook Jr. (The Maltese Falcon) in smaller parts. The 2000 DVD offers a pristine print transfer as well as an excellent commentary by the director's son George Stevens Jr. and the film's associate producer Ivan Moffat. A theatrical re-release trailer is also included on the DVD. If you haven't seen it, you should and on a big screen if possible. "},{"Title":"A gun's as good or as bad as the man using it.","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There have been other tales of the passing of the West; it was a favorite theme of director Sam Peckinpah in pictures like The Wild Bunch and Ride the High Country. However there's none better than George Stevens' great Fifties classic Shane. It's a brilliantly told story that allies Alan Ladd's character with a rugged frontier family facing the hostility of cattlemen bent on preserving their way of life against the values of homesteading pioneers. Beautifully filmed, the picture ranks right up there with the best of the genre, including it's contemporary High Noon, and more recent efforts like Eastwood's Unforgiven. It's been a personal favorite ever since my first viewing, and will remain so until I stop watching movies altogether, and I just don't see that happening.The movie probably wouldn't have had the poignancy it enjoys had it not been for the central story of the Starrett's, and particularly Joe Starrett's (Van Heflin) unflinching commitment to stay on his own patch of ground. When Shane first arrives, his intentions aren't immediately known, and it comes as a surprise to the Starrett's that he's willing to stick around to help them against the Ryker bunch. In turn, Shane gains the trust of Starrett, his wife Marian (Jean Arthur), and young son Joey (Brandon De Wilde) who's admiration of the former gunman grows with each passing day.The story builds momentum slowly, almost annoyingly so when Shane at first avoids the taunts of henchman Chris Calloway (Ben Johnson) and seems to back down from a fight. It's with measured reflection that Shane casts his lot with the homesteaders, all the while understanding that this will probably be the last time he'll ever have to use the tools of his trade. Shane's climactic showdown with gun for hire Jack Wilson (Jack Palance) is the classic confrontation of good versus evil, and remains one of the best finales of the genre.Hey, remember that Happy Days episode when Fonzie paid tribute to his favorite movie of all time? The Fonz knew that Shane represented all that's good and right about our heroes. They stand up for the underdog and face down the bully, even if it means standing alone. Then, when the job's been accomplished, they move on, and little by little, the rest of the world moves slowly with them. "},{"Title":"consummate range war film","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane (Alan Ladd) rides into the middle of a nasty conflict set in a paradise like valley with the Grand Tetons off in the distance between a cattle rancher and newly arrived families bent on farming and fencing his range. The men are routinely humiliated in front of their own families whenever they go into town to buy supplies or have a drink in the one saloon. One great scene has one of the ranch hands played by Ben Johnson telling one of the farmers that he should go outside and drink soda with the women and children. When humiliation doesn't work well enough, the rancher uses intimidation. Hired gun Jack Wilson (Jack Palance) guns down farmer and ex-confederate Elijah Wood Jr in what amounts to murder on the muddy street in front of the saloon in an impressive scene with one of the better funeral scenes ever that follows and sets the film up for its conclusion. In any event the film is headed for a final showdown that slowly takes shape when Shane finally knocks out Heflin the farmer in a long fight, and heads off into the poor excuse for a town (a couple of buildings) as dusk gathers, followed by the son (Brandon De Wilde) crossing a shallow section of a river, with the camera going from his ride to the men waiting in the saloon, Palance among them fidgeting with a coffee pot. The North/South attitudes of the recently fought Civil War still resonate, with several allusions to the cause of the South and Shane himself calls out Jack Wilson (Palance) by calling him a dirty Yankee liar, an interesting choice of words which worked in the fifties. The complexities of Shane (the movie) hide behind the film's simplicity. It's the most beautifully filmed western ever, from the unforgettable opening credits to its ending. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest American Westerns","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Alan Ladd portrays Shane, a retired gunslinger who wanders onto the Starrett ranch and befriends the family, eventually working for them. Right from the beginning the character of Shane comes across as a little strange and mysterious, and not much information is given as to his background or past affairs. The cast includes Van Heflin as Joe Starrett, Jean Arthur (in what is to be her final film appearance) plays his wife Marian and Brandon De Wilde as their little boy, Joey. The Starrett family alongside many others are living in the vicinity of a small community with no established law. In other words, trouble flows frequently and the peacemakers of the bunch find themselves and their property threatened by wild and stubborn cowboys, who harbor an intent to drive the settlers out of town.Meanwhile, a cattleman named Ryker (Emile Meyer) wants to buy the Starrett property, but Joe is adamant in his decision and refuses. Leaving him with no alternative Ryker sends for an infamous gunslinger named Wilson to take care of Starrett, but Shane ultimately intervenes and saves the town from overpowering corruption.Shane is a movie about conflict; about how one man, a stranger, can put a troubled town back on its feet and, at the same time, change the standing of one family. The showdown between Shane and Wilson, played by Jack Palance, is short, quick and to the point. Palance has such a strong presence as Wilson, yet all it takes is a single bullet. That scene looked and felt like a real showdown. It is a beautiful looking movie with wonderful cinematography, not to mention a story that really gets into your heart. Its classic ending really is what everyone says it is. Very few westerns get any better than this. "},{"Title":"Lots of Little Pleasures","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane was released in 1953, the year I was born, and I am ashamed to say that it has taken me 54 years to see this film. It is one of the few cinema classics that I had never see before.A couple of quick reactions. I did not think it was the best Western I have ever seen (Stage Coach, Magnificent Seven, Once Upon a Time in the West, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, to name a few are ahead of it in my eyes) but it would certainly make my top ten Westerns list.There are no spectacular scenes here, just a lot of beautiful and professionally done little ones. The shootout between Jack Palance and Elisha Cook Jr., for example, is hardly anything at all, but the subtle bits of business are wonderful Palance putting on his glove and Cook hesitating between putting his gun back in his holster or continuing to draw, make it more memorable than a hundred other shootouts.This film seems to have been the blueprint for my of my favorite television series, The Rifleman. Lucas McCoy, played by Chuck Connors, was apparently a cross between the two characters Shane and Starlett.All the acting performances are solid. However, I was disappointed to learn that Montgomery Cliff was originally selected to play Shane and left the project due to a scheduling conflict. Alan Ladd barely has any presence at all. At times he seems to melt into the the beautiful mountain scenery. I think Cliff would have been terrific and given the movie a real center.Still, the movie is fun to watch. Brandon de Wilde's wonderful wide-eyed portrayal of he boy reminded me of myself as a child watching episodes of the Lone Ranger. Half a century later, I still become a goofy looking child again, staring in surprise and admiration at episodes of the Lone Ranger and movies like Shane. "},{"Title":"A Small Masterpiece","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Lauded in its day, Shane has since earned the reputation as a ponderous, deconstructivist Western, burdened by George Stevens's penchant for framing every single composition as if he's trumpeting his film as THE great American movie.I'm not even necessarily saying that the above criticisms aren't justified, but I have to admit that Shane works a spell on me, and I found myself fascinated by it. It is a beautiful, sober, elegiac film about an archetypal Western hero who no longer has a place in American cinema. Perhaps the impact of Shane has since been blunted by the spate of pseudo-Westerns that appeared in the late 1960s and early 1970s -- The Wild Bunch, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, McCabe & Mrs. Miller -- that deflated the myth of the Western hero, but had the luxury of being more in tune with the anarchic time in which they were produced. People were ready to see the Western deconstructed in that troubled era; in contrast, Shane comes much too close to criticizing a genre that conservative America still idealized at the time of its release.Beyond its stark depiction of a lonesome hero being pushed to the fringes of civilization, too renegade to be domesticated but too soft to keep up with the new breed of sadistic villain, the most shocking element of Shane is its acknowledgement of the fact that much of the Western hero's allure was sexual, to both female and male members of the audience. The father in Shane is as impressed by Shane's virility as the mother; even the boy responds to it, though he doesn't understand what he's responding to. I'm not saying that there are homosexual implications in the film, but there is definitely an attraction (call it the attraction behind much of male bonding) between Shane and the Van Heflin character, and the film was bold to recognize it, especially during the highly conformist decade of the 1950s.A brooding, moody film, and a small masterpiece in its own right.Grade A "},{"Title":"Forget the Past and Embrace the Here and Now.","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Mysterious drifter Alan Ladd seems to ride in out of nowhere one day and quickly becomes a friend to a homestead family in the Old West (led by Van Heflin, wife Jean Arthur and son Brandon DeWilde, in an Oscar-nominated role). Danger and uncertainty loom though as an evil cowboy (Emile Meyer) and his gang of thugs (led by Oscar-nominee Jack Palance and Ben Johnson) attempt all in their power to run Heflin and his family off the land that is rightfully theirs. Thus the conflict begins with Ladd (obviously someone with a checkered past) taking it upon himself to protect Heflin and his family by proving just how remarkable he truly is when it comes to gunfighting. Classic western masterpiece by director George Stevens (Oscar-nominated) that is still arguably the greatest film of its type. Ladd is wonderful in his career role and the supporters are all dead-solid perfect throughout. An American cinematic classic that is just as relevant and important today as it was when first released. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Before a loner helping a family became a cliché...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There have been so many movies in which an everyman turns into a he-man (minus any superpowers) and valiantly defends some people that the movies have practically run together. But Shane stands out brilliantly. As the title character hired to protect a family from a rancher in the Old West, Alan Ladd's presence on the screen is beyond incredible. Further kudos to Jean Arthur, Van Heflin and Brandon De Wilde as Marian, Joe and Joey Starrett, whom Shane has to protect. And Jack Palance is just perfect as villain Jack Wilson.It doesn't do any good for me to review this movie. You have to see it. Some people debate about the greatest western of all time. I say that the troika of great westerns comprises High Noon, Shane and McCabe and Mrs. Miller. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A whole lot to like...though I am not quite as bowled over by this film as some...","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane has long been considered one of the greatest westerns ever made. And, while I really, really like the film, I can't say I'd put it among the very best. Exceptional, but not in the same category as a few of the best westerns such as The Big Country and High Noon--though it is close.First, let's talk about what's to like in the film. The single greatest asset is the wonderful cinematography. The mountains are breathtaking and it's an amazingly pretty film. You can see why it won the Best Cinematography category at the Oscars. Part of this is, of course, due to the fantastic work by the cameramen. Part of this is also due to director George Stevens' great eye and wonderful pacing throughout the film. In addition, Alan Ladd was never better. Here, he IS tough but his character has more depth--he's more than a cookie-cutter type good guy. It also helped that he had some excellent backup through a marvelous performance by Van Heflin--a vastly underrated actor despite him having receive one Best Supporting Actor statuette in his career. And, in an uncharacteristic performance, Jack Palance was quite and subtle--and wonderful as one of the villains. I think what helped his performance is that he was used sparingly--and when he was there, his quite strength also worked great.Now, what were the shortcomings--no matter how small. Here is where I think I am going to ruffle a few feathers. While Brandon De Wilde received many kudos for his performance, I really felt it was uneven. Yes, his wide-eyed surprised look when Shane showed him how to shoot was great and he was generally pretty good. However, a few times I really, really felt his character was a bit annoying as well--such as his running about yelling bang, bang too often--I just wanted to see Jean Arthur backhand him! As for Arthur, she was decent--but this probably wasn't her best performance--though she was one marvelous actress throughout her career. She's not bad, mind you, but her character is the problem--there just isn't much depth to her. Neither of these problems were huge--but enough to keep me from giving the film a 10---which would indicated perfection.Overall, a truly wonderful western--one that is in many ways reminiscent of some of Randolph Scott's later films--but with better camera-work and an even slower and more leisurely pace. "},{"Title":"A top notch film, one that should be studied by film making students","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane should be required viewing for anyone setting out to make a film. It tells its story visually, through subtext, and creates a realistic portrait of people; it is also emotionally and morally complex. It is never stated that Shane had been a gunfighter; we just understand this, from his appearance and from what we glean through the text. Likewise, there are no overt moments of intimacy between Shane and Marion (Mrs. Starrett), but we are aware that there is a deep attraction between them. When Joe, Marian's husband, realizes it, it is not because of anything he states, just a line at the 4th of July party, when Marian (in her wedding dress) is dancing with Shane Looks like I'm fenced out, and what is spoken as a joke becomes serious as we watch the expression on his face. The closest he comes to actually saying anything is toward the end, when he's going to ride into town to face Ryker, and tells Marian that if anything happens to him he knows she'll be taken care of. Likewise, at the end of the film, when little Joey is calling across the plains for Shane to come back, he yells to Shane, Mother wants you, I know she does, and the words echo back, we see a close up of Joey, his expression changing, and we know the child realizes too that Shane does (or could) mean something more to his mother.Stevens also didn't make the bad guys black-and-white villains. We understand that these men fought and tamed the land and are now being displaced by the homesteaders. What they want might not be fair, but it is not completely unreasonable either.Most of the scenes, even the simple ones, play in montage. It looks as though Stevens shot each scene from about 15 different angles and edited them together. The effect is striking.Far and away one of the best films ever. "}{"Title":"The best western, EVER!","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The best western, and possibly the best movie, ever! The characters were, thankfully, not clichéd. Even Ryker had a point. Although when he says I like Joe Starrett, but I'll kill him if I have to, to which Wilson replies You mean, I'LL kill him if you have to any sympathy for Rykers viewpoint vanishes. And, the immensity of the Grand Tetons are truly awe inspiring. The part I like the best was the complexity of the characters. When Ryker offered to hire Shane for double what Starrett was paying him and Shane turned him down, he was wondering what is it you want, Shane? Then he can't help but wonder Starrett's wife is pretty, is that it? Shane is enraged, but why? Could it be that Ryker had some insight into Shane? This is one example how the characters are multi faceted, therefore, believable. Others can have John Wayne and his one dimensional characters, I'll take Alan Ladd any day! Even the sets and clothing were realistic. The best, EVER! "},{"Title":"best classical era western","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  all the elements are here, the wide open country, the simple homesteaders, and all the bad guys faced down by a gunslinger.the movie was made in the time of the cold war and the korean war. this were vastly more cut and dried back then, the good guys and bad guys were far more discernable. Shane is much more then a western, it is a morality play with a twist. the gunslinger cant change his stripes and says so. the same way the cattle rancher is died-in-the-wool. But he is more then a cattle rancher, his modern day equivalent is a mafia don protecting his turf, reluctantly but nevertheless resorting to violence to have his way. his time at the helm is passed, but he cannot accept that fact and brings in the bad guy as enforcer. the time of the farmer is at hand, the country has come to terms with its past, ie the civil war and now it is time for nation building. just one little matter out on the prairies to take care of, this ryker chap who insists on burning out the so called squatters.I just watched this film for the umpteenth time and this time noticed many more of the nuances. (which I will not divulge here).much has been made of the cinematography in this film; well it isnt hard to get right in that area of the continent. much also is made of Shanes one dimensionness, but have you ever known a good gunslinger to display a multifacet personality? they are too obsessed with honing their trigger skills for that. . . to this end Alan Ladd was superb. the real hero of the story is Starett however; the days of the gunslinger are over; the hero realizes this and has an opportunity to put his skills to some good use . .. maybe he has a guilty conscience over past killings. the farmers are the ones who will now build a nation that will become the biggest superpower in all history.Shane has a timelessness about it triumphing over tyranny AND adversity in the form of the elements and nature 'Shane' marks the point at which the major challenge for the common folk changes from one to the other. And, having made his contribution the gunslinger who uses his firearm as a tool exits forever.  "},{"Title":"Lavish location effort that set tone for future westerns","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Alan Ladd plays the humble hero befriending a pioneer family under attack by hostile forces.  Where have we heard that before?  So now you can see where everyone else got the idea.Hollywood worked that plot long before Shane but director George Stevens carved out a niche for all time with this picture of conflict on the open west.First of all, it's visually stunning, much of it shot on location in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  Second, it's simple.  Farmers want to farm; ranchers want open range.  Result problems.Great cast helps capture viewer attention.  Ben Johnson is a great  bully while Van Heflin and Jean Arthur make for the perfect pioneer couple (although there's that little spark between Shane and Arthur).  What sets Shane apart from previous westerns, of course, was the kid.  Brandon DeWilde is the little guy who is just so darn earnest you've got to love him.But let's not forget the other bad guys.  Emile Meyer and John Dierkes play the rotten Ryker brothers with style--despite their low-down ways.  Jack Palance is a grinning gunfighter you just want to slap.  So it's all very clear--it's a great picture.   "},{"Title":"Probably the finest western ever made.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane in the 1953 version is probably the finest western ever made.It owes this position not to endless gunfights and posse involvement but to a sensitive performance from Alan Ladd as the weary veteran gunfighter.He becomes involved in a dispute between the farmers and the cattlemen when he rides into a farmyard seeking water.He develops a friendship with the farmer and his wife and son which in the end leads to a showdown and the fighter being forced to move on. The cast seemed to sympathise  with the parts they played and conveyed a difficult period in American history in an intelligent mannerThe theme music was superb and Ladd played the gunfighter in such a way that I actually believed in him.To me he will always be Shane. Walter Jack Palance is the epitome of a hired gun and sits menacingly on the sidelines while the two factions quarrel. The lighting is sombre and gives an insight into the rough lives that settlers and cattlemen lived in a lawless era. Watch this film when it appears and do not be put off by the television serial version that went out some years ago. "},{"Title":"Superb Western","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane... The yardstick against which all films of this genre are measured. Allan Ladd wore a white stetson, Jack Palance sported a black stetson, so right from the outset you are able to sort the good guys from the bad guys. The theme tune,Sound of the Faraway Hills, fits the film like a glove and the photography is first class. One of my top ten films. "},{"Title":"Opinion of long-time viewer","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw this film during its first run in the 50's and several times on TV over the years.  I first purchased it on Beta which I had to convert. My original opinion was that it was the best western film ever made and nothing has changed that opinion.  And I've noted that many other people, including some experts, are of the same opinion.  The lifestyle, clothing, values, morality, etc. I believe reflect a truer picture of life on the frontier in the 19th century than any film before or since. "},{"Title":"Finest western of all","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I was 11 when saw I first saw ``Shane'' in 1954. I didn't see it again for more than 30 years. But for all that time, the haunting Victor Young score stayed with me, note for note. ``Shane'' stayed with me too, not just the character depicted by Alan Ladd in by far the best roll of his career, or the time and place so artfully evoked by director George Stevens, but the notion that at the terrible instant when evil is about to prevail, someone can arrive unbidden to deliver sweet justice. ``Shane'' is a great movie for these reasons and more. True in the particulars to Jack Schaefer's novel, George Stevens' Shane veers only in the muted relationship between the old time gun fighter yearning for a life he can never have and homesteader Marian Starret (Jean Arthur)with yearnings of her own. In the book, they struggle with their attraction without ever really speaking of it. In the film, that relationship is barely suggested. Perhaps that's enough. In George Steven's ``Shane,'' violence is not off-handed. You're long into the film before anyone dies, and when hired killer Jack Wilson (Jack Palance) finally kills a homesteader, we are stunned. The shock rolls though the valley and as in real life, most people are less inclined to grab their rifles and head to town than to pack their few possessions and beat it out of the valley. But Shane is there, and his gun is not for hire -- at least not this time. Whatever he once may have done for money, he redeems himself in this, without doubt, the finest western ever filmed. "},{"Title":"The most classic of the Western classics!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  My personal favorite Western, which I rank above even High Noon and 310 to Yuma... beautiful scenery, great character and relationship development (especially Joey-Shane), and of a very strong moral undercurrent. You may want your children to watch this movie for the latter reason despite the cold-blooded and brutal killing of the pig farmer near the middle of the movie.  "},{"Title":"In many respects, the finest western ever made.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is a western filled with so many fine performances and memorable scenes, it is difficult to do it justice in a few words.  From the opening shot, when Shane rides into view and for a split second is framed by the antlers of a deer raising it's head, to the incredible nighttime fight scene between Joe and Shane as they go at each other in a barnyard full of spooked animals, to the edge-of-your-seat thrilling climactic gunfight at the end, you will be totally mesmerized by this marvelous film.  The great use of animals and attention to detail by the director are especially noteworthy, and Jack Palance takes top honors as the all-time great bad-guy in a western.  Most striking of all is how the film captures a culture, an era, a way of life that has long since disappeared and has not been accurately portrayed in any movie since.  Brandon DeWilde is almost cloyingly sweet in his innocent adulation of Shane, but one must remember the film is really a hero story as seen through the eyes of a little boy, and so the way Shane is portrayed as larger than life is entirely appropriate. If you love really good movies in any way and have not seen this one, you are in for a real treat. "},{"Title":"Good Performance by Emile Meyer","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is an outstanding movie with everyone doing a super job. But I am particularly struck by the sensitive performance of Emile Meyer who plays Ryker, the bad guy in this film.  If you watch closely you will see that he is not 100% bad.  On more than one occasion in the film he tries to reason with Shane and to explain his position in the hopes that he can avoid violence. And he makes a pretty good case!  But no one will listen to him and this forces the classic showdown.  Both sides are at fault in this film and this gives it an added dimension.  "}{"Title":"Western about rancher conflicts has appealing fairy-tale undermining...","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Touching western has a perfectly-cast Alan Ladd portraying a soft-spoken gunslinger on the verge of retiring, happening upon an innocent Wyoming farm family involved in a range war. Appealing picture in which all the good, decent folk fall under Shane's laconic charm (everyone gets a crush on him!). The bar fight between Alan Ladd and Ben Johnson is wonderfully crisp and exciting, shot and edited for maximum impact. Director George Stevens' pacing isn't always smooth, the film has some sound and continuity problems, and the second-half doesn't quite live up to the promise of the first, but the performances are all excellent (particularly by super child-actor Brandon De Wilde). Besides, it's a hardened man who doesn't tear up at the finale. *** from **** "},{"Title":"best western of all time","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  this is THE classic western...it has all the ingredients called for without overdoing anything... alan ladd is perfect as is jack palance... the music score is all embracing and the scenery and photography are breathtaking... as an example of the genre, you couldn't find a more perfect film the demise of the western has been gradual over the last 50 years of movie making but thank goodness due to video and DVD we have this example.. surely the best western ever made "},{"Title":"Possibly the most perfect American movie ever made","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A gunfighter western in which there are so few gunshots that each one is like a stroke of lightning, and the man who uses his skill with a gun to make the world safer for everyone else in doing so sacrifices his own chance for a normal life among them. A movie about the real costs of heroism. "},{"Title":"One of the best westerns ever","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane broke new filmmaking ground in 1953.  George Stevens lit the interior shots so as to make them seem as though they were being illuminated by oil lamps.  While most westerns had dusty, dry streets, Shane had muddy, gritty wagon paths.  When they wired Jack Palance and drug him into the barrels after Alan Ladd shot him, they did something no one had done before.  The low key acting was yet another thing that was new.  It was an excellent job of movie making!  "},{"Title":"THE classic western.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is THE classic western. The plot is simple but classic A gunfighter trying to escape his past must fight again to save homesteaders from a ruthless cattle baron. Alan Ladd rises above his normal roles and convincingly plays Shane as a reluctant but implacable hero. The cast as a whole is strong and Ben Johnson stands out as a ranch hand who taunts and fights Shane at first but eventually warns him of the impending trap which leads to the film's dramatic climax. The background scenery is gorgeous as is Victor Young's film score. Shane is a great movie, not just a great western.     "},{"Title":"The Heroes Are Tired","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is the third major western from the early fifties (the others being The Gunfighter and High Noon) that features tired, reluctant heroes who are fed up with violence and want to settle down. What gives!Well, I guess the modern world does. These three films reflect the postwar mood, as an America tired of fighting wars and a major economic depression just wants to live peacefully. Maybe this was an issue the Left and the Right could agree on, which made it politically 'safe' and yet somehow relevant.As to Shane itself, the movie seems to have lost some of its luster in the almost half century since it was first released. Director George Stevens' aestheticism is of another time, and while I respect it I can see what's wrong with it (too slow, too deliberate, too obvious, a tad more moralistic than most people these days are comfortable with).The plot is fairy tale simple Shane, a mysterious stranger dressed in white arrives at the house of Starret, a pigheaded but basically decent rancher who, as things develop, is being set upon by an evil, greedy land-grabber named Ryker, who wants to gobble up the entire valley, and who is attempting to drive the small farmers and ranchers off their land. There are many confrontations and fights along the way. Eventually old Ryker hires a gunslinger to intimidate the already scared out of their wits homesteaders, send them packing, and if they resist, murder them. He succeeds with some but not with Starret, who wants to fight to the bitter end. Shane is inclined to agree with his friend (and boss) and decides that it would be better if he, an experienced gunman, squared off against Ryker and his gang. In the end this is what happens. Starret's son, Joey, who idolizes Shane, follows him into town, where he witnesses the Whole Thing.There are some slow spots in this film, and if one wanted to be cruel one would say that it's mostly slow spots. As has so often been pointed out, it lacks momentum. More to the point, it lacks the air of inevitability that might have elevated it nearer to the level of tragedy, which might have given it a fullness, a richness, that the finished product does not, alas, possess.Nor are the characters without a certain inconsistency. Why, for example, are the homesteaders so kutzy and incapable of handling firearms? This is the Old West fuh cryin' out loud! New England farmers were and in many cases still are known for being crack shots. Since most of the locals came from the East, while it would be reasonable to assume that they would be a bit less rugged than the born to the West types, it would be equally reasonable to suppose that they know a thing ot two about guns, especially since the Civil War is a living memory, as is mentioned on a number of occasions. For the most part the settlers react to Ryker & Co. like a bunch of scared jack rabbits. And little Joey seems awfully immature for his age. His hero-worshipping of Shane, while touching at times, often feels absurd. Joey's idolizing might have worked better if Shane had been presented with more flaws, so that we (the audience) could see him for who is really is, but instead Shane comes across like 'Joey's movie', his Shane, not ours, not the real man but the gallant knight a small child imagines him to be.Luckily, the pluses outweigh the minuses. Loyal Griggs' photography is at times breathtakingly good. The integration of natural sounds and music is exemplary. Nearly all of the supporting performances are superb, from the good guys to the very bad ones. I was particularly impressed by the bearded and usually very urban Emile Meyer as the elder Ryker brother. Jack Palance givies what is now a legendary performance as the evil Wilson, the gunfighter. As the Starrets Van Heflin and Jean Arthur were sturdy and believable. But the movie belongs to Alan Ladd as Shane. He may not have been the world's greatest actor but he was the greatest actor for this role. His sad countenance has never been better used; and his deep, dead voice is how one would expect a man like Shane to sound. Whether pensive or in fight mode he has about him at all times a quiet authority, and never misuses it. He seems both graceful and exhuasted, and always ready to withdraw, whether from fighting or life in general. "},{"Title":"A fine film... didn't quite hit the spot for me though...","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" As those that have read my reviews before will know I'm not a big fan of Westerns, but those that are fans always quote 'Shane' as being a great example. Well, it finally landed on my TV screen this week and was duly recorded for this viewing. I will say it did have its moments, but I can't say it's won me over. I'll give you my thoughts after this brief summary.When a lone rider, Shane, rides onto the homestead of Joe Starrett, he didn't realise he was about to become embroiled in a land war. Joe, along with wife, Marion, and son, Joey, are living on land claimed by cattlemen Rufus and Morgan Ryker and the Ryker's want it back. Joe hires Shane to help him on the farm and he is introduced to the other homesteaders in the area. It seems that one by one they are being moved off their claims. Deciding there might be strength in numbers, they go into town together as a group. Shane has a run-in with one of Ryker's men which eventually results in them bringing in hired help. This leaves Shane with a dilemma, does he go back to the ways he was trying to get away from in order to protect those he had, by now, come to love and respect. Well, I'll leave you hanging there or the Spoiler Police will be trackin' me down across the prairie.Some great cinematography which, for its day, I found quite refreshing. The music, well, not my cup of tea, but I guess it was OK. Performance-wise, I thought all the main cast did a really good job; Alan Ladd was excellent as Shane, as were Jean Arthur as Marion Starrett and Van Heflin as Joe Starrett. Brandon De Wilde played Joey and Jack Palance (interestingly billed as 'Walter Jack Palance') was the hired gun, Jack Wilson. I should also mention Emile Meyer as Rufus Ryker, John Dierkes as Morgan Ryker and Paul McVey as Sam Grafton.I must admit I was surprised at how even-handed the politics of the plot were handled. The reasons for the actions of both sides were well explained and I can see why this one gets the praise it does. For me though, it didn't quite come off, I found the attention spent on the boy Joey very annoying and didn't see exactly how it moved the plot along. There are some great fight sequences though and some beautiful scenery. It was just too long though, there seemed to be an awful lot of 'filler', and it was a little over melodramatic for my tastes. I can see why Western fans like this film, but sadly it didn't quite hit the mark for me.My Score 6.5/10.IMDb Score 7.8/10 (based on 15,483 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 97/100 (based on 29 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"A personal favourite","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I always considered Shane a personal favourite and I still do. The pace may be languid in a sense, but there are some pieces of dialogue in the movie and how it is scored and filmed that suggest that this was deliberate. Either way, Shane in my view is still a truly wonderful and one of the best of the genre. The film looks gorgeous with some wonderfully meticulous cinematic shots, and because of the mood and how they're shot the closing scenes are still some of the most haunting I've seen in any movie. Also impressive are Victor Young's score, the thought-provoking script and well-told story. The acting is excellent bringing to life well-formed characters, Alan Ladd is cool, Jack Palance is appropriately menacing and Brandon DeWilde is very touching. In conclusion, a fine film and a personal favourite. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the 10 greatest films period","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I was 12 years old when I first saw Shane, and it changed my life, for it was the first time that I experienced that a film could be a total experience to be appreciated, rather than a series of parts I liked. It was also the first film to move me to tears for anything other than an animal dying. Joey's pain and confusion over Shane leaving made me cry unexpectedly. I didn't know a movie could do that to me. I went on to see it 3 more times that year, twice at Grauman's Chinese in Hollywood. After reading the nearly 200 reviews of this classic film (over 150 rated 9 or 10), I feel vindicated that I recognized its greatness at a tender age. The elements that stood out were the emphasis on a family, rather than just a series of fistfights, crimes, and gun battles; the story seen largely through the young boy, in part hero worship, and in part the excitement of viewing the conflicts between the cattlemen and Shane; the fantastic cinematography of the Tetons of Wyoming; the beautiful score by Victor Young, where each principal character had their own theme; the menacing performance of Jack Palance as the hired gun- slinger; and finally, the bittersweet classic ending with Brandon DeWilde calling for Shane to stay, innocently confused somewhat as to why he must leave. All the undercurrents of attraction and jealousies are beautifully understated but evident to adult viewers. The idea that one man would be sufficiently selfless to not succumb to his desires is a rare commodity today, and might explain why some reviewers think this is corny. I suppose if Shane were to be remade today, there would be plenty of F bombs, gunfights, and Shane and Marian would be in bed in short order. This would probably appeal to those who think Shane is a slow boring film, and would prefer a bloodbath or the praised Unforgiven where a character early on says Say What? in the 1890's. Viewers seeing the film for the first time today must keep in mind that until 1967, no films could show sex scenes, bathroom scenes, or contain obscene language. That's why many younger viewers find movies like this corny. In conclusion, Shane is a timeless masterpiece of filmmaking, a true work of cinematic art. I have seen it about 40 times over the last 57 years, and it still moves me deeply. Those who find little Joey annoying must not like kids, because he is and was typical of many boys his age, and his performance was a large part of the success of the film. It was unusual to include children in westerns, and had he not been in the movie, I doubt it would have become a classic, and one of the most memorable and iconic scenes of any film (Shane, come back) would not have become part of our film heritage. "},{"Title":"a gentleman serving the law","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The stranger is a good-looking, mannered and smart rider who lives by the gun, but who knows about ethics. He will remove the grand obstacle from the valley. The scoundrels have no wives or children. The Rykers, Calloway and Wilson are ugly, disgustingly bad mannered and only care about money.Despite his casual nature, Shane will be a profitable figure in the Starret's place. Although he is reluctant to get Joey involved in the gun game, Shane assents to his suggestion. He is even a better father than Joe himself owing to the insisting petition of the youngster, Shane instructs Joey on the use of a pistol, aware that sooner or later the boy will have to confront the ranchers. Joe is so busy as either a fence layer or a community leader that he neglects his son's request. Shane is also a present for Marion. The wife clearly admires Shane twice across the window at the rider's arrival and after supper when Shane is leaning on the same window looking at the stump. The household has turned her sexual interest into a vague memory. Shane's presence refuels Marion's physical urges. Joe's stub, wrinkled face and smeared clothes differ Shane's neat outfit and harmonious visage, his orderly hair and tidy apparel. Even during the dinner, Joe's manners are at stake. He is shown eating with his fingers and speaking with a full mouth. Shane is screened clean and aseptically eating with a fork from the plate. Joe's talkativeness is another dissimilarity to Shane's concise and laconic reply. Shane's lone ride to Grafton's is probably the most epic journey of Western ever. A more bigoted meeting point couldn't have been set. All the odds are against him. One man alone is going to fight the villains in their own terrain the allegory of unfairness. Among these, stands Wilson, an insensitive and skilled hired killer. Shane has ridden himself of the humility and domesticity of the Starret's homestead and has wrapped himself in the pure and genuine Wild West air. On the back of his charger, he exudes the gunman's elixir. He's changed his farm working clothes for the attire he had worn when he first showed up before Joey's eyes. Sitting with his back straight and his head up high, he is the incarnation of divine justice on earth. His Colt, greased and trim, will settle the score. The countryman wagon has been replaced by his majestic mount, his chestnut hair glowing under the moonshine and his mane blown away in the night breeze. Shane is not a pig farmer anymore. During his travel, his authentic personality, which had been lethargic during most of the movie, sprouts up. He is conscious he will have to face death, but he knows it is his fate. Until this night, he had fought with all his might to avoid this moment. He really wanted to change his ways, yet circumstances beyond his will swayed his right step. He wished a shift so badly he even stood by the man who had rifle threatened him off his homestead. He has been in this shooting scenario dozens of times in the past and he knows the Starrets can't afford to lose their family head. This is easy to gather from his determination and stubbornness to take Joe's place and his confidence on his way to the bar. Now he's turned into a sheriff and into a hardened killer. But this time is different he reckons the Rykers have to go; they are a huge hindrance for the welfare of those he adores. His hat is back in his head, ever since that moment when he had removed it before entering Starret's dining room. The head-wear is a distinctive item of the unadulterated gunslinger. The Rykers, Calloway and Wilson always wear a hat. The music along his ride to the saloon provides Shane's grandiose pace with an aura of an unbeatable, formidable western power. It reinforces and stresses his gallant position. The steed is masterly, quietly and beautifully steered across the wilderness. Shane's serenity and immutableness before the coming tragedy contrast the apprehension of those who await him at Grafton's and Joey's agitation to catch up with him. Contrary to the date of the barroom brawl and as an advance that the felons will be terminated, tonight the sky is gentle and luminous in order to show Shane the most elegant way to reach the saloon, where he will get with an impeccable look. An astounding transformation takes place in Shane's demeanor right after the duel. A fellow who has just ruthlessly swept three men away is capable of displaying an angelical face and serene and easy tone voice in the oncoming conversation. A fatherly figure proving Joey that he, of course, stores no hard feelings for what the kid told him minutes ago. Shane digresses on his pointless attempt to reorient his recent past and even advises little Joe about his future life as a farmer, while discouraging him from a gun life.However, Shane's stature as an unassailable gunfighter remains at its highest. He's walked back from the very Hell Gate. He illustrates a splendid endurance of the wound pain in order that Joey is not sorry for his fatal destiny. Shane does not let his feelings show. He is hankering for embracing the boy goodbye &#150;and so the whole Starret family- yet Shane's inexpressiveness heightens his stance as an almost inhuman, out-of this-world hero. His hardship and rectitude lead him to ignore the innocent and heartbroken Joey. Half his soul is willing to haul the child behind him and ride back to the Starret's. But he knows he does not belong there anymore, his place is beyond that snowy ridge ahead, an obscure and hostile range where he is going to lay alone and meet the Disposer of all events. "}{"Title":"The Gunfighter Film","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This film stars Alan Ladd as the diminutive gunfighter who hooks up with a sod-buster family in the Old West. They are, of course, victims of an intimidating bunch who would like them off their land. Trying to deal peacefully with them (trying to hide his reputation) he does everything he can to keep from facing off against these uglies. Like those quiet men, he eventually comes out shooting because the cause is too important. Sometimes it's hard to imagine such a scrawny man having the fighting talents Shane has, but the guns ultimately do the talking. This is a archetypal Western in the same family as High Noon. It puts riding into the sunset literally on the screen. Shane has too much baggage to stay. He has the restless urge to move on, even with that obnoxious kid, Brandon DeWilde, screaming at him. I don't know how great a movie this is. Just that it is a curiosity, paving the way for many other films (even Cat Ballou has elements of Shane in it; or The Seven Samurai). "},{"Title":"Great cinema, weak screenplay","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had a much higher opinion of this film until I read Jack Schaefer's novel. As another poster observed, the boy comes off mostly as a toe head in the film, but as quite thoughtful in the book. But the thing I dislike most about the film adaptation is how it changed the role of the mother from a brave and strong-willed woman to a sniveling preacher of non-violence. At times in the book, Marian seems more determined than Joe to stick it out and fight. In the book, Shane teaches Bob (Joey in the film) about shooting without interference from Marian. The line about a gun being just a tool is spoken from Shane to Bob, not to Marian, as it is in the film. It seemed to me as if the screenwriter bent backward to create a weak woman stereotype. Maybe that's what sold tickets in 1952, but it wears very thin today.But there's no doubt that this is a beautiful film to watch. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Crowd-Pleaser","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" With hundreds and hundreds of mysterious dudes with violent pasts appearing across movie screens in the nearly sixty years since, it's hard to imagine (unless you were there) just how groundbreaking a picture Shane really was and still is.It's satisfying western mythology of the highest order and still quite compelling, with it's mix of audience manipulation (the good kind) and neat, thrilling action.The deceptively simple story is made great by it's breathtaking, Oscar winning cinematography and great performances by Alan Ladd and especially Van Heflin as Shane's stubborn employer, Emile Meyer and Jack Palance as the villains.Meyer is especially good in the scene where he explains the motivations behind his reign of terror. Palance is nasty in the scene where he murders ex-Confederate/homesteader Elisha Cook Jr.Other great scenes (and there's a lot!) include Shane's confrontations with Ben Johnson, the later fight between him and Starrett, and the excellent final showdown. "},{"Title":"Somebody bring us more Shane.","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" In the wake of this epic film lies a great opportunity for a film maker to show us more Shane and where Shane came from. What set Shane on his course to reconciliation with his past? The possibilities are endless. If it can be done for the likes of Batman, Spiderman, and StarTrek In this day and age of remakes and copies, what a chance to make a prequel or sequel for everyone to enjoy! A challenge to equal Stevenson's product before us. The character of Shane is too powerful to ignore and not delve deeper into. Imagine that we're taken back to witness the events that led to Shane living as a gunfighter. We need more wholesomeness in our lives in this day day and age and more Shane is the perfect venue. "},{"Title":" One of the best movies I've seen yet","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I don't know whether it is my liking of the actor that might possibly have anything to do with this movie but in life, there are certain types of people that one feels attracted to ( not necesarily the roles they play) but I might add that the roles they play, have also possibly something to do with the kind of person they are. In shane , the sense of justice that shane conveys is  in my view the sense of goodness that was the underlying essence of who Alan Ladd was. I'm extremely glad that he has issue to continue the saga and I wish them every luck and Godspeed in the world With utmost respect and with complete sincerity Timothy George Vidal Barraquer 6-2-3, La Bisbal D'Emporda, Prov Girona, Spain Unfortunately, Those whom the Gods Love, Die young. "},{"Title":"A great western film","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is one of the great western films there is. The production took great pains to portray realistic details such as the layout of the town and the homesteads of the settlers. All shot against the majestic settings of the Grand Tetons of Wyoming. Some of the sequences are shot during dusk, with the cobalt blue sky shimmering through. It gives an eerie moon-glow type of effect. Alan Ladd, Van Heflin and Jack Palance are excellent in their roles. The sound tracks and music are also very good.The scene where Cory is shot down in the muddy street and the shoot out between Shane and Wilson are spectacular. The ending with a wounded Shane riding off, makes you wonder if he will live to see another day. A truly great effort by director Stevens and a fine western to watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Archetypal Western **Spoilers**","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ******SPOILERS INCLUDED******For me, Shane is the ultimate western. It is not my favorite, which is Hondo, or the one I consider the best, which is The Searchers, but more than any other, it represents the ideal, the dream, the 'mythos' of the Old West.As Americans, we had lost our mythology. Biblical heroes still exist, but their lives, customs, manners and their world is so different from our own, that it is hard to see them as heroes for our modern world. But the men and women of the western frontier, as seen though the lens of a motion picture camera, were close enough to our modern world to become the Heroes, the archetypal Heroes, we needed. From William S. Hart to Marshall Dillon, they have provided us with the role models for what a Hero should be and Shane is the ultimate expression of that Hero and the Myth.Shane is the stranger. We don't know his name or his origins, but we know what he is he is the Hero, the quintessential archetypal Hero of the West.He comes from nowhere when he is needed and he returns to nowhere when his job is done. His job is to save good, decent people from the Villain who has power to harm them.Many movies reflect different versions of the western myth, but in Shane it comes in its purest, most simplified form. Shane, the gunfighter, drifts into the valley trying to escape his past. He meets Joe and Marian Starrett and their son, Joey. They are homesteader trying to create a life for themselves. They and the other homesteaders are threatened by Rufus and Morgan Ryker, ranchers who see the farmers along the river as a threat to their access to water in times of drought. They use their cowboys to threaten and attack the farmers. With Shane's help, the farmers are able to stand up to the Rykers and their cowboys. So the Rykers hire Jack Wilson, a vicious gunfighter, to kill Shane. In a climactic gunfight in the saloon, Shane defeats and kills Wilson and the Rykers, ten wounded, he rides from the valley, alone, as Joey calls after him 'Shane&#133;Shane, come back Shane.'Simple and straightforward, Shane is the ultimate expression of Hero of the Old West. We may not actually believe he exists, but we like to think he does. "},{"Title":"a timelees classic(possible spoilers)","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There was never a more saintly cowboy hero than Shane he rides in and out of peoples lives and leaves them better off for that.Yet we know there is a past from the dark side that haunts Shane,he's a killer who needs to change,the west is changing and Shane has had his day.However the new west needs a Shane to rid them of the bad guys which he does.The bar room fight scene is a true classic,made more memorable by the sound editing.The ending is satisfactory arguements continue as wether Shane lives or dies I think he lives and catches up with Ben Johnsons character,I would love to see a prequel and a sequel to Shane. Agreat western watch and enjoy.9/10 "},{"Title":"Shane & the idea of Shane","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Superior, intelligent  western with all the essential ingredients of ideas and action to tickle  the cultured and uncultured palate alike. Handsome gun toting stranger (Ladd) rides in from nowhere to assist humble God fearing , hard working homesteading folk  (Arthur,Heflin,de Wilde) resist the bearded evil landowner Ryker and his bar-based bullies who will stop at nothing to get them squatters off his hard won land. Superb script, discursive and especially non-discursive expression, dealing with the testing complexities of loyalty, controlled action  means something when it comes,  and all set amidst the majestic mountain scenery of Wyoming.    "},{"Title":"A very exciting old western classic!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane has a perfect cast and Alan Ladd as the main character is very cool. The cinematography and the colors are superb and the action scenes are still today good. It had six Academy Awards nominations & one Oscar Award for Best Color Photography.I specially liked the feelings between the kid Joey and Shane, it is all very well done. Still I found it more to be a exciting and very good western film then a masterpiece. I liked High Noon better, this was not as unique as High Noon but it's still a highly recommended western film. I give it a 8/10  "}{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  It is hard to say which is the better Western  She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, The Searchers, or Shane.  Others, of course, are in the mix, including Red River, Stagecoach, My Darling Clementine, and The Ox-Bow Incident, to name most of the films in a very exclusive fraternity.  They are all superb, and every one should be in the Top 100 of all films ever made, and several are.Shane succeeds on every level.  The scenery (filmed in the Grand Tetons) is breathtaking.  The acting is superb, especially the inspired performances of Brandon de Wilde as the boy and Walter (Jack) Palance as the gunfighter.  And Alan Ladd's performance is understated, dignified, and believable.  Van Heflin is wonderfully stolid as the determined homesteader.  The supporting cast is excellent, and the script reflects a fascinating blend of human emotions.  The dispute between cattleman and farmer/sod buster is honestly depicted, with the cattleman--nominally the bad guy--given every opportunity to state his case, which he does very well.   It isn't obvious that Alan Ladd's and Jean Arthur's characters are in love, although clearly there is chemistry between the two.  It doesn't matter The thought that she would break her wedding vows or that he would betray his friend is anathema to both of them.  The final showdown is a classical moment in film history.  Even the dog in the saloon seems to dread the moment.  What a scene!This film isn't so much about good versus evil as it is about a clash of cultures.  It is little wonder that it was nominated for Best Picture.  One doesn't have to be a Western fan to know that this was a very special, and even inspirational, film.  Show it to the youngsters.    "},{"Title":"The director, the cast, the location, the writing, everything lined up perfectly all in the right place at the right time.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I think that George Stevens's Shane as the best film I have ever seen. The reason, in large part, is the great skill of George Stevens. I've liked a number of his films, and I think Shane is his masterpiece. Shane is an elegant film, with an eloquent flow of words, and an uncanny use of unspoken communication. This is something that isn't normally associated with westerns. It is  Alan Ladd's portrayal of Shane as the quiet reluctant gunfighter strapping his six-shooter back on to do battle for the beleaguered homesteaders that brings the slow  buildup to a climactic confrontation between good and evil that is classic.  The colors in any print that you will able to get today, are a little faded, and that's unfortunate, because the images of the craggy peaks of northwest Wyoming, where Stevens shot the film, are the most beautiful in any western ever. I think the backgrounds in this film have as much to do with the greatness of this film as any of the actors. From the beginning, there's that beautiful scenic opening, you get the sense of this ranch house, isolated out there, just stuck out in the middle of the wilderness. You have a sense that this is what it was really like. The same is true of the town. You know that those Western towns really looked like this, and this town is one of the great images in American film. The director, the cast, the location, the writing, everything lined up perfectly all in the right place at the right time, and something beautiful happened. Something that will never be duplicated. "},{"Title":"Without Doubt, this is the Finest Western Movie Ever Made","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Set in the majestic Grand Teton National Park, the scenery is incomparable; the sets are very realistic; and the characters believable. Here is a movie that presents the classic struggle between good and evil in a way that clearly separates right and wrong while leaving enough mystery to satisfy the viewer.In a time when we all need some heroes to worship, Shane is a timeless classic, a masterpiece to give us strength and gladden our hearts. If you are a man, you will easily relate to the strength and determination of a man like Shane. If you are a woman, you will ache with compassion for him.Do yourself a favor. Rent or buy this film today. Then sit back, enjoy Victor Young's wonderful musical score, and prepare to be taken to another time and place, where strength of character counted for something. I can not recommend this movie too highly. "},{"Title":"great story line; great performances; famous final scene","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie when my cousin took me to a drive-in to see it in the mid 60s.  He said it was good.  After seeing it, my impression was that it was dull, dreary, and much too slow paced.  But something drew me back to it when it showed up on TV maybe a couple of years later.  After watching it again, I wanted to see it yet again; but I wasn't sure why.  That process continued maybe two or three more times and I gradually figured out that I liked (not to mention the Grand Tetons) the fact that the characters were so down to earth and believable and it was easy to identify with and/or understand them.  The story line was very believable also; partly because it had no flashy heroics.  Any parent of a son has to consider viewing Brandon De Wilde's performance as one of the most special movie experiences they have ever had.  The crowning glory of Shane, of course, is what is (arguably) the most unforgettable final scene in movie history. "},{"Title":"The best of them all","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  First saw Shane when a boy of 6 living in two rooms in London England - the only entertainment in those days were the movies -no TV, records etc etcIt seemed to set all my life interests for me - cowboy movies, music, mountains (but not cricket!)In 1987 at age of 40 I finally got to visit the Tetons and have been going back whenever I can - driving around the locations with the film music playing. What a fantastic area!Shane is now something of a personal travelogue! But it is still the best ever. No need to review it - it is close to perfect ( despite the odd continuity error and the RV in the first scene on the Kelly Road!) "},{"Title":"Much much more than just a shoot-em-up","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  What makes this movie great is that Shane is not a shoot-em-up, but the combined story of a young boy's coming of age, and a hardened gunfighter's learning about love.  When a troubled gunfighter, Shane (Ladd), fresh from the Linclon County War stumbles into the boy's parent's ranch, he finds kindness and friendship when he no longer believed in them. Yet the family is plagued by a land grabbing rancher and though he vowed to put his guns away, Ladd, because of the boy's faith and hero worship, must face the land barron to protect his new friends. Ladd is superb as Shane, and it's a shame he didn't live to do more Westerns. "},{"Title":"A real western","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is, in my mind, the embodiment of a true western. By true western, I mean authentic (or seemingly authentic, to me anyway) in its portrayal of the west and of the people who lived there. The atmosphere created by the movie through its character dialogue, beautiful cinematography, and believable story all helped to immerse me in the belief that this was as things were.Now, whether this is true or not, and whether the movie did in actuality provide a realistic outlook on what life was like in this era, I can't say. I do know however that it was a relentlessly entertaining film, and in my mind that makes it well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A singular adaptation of a surprisingly insightful, if quaint, novel .","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is the quintessential western, though to leave it at that would be to unduly pidgeonhole it.  It is far more, reaching surprising depths for what is often a disconcertingly middle and lowbrow genre.  Its cynosure, amid an intriguing tangle of subtle and unsubtle subplots, is the relationship forged between Shane, a conscience-stricken gunslinger turned hired hand, and little Joey, the seven-year-old son of Shane's new employer.  Despite Shane's menial position, Joey pedestalizes him.  There is something in his inexplicable in his mein which betokens the enigmatic hero.  Though he is just a hand, he is never treated as such he is never ordered about or spoken to curtly.  He is revered, rather, as a soft-spoken guardian angel from the very outset when little Joey fixes his gaze on him, tall in the saddle, cantering his horse beneath the blazing western sun.  Shane's past is a mystery even the child has sense enough never to broach.  The setting is idyllic, a small, humble farm ensconced somewhere in the untamed frontier.  Shane is made to feel nearly a part of Joey's indefectible nuclear family, which also includes an intelligent but far from cheeky wife from the east and big Joe, her virtuous and iron-willed husband.  But the scepter of his past looms ominously over Shane, an inescapable incubus pressing to intrude itself into the equanimity.  When Jack Palance, in his legendary role as a black-hatted hit man hired by the family's land-snatching enemy, enters the narrative, Shane must not only at last reckon with his past but determine how best to expiate his sins and care for his new family, even if it means martyrdom.  The boy is an eyewitness to his hero's struggle, though being only seven he is more or less oblivious to it. We are to imagine his character being forged and informed by what he is seeing.  This is, in large part, a coming of age film, much like Don Siegal's much poorer film, The Shootist, starring John Wayne and Ron Howard. While always wearing a deadpan expression and speaking in soft, low-voiced monotone, Shane struggles with his own riven spirit cognizant that he has an adoring audience watching him, seeking desperately to emulate him.  Now being a man of acute conscience, Shane essays to be an exemplar of manliness and virtue.  At one point Shane is surrounded by six or seven toughs in a bar.  They encircle him and approach menacingly, ready to pounce.  Joey, all the while watching, leaps out from his hiding place and runs to Shane, tugging his sleeve.  He importunes Shane to run away, he hasn't a chance. There are too many!  Shane, with tiny smirk, looks down affectionately and says Now what would you think of me then.  He will not teach Joey to be a coward, even if not doing so costs him a severe and lusty working over.This film is immortal for the same sundry reasons the novel is, and foremost among them is the eternal value of its story, which, through its many devices, is a treatise on human nature--its moral dilemmas, its lessons, its atonements, and its points of no return. More than that, it doesn't merely raise questions on these matters, it gives answers, even if most of them are less than perspicuous. Answers which are better experienced first-hand through the magic of celluloid than second-hand through my meagre words. "},{"Title":"I'd do the same for that land and Jean Arthur, too!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Van Heflin's ranch is probably covered by sprawl now. But this picture depicts the cattle vs farmer theme of the old west. Oscar for cinematography. Type-casting triumph, as the Raven travels back to the Old West to establish justice! Really, though, a great movie with spectacular music and fine characterizations. Ladd IS supposed to be mysterious. IS supposed to be the force from the outside (good or bad?) that changes life forever for those who meet him. It is great to see a movie that can entertain the eye, the ear and the heart all at once, while giving you all the two-fisted action you want. When VanHeflin goes after that guy with the ax handle, look out! "},{"Title":"One of the 5 Great Westerns of all time.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  George Stevens has created a masterpiece with his blending of story & visual beauty while at the same time bringing out Alan Ladds greatest performance. This movie is deliberately slow paced so as to build to a slam bang climax. Jack Palance is the most evil of bad guys & plays perfectly opposite good guy with a past, Ladd. The supporting cast is excellent, top to bottom. Stevens was a perfectionist & it shows well in this film. "}{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Yes this movie is simplistic. Yes the acting is not all that great. But there was still something that drew me into this film. I grew up in the woods and so I guess what I loved about Shane was the setting of the movie. Absolutely beautiful. Throughout the whole movie I could not stop thinking about how much I would like to live there. I think it is George Steven's second best work (the best being Giant). "},{"Title":"classic movie making","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  As soon as you hear Victor Young's music and see a lone figure riding across the plain, you realise something special is about to happen. Shane is a magnificent movie passionately directed by George Stevens who showed us perhaps more then any other, just how life was in those pioneering days. In Shane he parades the daily struggles by all who lived in the west, farmers, ranchers, townsfolk and of course ageing gunfighters, all doing their thing on a landscape guarded by it seems equally frustrated clouds rolling in from the Tetons. From the opening scenes where Stevens cleverly turns up the sound to emphasise the story line or a character, to those memorable last few moments when Shane rides out into the night, we are treated to 120 minutes of cinema at it's best. My favourite scene is when Shane, Joe, Marian and little Joe arrive home in their yard late at night and are confronted by Ryker, his crew and the dark stranger Wilson. The interaction between them all in the gloom is fascinating. Ryker pleads his case, Joe as expected refuses to listen,Marian anxiously looks on, little Joe is trying to understand it all and Shane and Wilson silently introduce themselves by eyeballing each other.With the discussions over Ryker and his men leave and Wilson backs his horse out of the yard. Fantastic stuff!! Yes....and what about that final showdown in Grafton's saloon, not much discussion there...just riveting scenes that have been copied ( or tried ) over the years by many. Shane is a wonderful story, put together on film by a once in a lifetime gathering of movie makers that all have contributed in producing one of the greats.  "},{"Title":"Pivotal Western","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I think this movie is probably the most realistic western made it was about real people trying to scratch out a life for themselves and their families. All the components to life were there, the good guys the bad guys the guys that had made a few errors in the past and were trying to go straight and the innocents. One of my favorite scenes is when Shane shows Joey how to draw and Joey whistles his acceptance. And the guns even sound like guns (loud guns). Another favorite is the fight between Big Joe and Shane (to keep Joe from going after the gunfighter). The movie is so intertwined with plots about what could have been it had you wondering the first time you saw it which way it would go. This movie is a must for any western fan. A 10 in my book because of it's authenticity and wonderful portrayal of a gunfighter trying to hang-em up! "},{"Title":"...as casual and cool as it's setting and pace of living.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Let's play Jeopardy! A  Creator of honest and realistic cinematic characters.Q  Who is George Stevens? (see also  'A Place In The Sun'; 'Giant')Steven's ability to give thoughtfulness to every ego and scene allow Shane, and other works, to transcend time...and only look old.  He takes the same character prototype into each film  his characters are everyday people, for better or for worse...and here is the kicker -- they actually sound and act like everyday people.  The result...?  We believe 'em!  In Shane, the viewer (in essence) is little Joey...innocently taking it all in; becoming decent and strong in a changing landscape.  The film is as casual and cool as it's setting and pace of living.  Both fight scenes are staged perfectly.  "},{"Title":"No one messes with Shane, if you do well then have your fists ready.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Set in Wyoming during the mid-19th century, Shane is a remarkable tale about a retired gunman out to stop the resistance of a ruthless cattle baron. The fight scene in the bar may be the greatest fight scene in motion pictures, they fought with bare fists, the way men should fight, throw in a couple of chairs and you get a classic bar rumble. When you first see Shane, he has somewhat of a charismatic appearance to him making him a true hero. An excellent depiction of the American West-the center of town is far away from the houses, the muddy and dusty trails and the rugid structure of the houses make the film look like a documentry. 4 stars out of 4. #11 on my top 50. Everyone should see it. -Jake Klim  "},{"Title":"Ladd's Greatest Role","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film has got to be on anyone's Best 10 All-Time Westerns list. George Stevens directed his finest film in Shane.Alan Ladd has never been better as the loner who rides in to the Starrett homestead. It was arguably his greatest role ever. Jean Arthur, in her final film, and the always reliable Van Heflin are excellent as the Starretts. Who can ever forget Brandon DeWilde as Joey running after Shane as he heads to the final showdown.Jack Palance is chilling as Wilson, the gunman who coldly guns down the homesteader Torrey (Elisha Cook Jr.) to teach the others a lesson. The fight in the saloon between Shane and Calloway (Ben Johnson) is unforgettable.The sexual tension between Shane and Mrs. Starrett surfaces, though neither will allow their true feelings to come out.The sets showing the modest homesteader's claims, the cemetery and the town, muddy street and all, are realistic and authentic.Although Shane was filmed in 1951, it wasn't released until 1953, a fact that always has confused me given the quality and subsequent success of the film.  "},{"Title":"A great western and period piece...","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a really terrific film.  Although it's corny in spots, the cinematography and depiction of frontier life are compelling.  The story of the weary gunfighter who thinks he has finally found a home to retire is not new, but is fairly presented here.   The film does a good job of predicting the harshness of frontier life, and the town looks like what one would imagine a frontier town would have been like - small, spartan, and with muddy streets.  Alan Ladd gives a good performance, as do Van Heflin and Jean Arthur, but Jack Palance and Emile Meyer are outstanding (Meyer especially).  While the film lags in places, it has several great scenes (the bar fight and the climax, especially), and it is definitely in the top 10 all-time westerns.  A 10... "},{"Title":"Fine film; Jack Palance's strange credit.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have seen this film on numerous occasions. Gunfights apart, it was one of the most realistic Westerns ever made  -  living conditions, scenery, buildings, fights, etc.. It should be noted that Jack Palance was actually credited as 'WALTER Jack Palance' "},{"Title":"Pretty Good movie","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  As part of my watching all of the AFI's 100 best list that I have not already watched, I recently rented Shane. I found that Shane was at times a very slow moving film and didn't really get into the main characters. I never really got a sense of where Shane came from, any problems which may have forced him to move along or what motives he had for staying with Joe and his family. I did, however, find Shane to be one of those movies that puts you 100% behind the good guy (Shane) and 100% against the bad guy (Rekard?). I find that too many movies today don't provide a tough case to not like the bad guy and therefore when he loses, we are really indifferent about it. The relationship between Shane and the boy is one of those great themes that has been copied many times after, but has never been truly matched. I would recommend Shane to anyone basically on the great performance by Ladd, the overwhelming cinematography and the true hate that one develops for the antagonist. "},{"Title":"Nice little movie, but not amazing","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I wasn't deeply struck by this movie and I don't think it's overly memorable. I didn't really get into the story apart from there was a gang of mean people that wanted to control things and the main characters didn't want to give in to them. No grand statements or anything. No deep moral or philosophical questions, IMO. The choices were pretty simple and predictable.Shane's a mysterious figure like a lot of western characters, someone who seems to just float on through a place with no particular direction or goals and has unexpected connections to other people. I guess it's his benevolence, the way he looks out for the main family so much even though he doesn't seem to care much about his own future that makes him meaningful. I can relate to that. Even if your life isn't going the way you want, helping people that have the right kind of values or who remind you of when you were younger or what you'd like to be is inherently rewarding and healing.The music was nice. The acting was fine although it always bugs me how fussy the ladies are in these kinds of movies. I don't get why they can't just relax and make their point. They're always working themselves up and biting their finger or falling onto a bed with their arms over their forehead and then crying. Seriously, just do something or move on. I guess that's what those characters are meant to be and how the world was back in the day.The fights are entertaining but kind of silly. I'm used to the sound effects and the constant punches back and forth. The only variation being an occasional dodge or a moment where they grab and straighten up their opponent before hitting them in the face.This movie was also a bit slow and boring; it could've been much shorter. I basically guessed what was going to happen. It's still fairly satisfying though. Jack Palance was cool. You do get a bit invested in the characters and it's easy to see how you might be in their position, wanting to live a simple life and getting bullied by a bunch of jerks. Nice to have someone drop on by to help out. It's a bit like E.T. or Jesus. Perhaps there's some symbolism there. About someone who comes out of nowhere and is willing to make sacrifices for the good people.So I guess this movie didn't have any major flaws but it wasn't that exciting or unique. Just nice and simple, a bit heart-warming and entertaining. The way Joey looks up to Shane is nice, perhaps very slightly annoying. But I think that's a cool, precious thing when kids find someone to look up to. You hope to be a responsible role model for them and give them some of your attention. I remember looking up to people as a kid. And I can do lots of things now that I would've found amazing as a kid, except now my standards are higher and I can still manage to be disappointed or unimpressed by myself. I'm used to myself, I'm with me everyday. So when kids are impressed, it's a nice reminder to appreciate what you can do )Perhaps Joey inspired Shane. Gave him a little boost of life energy, woke him up. Perhaps it's a kind of karma so that innocent people can get the help they deserve from stronger, less innocent souls. "}{"Title":"Great Western","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Alan ladd never better. having seen this movie as a child, i defy any movie going guy not to say that Shane isn't the coolest cowboy/gunslinger in any movie. he's not the big heroic duke or the laconic Gary cooper cowboy, he's more one of the first anti hero cowboys.He knows he's cool but doesn't seem to need to advertise it. Jack Palance is incredible as the direct opposite of ladd. ladd is light colored and clothed, palance completely dark. ladd is short to palance's being a good 7 to 8 inches taller. you want to root for Shane while there is nothing to like about Palance's Jack Wilson. Van Heflin is terrific as usual as the homesteader leader and Jean Arthur was equally Oscar worthy. The Riker brothers, whoever they were, were perfectly cast and the Riker speech about carving out the frontier to Joey was even sympathetic. Don't forget Elijah Cooke JR. playing the bragging johnny reb or the other dozen or so perfectly cast character actors. Ben JOhnsons scenes with Shane are also brilliant, especially the last when they shake hands as brothers. great George Stevens movie-making. "},{"Title":"One of the top three best all time western films","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Along with High Noon (1952), The Searchers (1956) and The Magnificent Seven (1960), Shane defines the western movie genre.Everything is here; the wild and beautiful scenery; the unrequited love; and most of all the man with a bad reputation who does the right thing at the right time to protect the weak but righteous from evil. In fact, all three movies have this same thread the man with a past ultimately redeems himself at the end of this story.All the characters are quintessential representatives of their type Jean Arthur is the image of strong but feminine womanhood; Van Heflin is the hard working homesteader; Brandon DeWilde is the young, trusting boy in all of us; Ben Johnson is the bad guy who turns good. There's a host of other bad characters, all topped by Jack Palance as the ultimate evil gunslinger for hire. And, of course, Shane himself represents every man who, for reasons unknown, has a bad reputation but is ultimately good.The story builds throughout the film until the climactic ending. Even though we can predict the outcome, we feel good when it plays out. And after he kills the gunfighter, Shane's words to little Joey reinforce the child's image of both the evil killer and the ultimately good Shane. Joey Gosh Shane, he was fast. Shane Yes Joey, he was fast; fast on the draw. The last phrase, reemphasizing the misguided glamor of the gunslinger's speed plays up the unspoken truth that since Shane killed the gunfighter, Shane was the fastest. Shane was the best.Outstanding classic western. "},{"Title":"GalaLadd","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Someone is going to have to make a hell of a case to prove that this isn't the Greatest Western ever made. The irony is that most of the Above-the-line personnel, George Stevens, Alad Ladd, Van Heflin, Jean Arthur, were basically Urban creatures unlike the John Ford set and perhaps that gave it the freshness that informs it. Virtually all Westerns are morality tales; Good versus Evil, simple as that. That's the premise of a hundred Roy Rogers, Gene Autrey, Tom Mix, etc vehicles with no more ambition than to let the White hats kick Black hat butt in 65 minutes or less. Later the writers discovered Freud and we had a sub-genre of 'psychological' westerns that needn't detain us here. Shane takes the basic formula and adds a little seasoning to taste, like a simple sponge cake baked by a Cordon Bleu chef. The homesteaders, led and personified by Van Heflin, are hard working family men putting in backbreaking hours to carve out a decent life for themselves and their families with primitive tools. The ranchers, led and personified by Rufe Ryker, loaf, drink, gamble and roust the homesteaders 24/7. Stacking the deck? Maybe, but Stevens doesn't hit you over the head with this, you only notice it, if at all, afterwards and then only if you have a penchant for analysing movies. By the same token Shane is probably too good to be true. A gunfighter who lives by a moral code, is impossibly clean-cut and good looking. Ironically if he is anything at all he is a Western equivalent of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe (down these mean ranges a man must ride?), inasmuch as he spends ninety per cent of his time in work that at best is questionable and often downright sleazy and the irony is that Chandler himself famously described Alan Ladd as 'a small boy's idea of a tough guy' and here the irony is compounded because Shane (Ladd) is definitely Joey's (Brandon de Wilde) idea of a hero. Personally I've always felt slightly uneasy with Chandler's quote because there's no writer I respect more but neither have I any quarrel with Ladd. Whilst I would never accuse him of being a great actor I always felt that like a far better actor, Jack Lemon, Ladd's inherent decency permeated every role he played even his breakthrough assassin in 'This Gun For Hire'. There's no doubt in my mind that Shane and Ladd were made for each other and it is his presence above all others that lifts this movie into the 'classic' genre. That said the support is fantastic with not a dud amongst the lot. As swan-songs go Jean Arthur sure knew how to pick em and in retrospect anything she might have done post-Shane would have been anti-climactic. 10/10 going away. "},{"Title":"A so-so story that's brilliantly told...","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ...Shane is about Shane, a gunfighter (Alan Ladd) who shows up at a town and starts working on a farm for money and food.  This town is constantly bullied and under siege from the tyrannous free grazers around, and they desperately want to fight back, Shane agrees to help.  It's your usual western story, nothing really new there, but the way the story unfolds is no doubt the way this film achieved its renown.  For instance, the leader of the free grazers makes a few subtle remarks about going to Cheyenne for help.  A few minutes later in the film a mysterious, lean looking man (Jack Palance) rides into town.  Shane says he may be deadly gunfighter Jack Wilson, but you never really find out until near the end.The performances also make the movie.  Ladd is terrifically heroic as Shane, his honor and power create one of the greatest cinematic heroes of all time.  Then there is Palance, who creates one of the greatest cinematic villains of all time.  The two create a great contrast, especially in a particular scene where they drink together, eyeing and studying each other.  No words in this scene, the actors work with their eyes.  In fact, Palance speaks very little in this film.  The acting is in his eyes and snakelike facial expressions.  Should have won the Oscar.Other aspects of the film are good, like the direction and score, and a lot of the locations are beautiful to look at too.  The story plays out well, with some really memorable scenes.  It gets a little slow in the middle though, some undeveloped characters get a lot of screen time and it lags on a bit.But overall it's a terrific film, leaves a lasting (positive) impression, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Shane A Flawless MUST-SEE Film","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane A Flawless MUST-SEE FilmI'd place Shane in the top three Westerns, along with High Noon and The Oxbow Incident.I can't find even one flaw in Shane.  Breathtaking story, casting, acting, setting, photography.  Recent reports say that Shane was meticulously researched, so what you see for wardrobe and sets is close to authentic.Pay special attention to elder Riker's soliloquy.  Rarely does a movie villian justify himself so eloquently.  But this is only one among at least a half-dozen brilliant set-pieces in this drama.Look at the skies and mountain backgrounds!  Think what these looked like in the theater!If you have never seen a Western, or if you think you'd never like a Western, you must absolutely see Shane.Shane is a MUST-SEE for all movie buffs.  If you've never seen it, it MUST be your next pick! "},{"Title":"best western film ever made.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  To me Shane is the best western movie ever and I have seen most of them.I hate to throw western in there because it is one of the best films ever.The scene at the end between Shane (Ladd) and Wilson (Palance) is a classic.An epic film. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the book. Best western ever filmed!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It was an outstanding movie in 1953 and it stands the test of time very well. Really should have been voted best picture of the year over the winner, From Here To Eternity  "},{"Title":"togetherness","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane depicts the love between a man and a boy, it also shows the love and bond between a man and his wife. Our imagination might wonder what if Shane was to fall in love with Mrs. Starrett (Jean Arthur), but this motion picture is not about infidelity, it is about friendship, love, supporting, pulling together, helping out. I feel that this is one of the best pictures ever.    "},{"Title":"A magnificent film, an unforgettable experience.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I actually saw the first run of this movie, in my pj's, at a drive-in movie. I remember my total identification with the boy, feeling acutely his longing for Shane's warmth and attentiveness as contrasted with his father's sterner aloofness. As a man I was stunned to revisit it and see the unequaled cinematography, and to find parallels now with the adults and their struggles to survive in the face of human and natural conflict.  I found it, both times, absorbing from start to finish. Truly one of the great cinematic creations. "},{"Title":"Excellent, s/b top rated","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Western format but EMOTIONS are as valid today as ever.Not for PC-type people - means if you regularly watch TV shows with laughtracks it's probably too REAL for youProbably too close to the truth for some viewers - else it'd be rated #1 "}{"Title":"A classic, understated western- great cast.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Ladd should have been nominated for an Academy Award.This was Arthur's last movie- and one of her best. The attraction and near love between Ladd and Arthur is touching, as Arthur so obviously loves her husband- Heflin. Palance is at his evil best as the tall, lanky gunfighter. DeWilde( who was nominated along with Palance for best supporting actor) is perfect as the hero-worshipping young boy. Johnson and Meyer are also great in their supporting roles. The ending bar-room-gunfight scene between Ladd and Palance is a classic. Even the dog was great, e.g., the way it and Dewilde watched the last gunfight.   "},{"Title":"If you are looking for one of the best westerns ever, look no further. Shane is it!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If you are looking for a great western, and there aren't that many around, Shane will deliver in every respect. Shane, I feel, was Alan Ladd's finest moment on screen. He made us love and pull for the character of Shane, a former gun slinger apparently running from his past. The cinematography is outstanding along with a great score and theme. Jack Palance is the ultimate bad guy who plays Jack Wilson, a hired gun to get Shane. The fight scenes and shootouts were as real as you will find in any film. Don't miss this classic. See it on as big a screen as you can.  "},{"Title":"Best Western, Period","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane may be the best Western Motion Picture ever. "},{"Title":"Shane was a true man of the West","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" As the frontier of the West was pushed relentlessly forward and stakes to valuable tracts of land were competed for sometimes fairly but often underhandedly, it took a rare stock of man to survive and prosper and what's more to do so honorably. Alan Ladd in his signature role as the titular character is one such man. It is difficult for us living in the present to understand just how precarious mere survival was in those days and how arbitrary justice could be towards barely accused and untried persons. Shane knows there is a better way than dispensing justice out of the barrel of a gun and yet he also knows that it is the only way when there is no rule of law. During the ending, after our hero has disposed of his nemesis with the assistance of his young admirer, when Shane rides off into the sunset, both his adopted family and the audience lament the loss of one of the last of the dying noble breed. "},{"Title":"One of the Finest Westerns, & Ladd's Signature Role","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One of the finest of all westerns because of its characters, story, and settings, Shane is also Alan Ladd's finest performance.  Ladd was in many other enjoyable movies, but Shane is the role that really gives him a chance to show what he could do.  Ladd conveys Shane's mixed feelings and internal struggle in a quiet but very effective fashion, and he also makes the character fit in perfectly with the story and the other characters.  The rest of the cast is quite good as well, but it is Ladd's performance and the character of Shane that raise it above being just a good story, and that make the viewer feel part of it.The story is an interesting combination of several familiar themes, with the battle-weary gunslinger getting caught up in the struggle between homesteaders and ranchers, each of whom have their own internal issues.  Shane is both an observer and a participant, providing an interesting point of reference.  The young boy Joey who idolizes Shane complements Shane's own perspective, and the boy's rather exaggerated responses to events also complement Shane's/Ladd's understated reactions.The story moves at a good pace and builds up tension nicely, with the cast getting good mileage even out of the simpler characters.  By the time that Jack Palance comes on the scene as the sinister gunslinger, the stage has been set for a memorable climax.  It still works as well as ever, even when you've seen it a number of times. "},{"Title":"Loved this classic western!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  My wife and I loved this western so much that we named our first born child Shane.  Alan Ladd does a wonderful job tying together right and wrong in the old west.  It will be hard for any person not to shed a tear at the end of this one. "},{"Title":"Not the best Western ever, but ...","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ... right up there in the top 10, along with High Noon, The Searchers, For A Few Dollars More, and other titles to quibble over. The cinematography is first-rate in showing the high, arid land that dominates the Rocky Mountains, and the script lets the plot develop at a slow-but-steady rate with dialogue that's not overly maudlin. Seeing the film in a theatre also allows you to experience the sound; gunshots are set at a high volume, with a BLAM that's shocking and scary (like a real gun firing next to you).Shane is a fable of the West; as a native of the American West, I can relate to it as an archetype that builds the myth. So does the Wild Bunch, The Magnificent Seven and Once Upon A Time In The West, in their own ways. It's not an important film; it's a good piece of dramatic entertainment.Shane -- along with most other films -- isn't a work to be judged in the absolute viewpoint of today. George Stevens made it in the 1950s for a 1950s U.S. audience that expected a good film to be about two hours and visually pleasing. It was before the time when television dominated our way of thinking about entertainment, and before thousands of hours of film classes drilled the idea that films had to mean something and that there are undercurrents, relationships to political struggles, etc.It also came before the quick-splice sledgehammer approach that dominates today's movies, where the plot flow comes less from evolving development and more from pop-culture references and over-the-top portrayals of good and evil. (And that's a plot summary for all of Moulin Rouge if I've ever heard one.) Judging from the reviews I've seen lately here on IMDB, it's worth remembering that you watch a movie by letting it happen, instead of anticipating action and trying to find the action and meaning as you watch. Some of the films are slow, to be sure, but that's part of the construction. For some works, it takes time to make the point, and Shane does it very, very well. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I can't go along with the critics who hailed this movie as the best Western of all time. The story is rather simplistic and filled with stereotypes, the acting heavy-handed and the dialog forced. But my greatest complaint is with the casting of Alan Ladd as the title character. Ladd just isn't physically imposing enough to play the larger-than-life hero. Give me John Wayne or Gary Cooper any day. Jack Palance, on the other hand, makes a delightful villain. Unfortunately, his screen time is severely limited. Shane is not a bad movie. The cinematography is excellent and the message is solid. But I fail to see why it has such an exalted place on the list of American Westerns. "},{"Title":"Greatest western EVER ?","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Should you see this movie? Well of course! - they say it's the greatest western ... EVER!How is this the greatest western ever? So many 10/10, twenty great reviews or so for each bad? I have absolutely no idea! Maybe they saw this as a kid back then, of course they were impressed - I would have been - and then it just got stuck as the greatest experience for ever and ever. But that doesn't automatically make the movie great!I sincerely believe that for a movie to be a 10/10, it should be almost as good today as it was then. Okay, The Shining doesn't scare an audience today as it did when it was done, but that doesn't matter, because the creepy qualities are so insanely good, so it can stand out as a classic, even today. The special effects and awesomeness of the first Star Wars isn't as impressive today, but the atmosphere and qualities still make it a good one, even today. Can you say the same about Shane?So, let's face it it is overrated, like so many old classics. The movie is okay, average, bearable at best. Boring, but bearable. Some parts are laughably bad, some highly annoying, and some decent. The scenery and the landscapes are decent. But so what? There is good versus evil, integrity and so on, but that topic is done so much better in ... let's say star wars just for the heck of it.The story is plain and simple, not very fantastic or extraordinary. Nothing to sit around and wonder about for days. Pretty predictable too.And then the kid, the most annoying kid in the history of cinema. He looks like something out of a TV-series of that era, and he continually wines oh gee, oh gosh, I love you Shane, I love you so much, and his acting is ah so so, a bit over the top.But the worst character is Shane. So misplaced, out of cast a physically small and slow man, big head, fluffy hundred-dollar haircut, with an outfit as genuine as a Las Vegas wedding cake. On top of that, a somehow feminine and slow style of fist-fighting.Still some of the fighting scenes were well made, in between. When Shane wasn't throwing his wimpy fist. Be warned! The movie is as old as moss, and looks like it too. 5/10. "},{"Title":"***SPOILERS AHEAD***Sturdy classic western is absorbing entertainment...","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" SHANE has quite a reputation as a film classic but it's not my favorite western. Having said that, I do admire the performances of ALAN LADD, JEAN ARTHUR, VAN HEFLIN, BRANDON deWILDE, JACK PALANCE and BEN JOHNSON--and last but not least, ELISHA COOK, JR. as the cocky frontiersman gunned down in the mud by black-hearted Palance.It's a western with heart--telling the story of a wanderer gunslinger (Ladd) who wins the heart of a family of homesteaders being threatened by bullying landowners who are their nearest and meanest neighbors. Ladd takes quite a beating the first time he ventures into town on an innocent mission--and from then on, the violence is always just around the bend as a trio of villainous thugs keep their eye out for Heflin and his neighbors who have to struggle with whether to stay on or quit the territory.Handsomely photographed in Technicolor, it takes advantage of all the outdoor settings and is given a more forceful presentation with the vigorous background score of Victor Young. A bit long in the telling, it nevertheless commands interest from beginning to end, making you care for the characters and their situation.What's striking about it, when compared to the John Ford type of western, is the almost complete lack of humor. There's no Victor McLaglen getting tipsy in the saloon or any Andy Devine type of character to cause a few homespun chuckles. It takes the straight and narrow path toward telling a plaintive tale of good frontiersmen against evil--and at the same time deals with the growing fondness of the young boy, Joey (deWilde) and his need for a hero.Summing up A story of courage and revenge, the fight scenes are among the most brutal ever staged in a film from this era, but it still manages to be a western with heart. "}{"Title":"A simple little story...that works on three or four levels.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I first saw Shane about the time it was released, when I was not much older than Joey Starrett in the film.  It was about open-ranger cattlemen, homesteaders, and gunfighters.I watched it again, on TV in a rare uncut version. (I'd seen it occasionally, stuffed into a two-hour slot, meaning about 45 minutes of the film had been sacrificed...the pivotal scenes at the 4th of July celebration, and Torrey's funeral.)   I thought I knew the plot, but seeing the complete film, as an adult, showed me I had never understood the story any more than young Joey understood what was going on with the adults in his life.Shane, I realized, is actually about love and friendship and loyalty and yearning and jealousy and a sort of nobility.(I notice that some commenters say it is cliched.  From this vantage point, looking back at it across nearly 50 years full of Westerns of varying degrees of similarity...perhaps. But the fact that aspects of it have been copied till they have become tired and hackneyed shouldn't be held against Shane.   It was the original. "},{"Title":"Best of the Cowboy/Western Genre","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is a must-see film if you'd like to sample the cowboy/western genre.  I realize cowboy flicks are out of vogue, but I predict they will come back.Politically, America is becoming more conservative.  With this will come a yearning for stories of the men an women who led the expansion west, post-Civil War.  There will be a remake of Shane for generations that don't know the story of the gunslinger and his role in this story of good v. evil set against the background of the marvelous Grand Teton mountains. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I hoped for","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have always heard great things about this movie and was disappointed that it wasn't as exciting as I thought it was going to be.  Maybe that is the point of the movie because it is about everyday living out west.  I recently saw High Noon and liked it better because of the suspense, the real time action and the simplicity of the scenes.  All of the actors in Shane were first rate, but I was just disappointed in the plot.  Shane was a mystery man to me from beginning to end.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Corny","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This classic Western focuses on the conflict between homesteaders and cattle ranchers. Ladd has the role of his career as the mysterious stranger who rides into the valley and becomes involved with a family. Heflin and De Wilde are fine as father and son. Arthur, who came out of retirement for this last film role as a favor to director Stevens, with whom she had made two wonderful comedies (The Talk of the Town and The More the Merrier), is given little to do as the mother. Palance is memorable as the bad guy. The location cinematography is breathtakingly beautiful and the score is nice. However, everything is too clean-cut and simplistic, and the dialog is somewhat corny. "},{"Title":"One of the very best Westerns","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane (1952) This is a classic Hollywood Western, but it is one of the very best. I'll admit to not liking the lurid hues of Technicolor film, nor am I big on sweeping orchestral scores, but this story has heart and morals. Alan Ladd (the stoic stranger), Jean Arthur (the dedicated wife), Van Heflin (the dedicated farmer), Brandon De Wilde (the untalented boy who plays their son), Jack Palance (the hired killer), Ben Johnson, Edgar Buchanan, and others star or fill in the story. Settlers starting farms are being harassed by one group of ranchers, and the problems escalate. By pure chance, a stranger wanders across their turf battle &#150; a stranger with history &#150; who, we learn, is ready to try a new life. He likes these people, and wants to stay. All the moral dilemmas are in place, the battles of wills and patience begin, and the boiling point will be found. Coming out of WWII, this film's message of you can only be pushed so far, your patience can only last so long, and bullies must then be handled would've rung true and positive for that audience &#150; as it should to this day. "},{"Title":"The greatest western ever","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If many of the scenes in Shane seem to be clichés now, that is because so much of this wonderful movie has been imitated and become part of the basic fabric of cinema, particularly in its a man's got to do what a man's got to do rubric. I have seen this movie at least thirty times over the years and it still moves me. It is a magnificent representation of decent values and one of the best depictions of good triumphing over evil. All the actors could not have been better, with Jack Palance playing the most memorable villain ever seen in a western. Some people have commented that there are homosexual undertones to Shane's relationship with the boy, Joey. These people must be incredibly sick to perceive such a distortion of the perfectly innocent relationship. The boy's hero worship is something that most boys go through. But the movie does portray a profound affection between Shane, Joe Starret (Van Heflin) and Starret's wife (Jean Peters). It becomes clear that Shane is deeply attracted by Starret's wife, but it also becomes clear that Shane loves Joe and the boy just as deeply and cannot bring himself to betray any of them. "},{"Title":"Laconic","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Much better than average stuff here, considering the period.Yes, the characters are hewn from the purest cardboard, and Joey the kid is right annoying (he was borrowed from this for 'Rambo III'). But it still does several things well.Most overtly, we are treated to the crystal clarity of the homestead/mountain range compositions. This has some of the best animal wrangling you'll see in any Western, right down to the expression on the face of Joey's faithful sidekick mutt.Whatever Shane's motivations, the theme of ambiguity would have to await Eastwood's 'Pale Rider' reinterpretation to find its full expression. That said, Stevens assembles some fine fight scenes -- the editing here is top notch -- to ratchet up the tension in us. And Palance made a good understated villain, as equal a dissonant presence in the peaceful valley as Ladd's terse gunslinger hero. "},{"Title":"Shane (1953)","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" SHANE is one title that always comes up when voting for the Greatest Western of all time, along with other celebrated films such as STAGECOACH (1939), HIGH NOON (1952), THE SEARCHERS (1956), THE WILD BUNCH (1969), etc. Personally, however, while I do admire it a great deal and have watched it a number of times, I wouldn't say it's a particular favorite of mine.The film is certainly good to look at (Loyal Griggs' cinematography won an Oscar, after all) but it is also quite deliberately paced and, somehow, one feels that director George Stevens intended it to be more than just another Western. It does have some unforgettable scenes (Elisha Cook Jr.'s murder at the hands of Jack Palance, Alan Ladd and Van Heflin's fist-fight, the climactic duel between Ladd and Palance) and performances going for it (Ladd's best role, Palance's star-making turn as the villain) but, like I said, the film is more pretentious than most Westerns if just as enjoyable on the surface.For all his long-standing (and well-deserved) popularity, Alan Ladd's had a pretty mediocre film career &#150; on a par with Tyrone Power, I'd say &#150; sparked on occasion by a great or interesting film. From what I've seen, apart from SHANE, his finest work would include the three film noirs he did with Veronica Lake, namely THIS GUN FOR HIRE (1942), THE GLASS KEY (1942) and THE BLUE DAHLIA (1946), as well as his atypical supporting turn in THE CARPETBAGGERS (1964) which, unfortunately, also proved to be his swan-song. "},{"Title":"A lot of symbolism","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane was a classic. A lot of people think the character was unrealistic. What I always thought about this  was that in the early west people (and the homesteaders in the film )had to rely  on their neighbors to survive. Shane represents this idea. Although he is necessary, his time is passing as the West is changing. The kid thinks the gunslinging is cool, but adults know the time for shootouts and taking the law into your hands is going out with the new century. Shane's quick draw skill has no place in the new century and it's good riddance to people like the villian who slaughters people for land. The Wild Bunch and Butch Cassidy had similar themes. But Shane is not a brainless shoot em up and makes many points.Okay, the kid (Brandon D.) was annoying throughout the film  and if the character was supposed to be annoying (and it seems he was) then maybe he did his job and the award was justified.  "},{"Title":"A classic western.  Good (almost) versus evil (very!)","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A movie to be remembered.  It's still the same story.  The good guy shows up from somewhere to help defeat the bad guy.  The difference is the depth of the story; the location; and the actors - don't forget the actors.  George Stevens did a hell of a job directing, too. "}{"Title":"Guns aren't going to be my boy's life.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The theme of the role of guns in a young person's life is relevant to 1998 just as it was in 1953. This movie presents the main issues of guns in the USA nicely. George Stevens has said whether a movie is good or bad will be decided 25 years after its premiere. Shane does, IMHO, stands up well to that test but exceeds it!  "},{"Title":"A classic  i know, but a slow one","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  WARNING  Spoilers!	It is often hard to watch films such as this synchronically and appreciate them.  I first viewed this George Steven's work in a college class titled `Film and the American Hero'.  It was well that I did because the instructor's lecture put the film in diachronic perspective and I was able to see its seminal values.  But to put it bluntly it is not a likable western.  I've watched it 3 times now and none have left me with the feeling that I enjoyed the picture.  But as stated I admire its filmmaking prowess.	Central to that prowess is the theme of the freedom offered to `ordinary' people in the old west as opposed to the usual `wild' cowboys.  The irony of course is that Shane is one of latter and his longing to become one of the former culminates in a inescapable showdown and the self-realization that it was not meant to be.  A good premise but unfortunately produced via a somewhat slow moving pace.	A big plus is the speech made by Ryker that was way ahead of its time, in which he complicates the typical good/bad scenario in the genre by making the viewer pause to see his side.  A big minus is the boy Joey's ANNOYING voice (especially at the end of his sentences which sound like mocking) and the ridiculous instance at the show's climax when the boy covers the same distance on foot that Shane does on horseback in relatively the same amount of time.Also I found the underlying potential sexual tension between Shane and the wife unappealing.  Maybe that's because I'm a simple, working-stiff, boring guy like the husband (Joe) in the film and the attraction that all women seem to have to the flamboyant makes me insecure (same reason I didn't like Bridges of Madison County).       "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever made","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  the forerunner and inspiration for 2 generations of westerns to come. could clint eastwood have made pale rider, high plains drifter, or even the spaghetti series without this as his guide?Superb acting from entire cast.........jack palance and elisha cook in particular were never better, incredibly realistic locations mix with stylised mythological themes.yo see it is to love it! "},{"Title":"What Did Think Was Wrong with the Book???","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane has been one of my top 10 favorite books for 40 years or more. I like Alan Ladd, love Jean Arthur, adore Jack Palance, so I thought I'd love the movie too. But something went wrong...someone somewhere decided the book was defective, and so they started making changes.Minor change the boy's name is changed from Bob to Joey, for no good reason. Major change (SPOILER ALERT) in the book the two men, Joe Starrett and Shane, are practically the other half of each other. They are as close as brothers. The movie somehow decides to change this into a rivalry, so that from the time Shane rides in to the time he rides out, the two are finding ways to get at each other and better each other. They even seem to be fighting over Joe's wife, which is ridiculous.Their rivalry even turns the scene where Joe prepares to meet Stark Wilson in town for the climactic shootout into a fight. In the book, Joe never knew what hit him; in the movie, the two men slug each other all over the house until Shane essentially can't take it anymore and belts Starrett with his gun. Then the boy, who has seen all this, yells that Shane cheated and I hate you Shane! Joey might, but Bob never did. He adored Shane from beginning to end.There are other differences I won't bother with, but those are the ones that really made my skin crawl. The other thing that's inherently wrong with the movie is Alan Ladd. Nothing against the man; I have liked many of his other films. But he is not Shane. He looks nothing like Shane's description in the book, he has none of Shane's poetic fluidity of motion, and he's not convincing as a secret gunfighter. As a farmer, yes, he's plenty convincing. Maybe he should've played Starrett.It's unfortunate the movie was made in 1953 and not in, say, 1967. Pernell Roberts would have been perfect as Shane. He looked the part and had the fluid grace, the alert watchfulness, and the dexterity of a gunfighter. Alas for things that will never be. But even if he had been Shane, the script would have needed to be rewritten.There are things to like about the movie. I can't fault the cinematography and have no desire to. Jean Arthur was a great actress and I never tire of watching her. People who never read the book Shane by Jack Schaefer may love the movie.But for anyone for whom the book is a near-revered classic, the movie is a sad attempt to go one better than the book and in the process, it misses the mark entirely. "},{"Title":"And all he ever wanted was a place to stay for the night!","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Riding through the Wyoming untamed wilderness Shane, Alan Ladd, ends up staying over at the Starrett Farm where he gets into more trouble then he ever expected to. Just wanting to find a place to stay over for the night Shane is first accosted by the Starrett's Joe & Marian, Van Heflin & Gean Arthur, 9 year old son Joey or Joe Jr, Branden De Wilde, who for some reason had developed a hero-worship fixation towards the tired and not too talkative stranger. Shane in his own quite way tries to placate the boy, with stories about gunslingers of the old Wild West, just to get him to finally shut up and let him get some badly needed sleep!If that's not bad enough for Shane he soon, as a ranch hand at the Starrett Farm, gets involved in a bitter feud between the local homesteaders, like the Starrett's, and the cattlemen who want to drive them, by hook or by crook, off the land to make gazing room for their cattle. Trying to hide his past, as a gunslinger, and keep out of trouble Shane is slowly caught up with the fight between the homesteaders and cattlemen when he innocently drops into the local saloon and hardware store in town to get little Joey a bottle of soda pop. Mistaking Shane for a homesteader cattleman Chris Calloway, Ben Johnson, starts to mess with the guy pouring a drink, that he bought for him, all over his immaculately pressed and brand new blue shirt! Up until then Shane did everything to avoid trouble with the uncouth cattlemen lead by the Ryker Brothers Rufus & Morgan, Emile Meyer & John Dlerkes, but now with them picking on him and worst of all ruining his shirt he's going to see to it that things are going to be a lot different from now on!Allying himself with the homesteaders Shane takes the fight right to the Ryker Bros. at their hangout in the Grafton Saloon putting, together with Joe Starrett, Callaway and about a dozen other Ryker Gang members out of commission in a bar-room brawl that's one of the most exciting and fist flying in all of motion picture history! Rufas seeing what he's up against, a fired up Shane, tries at first to buy him off which has the insulted and outraged, in Rufas thinking it's only money not fair play that he's interested in, Shane kindly tell Rufas to stick his offer straight where the sun don't shine!Not getting anywhere with Shane and with the meek and non-violent homesteaders now having Shane to rally around Rufas get a hold of the notorious Yankee gunslinger Dead-Eey Jack Wilson, Jack Palance, to do the job that he and his boys were unable to do. Get Shane out of his hair and beard and do it the best way he knows how With his vaunted and deadly six shooter!***SPOILERS*** As we've seen Shane not only had the Ryker Gang and Wilson to worry about but his friends and landlord's, in staying at their place, the Starretts as well! Especially the nagging and unbearably annoying Little Joey! Getting involved with the Starrett's families problems seems more of a challenge to Shane then his battle with the Ryker Gang. Cute and somewhat likable at first Little Joey became a major pain in the butt for Shane in him always hanging around with him and never letting the poor man as much as breath! Even in his final showdown with the Ryker Gang and the villainous Jack Wilson Shane had to contend with the shrieking and bothersome Little Joey who despite in lending a hand in him whacking Ryker and his paid assassin Jack Wilson still wouldn't let his hero Shane leave for parts unknown just to get as far away from him as humanly possible! As Shane finally departs from the scene we hear a tearful Joey's ear splitting shriek-Shane! Shane! Come Back Shane!-reverberate all across the valley. It's that shrieking yell on Joey's part that causes those of us watching and hearing the movie the need for a set of ear plugs to keep ourselves from ending up going tone deaf! Considered one of the best westerns ever made Shane took more then two years to be released mostly because the films meticulous director George Stevens' constant editing and re-shooting the film to make it perfect. This prevented the film for going head to head in the Academy Awards of 1952 with another western movie classic High Noon which was actually shot and released a year before Shane! That's while Shane, released a year later in 1953, was already finished and laying around the studio collecting dust! P.S Even though she did a number of TV specials after being in Shane the film was actresses Jean Arthur's last movie appearance. "},{"Title":"I hate cattle ranchers !!!!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Cattle owner Meyer and his boys aim to scare off sod-busting farmers in classic rancher vs. farmer showdown. Stranger Ladd, a quiet guy with a secret and apparently violent past, mosies into town and camps out with farmer Heflin just as things start to heat up. When Meyer ups the ante by calling in mercenary Palance the fuse is lit. I often have trouble taking Ladd seriously but he hits the spot in this one as a modest but first-class fighter. Nice to see Elisha Cook, Jr. in a good guy role, even if anyone could guess by the end of the first reel that he winds up as cannon fodder. But it's not perfect - I think the film runs too long, it starts tight but unravels part way through, the too-long knockdown between Ladd and Heflin takes considerable punch out of the finale, and I'm not sure how little Joey beats Ladd to the bar anyway, but on the plus side there is great scenery throughout. Deservedly famous ending. "},{"Title":"Important but painful","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I grew up hating this movie.  It's my grandfather's favorite and the annual holiday torture always involved the phrase, So, Katie, want to watch Shane?  I thought it was long, boring, and painfully simple, so my answer was always no.  But then film class hit, and I had no choice but to sit through the whole thing again, and as much as I continue to dislike the film, I have to admit its importance.This is not a movie to kick back and watch on a Saturday night.  It is jam-packed with the kind of melodramatic posturing that even a real film lover can't forgive.  And the kid, christ, we all thought the film might be good if he actually died in the end.  That little boy utters the most irritating line ever filmed, and his insipid expression makes you want Shane to keep on riding.  Not to be cold-hearted, but the issue of innocence got pushed way too far.That, however, brings up the film's symbolism, and as an expression of American ideology, Shane really can't be beat.  This movie is the foundational document -- a fantastic text for the study of our internal contradictions.  Perfect hero, evil villain, moral simplicity, the necessity of violence...  But rather than just putting these notions out there, the film makes clear that gun is necessary to safeguard society, but we can't live with the man who would use it.  These kind of juxtapositions flow all through the film, and that is why I can't just hate this movie.  Watch it, but be warned, it is only worthwhile if you interpret and keep your eyes open. "},{"Title":"Disappointing adaptation of a great book","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a decent movie, but nothing like the book I fell in love with years ago as a junior high kid.  I see this movie on cable so often and I just reread the book so I can't help but comment. The SHANE Jack Schaefer describes in his great book is a dynamic, mysterious figure, not like the unimposing presence of Alan Ladd. Equally disturbing is the boy, Joey (Bob, in the book).  The book is written in first person through an intelligent, perceptive young boy's eyes.  The kid in the movie is a simpleton.  While the family faces a huge life-threatening crisis, this moron kid is running around pretending to have a gun, yelling Bang, Bang, Bang...  Wow. The setting may have picturesque, but it was unimpressive to me that while Joe and Shane had their battle in near darkness, an hour later daylight is very evident. Still, an entertaining film with a moving story.  But if you enjoyed this movie, I strongly suggest the book to tug at your heart. "},{"Title":"Way overrated!!!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I've just perused all 23 or so rave user-reviews of this movie and, I'm sorry, I just never could understand all the fuss about SHANE.  To me, it was simplistic in the extreme and, although Alan Ladd was one of my all-time favourite actors, he was MUCH better carrying a snub-nosed 38 than a Colt 45!...a cop or a noir-bad guy...yes, but a cowboy or a Mountie, afraid not!!I just couldn't buy him beating up Van Heflin, let alone taking out Jack Palance, and the wide-eyed admiration of all those sodbusters when little Alan came upon the scene reminded me of a bunch of pro-wrestling fans!! Beautifully photographed, and Alan's scenes with young Brandon de Wilde were very touching but, as to the rest, if I'm the only kid on the block who didn't think it was an all-time classic, so be it!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Your Basic Stereotypical Western","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I can't for the life of me figure out why this movie has such staying power. Alan Ladd as a macho, fighter/gunslinger is enough of a stretch to begin with, add in an about as overused a western plot as one could imagine, some corny dialog, a few one-dimensional characters, and some rather wooden acting and you've got Shane.The diminutive Mr. Ladd is almost laughable as he fights with men half-again his size but manages to whip whole barrooms full of them quite handily, and then to see him in a duo-fighting scene with Mr. Heflin and both yucking it up as they beat the mean cowboys senseless with axe handles is a bit incongruous to say the least.The characters are straight out of a pulp magazine or comic book. The big, bad, meany rancher fights the newcomer farmers. Geeze, can it get any lamer than that? And then there's the basic message of the movie, which is, essentially, when all else fails, there's nothing like violence to solve any problem. And if the problem STILL persists, well just escalate to wholesale killing, that'll surely do it.And then, when the problems are really pretty much handled, well, just ride off into the sunset, even though everybody yearns for you to stay, and you yourself would love to. NO, you've got to ride off because you're a gunslinger and there's no changing that, no matter how much you want to.Just plain corny. It was fine for Saturday matinees when you were a kid I guess, but it hasn't aged well at all. "}{"Title":"Formulaic American Western","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is the result of director George Stevens' attempt to create the archetypal American western. Before beginning work on the film, he reviewed the genre to determine its essential qualities, which were then brought together in Shane. As a result, the film is the best example ever produced of a typical western. However, the flipside of this deliberateness is that Shane is also an extremely formulaic film. It exhibits virtually all of the genre's cliches, including (but not at all limited to) the fistfight in the saloon, the final shot of the hero riding off into the sunset, and the fact that the heroes wear white hats while the villains wear black. Even the plot itself is excruciatingly familiar, featuring the weary cowboy who reluctantly confronts the ruthless cattle barons in a climactic gunfight.In spite of what I have written above, I do not wish to sound overly negative. What the film chooses to do, it does quite well. The cinematography (including the deservedly praised funeral scene) is often excellent, and the acting is solid, with Jack Palance giving an especially noteworthy performance. Its archetypal nature makes Shane a great introduction to the genre as a whole. Nonetheless, it is simply too schematic to be placed among the truly great (and perhaps more subtle) westerns of the period, such as High Noon, The Searchers, and The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence. "},{"Title":"The Name Shane and That Kid","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There are a Few Things in this Most Highly Regarded Western that are Overdone, Repetitive, and Irritating. It is these Rubbings that make Watching Shane Today a Slight Disappointment.The Constant Repeating of the Name Shane (way too many to count), the Whiney and Relentless Intrusion of a Child Character Who is Much Better at Facial Expressions than Vocalizing and He Vocalizes Very Much, so Much that it can do Nothing but Distract. Alan Ladd and Van Heflin Delivering Acceptable Performances, may be Arguably Miscast.It was Groundbreaking, Somewhat, the Way its Violence is Sharp in a Pounding, Visceral Display. The Barroom Fights are Brutal and Believable and the Confrontation between Shane and Starrett in the Yard uses Sound and Camera Angles in Exciting and Interesting Ways. The Cinematography is Outstanding (took the Academy Award) and the Color is Beautiful. Jack Palance, in a Signature, but Short Role is Impressive, Slimy and Iconic. But the Child's Presence, He's in Virtually Every Scene, Borders on Intolerable, Almost Ruins the Movie and the Film is Surely About Him, from His Point of View and can be Seen as Didactic, Post-War, Nuclear Family Propaganda, Slanting a Hungry and Sedentary Audience for a Romantic Reaffirmation of the American Dream. That Patch of Land, the Spoils and Rewards, a Manifest Destiny Waiting for Americans who were No Longer Sod Busters but Suburbanites with a Kid. "},{"Title":"best western ever","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Best Western ever made. This is without a doubt the ! I have seen it over twenty times - and best western ever made. Generally - I don't even like westerns! This movie breaks out of the usual genre that one regularly enjoys! I cannot say enough about it. Any man you meet named Shane...Ask him. He is named after after the drifter with honor in this western which is much more than just a classic. What is the greatest western ever made. SHANE. Do not judge the entertainment value of westerns until you have seen SHANE. If I ever have a boy - his name will be Shane. I could show him this movie when he is a teen - and he will be proud. I even met a young medical doctor a few years ago - his name was Shane. I asked him - were you named after Shane in the 1950s Western? He replied yes and became excited. Karl Toenjes "},{"Title":"Our sun is undistinguished","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"   In every respect, size, magnitude, luminosity, age, position in galaxy etc etc our star  the Sun is undistinguished.But Elisha Cook did slog through the mud on an 1870's random plain to uphold his honor and died at the villanous hand of Jack Palance when an insult to Stonewall Jackson demanded honor or death. Shane acted out of love and not  regret for the past, or the  swiftly passing of his gunfighter epoch. That he died of his wounds is a consumation devoutly to be wished for , rather than  that he lived out a bathetic existence with a hopeless and wistful remembrance of things past. The last scene wherein the boy cries repeatedly come back Shane... distinguishes our planet, orbiting it's undistinguished star in a universe that may indeed harbor no sentient beings but ourselves. "},{"Title":"hear them spurs a jangle","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is a great western, even though it is not really a western, so much as it is a drama set in the old west.  A rally cool movie with great performancs all around, and an epic sort of scope that George Stevens always seems to capture.  The cinematography is just beautiful, and the acting is pretty good.  I just wish we could have seem more of Jack Palance's character.SPOILER Shane dies at the end, just in case there is any dispute.  The last time we see Shane, he is riding into the graveyard.  Shane is dead baby.   "},{"Title":"Did Not Feel the Sparkle","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A weary gunfighter (Alan Ladd) attempts to settle down with a homestead family, but a smoldering settler versus rancher conflict forces him to act.Apparently, this is considered one of the two greatest westerns by some people (with the other being High Noon). While I love High Noon, I cannot say I really felt it with this one. I enjoyed it, I thought it was well-made, but would not say it ranks among the greatest westerns I have ever seen.Interestingly, looking back on the film 60 years later, there is a tendency to inject a homosexual message into the film that probably is not there. Shane's attempts to run from what he knows to be his true passion can be seen as a gay man's attempts to live the straight life. This parallel is even more potent given that Ladd himself was believed to be a closeted homosexual. But again, was this intended? "},{"Title":"Powerful , slow, but moving Western","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Alan Ladd creates an unforgettable character as Shane; the world weary gunfighter, who longs for a more peaceful lifestyle. He portrays the character perfectly, his implied need for a stable domestic life is subtly hinted at in the exchanges between himself and Jean Arthur. His past however is forced to resurface as he faces the Rykers and the dreaded gunfighter Wilson.There have been many gunfighters portrayed in countless movies, but Jack Palance's Wilson remains supreme.Alan Ladd however is the star without question. Laconic, deadpan, heroic and self sacrificing, he portrays the flawed hero to perfection.A memorable film of the genre. "},{"Title":"Shane","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had seen clips of this highly recommended film, and I spotted it in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, so naturally it was a priority, from Oscar nominated director George Stevens (The Greatest Story Ever Told). Basically in an isolated valley in Wyoming, a drifter and stranger to the town, named Shane (Alan Ladd) arrives. He settles in the Starrett family house, helping with farm work for father/husband Joe (BAFTA nominated Van Heflin), becoming somewhat drawn to his wife Marian (Jean Arthur), and gaining the admiration of their young son Joey (Oscar nominated Brandon De Wilde). His arrival though also starts a feud when he enters the saloon, where he and cattle baron Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer) instantly clash, he wants the Starretts' farmland. Shane and Joe manage to beat Ryker's men in a fist fight, and the men swear they will kill either of them if they show up again, but Ryker is going further with the conflict by hiring gunslinger Jack Wilson (Oscar nominated Jack Palance). Being a gunslinger himself, Shane has heard of Wilson, and when he kills ex-Confederate Frank 'Stonewall' Torrey (Elisha Cook Jr.), Joe is determined to go and kill Ryker and save the town. Shane and he fight over who is going to go against Ryker and Wilson, and after knocking him out Shane is ready, Joey does shout at him, but fearful for his friend he follows him to town. In the town saloon Shane faces Wilson, there is a silent showdown, and Shane rapidly shoots him and then Ryker, and with Joey's help he kills Ryker's brother Morgan (John Dierkes) on the staircase balcony. Shane did get wounded, but he is strong enough to get on his horse and begin his journey out of town, Joey does beg him to stay, and famously shouts as he rides away. Also starring Ben Johnson as Chris Calloway, Edgar Buchanan as Fred Lewis, Douglas Spencer as Axel 'Swede' Shipstead and Ellen Corby as Mrs. Liz Torrey. Ladd gives a brilliant cool performance at the title character, Arthur does really well also, De Wilde almost steals the show as the little boy looking up to his friend, and the rest of the cast are great as well. There are some memorable fight scenes, the gun training scene, the shoot-outs, beautiful landscapes, and wonderful music by Victor Young, it is one of the finest classic westerns. It won the Oscars for Best Picture, Best Cinematography and Best Writing, Screenplay. Shane was number 16 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, Shane. Shane. Come back! was number 47 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, the film was number 87 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers, it was number 53 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, it was number 69 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 45 on 100 Years, 100 Greatest Movies. Very good! "},{"Title":"Hero Worship","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Oh what an annoying movie! A goody-goody family, complete with a cutesy little boy named Joey (Brandon De Wilde), defends its frontier homestead against stereotyped rancher villains, with the help of a goody-goody stranger named Shane (Alan Ladd), who just seems to wander in out of nowhere. We never learn much about the stranger, his past, or his motivations.Characters in this film are all superficial, lacking any complexity. What you see is what you get. And they're either all good or all bad, a characteristic of many films from the 1950s. Joey is pure and precocious. He looks up to Shane as a mysterious but brave man who can do no wrong. The film is so family-friendly, I'm surprised they didn't include Lassie for the kid to give orders to.Scenes are stagy and stilted. Never once did I feel like the story was genuine. And the picturesque scenery is so postcard idyllic as to be an idealized conception of the American frontier. The film's score is nondescript and manipulative. And Alan Ladd's performance is dull and lifeless. About the only thing I did like was the presence of the always reliable Ben Johnson, in a support role.Shane is a syrupy, terribly dated, Disney-style Western. Hero worship from the kid's POV seems to be the only point of this totally unrealistic and glib story. The film might appeal to sheltered children, and to adults who fawn over old-fashioned family values. Otherwise, there are many films in the Western genre more realistic and/or with greater depth and thematic value. "},{"Title":"Flat","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I re-watched this movie last night after about 10 years since the first time, and it has not improved.In the interest of full disclosure, I am not an Alan Ladd fan. Despite the ability of Hollywood to make one look beyond the superficial, Alan Ladd does not work for me as a tough guy. I *am* a Jean Arthur fan, especially in You Can't Take It With You and Mr. Deeds Goes To Town.So I wanted to try and give Shane another chance. I still do not like it.The word my wife used to describe it is pretty good flat. None of the characters seemed to us to have any real emotion, even when they *said* the right words (about not giving up their land, etc.).The plot is your standard, been done hundreds of times, Western about homesteaders being driven off their land by bad guys. If it is well done (see Pale Rider) I don't mind this, but the overall acting and script here does not measure up.I would skip this altogether, but one probably should watch it if you are interested in classic movies (this is the only reason I give it even a five). "}{"Title":"if there is a lord in heaven","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Andrew Lord weber will make this a musical collaboration with Mela brooks choices for Shanie include ETHEL MERMAN,, Nathans lane tommy tune. Joel starlet -- denizen wanton add your own please. musical numbers will include THE MAN I LOVE SOMETHINGS GOTTA GIVE __ I FEEL PRETTY THERE IS NOTHING LIKE A DAME< SOLILIQUY sit down your rockin the boat and some enchanted evening . the thing is that AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION will be required and after the intermission live ammunition will be passed among the patrons for their colt 45.s they were given upon admission.however you must wait until the final song called SHANE DROP DEAD before you begin firing. "},{"Title":"Although I had seen The negotiator I enjoyed this a bit...","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Contains major spoilers. In The negotiator Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey talked about this film and how it ended, so when I sat down to see this on the tv it was a bit with mixed feelings as I knew how it would end, but it still worked for me although I knew exactly what would happen in the end. I have to disagree with Kevin Spacey though. To me it doesn't look like Shane is dead while riding his horse. Admitted, he does sit kind of awkward on his horse, but it doesn't look like he's dead (he still sits up). But anyway, I must admit that most of this movie didn't catch me that much. It seemed kind of dull and slow and a bit too House on the prairie-happy like, but when Shane left the farm and the little boy yelled Come back Shane to him it was really sad and saved the movie a 7 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Does anyone realize a book was written?","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  And as is the case, it was much, much better.  So much so that I am sure if the majority of Shane lovers had read the book first as I did and maybe even if you read it now after you will feel as I did about the movie, an injustice.  Even now I have lofty preminitions of writing my own screenplay to truly display the characters correctly and give them life.  Now I know staying blatantly faithful to a book will ruin a movie, but this movie fails to even keep a little faith besides the framework that works in many stories.  And honestly, do you people really think Alan Ladd looks like a distraught gunslinger with a hidden heart?  I was ready for Shane to turn into a musical any second with his ridiculous clothing and disney aura.This is may be one of the best westerns for many people and maybe I am just extremely biased, which I may but i have heard many people voice their distaste with this non-timeless movie.  I dont know, maybe people in the 50's couldn't handle the fact that Shane wore black, clad in all black!He's dangerous all right, Father said.  but not to us. - The only dangerous about Alan Ladd is his goofy grin.  And was the kid annoying as hell or what?  Honestly the movie never touches on the central theme of a child looking up to a man.  Jack Schaefer deserved better, he surely wrote it better. "},{"Title":"Shane (1953) **","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Here's one from the AFI Top 100 List that didn't do much for me, and I'd have to put the infamous label of overrated on it. Not that it's a bad film -- but I didn't find enough in it to hold my interest on a steady basis. There were some great moments to be had, such as the fisticuffs and the moments with Jack Palance as the always-dependable baddie. It's too bad he didn't stick around throughout more of the picture, though. SHANE does have a heart, and the cinematography was beautifully rendered, but nothing ever really clicked very much with me. I enjoyed HIGH NOON far more. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Shane, Shane, Shane, Shane, Shane!!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Shane is a western.  Shane is a mythic western.  Shane is one of the most mythical of the mythic westerns around.  And westerns, like Shane, are the most mythical of genres.  Shane is a very important movie with very important issues.  Shane should be seen, if only to make sure I counted the name 'Shane' being uttered 8,675 times!!!  Give or take a 'Shane'. Honestly, the hype over George Stevens' Shane was such that I felt unworthy to consider myself a film buff (or whatever epithet you prefer) for not having seen it yet.  Shane on me!  Shane! Shane!! Shane!!!  I mean it is beautiful to look at and the copy I saw was far from pristine.  A lot has been said about the 'calculated' breathtaking shots found throughout Shane, like the clouds' shadows on the actors' faces for example.  I really wanted to love Shane.  I didn't see why I wouldn't since there are at least five actors I have always admired in the cast of Shane. At some point I even tried to imagine if my pleasure would be greater if the mysterious drifter, that would be Shane, was wearing a trench coat instead of buckskin and placed the action in Anytown suburbia circa 1953 and it almost worked.  I could see the posse of station wagons making the trek downtown to go catch a movie at the Bijou, maybe a western like Shane, but hopefully something in Cinemascope, possibly with Marilyn Monroe in it, anything to make them forget their troubles for an hour and a half.  Obviously I am not a big fan of westerns but I always thought it was because I hadn't seen the good ones, like Shane.  Boy was I ever wrong!...or rather, was I ever right!  6/10.  "},{"Title":"Most Overrated Western in History??","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This may be the most overrated Western of all time. I found it exceedingly predictable and slow paced. The little kid was so annoying, he almost drove me to suicide. Overall, however, it's not a bad movie. Here's what I liked- The central heavy, Rufus Riker, was very well characterized. He presented credible arguments justifying the removal of the farmers from his ranch land.- Interesting supporting cast, with Van Heflin, Jack Palance, Ben Johnson, Edgar Buchanan and Elisha Cook.- Nice Civil War references with Elisha Cook's character.- I can see why Palance was nominated for Best Supporting Actor. He saves this movie from being virtually unwatchable. The scene where Cook gets blown away into the muddy street saved the movie for me. This was done very realistically for its time.- Beautiful mountains, but I got tired of seeing the same shot over and over again.Here's what I didn't like- The little boy just drove me absolutely nuts. I would rather go to the dentist without Novocaine than watch this movie again.- Alan Ladd? Let's put it this way. John Wayne 6' 4, Clint Eastwood 6' 3, Jimmy Stewart 6' 3, Alan Ladd 5' 6. 'Nuff said. Sounds like I'm being too tough, but this was ranked the third best Western of all time by AFI. Sorry, not with that leading man.- How did Jean Arthur get co-billing with Alan Ladd? She was terrible.- Because of its predictability, there is little dramatic tension in the movie. In the opening scene, a group of heavies visit the ranch and Shane declares himself the protector of the Starret homestead. At that point a two year old could figure out that the farmers will prevail over the ranchers on the back of Shane's guns. The only question is which farmer will be murdered to provoke Shane's outrage, forcing him to abandon pacifism. And even this was telegraphed almost immediately by Elisha Cook's character. The only open question to ponder through this long, dreary, preachy affair is whether or not Starret will also be killed and whether or not Shane will take his place as the head of the family. - It's hard to imagine Shane marrying Marian Starret, because he seems so much more interested in a relationship with the little boy. Sorry, but this was one of the creepiest homosexual/child molestation references I've ever seen in a movie. And Stevens lingers on it!!!! This is probably explains all the Oscar nominations. Stevens was sucking up to the gays in the Academy. That's the only explanation for how that boy got an Oscar nomination for one of the most annoying performances in the history of film.- Where are the Indians? I guess in Steven's history book, they had been completely exterminated from Wyoming by the time the movie takes place. They aren't even given respect in the many long boring speeches about who the land really belongs to. This is probably because Stevens doesn't really understand Westerns. This was just about the only one he made, after all. I've read that he set out to make a self consciously mythic Western, the last word. So, not even one Indian character in the last word in Westerns? Right. A real genius.- As to the much commented upon otherworldly or angelic qualities of Shane, this is just over-philosophizing by effete critics. Yes, Shane looks out of place in the movie, but only because of Ladd's $1,000 dollar Hollywood hairdo. He looks more like a maitre d' at a gay piano bar than a grizzled saddle tramp.- There is absolutely no comic relief.- Since the the ending of the movie is obvious right at the beginning, the proceedings just drag on and on for two long hours, although it feels like four. It needed some interesting subplots to move it along and some humor to lighten it up.- Overall, this movie was very well made in the sense that there were no plot holes and the characters were all plausible and consistent. However, there is a giant lapse at the end, when the little boy outruns Shane's horse all the way to town. If it was so easy to get to town by foot, then why didn't the father follow Shane too? He didn't look in that bad of shape to me after the knock on the head. "},{"Title":"The good vs. evil plot feels almost as dated as the technicolor.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" In the manner of a technicolor fairytale version of the old west, this film paints the story of the bloody conflicts between open range ranchers and the squatters who wanted to put up fences.While I have a hard time seeing what has made it such a classic, this film is probably the best example I've ever seen of the white hat/black hat syndrome that dominates so many Hollywood movies to this day. Shane (Alan Ladd) and his friends can do no wrong and the open range ranchers can do no right.An apologist would be justified in pointing out that the film tepidly forces us into the subjective eyes of young Joey Starrett (Brandon De Wilde), who idolizes Shane to a degree that seems almost unhealthy by today's standards.There is really no stand-out performance here. Alan Ladd poses his way through the movie without bothering to act, Elisha Cook Jr. and Jack Palance are adequate in small roles. Most of the film is dedicated to blond-haired, pie-faced, Joey following Shane around in wide-eyed wonder and saying, Shaaaaane. "},{"Title":"What a difference 50 years makes.","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Well I guess if I was living in the 1950's this would be a kick ass action film.But sad to say, it's 2006 and nearing 2007...while it still is entertaining, it is mildly lame.Mosy bad guys die from 1 gunshot...regardless where it is.Bang - dude gets hit - immediately drops and dies...the guns were small caliber handguns...they had time to move, crawl, talk, scream and continue living for another half hour before they died.If they were to die right away, they should have been hit in the head at least or in the heart at close range - not from across the distance of a building or two.I have problems with accepting that in ALL movies.While Shane is a good movie, I don't think it is a great movie.When compared to Pale Rider, Shane fails.There was not enough violence for me, not enough shooting and too many low grade fights.Even 50 something years ago fights involved getting mean and dirty and tumbling into the street, choking and wrestling...not swinging arms about like some scared chicken yellow bellied kids afraid of getting their clothes dirtied.I wanted better shoot out and more tough talk...maybe even some intense bottle breaking and then swinging to somebody's face...There was just too much chit-chat for this to be a great action western. "},{"Title":"Way below expectations","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  As a western lover it's probably surprising that I had never seen Shane until now. I just never felt compelled to watch it for some reason and now I realize I didn't miss much. Save for a couple intense fight scenes and the idea that perhaps the homesteaders were actually not justified it was very flat. I dare say even boring. I didn't find Ladd to be a good fit for this role as he just didn't exude toughness at all and seemed harmless most of the time. I like Jean Arthur and Jack Palance was good, but I don't understand legendary when applied here. He was in the movie for what- 5 minutes? He was about that good in City Slickers for that amount of time. This movie just plodded along and oh, did I mention that kid? Boy he sure was annoying! While most people talk about the ending where he was especially grating I thought the scene where Shane was teaching him how to use a gun was hysterical. I don't like panning movies that are supposed to be right up my alley but I have to call it like I see it and this just didn't go anywhere for me. Look to the master Sergio Leone or the overlooked Jimmy Stewart westerns of the 50s for the truly great films of the genre.  "},{"Title":"IMHO, vastly overrated.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I am not a true fan of the Western genre, but did develop a taste for it during a film study class. (The instructor was a major fan.) Having developed that taste, I started digging out all of the films that I could find that had come with the tag CLASSIC, like this one...Dull beyond description, Alan Ladd is a wooden cut out. While others may see that as a mere distraction, I am very unhappy when the main character is so uninteresting that I cannot watch the film with anything that remotely passes for pleasure.  "}{"Title":"The worse movie of Stevens's trilogy.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"    Slow-paced, mostly boring, and very badly acted, Shane is a real snorer.  The plot seems to expand over the whole movie which is completely ridiculous because it doesn't make the movie any suspenseful but instead, it makes it a lot slower in scenes where it could have been fast-paced.  Sure, the movie gains a little suspense after Jack Palance arrives but other than that, never.  Shane (Alan Ladd) comes to Van Heflin's house to help him and his friends defend themselves against the local bunch who claims to own all the people's territory and asks a lot of money for it.  However, the bunch also knows that Shane is a tough guy and that he isn't likely to back-away from these guys.  This is clear to them after he serves a severe beating to Ben Johnson who had been making a little too much fun of him.  So after that, the bunch calls in reinforcement.  Reinforcement is Jack Palance and he really is reinforcement.  So then Shane knows he will probably have a gunfight with Palance (which is how the movie ends).  Alan Ladd was a terrible choice as the main character.  He didn't have the required talent to play such a role.  However, Jack Palance is incredibly mean as his adversary.  He delivers an excellent performance.  The only other good part of this movie is Brandon De Wilde who, in his career debut, earned himself a nomination as best supporting-actor (so did Palance) and he deserved that nomination.  Shane was voted #69 by the AFI in their 100 all-time movies.  I don't think it should have even made the list.  It, isn't worth watching for anything else really than the last half-hour which is the half-hour with Jack Palance. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly The Worst of 'Classic' Films","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Shane is part of a collection of films in the critics minds that is an unbelievable, milestone film. But instead of having the story telling of The Wizard of Oz (1939) or the defiant tone of Rebel Without a Casue (1955) Shane is just a boring, untrue, and annoying film. The film starts with a family working on its farm. Suddenly a stranger rides in asking for water. His name is Shane (Alan Ladd) and he is a handyman for hire. Suddenly he is working on the farm and defending the family against a ruthless land grabber and gunslinger Jack Wilson (Jack Palance). But instead of being a powerful, gunslinging film, the film turns into a boring and stupid with the worst filmed fight scenes I've ever seen. Above all else, the most annoying character ever created is present throughout the whole film. His name is Joey (Brandon De Wilde) and has the highest pitched voice for a boy and it just drags on and on with his useless lines. If De Wilde had been cut from the film, or replaced, I think it would have done a lot better. Instead it just rolls around itself again and again with useless fighting and stupid dialog.Shane. Starring Alan Ladd, Jack Palance, Brandon De Wilde -(, and Van Heflin. 1 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Shaaaaaaaane! Painful beyond all reason.","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" George Stevens' Shane (1953) is the story of a reformed gunslinger who attempts to settle down with a pioneer family but is forced to come out of retirement when a settler/rancher conflict escalates violently. Shane stars Alan Ladd as the title character, a man who finds that despite his best efforts, a tiger doesn't change its stripes. Shane moves in with the Starrett family, Joe, Marian, and Joey, played by Van Heflin, Jean Arthur and Brandon De Wilde respectively. The Starrett's and their friends are being harassed by an old rancher played by Emile Meyer, and his cronies &#150; particularly a ruthless gunslinger played by a young Jack Palance.Shane is the classic, stereotypical Western. But Western films have never relied on originality to sell tickets. So what makes Shane such an iconic Western? What sets it apart from it's fellow cattle? Loyal Griggs' magnificent, Oscar winning cinematography for one, and the surprisingly realistic editing by William Hornbeck and Tom McAdoo for another. Griggs allowed the audience to feel the presence of that omniscient character that resides in all Western films &#150; the scenery. Every shot reveals as much of the picturesque landscape as possible, even in close-up shots when a telephoto lens was employed to keep as much scenery as possible in focus. Hornbeck and McAdoo do some of the better editing I've come across in Westerns. The night shots are edited smoothly enough so that one is under the vague impression that there is just a freakishly bright moon out in the Old West. I am sure that in 1953, Shane was an astounding film. The fact that it won one Academy Award and was nominated for five others is a good indication. However, 53 years later, Shane is, to say the least, painfully dated. Westerns have no niche in the modern film market and with the lack of special effects and sex, there is really nothing to keep a modern audience's attention. Shane drags for the entire 118 minute run. You know how it's going to end &#150; and the cliché ending is not the only thing dating Shane. There's the dialogue. It is excruciating! No matter what the line is, you can't help but cringe and worry about whoever wrote that particular line. Shane's line to Joey, You go home to your mother and your father and grow up to be strong and straight. Is alarming, and rather offensive, to a modern audience. In fact, some of the wholesome characters themselves are offensive. Joey in particular has not stood the test of time. Any of his lines involving Shane are quite disturbing, particularly his line to his mother, Mother, I just love Shane. But that is not to say that the entire movie is dated. The final shoot-out deserves its reputation as one of the best shoot-outs ever captured on film, even 53 years later.Although it may have been a brilliant film at one point, I cannot appreciate Shane. I can respect its costuming and its cinematography, but not the film itself. If I was flipping through the channels on TV and came across Shane, I wouldn't stay on it. Iconic as it may be, there is nothing about Shane that is entertaining. Maybe I just can't grasp the gem beneath the dust, but trust me; it would take a threat of a root canal without pain killers to get me to watch Shane again. "},{"Title":"Death of Gunslinger or Man-Boy Love?","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I laughed so hard at the end of this movie that I almost want to say it was the funniest film I ever saw.  Maybe you need to see it in a theater as I did, to get that communal realization going, but the homoerotic relationship between Shane and the little boy in this film is so over-the-top that it's both creepy and hilarious.Although little Jimmy's performance is a big factor, it's really all the fault of the script, which emulates John Ford's great symbolic metaphors of great American Myth.  The vulgarity of the symbolism comes off in a whole new context to the '90s viewer (I have to assume even the most subversive filmmakers, which these were not, wouldn't have consciously alluded to pedaphilia in 1953).  But come on!  I won't spoil all the great double-meanings for you here, but rest assured it isn't exactly hard to pick up on.The metaphor the film was going for was all that tired manifest- destiny let's all start a nuclear family America's Dreaming fluff that they still cram into Social Studies books in our less enlightened public schools. Geez, the 'bad guy' free-range rancher has a valid point about his claim! But no, Shane and his friends have to come in and pave the way for factory farming and suburbia!  First though, Shane has to take off so that little Jimmy won't be in love with him, er, the idea of him.  Oh yeah, and mom wants him too!All in all this is a pretty bad flick, with poor expressionist (read melodramatic) acting and some really poor match-cutting in the night/day department.  It is, however, one of the best unintentionally funny films about a little proto-arian boy who falls in love with a big cowboy who sits erect on his horse up until the end, when he must limply make his way into the annals of American history.   "},{"Title":"I loathe this movie","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is one of the the worst films ever. Even for this 1950s, this was an insanely goofy and over-the-top piece of work. Just...simply horrible. I only saw this because it was for a class, and even the teacher admitted he thought it was horrible, but only showed it because so many people consider it good. "}]