[{"Title":"A powerful display of Dandrige's appeal...","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Dorothy Dandrige's roles went beyond that of sex symbol to being a parody of female sexuality&#133; Carmen Jones is a powerful display of her appeal&#133; Based on Bizet's operatic masterpiece, Otto Preminger's film is the story of a GI about to go to flying school (Harry Belafonte), a noble young man who loves the cigarette-maker Carmen very dearly&#133;Filled with passionate songs and a first-rate supporting cast, the movie is filled with exciting musical numbers that are necessary to the film&#133; But as impeccable and skillful the supporting cast is, this is Dandrige's magnetic star of enduring international appeal&#133; Her Carmen is a flame of fire, isolating in a few moments the essence of her attraction&#133; Her enigma sustained throughout a career notable for its startling changes of tempo and direction&#133;Her shapely figure, blazing eyes, with the air of the unexpected add up a touch of melancholy to even the most routine sequences&#133; Her performance was a parable of love and its power to destroy if misused&#133; "},{"Title":"One of the classics of African-American cinema","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This film shows just how much talent existed and was mostly unused because of the small number of pictures made with African-American casts during the Golden Age of Hollywood.It's a remake of Bizet's Carmen, and was originally performed on Broadway in the 1940's.  Otto Preminger filmed the play during the 1950's.  The songs all retain Bizet's original music, but the lyrics have been updated to English.  If you've never seen the opera, and are intimidated by opera in general, this film would actually be a good introduction to the topic.The plot is moved from a Spanish village during the late 1800's to the American South during WWII.  The cigarette factory is now a parachute factory, and the bullfighter is now a prize fighter.  Generally, I thought the update was done well, just as some Shakespearean updates work well. The only part which doesn't work for me is that some of the dialogue and lyrics are in what I think of as Porgy and Bess Ebonics, e.g. dees, dem, dat, etc.Carmen is played by Dorothy Dandridge, who is known as the African-American Marilyn Monroe.  The two women's lives sadly parallel each other, although Dandridge could find even fewer scripts to show off her acting talents. Harry Belafonte plays the seduced male lead.  Both are stunning beautiful, and at their prime.All of the singing voices are dubbed by first rank operatic voices; the songs for Carmen Jones are dubbed by Marilyn Horne, for example.The tragedy is realizing how many great actors and actresses could have had brilliant careers except for their skin color.  It was interesting and sad to watch the Movietone Newsreel coverage of the premiere, which came attached to the copy of the tape I had.  It features all of the white movie stars attending the premiere, the white studio heads -- and just happens to have a second or two of Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge at the end.  "},{"Title":"Dorothy Dandridge's best film","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" It's incredible that it took an Austrian director, Otto Preminger, the courage to bring this wonderful screen adaptation of the Bizet's immortal opera Carmen to the American public. As a musical, Carmen Jones had been seen, successfully, on Broadway, because of the many talented black performers that weren't allowed to be seen in Hollywood movies. Preminger had a knack for tackling issues that other, better known directors, stayed away from.Carmen Jones, as seen today, shows us a film that is somehow dated, but when it made its debut, it surprised a lot of people because it was a revolutionary work, something the American movie goers weren't used to seeing. The strength of the film lies in the performances Mr. Preminger got from his multi-talented cast.The adaptation of the opera sets the film in the South. We are taken to a military base during the war. The local people work in the factory, attached to the base, making parachutes and other war related equipment. Carmen Jones, is the sultry young woman who sticks out from the rest of her co-workers, not only by her beauty, which was obvious, but by the way she can reduce men to servitude, which is what happens to Joe, the man who is being promoted until fate intervenes and Carmen renders him useless.The gorgeous Dorothy Dandridge made a magnificent Carmen Jones. In fact, this was Ms. Dandridge's best screen work because she smolders the screen every time she is seen in the film. Harry Belafonte is Joe, the man whose passion for the lovely Carmen will consume him and will not let him see straight. Pearl Bailey is a delight in her take of Frankie. Olga James is seen as the sweet Cindy Lou, the girl in love with Joe. Joe Adams, Brock Peters and a young Diahann Carroll are also seen in minor roles.Some comments to the IMDb forum express their displeasure at the way the voices are heard. This seems to have been the only thing that Preminger should have worked with his collaborators Oscar Hammerstein II and Harry Kleiner into having the opera melodies sung naturally, the way one would expect Ms. Dandridge, who could sing, and of course, Harry Belafonte, a wonderful singer, to deliver them in a way that would have pleased those audiences not accustomed to hearing classical opera.Regardless of what we think today, this was one of the breakthroughs that proved to America they could enjoy black performers on their merits and talent. Otto Preminger must be praised for being a pioneer in this field and for daring to be a man ahead of his time. "},{"Title":"Dandridge and Bizet!","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Some greatness here. Dandridge's performance is riveting, and Pearl Bailey is a wonderful addition. Bizet's music is as appealing as always. The singers are excellent. The dancers at Billy Pastor's are another high point.Too many slips for me to rate it a 10. It's lip-synced -- like every other movie musical, and (despite what one other reviewer said), one of the best lip-sync jobs I've seen. Only My Fair Lady does better (of those I've seen). Dandridge, Belafonte, and Bailey are particularly good; Olga James much less so. But I always find lip-syncing painfully obvious and distracting and will probably never have a chance to top-rate a movie musical as a result. It's also quite distracting when Joe breaks into song, because LeVern Hutcherson's voice is so different from Harry Belafonte's. It's a real shame that experienced singers like Dandridge and Belafonte weren't allowed to sing. Marilyn Horne, wow -- but I like the voice to match the face.The acting is uneven. Some is excellent, led by Dandridge, and others do well too. But some of the acting is stiff.Then there's the re-setting. Oh, moving the place is fine. It's funny that a couple of reviewers have referred to how the Spaniards do it and Spanish opera. Hey, Carmen is set in Seville and Bizet attempted to use some Spanish musical idioms, but Carmen is a French opera through and through. Bizet was French, Prosper Merimee was French, the libretto is in French. But Carmen Jones only uses the top arias from Carmen, and ends up adding a lot of dialog to fill in the time. The story is true to the original, but Bizet told more in music and Hammerstein tells more in words. Oscar should have trusted Georges more.I notice that Alvin Ailey is uncredited as a dancer. I found a couple of photos of him on the web -- it's hard, because his dance company has been so much more famous than the man, but I found a couple. I *think* I figured out which one he is -- some slo-mo work there -- but most of the dancers' faces don't come into focus for long enough to know for sure. It would be mostly a curiosity to know, since the movie doesn't show enough of the dance to see any personal style. "},{"Title":"Her Delilah Routine","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Even after the success of Oklahoma, the partnership of Rodgers&Hammerstein was not cast in stone yet. After Oklahoma debuted, Oscar Hammerstein, II went to work on his next Broadway show with a dead collaborator. He wrote new lyrics for the music of Georges Bizet's opera Carmen and wrote a new book for an all black cast to perform it, in the tradition of Porgy and Bess.That show was Carmen Jones and it ran for 502 performances on Broadway from 1943 to 1945. Hammerstein discovered what the team of Robert Wright and Chet Forrest had previously found out in adapting Edvard Grieg's melodies into their hit, Strange Music. That there's nothing like writing with a collaborator who can't complain and who's melodies are already a hit.In fact while the show was originally on Broadway, Rise Stevens had sung in Going My Way the song that eventually became Dat's Love. And Nelson Eddy and sung The Toreador Song in his film Balalaika. Hammerstein brilliantly capitalized on some free publicity for his own show.Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge give great acting performances though it's kind of strange to hear other voices coming from the mouths of two good singers. Their voices weren't operatic though, yet the singers dubbing them matched well with the personalities of both the leads. And Dandridge had Marilyn Horne, you can't do much better than that.The whole thing originates from the French novelist's Prosper Merimee's story of the ill effects of passionate love. Harry Belefonte's on his way to being a Tuskegee airman and he runs afoul of Carmen Jones. Belefonte's got himself a gal, but Dandridge puts on her Delilah routine and Belefonte's dead meat. In addition to Samson and Delilah the Belefonte character is remarkably similar to George Hurstwood in Theodore Dreiser's Sister Carrie. Another man who threw it all away for passion. I wouldn't be surprised if Dreiser refined Merimee's theme.But Dandridge's performance is the best. As the hedonistic Carmen Jones, she's a wonder on screen. Seeing her realize that part on the screen, we can well understand why Belefonte threw it all away for love. Dandridge became the first black woman nominated in the Best Actress category, but she lost the Oscar sweepstakes to Grace Kelly for The Country Girl.For those who like the opera Carmen, I think they'll be well pleased with Oscar Hammerstein, II did with Bizet's music and Merimee's story. "},{"Title":"Cant believe it took me so long","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" to see this amazing film. I thought Halle Berry did a great job in the Dandridge biopic, but after seeing Carmen Jones I don't know if she could do Dorothy justice. This woman was amazing in this film. she RADIATED sex appeal and I could see why her performance was groundbreaking. Otto Preminger directed and shot a beautiful film, and contemporary actors, especially black actors, should set the performances in this movie as highwater marks to shoot for. Pearl Bailey was amazing in addition to the two leads, Belafonte and Dandridge. Joe Adams as the boxer and the woman who played Cindy Lou also gave great performance.Again to see black actors in this time period given a chance to perform a full range of characters was really amazing. In a lot of ways this film is more progressive than the drivel of black genre films coming out of Hollywood today "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'Em Like They Use'ta","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  In school I heard of Natalie Wood but not Dorothy Dandrige. I heard of James Dean, but not really Sidney Portier. So how nice it is to see such a film on my own to know that it existed and is as worthy of favorable acclaim as the rest.I saw this on A&E and was blown away! I am so disappointed to not see films of this caliber nor actors getting work to really challenge their skills like these actors did. This all star cast was superb and intense. They sweat, they cried, they had veins sticking out of their heads literally...so into their roles. The opera singing is something I don't think will be seen in black cinema today. If so, it'll probably be ostracized. Carmen Jones represents the missing link in black films today, the true element of quality, character and story.I MUST buy this and have it for other to see, even if it is 15 years later!Lil "},{"Title":"Memorable Melodrama With A Standout Performance By Dorothy Dandridge","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This memorable melodrama is an interesting adaptation of the classic Carmen story and music with a new setting and new song lyrics. Most of it works quite well, but it is remembered most of all for Dorothy Dandridge's impressive performance as Carmen Jones.The basic Carmen story itself is a perceptive and tragic look at the elemental passions and emotions that drive so much of what happens in human relationships. For the story to work most effectively, it takes a Carmen who not only has plenty of energy, but who also can be convincing in dominating all of the other characters. Dandridge excels at both, and she makes it easy to believe that she could get practically anything that she wanted from anyone.Except for Pearl Bailey, who makes her character lively and entertaining in her own right, most of the rest of the cast is solid but is clearly - as is no doubt meant to be the case - overshadowed by Dandridge and Carmen. One exception, though, is Olga James as Cindy Lou. Although her character is very meek, and has no chance against Carmen, James does a fine job of making her sympathetic without becoming overly weepy or maudlin, and her performance adds some additional depth to the drama of relationships.Most of the musical numbers work well, and there is good variety in them, as there is also in the settings and the material. The climactic sequence in the arena is nicely crafted, with the prizefight taking place in full view while, hidden from sight, the characters' passions are reaching the boiling point. It caps off an effective and interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful musical melodrama","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An all-black version of Carmen. It's updated to the 1950s with wild and incredibly sexy Carmen (Dorothy Dandridge) falling for honest, nice serviceman Joe (Harry Belafonte)...and destroying him and his life.All the singing (except for Pearl Bailey) was dubbed. Dandridge and Belafonte could definitely sing but they didn't have the voices to carry off operatic songs. This seems kind of a strange way to do Carmen (I mean by updating it to the 1950s) but it still works. It's colorful, full of life and never dull. BTW I HATE opera but I loved this! The dubbing seems strange (and obvious) at first but you eventually get used to it.The acting varies. The minor roles are all well played but Belafonte seems off as Joe. He looks miserable and even though he's a tall and very handsome guy he seems no match for Dandridge. His soft voice works against him. Pearl Bailey has a small role but she's great. She dominates the screen every time she's on camera. But this is Dandridge's movie all the way. She's just great--VERY sexy and one hell of an actress. She was also the first black actress to ever be nominated as Best Actress (she didn't win). There was a LOT of infighting on the set--director Otto Preminger was known to be a dictator and he was on this movie. He had frequent screaming matches with Pearl Bailey! And Bailey HATED Dandridge--it's a credit to both of them that it doesn't show in the movie. WELL worth catching even if you hate opera. I heard some people hate this because it's done by an all black cast. That's silly---and racist.Look for the scene on the street where Dandridge is on the street in front of a glass window--you can see the entire camera crew reflected! "},{"Title":"Dandridge, the photography, and the intention are all amazing enough to justify the rest","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Carmen (1954)First of all, this is a gorgeous movie. The WWII-era sets, the fluid photography with a lot of long takes, the lighting and costumes and overall feel are elegant and un-compromised, first frame to last. Second, the idea is fabulous, an all-Black cast and an African-American adaptation of the classic Carmen opera (by the French composure Bizet). The vernacular and the stereotypes might seem worn, or even insulting if you take them wrong (or just take them out of context) but in fact it's in line with that even better, earlier opera, Gershwin's Porgy and Bess. The stereotypes are ones that made sanitized sense equally to White and Black America just as other musicals made sanitized sense to the same audiences. If I sound like an apologist, I'm only responding to attacks on the film (farcical gruesome or dreadful), as being untrue or insensitive to Blacks, by saying that nearly all musicals are incredibly stylized and false, and nearly all movies of this era played with safe, simplified versions of life. No, to be fair to this really interesting movie you need to treat it like you would your own favorite movies from the 1950s, accepting the limitations just as the movie makers did. It's got its own syntax and style, it's own inner set of rules.And within those the performance of the character Carmen by Dorothy Dandridge is incredible. She's on fire, introspective, nuanced, and outrageous. The cast around her is excellent but inevitably uneven, and she stands easily above them in pure performance energy, even over the other big star, Harry Belafonte. All of this said, the beautiful, finely made, early widescreen movie here, Carmen Jones, is lacking some kind of necessary intensity to work. I can't pin down why. From little strains of Bizet that perk it up (like a boxing worker whistling the most famous theme as he works) to the truly perfect photography and editing (maybe too perfect?), the movie has a steady, compelling flow. It's based on a Broadway musical from 1943 (the year the movie is set, as well), and it has the bones of a great drama, if a familiar one (it's still Bizet).What might be the biggest problem is the understandable decision to film it in a realistic way, with song (and minimal dance) numbers inserted relatively seamlessly along the way. This is the standard musical approach from from the early Astaire-Rogers films to the relatively contemporaneous Arthur Freed productions of the early 1950s like Singin' in the Rain. But Carmen, the opera and stage musical, is not a lighthearted romantic comedy. It isn't just escapist entertainment. And the gravitas and drama in it, at the end in particular, doesn't quite work the way it does on the opera stage. You watch Belafonte and Dandridge acting their hearts out, but it has that perfect 1950s movie-making production to remind us that it's a movie, and we are detached in a far different way than watching a stage version, with real people and false settings.But never mind all that--you'll see for yourself how absorbed you get and why not more so.A couple last things. First, the singing voices of the two leads are dubbed (yes!), surprising in Belafonte's case in particular because he was (and is) an accomplished singer. Second, Dandridge and director Preminger were having a longterm affair during the filming and after, and she pulls off what might be the best performance of her life here. Third, the movie was shown to the head of the NAACP before release to check on any problems that might be seen from an African-American point of view (this is 1954, remember) and no objections were raised. By this point, Preminger had been working with an all Black cast and was in close quarters with the leading lady so he must have had some sense that what he was after was on target for the time.Watch it if you have interest in any of these things--WWII civilian life, Dandridge or Belafonte, opera adaptations into movies, early big budget African-American movies, Preminger movies, or terrific early Cinemascope photography. That should cover a lot of viewers, but not all. For me, I liked it a lot, and liked parts of it enormously (like the short clip of Max Roach drumming away on a barroom stage). But I felt slightly restless too often to get totally absorbed. One last suggestion--see it on the biggest screen you can, so it will be immersive. "}{"Title":"Bizet's tragic and passionate opera is updated and still maintains the opera's passion, thanks to the wonderful music and a sexy Dorothy Dandridge","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" You may guess that I love Bizet's opera Carmen, it is somewhat tragic but very passionate. While updated, this film directed wonderfully by the talented Otto Preminger is a wonderful contemporary version of the opera, still maintaining Bizet's wonderful music and inspired lyrics from Oscar Hammerstein II. Whether it is the definitive film version of the opera I am not sure, I absolutely adore the 1984 film with Placido Domingo and Julia Mignes-Johnson. That aside, this film is really handsomely shot, with beautiful crisp cinematography and stunning scenery. And of course the music is outstanding Dat's Love, Dis Flower, Stan' Up an' Fight and Dere's a Cafe on de Corner really do stand out. The story is a beautiful, tragic, compelling one, not at all confusing. And the performances are marvellous, Dorothy Dandridge is superb as Carmen Jones. She is gorgeous, flirtatious and sexy, everything Carmen in the opera should be. Harry Belafonte does a great job as Joe, the man consumed for the passion of Carmen, so much so he is driven to murder. Olga James is heart breaking as Cindy-Lou, Pearl Bailey is a delightful Frankie, Joe Adams is a great Husky Miller and Brock Peters is effective as Sergeant Brown. I have heard complaints that the singing was awful, and I disagree completely. Marilyn Horne has a beautiful singing voice and she did well as Carmen. She has been better though, she has a much stronger voice than what was heard here. And LeeVern Hutcherson has a lovely tenor voice, quite lightweight and sensitive when it needs to be. And Marvin Hayes has a very resonant voice that is needed for his character. If the singing was a little quiet at times, do bear in mind sound and technology wasn't as good then than it is now. My real complaint was that the lip-synching was a little behind the singing at times, but other than that, this is a great film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A fascinating experiment","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I believe the other reviewer misses the point. This film was a fascinating experiment in restaging and updating an opera warhorse. Imagine a Hollywood studio trying to do something like this today? Unthinkable.The basic story line is classic - man, woman, betrayal, death. I find the musical renderings of Bizet's tunes most interesting. (Dmitri Tiomkin was one of the musical directors (uncredited).) The original lyrics aren't all that interesting, so re-writing the words doesn't seem to me of much consequence. I could wish, however, that the singing and acting were better. (Except for Carmen -- Marilyn Horne!!) The race thing doesn't trouble me at all. The original 'Carmen' was set in the Seville underclass, so this transformation to America of the 1920s made perfect sense. And it gave a lot of black actors a good gig!Opera stage directors and designers often set operas in modern times. Shakespeare's plays are often reset into  modern times. Remember Ethan Hawkes' Hamlet? We should encourage these revitalization attempts. After all, they are, in a very real sense, truly creative works.Sometimes they succeed, sometimes they fail, but films like 'Carmen Jones' exemplify a vital history of 'Americanizing' the sometimes stale European 'high art' ideal into more readily digestible fare. This maybe isn't the greatest movie ever made, but c'mon! Give Hollywood a break. They were trying to DO something, so let's give some credit for a good attempt.  "},{"Title":"Handsome, excitingly cast CinemaScope musical wrestles with dissatisfaction at its core...","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Widescreen movie-version of Bizet's French opera Carmen transports the story's scenario from Revolution-era Spain to Florida during WWII, where factory girl-turned-floozy Dorothy Dandridge seduces military pilot Harry Belafonte with tragic results. All-black cast is quite sufficient, though both Dandridge and Belafonte had their song numbers poorly dubbed. Worse, the combination of a blue-collar atmosphere with the operatic music is an uncomfortable conceit which may have worked better on the stage (where this vision originated). In retrospect, Otto Preminger seems an unlikely director for such an enterprise (he's no Vincente Minnelli), however he does gets a star's performance out of Dandridge, who looks smashing. The film has moments of fire and passion, but this peregrination through various sources proves to be a journey bereft of genuine emotion. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Nice try, Otto...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Preminger filmed this very quickly -- 17 days, I'm told -- in real or real-looking locations in the South, in widescreen. He cast top African-American talent and dubbed most of the cast, even those who could sing, to heighten the operatic effect.Dandridge and Belafonte must be one of the most spectacularly beautiful couples in all the movies, and they play out the juicy old melodramatic plot for all it's worth (though his lack of acting training shows). The Hammerstein lyrics are mostly brilliant, and the original Merimee story is cleverly transplanted to a different time and place. The film's main trouble is its inconsistency of style -- it lurches from melodrama to comedy to musical comedy to opera, sometimes within a couple of scenes. The acting styles go from natural to hyper depending on what kind of scene is being played, so nothing really hangs together. In the better musicals, the moment where dialogue turns into song is subtly handled, so you're not really aware of the transition from realism to fantasy, but here there are huge bumps from one style to the next.Still, it's good over-the-top entertainment, and, as noted elsewhere, a respite from the underuse and mishandling of African-American talent on the screen. And it is, for its time, low on condescension and stereotypes.  "},{"Title":"The Oscar Hammerstein Carmen","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Carmen Jones (1954) Starring Dorothy Dandridge, Harry Belafonte, Joe Adams, Olga James, Pearl Bailey, Nick Stewart, Roy Glenn, Diahann Carroll, Brock Peters, Madame Sul-Te-Wan, Sandy Lewis. With the singing voices of Marilyn Horne, LeVerne Hutcherson, Marvin Hayes, Bernice Peterson, Margaret Lancaster....Director Otto Preminger, Lyrics By Oscar Hammerstein II, Screenplay Harry Kleiner.From 1954, director Otto Preminger and Broadway musical composer Oscar Hammerstein teamed up for Carmen Jones, a musical version of the well-known and popular opera Carmen by Georges Bizet. For its time, this film was revolutionary and innovative. Musicals were primarily a vehicle for well-known Caucausian singing-actors Judy Garland, Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire, Ethel Merman, Julie Andrews, Mary Martin and others. The cast for this film is all-black, and the principal roles are portrayed by well-known African-American actors of their day- Dorothy Dandridge and Harry Belafonte. Although an all-black Broadway musical was not new at this time (George Gerswhin's Porgy and Bess had already appeared on Broadway and in the 40's all-black musical films like The Green Pastures and Cabin In The Sky preceded this film), Carmen Jones was still very unique and an important film for the black community, for it meant that better roles were finally given to black actors. The movie was made in colorful Cinemascope, which was quite new at the time, filmed (thank God) outdoors and not in a studio, giving the film a realistic quality rather than a painted backdrop feeling which you would otherwise get in a musical or opera for that matter. Although the Bizet opera version is not what you see here, much of the original plot, themes and characters from the opera remain intact. There's a Carmen, Don Jose and Micaela, except with different, more realistic names and attitudes. The setting has been changed from the typically romanticized 19th century Spain composed of free-spirited gypsies, bullfighters, passionate romance and soldiers to America sometime after World War II (possibly the Korean War period)definitely the 50's. Carmen's opening number Habanera, in which a red-clad Carmen sings a seductive song about herself, is still as powerful and evocative as every Carmen production I've ever seen. Dorothy Dandrige had made several important films and her roles were like black Marilyn Monroe roles- sexy, smart and liberated. She was a sort of pre-feminist movement icon. Her love of freedom, sensuality and devil-may-care attitude serves her well for the part of Carmen, who lives to love men, leave them and move on to a better catch, living a life that is her own and doing exactly as she pleases. American Mezzo-soprano diva Marilyn Horne provides the singing voice for Carmen Jones. This was early in her opera career and it was a smart move, for many still remember her for her fine Carmen performances. Harry Belafonte as Joe, the soldier Carmen loves and later jilts delivers a man driven to torment and passion, a man transformed from a good, innocent, engaged man (he's engaged to Cindy Lou played by Olga James) to an obscessed and ultimately tragic figure. He is very realistic, in fact probably more so than other Don Joses who make him out to be some kind of psychotic soldier or overgrown boy. We feel for Joe's plight. We feel for Cindy Lou's plight. But Dorothy Dandridge is not complex enough for us to sympathize with her character. The film is probably at its best when there is no singing and we see the drama unfolding through dialog. But the words by Oscar Hammerstein are memorable, catchy and perfectly in-synch with the original music written for the Bizet opera, although it appears that Hammerstein composed variations and new music that seems to fit the Carmen music. This is a great film, despite the melodrama and the flat characters. Fans of Dorothy Dandridge, who lived a short life in the movies and who was, in her day, a serious black actress prior to the Civil Rights movement, will enjoy this film. This role is possibly her most famous and the one that earned her a great deal of fame. "},{"Title":"Carmen Jones What Would Bizet Have Thought?","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Sumptuous film based on Bizet's opera Carmen.Truly a story of lust, honor and the downfall of both characters well played by Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge.Dandridge would have been a true Hollywood success story had her years in Hollywood been today. America was still hesitant to give black performers key roles in motion pictures. True, we had films such as Cabin in the Sky (1943) but where did that film go to?Otto Preminger must be credited for taking a big chance in making this all-black picture concerning Carmen Jones, who works in a parachute factory, and the soldier, Belafonte, who must escort her to the magistrate when she has broken the law.The music is fantastic although Belafonte and Jones did not do their own singing.It is as if Belafonte is being tempted by the devil, and he fails the test by submitting to Dandridge in the end, which leads to both their unhappy fates.Dandridge received a well deserved Oscar nomination for the lead role. Many say that America wasn't ready to have a female black actress voted the academy award; she would lose to Grace Kelly for The Country Girl. Qute a difficult choice when Judy Garland,(A Star is Born), Audrey Hepburn, (Sabrina) and Jane Wyman, (Magnificent Obsession) were also in the running.A memorable film, an ensemble cast with the great Pearl Bailey giving wonderful support, most endearing to us all. ****. "},{"Title":"A ground-breaking Carmen","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I grew up listening to the soundtrack of Carmen Jones as the film (and, in particular, Dorothy Dandridge!) were among my Dad's favourites. Now whenever I hear the Toreador's Song I break into Stand Up and Fight!Although it is many years since I last saw this movie, it is on my must have list based on the wonderful musical score, the charismatic leads, and its importance as a vehicle for Black American talent at a time when racial discrimination was rife.  Halle Berry's Oscar acceptance speech for Best Actress in Monster's Ball reminded me of just how far we have come and how long it has taken to reach this stage of the journey!If you haven't yet seen Carmen Jones - take the time to view this milestone in American cinema history - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"'Scuse my dust, gentlemen.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  What a beautiful, dynamic work this is. The all-black cast gives every available ounce of vitality; for most of them, this would be one of the few opportunities to make a big impression on movie audiences. I had never heard of Dorothy Dandridge before checking out this movie, but she delivers a top-notch performance here. Watch out for the debut of a young Diahann Carol.It's disconcerting to have European music (Bizet) inserted into the story; you get to thinking that they should have commissioned original Afro-American music to replace it. But given that the lyricist was Oscar Hammerstein, he would probably turned to Richard Rogers or someone equally inappropriate. We should be grateful for what we get. And it should be admitted that Husky Miller outdoes any interpreter of Bizet in March of the Toreadors, here rendered as Stand Up and Fight. With its biting words and strong rhymes, it works better than the original.Movie-musicals are generally so insipid that it takes some really unorthodox  approach to breathe life into the genre. Viewers who enjoy this should also check out Black Orpheus (1959). "},{"Title":"Hot and steamy","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Dorothy Dandridge nailed this role as Carman Jones. She is catty, seductive, and has her men wrapped around her finger. Harry Belafonte is sensational as Joe, the naive soldier who becomes prey to Carman. It's interesting to watch Joe trying to tame the wild tendencies of Carman, while a love triangle grows outside of their relationship. It's like watching a cat on a hot tin roof. (oops, another great movie.) An added plus is the wonderful production numbers with dance choreography and songs. The costume, wardrobe, and props reflect the culture of city slickers and country folks, presenting the differences in lifestyles among characters. These differences became evident in Dorothy Dandridge performance, and earns her an Academy Award nomination for best actress. "},{"Title":"Loved.","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This modern re-working of Bizet's Carmen is a must-see. Carmen Jones retains Bizet's music while setting the story in the late 20th century). Dandridge owns this film with her wildly entertaining--and empathetic--portrayal of Carmen.I wish the cast had been able to (all) sing their own parts. The highlight for me was Pearl Bailey's big number when she is first introduced, but all of the songs are really well written to accompany Bizet's opera. Overall, I liked it a lot. A race movie that transcends race, and reminds that all people hurt the same way and laugh the same way. This is a sparkling example of a what a movie musical can be and how it can better its viewers while remaining impeccably entertaining. "}{"Title":"HVCC Student Yuchen Bai Review","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I did enjoy the movie, even when I was just kind of listening to the music. It was Bizet, after all, even if they'd let Oscar Hammerstein loose all over the words. And it may not've actually been Dorothy Dandridge or Harry Belafonte singing, but the people dubbing their voices were, obviously, quite good. And, as we know, more operatic and therefore befitting the Bizet. The filming's good, too. The trailer refers to the interesting people and colorful places of the United States, presumably because it would've been a tacky to refer to the colorful people in a situation like this one. And certainly the places are colorful, even if--as is the case in the flophouse in Chicago--that color is grey. "},{"Title":"Good, But Not My Cup of Tea","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Contemporary version of the Bizet opera, with new lyrics and an African-American cast.Most critics loved it, but Channel 4 called it a truly dreadful film. Preminger can't be faulted for ambition, but for once, his execution is sorely lacking... Dandridge's tough, hip-swinging, steely eyed Carmen goes some way to redeeming things, but the part is too fractured by the imposition of another singing voice, bad dubbing, and the alien tone of the songs. In 1992, Carmen Jones was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant. Indeed, it has earned this -- a film adaptation of a play adaptation of an opera. And one of the first big films with an all-black cast. That was ground-breaking in the 1950s.For me, I did not really get into it. But that was because this really is not my kind of music. For those who like Carmen, you may love this movie. "},{"Title":"Ingenious translation of the Carmen drama into the deep south.","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A colourful and imaginative rendering of the eternal Carmen drama in the deep south with Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandrige good enough as the soldier and his fatality, but for me the star of the film is Pearl Bailey as Frankie, whose first appearance at the Villas Pasta scene immediately lifts the film to a higher level, and her performance in the film continues to sparkle throughout. Many of the scenes shine with originality in their often ingenious translation from the Andalusian stage to that of the deep south, and one of the most impressing is soon in the beginning, when Carmen Jones breaks loose from Harry Belafonte under his transport of her as a prisoner in a jeep. Of course, much of the lustre of Bizet's opera is lost in translation, especially since this is not an opera but a musical, and the texts are all Broadway and nothing of Prosper Merimée. The style is convincing enough, though, and the only disappointment is the substitution of Escamillo with a boxing champion, who is not very dashing but rather the opposite. The glory and drama of the bullfighting is replaced by a crude boxing match. At least, there is nothing wrong with the music, it's all Bizet and all his best tunes of the opera with only a few missing, and with such a golden magic music all through you can even gild the deep south in its most torpid and the dreariest Chicago slum with great lyrical drama, lasting charm and beauty. "},{"Title":"She will take what she doesn't know about love to the grave.","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" There's obviously tragedy in store for Dorothy Dandridge's soft-looking beauty here who messes with the wrong guy and lives to regret it in this all black version of the Bizet opera which focused on a bullfighter and senorita. The setting has been moved to a World War II military factory where Carmen sets her eyes on Joe (Harry Belafonte), a handsome solder assigned to escort her to a military prison for starting a fight while on duty. Is her interest in him strictly because of wanting her own freedom or is she genuinely interested in him, going out of her way to break him up with the sweet Cindy Lou (Olga James) who longs for a husband and home just like her parents had. But as quickly as she lands him, Carmen is bored, getting involved with a prize-fighter and forgetting all about Belafonte.Beautifully filmed with gorgeous music (but a few awkwardly translated lyrics), this musical tragedy is definitely a period piece. Still, Dandridge, the most gorgeous femme fatal since Rita Hayworth, shines, and if someone was deserving to win the Oscar over Judy Garland that year (and definitely the winner, Grace Kelly), it would be her. Pin-ups of her look gorgeous to this day, and when Halle Berry got into the off-the-shoulder blouse and tight black skirt, it was as if time had stood still and the real life tragic Dandridge was back in the land of the living. Both written and filmed biographies of the now legendary star make it obvious that she was the total opposite of her character, and that Rita Hayworth quote, Men went to bed with Gilda and woke up with me could definitely be replaced with Carmen instead of Gilda.Belafonte is an eloquent hero, his fall from grace obvious the moment he sees her in the commissary as she sings Dat's Love while gazing longingly at him. James is sweet and angelic, while in other supporting roles, Pearl Bailey and Brock Peters have some memorable moments as well. Bailey tears up Beat Out That Rhythm on the Drum while Peters shows both emotion and flaws as Belafonte's sergeant. There will be curiosity over the presence of the beautiful Diahann Carroll in a small role, but she has very little to do.It is obvious that there was a great deal of affection between Dandridge and director Otto Preminger as he gives her the most beautiful of close-ups and treats her like a movie goddess. Their second film together, Porgy and Bess, is sadly very difficult to find, although clips do turn up in documentaries and various tributes from time to time. Carmen Jones may have its flaws (and even ripe for parody, especially with some of its music infamous for appearing in the Hamlet musical on Gilligan's Island) but it gave us the powerful presence of the still gorgeous Dorothy Dandridge whose star went out way too soon. "},{"Title":"Amazing film experience.","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Otto Peminger deserved an Oscar for best director. Unbelievable....flawless musical. Dorothy Dandridge stole the show and she certainly deserved the Oscar for best actress. Harry Belafonte was excellent as well. Pearl Bailey, Diahann Carroll...excellent cast. The scenes where Belafonte chases Dandridge atop a moving train appears to have been done without stunt doubles. When Dandridge clambers over a half-submerged jeep,her athletic ability is on full display. It was a novelty to have an all-black cast throughout - many actors,many extras. This movie was epic. A must-see for any film buff. It's a tragedy that Dandridge did not star in many more films - such a gifted actress. Those were the days when racism prevailed. This film is a treasure. "},{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The popular opera Carmen, about the love affair between a soldier and a gypsy, is transported from 19th century Spain to 1940s U.S., with a black cast. Hammerstein provides the songs with English lyrics, but they fail to do justice to Bizet's magnificent music. Although Dandridge and Belanfonte could sing, their singing was dubbed as they could not carry operatic tunes. Dandridge looks beautiful in the title role, but her performance is weak. Belafonte does not fare too well either. It may not be the fault of the actors as much as the melodramatic and unengaging screenplay. Preminger, out of his element here, also deserves blame. The music should have carried the day, but the numbers are surprisingly lackluster. "},{"Title":"this time, Dorothy is a wizard","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" First, the minuses. No one need try to guess about Belafonte being dubbed. That ain't his range. He is mellow, soft-voiced. Dandridge, of course was not a belter, but who cares? Pearl Bailey was Pearl Bailey. Brock (Broc) Peters was always a favorite, always an outstanding menacer.Credit 20th Century Fox, and Darryl F. Zanuck, the only major studio and exec to back African-American productions in those days.Some of the slower songs dragged somewhat, but the faster-paced items should have made Bizet proud. All in all, Carmen Jones gets high ratings for the bulk of the musical numbers, and the dancing which I would have liked to see more of.Getting back to Miss Dandridge. She played the part of the sultry Miss Jones to perfection. The story? Once again, it shows how a woman can screw up your life.One more thing. The ending was much too abrupt with Belafonte looking beautifully mean. It was choke-choke THE END. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Folks, No More Made-Up Words to the Toreador March...","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Watching Carmen Jones, produced and directed by Otto Preminger from Oscar Hammerstein's update of the Bizet opera, is a very otherworldly experience, not at all comfortable but somehow challenging. On the one hand it's an interesting look at the racial differences embedded into the society at the time; on the other hand, it's a wild and vivacious bit of showmanship.Dorothy Dandridge is magnificent as the title character, that free-spirited, free-loving parachute factory worker whose romantic entanglement with conflicted Joe (Harry Belafonte in another good performance) kicks off one of the most unique movie musicals in history.The music direction is definitely the highlight of the film, sounding absolutely incredible. I can't believe it didn't win the Oscar. Familiar faces in supporting roles include Diahann Carroll and Brock Peters, and it's always fun to see them. But Carmen Jones is not fun, per se.... Not for long.The first few scenes establish a riveting pace and high level of energy that the film is not quite able to maintain. Carmen's antics are not amusing for long, and the songs descend in quality from the magnificently catchy Dat's Love to the frantic, busy Card Song and the chillingly titled String Me High On a Tree. Maybe it's the cultural climate in 2010 attempting to do battle with that of 1954, but it's uncomfortable. Very much so.Of course, they don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed watching it and that's what counts the most.","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I have seen my fair share of musical movies and even though it's not my favorite genre I can say with certainty that I still really enjoyed watching this movie and is therefore among the more entertaining ones that I have ever seen.Not only is this movie a modern take on the novel and opera 'Carmen' but it also is one that has a completely Afro-American cast. This gives the story a whole new different attitude and it brings certainly live to the whole movie and story.It's an 1954 movie but let me tell you that the movie feels a lot more modern than that. If you would had told me that this movie was from 1974 I would had certainly believed it. It's not just because of the approach that the movie feels way more modern but also really because of its fine visual looks.As far as the musics goes, an important aspect within a musical movie of course, I also must say that I quite liked it, even though it was certainly weird seeing how basically every singing bit of the movie got dubbed by an obviously totally different person, that sounds really nothing like the actor who is playing the character.In this movie you could had real easily hated the Carmen character, fore she is one that is a real tease with men, steals boyfriends from other women and every now and then applies some manipulation, with her sexual and sensual powers. Yet you far from hate her, for which most credit really needs to go to the actress portraying her, Dorothy Dandridge, who also even received an Oscar nomination for her role in this movie.But at the same time there also is not really anything that makes this movie stand out as a truly excellent one. It's production values obviously weren't too high and the movie feels a bit static and simplistic at times. Nevertheless, I simply enjoyed watching this movie and that is what counts the most.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The One And Only Dorothy Dandridge","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" What a splendid adaptation of Bizet's classic! With a cast of all black actors, 'Carmen Jones' was a pioneer in many ways and perhaps was one of the doorways for black actors to move further ahead towards equality. Beautifully presented with vibrant colours the film is shot in a very opera style. The characters are solid and the story is dark.The heart of the film lies in its actors. Not only can these talented people act but they sure can sing. These actors give their all to the characters. The late Dorothy Dandridge is beautiful, seductive, deceitful but also very human as Carmen Jones. Dandridge completely owns the part and immortalizes her. Harry Belafonte too does a good job as Joe who is swept away and blinded by his love for Carmen. Olga James is adorable as Cindy Lou. With their combined singing and acting talent, they burn the screen.Sadly, even the success and acclaim of 'Carmen Jones' did not get Dorothy Dandridge the right films which would have done further justice to her talent. Racial prejudice was very prominent in those days and the actress had to go years without doing films and then she dies an untimely death. But in 'Carmen Jones' one sees an actress who made it, even though it was for a short period, she opened doors for other actresses of minority ethnicities.'Carmen Jones' is another example of musical film at its best and unlike most musicals of its time, this one is layered, dark, intense and tragic. "}{"Title":"A Bizet and Hammerstein Musical","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am not really an opera buff, so I have not taken a lot of interest in films based upon operas; the few I have seen have not really convinced me that this is an art-form that transfers well to the cinema screen. Carmen Jones is different, largely because the opera on which it is based is different. Georges Bizet's Carmen was controversial when it was first produced in the 1870s, largely because it did not fit into either of the two then accepted categories of opera. Its spoken dialogue, working-class characters and merry tunes were more reminiscent of comic opera than of grand opera, but its plot, centred upon sexual passion, jealousy and murder, is far from comic. In some respects the work even in its original form is closer to a Broadway musical than it is to traditional ideas of opera, so it was not surprising when, in 1943, Oscar Hammerstein turned it into just that.Hammerstein kept Bizet's music and the basic outlines of his plot but provided new lyrics and updated the story from nineteenth-century Spain to America in World War II. In this version Carmen works in a parachute factory, and her lover (named Joe rather than Jose) is a GI with ambitions to train as a pilot. Most of the main characters have similar names to those in the opera; Carmen's friends Frasquita and Mercedes become Frankie and Mert (presumably a diminutive of Myrtle), Lillas Pastia is Billy Pastor and the bullfighter Escamillo becomes (a rather strained one this) the boxer Husky Miller. The one exception is Micaela who should by rights have been Michelle but instead becomes Cindy-Lou.The stage musical had one distinctive feature which is faithfully followed in the film; an all African-American cast. Although the film has far more actors than most stage productions would, there is not a single white face to be seen, not even as a minor character, not even as an extra in the crowd scenes. A times this can seem a bit unrealistic (are there really no white boxing fans in Chicago?) but the aim was presumably not realism but symbolism. In the 1950s Hollywood was still a very racist institution, with black actors generally limited to minor roles, often as servants or other working-class characters. Most films had all-white casts, even in situations where one might have expected to see some black faces. By making Carmen Jones with an all-black cast, the filmmakers were sending out a message, not only about the talents of black performers, but also about their unfair treatment within the film industry.Since her tragic early death from an accidental overdose, Dorothy Dandridge has become known as the black Marilyn Monroe, and her performance here shows her to have been just as beautiful and at least as talented as Marilyn herself. She received a nomination for a Best Actress Oscar, something Marilyn never achieved. (She was the first African-American actress so nominated). This should have been the part that made Dandridge's career, but in fact she had to wait three years for her next film role. I doubt if any white Oscar nominee would have had that problem. Harry Belafonte, her co-star here, also appears in that film, Island in the Sun. Oddly enough, although Dandridge and Belafonte were as well-known for their singing as they were for their acting, their singing voices are both dubbed in Carmen Jones. Perhaps they were considered to be not operatic enough for their roles.Belafonte was not Oscar-nominated, but he is very good as Joe, making sympathetic a character who could easily have been seen simply as a self-destructive idiot. (Joe does, after all, sacrifice both his relationship with his loving sweetheart Cindy-Lou and a promising military career for the sake of a woman who eventually rejects him). Dandridge also has a difficult balancing act to perform, needing to make Carmen seductive and alluring but not so hard and amoral that she forfeits our sympathy altogether. (The film character is perhaps rather more sympathetic than her counterpart in the opera, a work that sometimes strikes me as being rather misogynistic in tone).Like a number of fifties musicals, Carmen Jones can today seem somewhat dated. Apart from the sterling contributions of its two stars, however, it does have one great advantage in its music; for a story that ends tragically there are a surprisingly large number of light-hearted, cheerful melodies. Even though he had been dead for nearly seventy years, Hammerstein had found in Bizet a collaborator even more gifted than Richard Rodgers. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The real Dorothy Dandrige","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I had two reasons for wanting to see this film. Ever since I saw Halle Berry in Introducing Dorothy Dandridge, I was impressed by how similar they looked. The first African American woman to win a best Actress Oscar plays the first African American to be nominated for a Best Actress Oscar. This was her best film. The other reason I wanted to see this film was the fact that I love Carmen. Of course, the one I love is the 1984 version with Julia Migenes and Placido Domingo, but any version is worth watching.What is really good about this film, outside of seeing Dorothy Dandridge at the top of her game, is the change to see other great African-American stars in their prime Emmy-winning singer Harry Belafonte, Pearl Bailey, Olga James in her first film, and Diahann Carroll (Claudine, Julia). it would have been nice to hear Dandridge and Belafonte sing, but Carmen was just too much for their voices.It is a piece of film history and I do not regret that I had to stay up til 515 am to see it. "},{"Title":"A great version of Carmen","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I first watched this film many years ago and I have always enjoyed it. I also owned the soundtrack at one time. The music is wonderful and my only complaint is that it's totally obvious that it's dubbed, particularly with the 'Joe' character. However I assume that Olga James did her own singing as Cindy Lou and she has a delightful voice. It's good to listen to operatic music and be able to understand the words. Although the dialogue is fine, I find myself impatient for them to get on to the next song. My only complaint is that the ending was a tad rushed and the death scene a bit unrealistic. The all black cast was of high quality with Dorothy Dandridge the star. "},{"Title":"Dorothy Dandridge as Carmen","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I find Dandridge's performance wonderful. She took the screen away and presented Carmen Jones to a T. If it wasn't for her performance, the bar wouldn't have been set for the 1st Black woman nominated for an Academy Award as best actress. That's history and was made by a robust woman. Dorothy Dandridge did an extraordinary job and reached a whole new height that no other African American had went before. She convinced me that she was in fact the tempetuous femme fetale, Carmen Jones. I've noticed that some are racist and think that a black cast should not have been made and to leave it to the Spainards, well here is a news flash, there is always someone bigger and badder, that can do it better. "},{"Title":"Carmen Jones","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" From director Otto Preminger (Laura, Anatomy of a Murder), as is the tradition I might have heard the title somewhere before, but I recognised it from the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so naturally I watched it. Basically it is an all black contemporary musical version of Georges Bizet's legendary opera Carmen, also based on the Broadway musical production. The story starts at an all black army camp where Cindy Lou (Olga James) has gone to see her fiancée Joe (Harry Belafonte), but their reunion is spoilt when Joe is ordered to take civilian parachute maker and man eater Carmen Jones (Oscar and BAFTA nominated Dorothy Dandridge) off the base. Carmen sets her sights on Joe, knowing his engagement and due to go into pilot training for the Korean War, and he does succumb to her charms, forgetting completely about Cindy Lou. Because Joe did not hand Carmen to the authorities he is put in prison, and while she waits she hangs around in Billy Pastor's jive café, where she meets besotted boxer Husky Miller (Joe Adams). She is initially uninterested, but her friends Frankie (Pearl Bailey) and Myrt (Diahann Carroll) convince her that she can't turn an invitation from Husky's manager to see him fight in Chicago. When Joe turns up quickly getting into a fight with Sergeant Brown (Brock Peters) for hitting on Carmen, she goes to Husky's training camp, where her friends try to convince her to forget about Joe and go with the money by staying with Husky. Later, Carmen gets her cards read by Frankie, and with the Nine of Spades representing death, she is convinced she will die soon, so she decides to dump Joe for the luxurious lifestyle with Husky. Cindy Lou comes back looking for Joe, but he is still in love with Carmen and rejects Cindy Lou with disdain. The night of Husky's big fight has come, and Joe turns up trying to convince Carmen to take him back, and when she rejects him the cards prediction turns out to be to true when he kills her. Also starring Roy Glenn as Rum Daniels and Nick Stewart as Dink Franklin. Dandridge is fantastic as one of the ultimate Femme Fatales of the cinema, the story is good modernised conventions of opera, the songs (especially Dat's Love, Beat Out Dat Rhythm on a Drum, Stan' Up and Fight, and Dat's Our Man - music is also the Overture) have been written around the great classical music, it is a very watchable musical melodrama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Herschel Burke Gilbert, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. It was number 52 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Very good! "},{"Title":"Fabulous musical  based on  the works of long deceased classical composer Georges Bizet with  great lyrics by contemporary Oscar Hammerstein 11","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I am not really into odd musicals but Carmen Jones is a marvelous work of genius by Otto Preminger based on the magnificent opera Carmen with wonderful vocal performances by a talented outstanding Dorothy Dandridge, along with equally superb vocalist Harry Belafonte,also Pearl Bailey, Diahann Carroll and the dubbing voices of others. But what makes this movie significantly important is the all black cast which transforms this show into a musical masterpiece of its time.Based on and made originally as a screenplay during the Second World War incorporating the themes of the great Bizet operatic tunes, with the added descriptive modern words later of Hammerstein, gives this beautiful rousing Spanish music grand appeal, and would have been an inspiration to many U.S. troops along with its very seductive dancing vocal interpretation performances of the lovely Carmen (Dandridge) who tragically committed suicide in later life - we may never have known the wonderful music she may have created had she lived a normal later life.I first saw this great movie in the early 60's and was so impressed by it's beautiful flowing musical rhythm by which I always remembered with its inspiring vocal values. I saw it again a few nights ago on Pay TV (and recorded it), not available record ably then and would like to share my comments with your other viewers. A really enjoyable movie of how how past century musical classics can be cast into a modern wonderful production as this film proved to be. P.S. I believe the actual singing of Dandridge and Belafonte (already greatly acknowledged for their own established singing talents) were in fact dubbed by Marilynn Horne and Le Vern Hutcherson in this movie because their own vocal range could not reach Bizet's requirement on which the original score depended. "},{"Title":"Carmen Jones was a shining highlight for Oscar-nominated Dorothy Dandridge","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" In reviewing African-Americans on film and television, in front of and behind the scenes, for Black History Month, I had always intended to start from their earliest available work all the way to their latest by the end of February. We're now at 1954 and the release of Carmen Jones. Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge, who were the leading players previously in 1953's Bright Road, sizzle as Army man Joe and the very alluring title character. They're accompanied by a very capable supporting cast Olga James as Joe's spurned nice girlfriend Cindy Lou, Pearl Bailey as Frankie and Diahann Carroll as Myrt-two of Carmen's best friends, Joe Adams as boxer Husky Miller, Brock Peters as Sergeant Brown, and-in a nice surprise for this Amos 'n' Andy fan-Roy Glenn and Nick Stewart as Rum Daniels, Husky's manager and Dink Franklin, Daniels' associate. In fact, my favorite scene was the Whizzin' Away Along De Track number as performed by Bailey, Glenn, Joseph E. Crawford (Dink Franklin's singing voice), Bernice Peterson (Myrt's singing voice), and Marilyn Horne (Carmen's singing voice). When I looked up Stewart's IMDb listing, I was also pleasantly surprised to find out he also appeared in the other All-Black musicals I reviewed-Cabin in the Sky and Stormy Weather. Anyway, despite the dubbed singing for many of the players (which also includes LeVern Hutcherson for Joe and Marvin Hayes for Husky Miller), this was one of the best movie musicals I've ever seen, certainly of the kind that had lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II. And Ms. Dandridge deserved her Oscar nomination as Best Actress-the first time such a nod was given to a woman of color. Only thing left to say is I highly recommend Otto Preminger's Carmen Jones. "},{"Title":"This was made in 1954???","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie.  It's hard to believe that this was made in 1954 when it was hard for african americans to get non-stereotypical roles.The movie basically revoles around Carmen and Joe.  It begins with Carmen persuing Joe even though he has a love interest.  By the end of the movie thing have changed.  It was very interesting to watch.I was impressed that people of color were not made to look stereotypical. I was fascinated to know that even back in 1954 some women still flocked towards certain guys only because they were rich and famous.This is indeed a classic. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this film over and over, having taped it off T.V. at some time in the past. I don't know enough about Dorothy Dandridges' voice to comment on her being dubbed, but having heard much of Harry Belafontes' singing voice over the years, I don't quite understand why they had to dub him. (I guess because at that time he was quite young, and relatively unknown).The film itself is a superb translation of serious opera from the original (Spanish?) into modern day English (or at least black American). For me it works well, and I'd recommend it to anyone who wants an introduction to light opera.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating, Lots of Things Work, Some Don't","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" In Hollywood movies from 1920-1960, African-Americans were typically given small parts, usually comical, as servants or lower-class workers (shoe shine boys and train porters) which reflected the view of the dominant Euro-American society. They were also portrayed as marvelous singers and dancers in shorts and occasional entertainer roles.Occasionally, there would be an all black movies where all the characters were black living in an all black world (Hallelujah, Cabin in the Sky etc.) Here, the world of blacks was portrayed as essentially a closed white world. It was separate but equal to the white world. Both of these views could be considered racist because neither of them showed the dominant problem of racism that made life a living hell for so many African-Americans in those years. Racism is virtually non-existent in the movie world of this period (with notable exceptions, see for example, The Killing, Kubrick, 1954) Yet both views also contain contradictions. The blacks as funny servants view did show that blacks and whites could laugh together at the same things, and the separate-but-equal society view showed that they were fully human and could cry and be hurt as everyone.Carmen Jones shows a separate-but-equal view of blacks. The problems in the movie are generated exclusively by the free decisions of the leading characters. Racism does not exist in this world.The movie has a wonderful cast, with the leads, Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge giving top notch performances. Belafonte could certainly have been as big as Marlon Brando as an actor if not for the racism of the period. Likewise, Dorothy Dandridge only did four more Hollywood films before her untimely death in 1965. Consider that an equivalent sexy actress, Kim Novak, who started her career the same year, appeared in seventeen moves during this time period.The production is excellent, nice sets, costumes, cinematography and editing. The two problems with the movie are the dubbing and the plot. The dubbing of opera singers for the singing of the main characters was a common mistake made often. Technically the singing may be better, but you always get a slight out-of-sync feeling that is slightly unpleasant. The plot is also a problem in that it moves from absolute lightness and comedy in the first half to a quite serious drama in the second half. The abrupt transition doesn't work. Since the language and setting of the original opera by Bizet are changed, I do not think it would have been out of place to change the ending.Still, its a fascinating piece, worth watching for a number of reasons.Incidentally, it was a pleasure seeing Nick Stewart in a small role. He played the delightful and hilarious character Ligthnin in the Amos and Andy television series of the time. He was a great comedian who should also have gotten more and bigger roles. "}{"Title":"Lose the Technicolor","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" While this film is highly praised for being one of the first to sexualize African-Americans on screen, the end result is nevertheless disappointing. Joe (Harry Belafonte) begins the film as a likable guy, and the audience identifies with him and wants him to succeed and realize his goals of being a pilot and advancing his career in the military. He's 24 hours away from being married to a 'good' girl, Cindy Lou (Olga James), and everything appears well in his future. Enter Carmen (Dorothy Dandridge), the main problem with the movie. She seduces Joe. She abandons him. She stands by her man while he's in jail, caging herself in, the very thing she detests. When Joe gets out and wants to go to flight school, which will keep them 40 lousy miles apart, her loyalty disappears in a flash. In Chicago, which she's responsible for his being there, she grows tired and bored with him very quickly as he's forced to hide in a cheap hotel. In short, Carmen is a very inconsistent character, poorly written and highly unlikeable.The sad thing about all this is it has the ingredients for a great film noir. You got Otto Preminger (Laura, Where the Sidewalk Ends) directing. You have a man who makes one bad decision after another (1. the cliché 'short cut' 2. seduced by Carmen) gets his 2nd chance and once again (3. Carmen manipulates him 4. decks his superior officer 5. flees to Chicago instead of facing reality) until he's in over his head and there's no turning back. Carmen very much serves as a femme fatale, destroying Joe in every way. And finally Joe's isolation from the real world and his monomaniac obsession with Carmen, which brings both of them to their eventual doom. This latter part was an opportunity not taken advantage of by the writers or Preminger. Joe's transformation from nice guy to deranged psychopath was all done offscreen. (By the way, if you want to see Belafonte in a great noir, check out Odds Against Tomorrow, usually pops up on Turner Classic Movies a couple times a year, in which racism plays a major role in the film.)Now just imagine if this were in black and white, cut several of the singing sequences (especially Belafonte's, the one when he's a prisoner is outright distracting and too long), Carmen could have been a nightclub singer, and instead of all the long pointless singing sequences, capture Joe's mental deterioration. An all black cast, highly sexualized, in a disturbing, moody, alienated world; now that would have been really groundbreaking. Not that this film is bad, but its not really that great either. Despite everything I've said, I'd still recommend viewing it. "},{"Title":"Boring and Overrated","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The Corporal Joe (Harry Belafonte) is engaged to the countryside girl Cindy Lou (Olga James) and is ready to go to the pilot school. However, he is assigned to transport the troublemaker Carmen Jones (Dorothy Dandridge), an easy independent and arrogant woman desired by every man that works in a parachute factory, to be arrested in another town. Joe has one night stand with the easy Carmen and she escapes from him. The infatuated Joe is arrested and can not forget Carmen. When he is released, his commander sends him to the pilot school; however, he meets Carmen and he hits a sergeant that is flirting with her. Joe flees from the Military Police with Carmen and they head to Chicago. But sooner Carmen finds a new lover, the box fighter Husky Miller (Joe Adams) and leaves Joe that is chased by the MP. Carmen Jones is a boring and overrated film by Otto Preminger that uses the music of Bizet's opera. The whole cast is Afro-American and I did not like this movie. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) Carmen Jones "},{"Title":"English lyrics the best part","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I first saw it when it was fairly new, and I was a stranger to opera. I got the disc and learnt the words, then read James Baldwin's Straight in de eye - Carmen Jones the dark is light enough, about the racism inherent in the plotting - Hollywood's inability to cope with a black man's sexuality, for example, and what he called something like each actor's small death every time they resolutely substituted 'de' for 'the'.I was then exposed to bad English versions of Carmen - Love is like an elyoosive bird for example. Hammerstein's When your lovebird decides to fly, there ain't no door that you can close, she just pecks you a quick goodbye, and flicks the salt from her tail and goes wins hands down. Next came good French versions of the full original with the full power of operatic drama. Grace Bumbry, for example is magnificent, and subtitles solve the comprehension problem.Now I've come back to Carmen Jones. Baldwin was right. The film attempts to evade racism by having a white-free cast. But Belafonte has to play Joe as sexless (which sucks all motivation out of his jealousy), and yes, the Porgy and Bess Ebonics are self-conscious. Except for Carmen, all the bad characters - the officer who harasses Joe, the men who lust after Carmen, Husky's opponent, are much blacker than the good characters. And would Carmen really call Joe Boy? It's hard to see why he fell for her, since she was nothing but trouble from beginning to end. Weakest dramatic point Joe being delegated to take a troublesome woman scores of miles alone in an open jeep, unhandcuffed.The sound is thin (it sounds like a pretty small orchestra), and even the young Marilyn Horne is stretched. The revised story and new dialogue don't quite work. The best part is still the English lyrics. "},{"Title":"Ropey","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Whatever merit this may have possessed back in 1954 it is now decidedly dated so much so that I was hard put to keep from dropping off when I watched it recently. Seen today the characters verge on the cartoonish with almost tangible signs over their heads bearing such legends 'Femme Fatale', 'Loser' 'Heavy', 'Ingenue', 'Cuckold', 'Good-time Girl' etc. The score is, of course, tried-and-tested as Oscar Hammerstein's new lyrics are serviceable rather than inspired. There's a pronounced feeling of several players performing in several different films and little chemistry between any pairing/permutation. I accept that it's useful as an introduction-light to the world of Opera but it could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"An interesting pantomime","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Carmen was well choreographed and staged. Harry Belafonte's singing was worth it alone and his acting was equal to his leading lady's. However, soul singer 'Pearl Bailey' who sings 'beat out that rhythm on a drum'. is the best thing in the movie. She was too authentic for the film really (and, in one scene, is obviously taking the rip of the song they all have to sing - an absurd version of Toriador 'Stand up and fight until you hear the bell' etc). It was the sentimental script and lyrics that, for me, deflated any sense of tragedy. The characters were weak and their actions unsupported by any inner motivation.Nevertheless, it was nice to see a film that was taking itself seriously for a change. I did enjoy it. I though Dorothy Dandridge's performance was weak (probably because of the absurd character she has to play) I can't believe she got an Oscar nomination for her little pantomime performance. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have EVER seen.","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Dreadfully awful. Horrible, crummy, stupid, worthless lyrics, no plot, horrible composition. Even worse than Rocky Horror Picture Show. Harry Belafonte's dubbing was in the hit in the crotch vocal style. The new lyrics Hammerstein wrote totally cheapen this film, to the point when it has no integrity. The plot is quite confusing. No continuity. And it's ridiculous, random, bizarre, scary, disturbing, spasmodic and every other negative adjective you can imagine when they burst into song. This movie is a shameless, dull, cheap, shoddy, pointless, disappointing, talentless (aside from Pearl Bailey), ridiculous, criminal, sad, silly, idiotic, crappy travesty. "},{"Title":"unfortunate","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was upset by this movie.  I saw it as part of a film class whose films are open to the public.  The students all began chuckling at the poor quality of the dubbing of the singing voices.  I didn't care what happened to the characters; very little in the film made me feel anything. Black stereotypes were rampant in the singing voices.  The character may say this and that in his or her speaking voice, then dis and dat in the singing voice.  I is was also prevalent.  It hurt to see that. There were some good scenes in the film, and Bizet's music is enjoyable, but the lyrics were often forced and unintelligible.This is the first film I have seen in a while that I have watched the clock to see how much more torture I had to sit through.   I also dreaded the singing because the lip- synching was so horrid.  It also didn't seem believable with the black cast in that story anyway.  Leave it to the Spaniards to tell Carmen! "}]