[{"Title":"Scathing social commentary masking as soap opera.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"78 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Douglas Sirk is a truly underrated director, and this film shows why.  Although this film becomes more highly regarded as the years go by, especially by non-Americans, it is usually regarded as just a well made soaper.  Big mistake.  This is a very angry film, a scathing commentary on the conformity and mindlessness that characterized much of the 1950s.  Remember, this film was made in 1955, before there were any beatniks or hippies, before the civil rights movement, before there was any pot smoking, before anyone beyond the fringes questioned any of the basic values underlying capitalist America.  America was at the peak of its power and prestige, and this was perhaps the first mainstream film that questioned the values that presumably were responsible for that ascendancy.  Because this film is essentially about class and the primacy that human relationships must have over material gain, social acceptance, and social conformity.Think of the forbidden (at the time) themes that this film deals with.  Older woman, younger man.  The shallowness, insipidity, and snobbery of the upper middle class arrivistes who have made it, all of which masks their basic insecurity, unhappiness, and self-loathing.  A male lead who doesn't care about acceptance by anyone, who doesn't care about money or success, who just wants to be happy and do his own thing, well over a decade before that phrase was coined.  The Wyman character foolishly (at first) decides that acceptance by her peers and children is more important than finding happiness with a man she truly loves, and what does she end up with for companionship?  A television set!  This was the decade in which The Lonely Crowd was published, and this film exemplifies that concept, as well as striking examples of other- vs. inner-directed, far better than any other film of its time.Sirk was truly a visionary, well ahead of his time.  This was why this film inspired Fassbinder's Ali Fear Eats the Soul and Todd Haynes' Far from Heaven.  It is all the more powerful for having been made then and in not being a retrospective look, as is Far from Heaven, from a more enlightened future time.  For its social import, I rate this 9/10. "},{"Title":"Douglas Sirk's Visual Extravaganza","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"63 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At times, the aesthetic appeal of a film is so overwhelming, it surpasses the draw of the big-name stars and plot. And All That Heaven Allows is one of those rare examples. Anyone familiar with Douglas Sirk-directed projects knows his grandiose style. And this 1955 masterpiece sums up the best of Sirk drama, with the surface sheen, thundering music, noted stars and biting social commentary. This film, in fact, is so beautiful, that it requires repeated viewings just to be able to take it all in.Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson re-team from Sirk's inferior Magnificent Obsession that was such a hit the year before. In this story, Wyman plays a wealthy widow bound to the claustrophobic confines of her uppity New England town. Her friends and two grown children do their best to convince her to marry Harvey, a stuffy and older neighborhood bachelor. But Wyman wants more. She ends up falling for her younger gardener, played by Hudson. After bonding over the virtues of the silver-tipped spruce, they embark on a love affair which is rejected by the community and Wyman's own children. They feel she is far too upstanding to be with a gardener. The reluctance of those around her to accept this relationship cause Wyman to have to choose between love or respect from her town.Sirk takes what is a sappy, predictable tale and turns it into a visual feast. This is true eye candy for film buffs. Sirk sets the stage for this story against a heightened background of the reds, golds and yellows of a New England autumn. Every detail from Agnes Moorehead's red hair to sunsets to Wyman's lipstick and even the cars is given the Technicolor treatment to the max. Sirk's knack for visual irony is also heavily present throughout. The film opens with a shot of the town's clocktower with pigeons roosting. The pigeons are divided into two groups - a gaggle of black pigeons representing the townspeople on one end, and on the other are two white pigeons nuzzling, representing Wyman and Hudson and the division they face in this community. This is just for starters. Other stunning examples are when Sirk uses shades of blues and greys and reds to convey character's feelings of sadness or anger. And of course there is the famous television set scene. And through all of this emotion and cotton candy extravaganza is Frank Skinner's lush score that soars in all the right places. All That Heaven Allows is a first-rate classic that is a must for fans of Sirk or anyone who are devotees of lush melodramas from the studio heyday. "},{"Title":"Ahead Of Its Time","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"59 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Scott (Jane Wyman) is a middle-aged, wealthy woman whose husband recently died. Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson) is Cary's younger, independent-minded landscape gardener. Ron reads Thoreau, respects nature, and values simplicity and honesty. Cary and Ron are attracted to each other. For Ron, marriage to Cary is an easy decision. But for Cary, the decision to marry Ron is harder. She must confront the disapproval of her grown children, and the disapproval of friends whose materialistic, country club values are inconsistent with the values of Thoreau.In a town where people know each other's business, tongues wag. Feelings get hurt. Conflict erupts. The film's subdued lighting and vivid colors, combined with soft piano and velvety violin background music, create a tone that is sad and sentimental. Viewers are right to say that this Douglas Sirk directed film is a melodramatic soap opera.Thinly veiled behind the simple plot, however, lies a profound message to thine own self be true. It is a message totally out of sync with 1950's America. Yet, the message would surface a decade later as the 1960's youth mantra do your own thing.As an archetype, Ron seems too pure. And Cary's children and friends, shallow, selfish, vain, gossipy, and judgmental, are easy to dislike. This sharp dichotomy is somewhat unrealistic. But it gets the point across. And that point is a blistering indictment of 1950's American materialism and mindless conformity.The film was thus ahead of its time. Despite its high technical quality, it was snubbed by the Oscars. In retrospect, All That Heaven Allows is superior to all five of the Oscar best picture nominees from that year. And its message is just as relevant now as it was fifty years ago. "},{"Title":"Wyman ready of a love affair,  but not for love...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is ironic that during the 1950s, when the former Douglas Sirk was at his most successful in terms of audience appeal, he was virtually ignored by the critics... He is now seen, however, as a director of formidable intellect who, despite his background in classical and Avant-Garde Theater, achieved his best work in melodrama... With its penetrating, literate screenplay, its fine and sympathetic acting, its tasteful sets and artwork, its wonderful music, cleverly adapted from some of the finest music of Franz Liszt and other romantic composers, 'All That Heaven Allows' is another film, passed over in its own time as just another soap opera. Sirk tries to capture the tensions of real everyday living in his representation of a lonely elegant widow steeped in a snobbish society... Jane Wyman is (Cary Scott), a pleasant middle-aged widow who is having difficulty in adjusting to her status... She lives in comfortable circumstances in a handsome house, but her character is more concerned with maintaining a veneer of social respectability than with addressing reality...Sirk turns a conventional love story, between Cary and her much younger gardener and nurseryman Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson) into a study of the fall of American idealism and innocence, and lush images of nature contrasting with claustrophobic, petty-minded snobbery of a country-club set... Ron prefers to grow plants in his nursery near an old mill, and lives life according to his own rules - which do not comprise cocktail parties, gossip, and superficial camaraderie... He is obviously handsome, and Cary gives herself numerous reasons why she should not encourage him... The difference in their respective ages being, in her view, the most salient of all... But Ron keeps returning, it is obvious he is attracted to her...But as their romance deepens, so does the widow's dilemma... The family, so often glamorized by Hollywood, is regarded as selfish and inhibiting, with the widow's teenage children horrified at the idea of another man tainting their dead father's sacred memory... So Cary retreats, and decides to walk away from a love that promises the chance to rediscover her own passion in his sensual embrace...Sirk does interesting things with reflections, most notable the sight of Wyman reflected in the screen of a television set that her son and daughter buy her in Christmas to keep her company... Staring deeply into its surface, deep sadness closed her heart as she wanted to escape the pain of her mistake... Her physician (Hayden Rorke), whom she consults on her miserable headaches, tells her that there is absolutely nothing wrong with her, that she must stop living by the opinions, the smiles and frowns of others... Wyman convincingly gives the impression of a woman torn between the fires of her own heart and her devotion to her family and friends... She and Hudson have a good chemistry together, and obviously the film, exquisitely photographed in Technicolor, carries off its intended effect perfectly... "},{"Title":"Disney was never so magical - Sirk polishes weepy romance to an exquisite gloss","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Douglas Sirk's All That Heaven Allows could stand as a lesson about how, in gifted hands, movies can surmount and surpass their source material, elevating the routine into the rhapsodic.  And that's more than a matter of just fleshing out the roles with appealing talent or supplying de luxe production values.  It takes a sensibility that can suggest the complexity under the commonplace and spot the verities hidden beneath the clichés.It's an alert sensibility that many emigrés from Europe, apprenticed in the artistic ferment between the wars, brought with them to Hollywood (among them this Dane, born Detlef Sierck).  Hollywood gave them more money and security than they'd probably ever known, and when it also gave them hackneyed and meretricious scripts to capture on film, they devised new ways to freshen them up and, against all odds, make them work.On its surface, All That Heaven Allows is little more than polite fiction from women's magazines circa mid-20th-century (and would today be a romance paperback with a beefcake cover).  Youngish widow Jane Wyman starts keeping company with free-spirited Rock Hudson, her much younger gardener; despite wagging tongues among her country-club set and clucks of disapproval from her grown children, she finds, after many a twist and turn, true love.But from his opening shot Sirk creates a dreamy, storybook world, so Disney-pretty that he might as well have started with `Once upon a time....' Swirling downward from a church steeple in a New England autumn, he shows us an affluent enclave just a commuter-train trip away from New York. Luncheons are taken on patios, station wagons the approved mode of travel and martinis the drink of the evening - the kind of town New Yorkers played by Bette Davis or Barbara Stanwyck meant when they referred to their `country' places in Connecticut.In this idyllic bower, Wyman has resigned herself to a stately and well-appointed widowhood; she half-heartedly resists friend Agnes Moorehead's lures to put her back on the market (women without men, by choice or circumstance, just don't fit in).  But Wyman's too classy for the boozed-up louts and gossipy shrews in her former set, and still too vital to succumb to valetudinarian Conrad Nagel's proposal for tepid `companionship.'And that's when Hudson, come to prune the branches, catches her eye - and, somewhat less probably, she his.  He whisks her out to see his tree farm, and they explore an old mill on his property (`I love to poke around old buildings,' she explains).  When she suggests he fix up the dump and live there, it's to the horn theme from the last movement of Brahms' 1st Symphony.  No wonder she ends up staying the weekend.Here Sirk introduces a subtly subversive element Hudson's friends, in discordant counterpoint to hers (who dismiss him as `nature boy' and a `good-looking set of muscles').  His are an amiably casual network of all ages and backgrounds who have opted out of the rat race or never cared to enter it (the `quiet desperation' passage from Thoreau's Walden screws the point home).  Though their style of merrymaking brings to mind Old World folk festivals, they represent a segment of society rarely if ever seen in films of the era Low-profile, thoughtful rebels against the smug status quo - post-war pioneers of the voluntary simplicity movement inflamed with a touch of ecological consciousness ( now laughed off as tree-hugging). It's a startling glimpse into a below-the-radar counterculture that must have been around even in the mid-'50s (and there's not a beret, goatee or bongo drum among them - they're presented without a hint of condescension or marginalization).Hudson proposes, Wyman accepts.  Even her children (Gloria Talbott and William Reynolds) are thrilled, so long as they assume her remarriage will be to stuffy, respectable Nagel.   When they're told that their new stepdad will be the stud who cleans up the yard come spring and come fall, they go rigid with upper-middle-class snobbery.  (And the specter of Mrs. Grundy floats in when Moorehead asks if people will think Wyman and Hudson were keeping company when Wyman's husband was still kicking.)   Stranded between her familiar past and an uncertain future, Wyman begs for more time; Hudson, hewing to his mantra `to thine own self be true,' delivers an ultimatum....Abetted by director of photography Russell Metty, Sirk paints this soapish weeper with a gorgeous palette of hues and tints (a feat that Todd Haynes emulated in his Sirk hommage Far From Heaven, for which this movie served as template).  Now and again, he washes half the screen in an autumnal green-gold, the other in an enchanted-night mauve, situating characters at cross purposes in their respective halves.Of course, splitting or doubling the screen, through barriers or mirror shots, is one of Sirk's signature tropes, reaching its apex when Wyman's hangdog face stares back from a newly delivered television set, a Christmas present from the kids (`Here's all the company you need.  Drama, comedy, all life's parade at your fingertips,' goes the spiel.)   Pointedly, the set never gets turned on; it's seen but once again, reflecting flames from the fireplace, the focal point of simpler, less sophisticated times, and the values Hudson embodies.Sirk takes this unlikely June-September romance and buffs it to the highest possible gloss, using his exquisite eye to enrich and deepen every frame. It's lush and sensuous - almost candified (at times gluttingly so) - and all but impossible to resist.  When, at the close, a deer gambols up to nuzzle some snow off the windowpane in the mill Hudson has turned into his - their - home, it's an embarrassment of perfection.  Never was Disney so magical. "},{"Title":"Wyman and Hudson re-team for this classy melodrama","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Due to the success of 1954's Magnificent Obsession, Universal once again called on Jane Wyman, Rock Hudson, Agnes Moorehead, and director Douglas Sirk for this passionate, heart-gripping look at the hypocrisy of small-town America.  Wyman, a rich widow in this well-to-do New England town, falls in love with her gardener (Hudson) and all hell breaks loose. Her community ridicules her and her grown children are horrified by her. She finds herself having to choose love or the respect of those around her.The cinematography is beyond extraordinary, the score by Frank Skinner is unbelievably moving, Wyman is exquisite, and Sirk gives some of the best direction of his career. A really classy melodrama and completely worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Middle Aged Rebel Without a Cause","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All That Heaven Allows is one of Douglas Sirk's most popular and influential films. It's not hard to see why. The central theme is one that will always be relevant, no matter what the decade. There will always be many who will resonate to the quest for freedom when finding their own lives constrictive and dissatisfying. Throughout time society's pressure to conform has caused much emotional upheaval in many a life, but the 1950's seems to have been a decade of a particularly ruthless conservatism. This social climate produced the McCarthy witch hunts, as well as some of Hollywoods finest movies, finally being avenged by the birth of rock 'n roll.The theme of the constraints of society and the suffering it causes is naturally one that is particularly close to gay people. Two gay film makers were so affected by All That Heaven Allows that they remade it with their own particular perspectives. Fassbinder increases the age difference between the older woman and her younger lover and makes things even more extreme by giving them vastly different cultural and social backgrounds. Todd Haynes manages to pull of the miraculous feat of recreating the 1950's Sirk style and yet with contemporary sensibilities. Fear Eats the Soul and Far From Heaven stand on their own in their excellence, while both acknowledging the huge influence Sirk and All That Heaven Allows had upon them.All that Heaven Allows was made the very same year as Rebel Without a Cause The rebellion in question in Rebel without a Cause is that of youth with all its pain, not to mention its glamour embodied by luminaries James Dean and Natalie Wood. Nicholas Ray created a truly iconic film of teenage rebellion against repressive parents and society as a whole. Sirk's film is in a way more daring. Despite the glossy sheen in which he has wrapped this work, the story is in fact the rebellion of a widow against her repressive children and the society to which she belongs. It makes a perfect companion piece to Sirk's There's Always Tomorrow which essays the unhappiness of a man (Fred Macmurray), who despite having achieved all society has expected of him, finds his life meaningless. There too his children are depicted as egoistic, uncaring and ungrateful. Both films are a devastating attack on family life and the social mores of the 50's. Sadly There's Always Tomorrow remains Sirk's most underrated and unseen film.As a young man, Sirk read Thoreau and was enthralled. He insisted on including a scene in which Walden is read and quoted in All That Heaven Allows. Thoreau's message  If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer is central to the movie and to Sirk's work as a whole.Emerson's to thine own self be true is also quoted in the movie and has a particular poignancy as far as Sirk's career goes. A gifted intellectual with a sense of cinema shared by few, Sirk should surely have been destined to make greater films. When he signed to Universal thereby agreeing to make scripts that often bordered on the insulting, it could have been a case of selling out. The miracle of Sirk's work is that through it all, poor scripts and often second rate actors, he was always true to himself in expressing his views, while toeing the studio line and in fact making them a lot of money. Within the soppy, gorgeously presented melodramas, his cutting criticism of American society is always present. Like Milos Forman and Fritz Lang, the eye of the foreigner often has a distinct clarity and objectivity.The leads in All that Heaven Allows were taken straight from Sirk's wildly successful Magnificent Obsession. Jane Wyman gives an outstanding performance compared to Obesession, while Hudson now a star, fails to fulfill the promise he shows in Obsession. Here already his limitations are pretty evident. While seldom really awful, he would be seldom be really good. Agnes Moorehead again gives terrific support and again the legendary cameraman Russell Metty works his magic.Heavenly. "},{"Title":"Heavenly","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's 1950s small town America and rich society widow Cary Scott (Jane Wyman) has fallen  in love with her gardener Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson), but can the gossipy town handle it?  This beautifully filmed classic, directed by Douglas Sirk, is so touching. And even  though it's considered a melodrama (and at times a bit syrupy--just watch for Bambi!)  there is a deeper meaning underneath all that Technicolor. Listen for the Thoreau quote  that Cary reads when she and Ron visit his friends, Mick and Alida Anderson. That's the  whole lesson of the film summed up right there.Added note There's a classic line that Wyman says to Hudson in the car when he says  that she should not let others influence her decisions, like his friend Mick, who had to  learn how to be a man. She responds with You want me to be a man. Then he says,  Well, just in that one way. It's funny now in retrospect! "},{"Title":"It's Sirk-o-riffic!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Amazingly fantastic film that I went gaga over today. I had never seen any of Douglas Sirk's movies up til today, and boy, was All That Heaven Allows a great introduction! The film follows the romance of Cary (played by Jane Wyman) and Ron (Rock Hudson). Cary is a well-off widower who somehow falls in love with her gardener much to her surprise. The problem that she has to overcome of course, is What Will The Neighbors Think? Yes, boys and girls, we have the classic 50's scandal. An older woman being with a younger man!! OK, let it be known that I LOVED this movie. Jane Wyman is fantastic here, and Rock Hudson? Well, what can I say? I can fully understand why he was considered a hug heartthrob in his day. Sure the plot is totally overblown and melodramatic, but I don't care, because Wyman and Hudson make it work so well, and have so much chemistry together.It's so easy to watch this film and see how much Sirk influenced other directors, even though he was quite ridiculed for the same influences, his camera work, and especially his lighting choices you can see in a myriad of other movies since (see of course, the ultimate salute to him, Far From Heaven as an excellent example).A simply fantastic piece of film-making here! "},{"Title":"You go, girl!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll simply align myself with the other commentators who are bowled over by this Sirkfest's vibrant colors, use of lush fake-Liszt and Rachmaninoff, and surprising willingness to attack materialistic '50s values (in this last instance, the film's hardly dated a bit). True, the central romance isn't always convincing -- what does Ron see in Carrie, anyway? -- and the film has to oversimplify its characters to make its points. Carrie's daughter, a social-working bobby-soxer who quotes Freud and wears unflattering glasses, is meant to be something of a joke (until she sheds some feminine tears and suddenly becomes sympathetic); while Carrie's older suitor, underplayed by Conrad Nagel, is looked on as less than a desirable man simply because he limits himself to one drink. (In common with many films from this period, an awful lot of liquor is consumed.) Too, there's an impossibly melodramatic third act, where the circumstances of Ron's accident are howlingly implausible. Nice, though, that the always-reliable Agnes Moorehead plays a socialite who's not as shallow as she first seems, and that Wyman gets to model some attractive '50s fashions. Also note the sumptuous midcentury interiors -- whether the happy couple ends up living in Wyman's suburban mansion or Hudson's renovated barn, I want to live in them both. "}{"Title":"Reflections and refractions","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful example of Sirk's famous use of reflections and transparencies. Watch for this accomplished, smooth stylist's wonderful gliding camera's use of windows, mirrors, etc., including the famous reflection of Jane Wyman's lonely, alienated face in the television set that her short-sighted children have given her for Christmas, as her only proper companion (and imprisoner), contrasted with the large picture window at Rock Hudson's cabin, bringing in the liberating light of a re-union with nature (and true love), an escape from and transcendence of the stifling conformity and conventionality of her upper-middle class suburb set.All this in a sentimental glossy Ross Hunter production makes for beautiful irony. "},{"Title":"Watch Wyman!","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is nothing to add to all the other comments about Sirk's wonderful direction, color palette, camera placement, etc. Sumptuous visual story telling! What compels repeated viewings, though, is Jane Wyman's amazing accomplishment here. Especially compared to Sirk's subsequent sudsy masterpiece featuring Lana Turner, Imitation of Life. Wyman was always good and always INTERESTING. She held the camera. No doubt about that. Was she a great actress? Did she ever get a script that let her PROVE she was? It's arguable.But here I think she truly WAS. Line for line, this is fairly pedestrian material. (I let others make my decisions for me.) Each scene, like a string of pearls, is well-constructed. The plot too contains emotional conflicts and arcs that sustain the whole and reward us in the end.But the lines themselves? In lesser hands the entire enterprise would have laughably bombed.The supporting cast is top-notch. They ALL know their way around a line. Especially Agnes Moorehead and Jacqueline de Wit.Even the early Rock Hudson, another star not known for impressive acting chops, who later found his REAL niche in light comedies with Doris Day, in which he was terrific, shines here. What he's asked to do he does naturally, easily, sincerely and affectingly. His sexual heat, jaw-dropping good looks, that voice and, yes, manliness, were perhaps never before or afterward captured so effectively on screen.But All That Heaven Allows is Jane Wyman's picture all the way, and she's heavenly in all of it.Though everything she does looks unstudied and completely naturalistic, hers is a consummate technical display of film acting on the highest level.Listen to her vocal inflections alone. Completely naturalistic. Except dramatically varied and supported by heightened emotion that is anything but natural and is all art. (She could also sing, and sing well.) Watch her movements. Same thing. All in character, not an ounce of phoniness. But so precise, economical and scaled for the camera that, again, you're watching the art of a well-trained professional performing at a high level.Then, watch her amazing close-ups. You can read her every thought and emotion and reaction -- widely varying throughout the emotional plot arcs -- without her saying a word. Without an ounce of overplaying.Her seeming simplicity here, as an artist, an actress, is so focused yet subtle that she pulls you in and holds you completely every moment she's on screen.That, without being a natural or classic beauty like Lana Turner or Elizabeth Taylor, and without the aggressive showiness of actresses like Bette Davis or Joan Crawford or Katharine Hepburn.The script doesn't offer Wyman the histrionic fireworks of more flamboyant roles given some other actresses.But the layered richness and honesty of Wyman's performance here is the central achievement that keeps you returning to All That Heaven Allows again and again.Yes, it's a great performance. "},{"Title":"Douglas Sirk at the Peak of His Artistry","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Wyman gives a winsome and luminous performance in this achingly beautiful Douglas Sirk weepie.Wyman plays a dutiful 1950s widow, going through the motions in a straight-laced, stifling suburb. Her children are college age and live away from home; her life has settled into a boring routine. She falls for gardener Rock Hudson, who not only is younger than her but also is (GASP!) poorer. Marriage to him would mean facing the harsh criticism of the snobbish New England society to which she belongs -- even her children oppose the match. But Wyman's character harbors a strong-willed spirit which bristles at the conventions forced upon her.If this premise sounds familiar, it should -- Todd Haynes borrowed it for his homage to Sirk's melodramas, Far From Heaven (2002). In that film, he reexamined Sirk's critique of mainstream upper middle class America and the banality forced upon anyone who wishes to belong to that class. Haynes's film is edgier than Sirk's -- a more liberated culture allowed him to explore racism and homophobia in addition to class barriers. But Sirk's film is no less powerful or devastating despite the limitations placed upon it.In my mind, Sirk held a unique place among film directors. He made art out of pure melodrama, something not many could do. The same stories filmed by other directors would be easy to dismiss as cornball entertainment -- but it's not so easy to dismiss Sirk. He attacked conventions that at the time were taken for granted as being desirable for anyone wanting to live the American dream; but his attacks, if not his films, were subtle, and he made his movies for the very audience at whom he was aiming his criticism.No other Sirk film matches All That Heaven Allows for sheer craftsmanship, not even the wildly feverish Written on the Wind, released a year later. And Jane Wyman was a perfect Sirk heroine; she was able to deftly navigate the cornball elements and create a character who you both believe in and care deeply for.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most wonderful romantic movies of all time. I never get tired of it. Rock Hudson is at his most stunning in this movie, then again when Isn't he? I think I've watched this movie a hundred times since we bought it and each time the first Barn Scene is the most wonderful. The whole movie is great, but there is something about that barn scene that just does it for me. Rock is so devastatingly gorgeous and the way he looks at Jane in that scene is almost scary how intense it is. It takes my breath away. Sirk did a fantastic job casting and directing. I recommend this to anyone who's a romantic at heart because he's just so great. As you might have already been able to tell I'm a Rock Hudson addict. He's the most wonderful thing ever and this movie sends chills of romantic ideas down your spine, but not in the gross way todays movies do. No sex, no over done love scenes. Just love at its most pure. You can feel their love for one another through the screen just in the way they talk to each other and that is true love. Great, Great, Great movie. "},{"Title":"Painfully beautiful work by master of melodrama Douglas Sirk","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All That Heaven Allows is a film about risks, regrets, and unexpected second chances. We all have had something beautiful, exciting, and wonderful in our grasp, but some of us were foolish and scared enough to let that splendid something escape. Maybe we'll get another chance, maybe we won't, but the pain of regret in between can become unbearable.This is what our protagonist, Cary Scott, goes through. Cary (Jane Wyman)is a widow of a certain age, who feels trapped by her pristine, suburban existence. She has two children who are away at college, and she is beginning to realize that all her neighbors who claim to be her friends are a bunch of shallow, phony elitists. Cary is unexpectedly swept off her feet by dashing nature lover Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson, as ridiculously charming and brawny as ever). They fall instantly in love and Cary's zest for life is restored by Ron's kindness and simple life values. The fact that Ron is Cary's gardener and over a decade younger than she is doesn't sit well with her neighbors, her callow, eggheaded daughter, or her boorish son. Cary tries to be strong, but her role as the perfect, 1950s suburbanite blinds her to her heart's desire. Cary ends her relationship with Ron... and soon sees how stupid she was to care about others' opinions. Will she get another chance at love, or is she doomed to waste away all alone in a small-town Purgatory? Douglas Sirk drenches All That Heaven Allows in lush, autumnal hues and sweet, somewhat ironic, orchestral score. If it's not one of the best films ever made, it certainly is one of the most beautiful to look at. Wyman and Hudson ooze with romantic chemistry, and the supporting cast of actors are all deliciously hateful as the antagonists who try to tear our lovers apart. Hudson is charming and earthy as always, and with his soothing voice, broad shoulders and ready smile, you don't blame Cary at all for falling for him (who wouldn't??). I liked Jane Wyman as Cary, but found myself wishing she'd stop being so damn nice and just give her horrible kids and friends a good smack in the face and a proper chewing out for trying to dictate her life. There is so much more going on beneath the surface of ATHA Sirk, without being preachy, shows us the common, conformist attitude of the 1950s. How many people saw their loved ones be blacklisted during the McCarthy years... and cruelly abandoned them just because of fear of rumors and speculation? How many husbands kept mum when women were practically forced to be only wives and mothers? ATHA doesn't bring up these issues, but it does make one important point Conformity, injustice, and bitter silence ran rampant during that time. Yet older generations foolishly pine for the '50s with rose-colored nostalgia.But throwing away your dreams because of what others' think is an ancient problem in human nature, which Sirk primarily addresses. We must learn, sooner or later, that it is more important to do what we feel, not what others tell us, is right. Follow you heart, Sirk urges us. This is what Cary must learn, what we must all learn. "},{"Title":"hidden gem","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All That Heaven Allows (five stars)Director Douglas Sirk Writer Peg Fenwick, Edna L. Lee, Harry Lee Stars Jane Wyman, Rock Hudson, Agnes Moorehead, Conrad Nagel, Virginia Grey, Gloria Talbott Certificate U Running time 89 minutes Country USA Year 1955Taboos are like rules. They may be there for good reasons. Or not. Like rules, they need to be broken when a higher principle holds.Sirk tackles the stifling taboos of social convention. Unlike art house filmmakers, he hides his serious message (and serious film-making) within mainstream formats. It is no wonder he can count modern directors such as Tarantino in his admirers.All That Heaven Allows swells with sensuous, expressionistic pools of colour. Meticulous, highly embellished mise-en-scene. Simplified dialogue, tear-jerker characters. But most of all it plays to both the mainstream element it vilifies and the libertarian whose philosophy it upholds.Cary (Jane Wyman) is an attractive widow. Like middle-aged Stepford Wives, her local community decrees her position suits her for nothing more than sexless union with a nice elderly gentleman. Or life in front of a television set. But Cary falls passionately in love with a young gardener.Rock Hudson is the strong silent male. But when he has something to say, it is worth saying. He has found contentment in a wholesome, simple life. His life with nature, growing and pruning trees, has become internalised.This would sound the stuff of whimsy were it not backed up with sincerity, great acting and the fact that Ron Kirby (Hudson) has become a believable role model for his best mate. Through Kirby, the film becomes a paean to the American dream of self-determination that many Americans have never learnt how to aspire to. A Dream submerged by capitalism, social mores or religious values. The stifled dream becomes a melancholy lament. A dramatisation of women's sexuality. A dilemma from which there is no escape.But Sirk does realise mainstream audiences (and no doubt his sponsors) will not like such a message. So he makes the gossipping community not only realistic but sympathetic. Cary's blackmailing children are adorable &#150; who could not side with them? And isn't a woman's place to put her children and the community first (even if they don't give that much of a damn)?Serious filmgoers may not find the ending, which relies too much on coincidence, believable. But as Sirk himself once pointed out, you're not meant to. It's tacked on. A final irony. The story as society would have us live it. The unrealisable, incomplete, substitute. The opiate promoted through our television sets.Douglas Sirk work was only recognised critically when he abandoned America, unable to adapt to its lifestyle. He was at the height of his commercial success. Championed by Godard and Cahiers du Cinema, and then in the 70's by English-speaking critics, his importance gradually dawned. Todd Haynes' tribute, Far From Heaven, reawakened both the style and structure of All That Heaven Allows and possibly led to wider acknowledgement of Sirk's great contribution to cinema. Yet Sirk's balancing act is a hard act to follow, even if the visual technique can be copied. In The Hours, we saw the tradition-fettered American woman of that same period, but that woman gains our respect through a superhuman decision. Sirk's heroines are merely human.Sirk was a man ahead of his time who eventually only found true solace in teaching. The children in All That Heaven Allows are not 'a new generation' but learn only how to perpetuate tradition and repression. Sirk's legacy, in films such as this, yearns for a new generation of understanding. In this, it is far more than just one of the great American films of the 50's. "},{"Title":"Romance takes on social conservatism","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Scott (Jane Wyman) is an affluent widow with two grown children. They still come home for the weekends but she lives an empty live. Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson) is her arborist who runs his father's nursery. Cary and the younger Ron grow closer and he proposes to her. She's scared but she eventually accepts. She becomes gossip material. Then everybody else objects especially her kids. She sacrifices her happiness for them. She gets even more lonely and heart broken. Is it too late for her to find love? This is generally an old fashion romance except for the age difference and the expectation on the woman widower. The romance is pretty good with Wyman and Hudson although it does get very melodramatic at the end. The romance challenges the social morals of the conservative norms. The tension is quite good especially with her kids. Her facing her social expectations are some of the best scenes in the movie. "},{"Title":"Sirk's Classic May-December Romance Still Resonates in All Its Artifice","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" German-born director Douglas Sirk made several melodramatic films in the 1950s that reflected Eisenhower-era sensibilities about morality and class structure within the flourish of his decidedly Baroque film-making approach. Dubbed trivially though appropriately as women's pictures, they reflect a defining, often over-the-top style which has inspired other filmmakers, most obviously, Todd Haynes with his accomplished 2002 partial remake, Far From Heaven. In my opinion, this 1955 film best represents Sirk's technique and consequently it is his best work. Fortunately, the Criterion Collection has seen fit to produce a DVD package commensurate with the quality of the film itself.Similar to the later Peyton Place, the plot is pure small-town soap opera, but the storyline is far more focused and nuanced than one would expect. Attractive fortyish widow Cary Scott is leading a sheltered life of unsolicited solitude with her beautiful home, circle of country club friends and two grown children away in college. She catches the eye of Ron Kirby, her young buck of a gardener, who turns out to be a non-materialistic, Thoreau-reading lover of nature who lives outside of town in a greenhouse in an only-in-Hollywood idyllic setting. Cary is definitely attracted to the much younger Ron, but her worries of what others may think prevents her from being too demonstrative about her feelings. Of course, their platonic relationship turns into forbidden love, at which point Cary tries to win the approval of her friends and children when she announces her engagement to Ron. In one way or the other, they all reject her decision, and she breaks off the engagement. The rest of the story works toward a hopeful but still tentative conclusion, which seems befitting of what audiences probably expected in the 1950s.On the surface, it sounds as emotionally manipulative as a Danielle Steele romance novel. However, what fascinates me most about Sirk's film is how he sets up such an artificially-derived world and simultaneously shows how deeply committed he is in its credibility. The glorious Technicolor cinematography by the estimable Russell Metty (aided by color consultant William Fritzsche) adds to the hermetically sealed environment, but it's also due to how shots are meticulously composed, how the sets are placed, how people are dressed and how Frank Skinner's Rachmaninoff-inspired music heightens the melodrama. The right casting in such a movie, of course, is critical, and Sirk was smart to reunite Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson from their previous teaming in the even more melodramatic Magnificent Obsession. With his steady, whispered tone and Adonis-like stature, the youthful Hudson is ideally cast as Ron, even if his relentless seriousness overemphasizes the character's innate nobility. What he does surprisingly well, however, is show how Ron's inability to compromise his principles is as much a barrier as the prejudices of Cary's friends and children.Even better is the elegantly styled Wyman, who manages effectively to convey Cary's conflicting sensibilities and loneliness without seeming desperate. Well before she hardened her persona later with TV's Falcon Crest, she exuded a girl-next-door likability that didn't really diminish as she matured. The rest of the cast is strong with particularly exceptional work by the women - Agnes Moorehead as Cary's supportive best friend Sara, Virginia Grey as Ron's close friend Alida, Jacqueline deWit as the venal gossip Mona, and Gloria Talbot as Cary's psychology-obsessed daughter Kay. The print transfer on the Criterion Collection DVD is pristine. There is also a nice extra with an edited 30-minute interview with Sirk from a 1979 BBC documentary, Behind the Mirror. "},{"Title":"Pure Soap-Opera Corn And Clichés For Days & Days","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK - Was All That Heaven Allows melodramatic? - Yes. Indeed. It was. And, was it corny-corny-corny? - Most definitely. And, was it clichéd to the max? - Yep. Right over the top.And, yet, regardless of all of the above - Was All That Heaven Allows worth a view? Yep. That it was. In fact, it actually could be worth a second viewing, too. (If, of course, you're in the right frame of mind)1955's All That Heaven Allows was a lush, Technicolor, Ross Hunter/Douglas Sirk production that (believe it, or not) actually made humdrum seem somehow interesting.I don't know exactly what it is about this particular suburban-life soap opera that sets it apart from the rest of the junk - But, it certainly did manage to hold my attention for most of its 90-minute running time.*Note* - This film certainly did contain its fair share of unintentionally laughable dialogue and situations, especially when it came to widow Cary Scott's interaction with her 2 snot-nosed, college-age children. "},{"Title":"a lost masterpiece","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A film of noble aims and perfect execution. Jane Wyman is beautiful profound, and perfect, in her portrayal of a lonely widow dealing with the loss of a husband, and the emergence of a new love. Although Rock Hudson is limited, he conveys the image of a wild and free rebel. Determined to go his own way no matter what society says. An opinion which would gain more relevance in the 60's and early 70's before becoming a fashion statement and ..alas.. finally irrelevant. All that Heaven Allows is way ahead of its time. Perhaps it should take a German like Douglas Sirk to reflect the underlying narrow thinking that is the heart of the 1950's mind set and dominated the culture of the 50's and continues to dominate our culture today,.It's not so much a critique of conservative small town values as it is a confrontation of the conformity that continues to exist today in 2012. "}{"Title":"Gripping soaper that has a lot of important lessons!","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A still attractive widow with two college aged children falls in love with the handsome young man who has inherited the job of pruning her trees from his late father. He actually isn't just a gardener; He runs his own tree nursery and has a love of nature and life that adds to his gentle nature and very attractive face. The woman is Jane Wyman, and the man is Rock Hudson. They had been a sensation in the remake of Magnificent Obsession the year before, and were just as fiery here as they were there. They are outstanding. It's only sad that they didn't work together after this.But love isn't easy in this New England town where the gossip mungers (particularly Jacqueline de Wit as the most hateful gossip since Bonita Granville's child in These Three) run rampant. Then, there are Wyman's two children, Gloria Talbott and William Reynolds, who are not at all understanding of Hudson or appreciative of their mother's love for them. Talbott is too consumed with psycho babble, analyzing everything and everybody. Reynolds is even more insufferable, acting like a spoiled brat. They can't think of their mother having romantic or sexual desires, and would prefer to see her with an older friend of the family who only has one drink at a party and would probably be as comfortable and non-threatening as an old pair of slippers.Fortunately, there are Hudson's pals, particularly Virginia Grey, who are non-judgmental over the May/December romance, and Agnes Moorehead (in flaming red hair) as Wyman's one understanding, if cautious, best friend. Hudson really loves Wyman; When she shows interest in an old mill he has planned to tear down to put up more trees, he turns it into the home he wants them to spend their life together in. The beauty of that old farm would win me over in a second, especially the moment the deer came to the window. That to me is all that heaven allows. The beauty of the earth, not the beauty of people, because sometimes that beauty hides something ugly. Especially in society.This is a film about accepting life as it comes-taking that walk down the street on a beautiful lazy afternoon because you never know where your feet will lead you to, and who might cross your path. Taking chances. Breathing. Having your own life and not letting people step in and telling you how to live it. I thought about the age difference for a minute; Where would they be in 15 years? But the film convinced me that I shouldn't care. This is about now, and that's what the film's message is. Wyman couldn't see herself with a man comfortable as an old pair of slippers, or even turning on that new funny looking contraption she got for a Christmas present. She looks into the box and sees her reflection. Later, the present is still in the same place, and it is apparent she hasn't used it. By the way, whatever became of that contraption known as TELEVISION?????Gay viewers might also see this as a fantasy of their own lives. A person Wyman's age who has lost a partner might be open to a younger partner, which would set tongues waging and create lots of conflicts with friends and the other party. Certainly, there are some lines that cause chuckles, particularly in the gossip set. And a few of Hudson's lines sparkle with gay undertones, considering his own life. I loved the plot twist that set up the final fade out. But I wouldn't have minded seeing the son seeing the error of his way, come to beg for forgiveness, and the hated gossips being cast out of gentle Moorehead's social set for hurting Wyman. This film should be accompanied by a reading of the New Testament book of James which has a chapter devoted to The Tongue. "},{"Title":"All that Sirk Allows","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When we watch this film, we may want to ask ourselves a few questions. First, is the director trying to elevate the status of women? Or is he presenting a damning indictment of upper middle class America? Douglas Sirk is an expert when it comes to taking melodramatic stories (that often feature women as the main characters) and using them it to critique social mores. The inclusion of Henry David Thoreau's philosophy in this picture supports that notion. It shows that Sirk wanted his filmmaking to stand for a return to the natural order. As a result, there are more than a few moments within the film that play up the horror of material trappings. In Sirk's view, materialism poses an outright danger to humanity-- it engulfs not only the landscape, but the heart as well. "},{"Title":"Art masquerading as trash","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My friend, movie critic Phil Edwards, once told me that any movie can be classified into one of four categories - art masquerading as trash, trash masquerading as art, art masquerading as art, trash masquerading as trash.ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS is definitely in the first category.On the surface, it's a cheap, pulpy story ripped from the pages of Mills and Boon. But Sirk takes this material and twists it into something altogether more memorable. It's not the exquisite technicolor photography (the saturated colours are on purpose, folks!) or Sirk's meticulous eye for framing that makes this a cinematic masterpiece. Nope, it's the merciless way in which Sirk skewers the hypocrisy of small-town life (everywhere, not just in the US), where appearance is all that's important.In ATHA, Jane Wyman's character, Cary Scott, is coerced into ending any ambitions she might have for any kind of happiness after her husband dies. Because widows must appear to end their lives and exist in a state of perpetual mourning, a living shrine to their dead husband.Wyman plays Cary so effortlessly that you're completely sucked into her plight and feel genuine anger towards the townsfolk and her own children who want to see her put out to pasture. And Rock Hudson's Ron Kirby serves the dual purpose of Cary's supposedly inappropriate love interest and the spokesperson for the film's Thoreau-ian philosophy, which recommends following your own heart rather than bowing to authority.It's this philosophical undercurrent that gives ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS its staying power. The key message of marching to the sound of your own drummer and not allowing unimportant things to become important are as relevant today as they were in 1955.Despite the other terrific films in Sirk's filmography, I think ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS is probably the best - the strongest story, with the most balanced sub-text, all told in the deftest way. "},{"Title":"a contender for the quintessential American melodrama","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An important thing in movies is subtext, and Douglas Sirk's All That Heaven Allows is chock-full of it, even in scenes that seem to be perfectly pleasant and without the high-grade romantic drama of the rest of the film. Maybe there was a comment Sirk was trying to make through the script about American conformity (i.e. a communist in an average American upper-middle class town, and the inherent conformism with everyone). Or maybe it's just what it is, a representation of what can be the best in people- sticking to their ideals and responsibilities and staying true to one another when in deepest love- and the worst- squabbling, pettiness, bitterness, gossip, not knowing when 'no' means NO- done up with some of the prettiest/darkest color scheme in 1950's Technicolor. It's a beautiful movie.And, perhaps, a quintessential one, as important for a melodrama-movie lover to see as the Seventh Seal would be for those abound in questioning-God fare. As it is about its own subtext, finding the grays when all seems to be black and white, Sirk films this story of a widow with two kids in a New England town who falls in love, and visa-versa, with a man younger than her and the consequences brought on simply by society and who-may-think-what and impressions, Sirk makes it so that the audience feels the extremes as well as sees them. His actors give the slightest look or glance and it says a great deal (Wyman especially is very good at this). We take it all seriously because, frankly, it is so well written and believable as a drama. At the same time this ends up leading to moments that lean towards absurdity, of a character saying something, for example, at a social function (i.e. the old woman's reaction to not recognizing Kirby being her gardener), and the film is, on top of intelligent, very entertaining.What separates it from soap opera is, as mentioned, a sharp script, but also a sense of how cinema itself has to be used to its full effect, to elevate potential or actual clichés with artistry. Any aspiring director of photography would do a great deal of good to see how Sirk utilizes color as a character of sorts the blue hues used outside in a winter night, the near rainbow sight in Carrie's room when her daughter cries and has her fit about the potential marriage, or just the subtle light done in those Norman Rockwell pastoral scenes. There's exaggeration to the style, but not so much that it gets in the way, only so much that we see certain things through another perspective. And a practically dead-on scene demonstrating psychology with the camera comes in the Christmas Day scene when Ned brings in the television - a not so subtle comment on a trap wisely touched upon by Sirk about false escapism by having the blank TV reflecting Wyman's placid, indifferent but also terrified face.All That Heaven Allows is strongest on style, and is very good in terms of its acting (this despite Rock Hudson having the charisma of a can of beans, somehow he works here perhaps because of that), and it leaves a lasting impression of an era and a mood of a people unsatisfied with what could be described as a civilized-mob mentality. The mention of Walden may be an extreme too, but why carp? This may not even be *really* how all quiet little 50's American towns were that were affluent and social and had lots of money. But it's how Sirk saw it, and seeing it through his eyes is quite a lush and terrifying sight. And, thankfully, a bit of fun too. "},{"Title":"Another Sirk classic!","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Widow Jane Wyman falls in love with her spunky gardener Rock Hudson in this classic Sirk melodrama. Sirk again uses Expressionist techniques and lurid colour compositions to enhance a soapy melo, and it pays off. I like Hudson's portrayal as a 'Thoreau' figure and even if Sirk isn't exactly subtle in his overall message, it still works very well. Although I didn't get quite the emotional response I was looking for, and I still think Written On The Wind is the superior Sirk film, I highly recommend it. Also of note is Wyman's college girl daughter who spouts Freudian psychology at everyone, which was already becoming out-of-date even then! Tongue-in-cheek from Sirk, methinks! "},{"Title":"All That Hudson... But Jane's Not Allowed!","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What, on the surface, looks like a routine romantic drama is, in fact, a striking call for marching to one's own drummer and refusing to live life based on the chosen path of others. Wyman plays a rather young widow existing somewhat blandly in an upper middle class neighborhood while her two children are off at school. One day, when her pal Moorehead isn't able to stay for lunch as planned, she invites her handsome gardener to share some rolls and coffee. Hudson, the gardener, clearly looks at life from a different perspective and, try as she might, Wyman eventually finds herself becoming captivated with him. (The fact that he's a gorgeous, tan hunk with a warm, gentle voice doesn't exactly help prevent her from falling under his spell!) The two begin a tentative, but comfortable, relationship, egged on by Hudson's plain-living friends Drake and Grey. However, when Wyman breaks the news to Moorehead and, especially to her children Talbott and Reynolds, she is greeted by waves of concern and disapproval. De Wit, as the town gossip, sprays lighter fluid all over the situation at every opportunity. Wyman's reprehensibly selfish children stomp their feet until she is forced to give up her chance at a happy existence and resign herself to life in front of the television. Soon, however, she is forced to examine her feelings once more and must decide whether to sink or swim as a nonconformist. The rigid, stifling world of the country club set is given a kick in the pants. (Sadly, places like this still exist, though the outfits and furnishings are different and, just as sadly, many a widow still rides out her remaining life in front of the TV.) Wyman and Hudson had previously been paired by director Sirk in the massive hit Magnificent Obsession, so placing them in another hand-wringing love story was a no-brainer. Wyman has a somewhat softer persona in this one and, not being blind as she was in the earlier film, is permitted to give a more intuitive and nuanced performance facially. Her hair is longer and less helmet-like and she sports some chic fashion ensembles (as well as some delicately tatted head scarves.) Hudson is unspectacular acting-wise, but very easy on the eyes and quite appealing. It's very easy to see why Wyman's character falls for him. Less so on his end, but presumably the 1955 audience took their Magnificent memories into the theatre with them and easily bought the attraction between the couple. Moorehead (another co-star from the prior film) is solid as Wyman's sounding board and ally. Interestingly, she seems unable to keep her hands off Wyman. Nagel pops up as a stodgy, older man who everyone would like to marry Wyman, thus keeping her securely in the enclave. Talbott spouts a lot of psycho-babble which is meant to be amusing. Much of it is amusing now for the wrong reasons. In a brief role, Janssen turns up as her boyfriend. Reynolds is beautiful physically, but downright offensive emotionally and socially. Both kids needed to be spanked, and often. The film is bathed in an assortment of special lighting and is dotted with splashes of intense color. The lush score is stirring. The settings are eye-catching. All ingredients work together to create a splendid viewing experience. Term papers could be written about the symbolic and ironic touches sprinkled throughout the movie. What better place to set a story about a woman whose love life is the object of scorn than Stoningham? A broken piece of china that Hudson wants left where it fell suggests turmoil in his family's past (no mention is ever made of his mother, which may account for his affection for a woman 15 years his senior.) Sirk, who had no great love for this material (or for that of a few others he was handed) took the opportunity to spin art out of dross and now his films are regarded as unique, fascinating works. It was this style of film that was paid tribute to, in a fashion, in Far From Heaven, though it's awfully tough to top the original. Fascinating. "},{"Title":"Decades ahead of it's time","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When it was released, All That Heaven Allows was coldly received by most critics, who saw only a romantic melodrama in it. Unfortunadely, some depreciate the film even today, because it is melodramatic, soap opera like, they say. I disagree about it is that some of the greatest films ever made were melodramas or have plenty of melodramatic moments. Examples Rocco and His Brothers, The Bicycle Thieves, any of Chaplin's films, and others. And there are many romantic melodramas which are masterpieces, like Brief Encounter and Casablanca. About this specific film, say that it's just a melodrama is pretty much like saying that The Searchers is just another western or that The Rules of the Game is a silly comedy and nothing more. The movie has a serious critic to the American Dream, which sold the country and it's way of life as perfect, but behind that perfection, there is plenty of superficial, gossiper and hypocrite, like... well, the rest of the world. The cinematography, filled with very vivid colors, seems a little artificial, but i think it's intentional, symbolizing the message of the picture. Because of the courage to make that critic and defend the freedom of action and thought, the movie is decades ahead of it's time, and it is still relevant today. "},{"Title":"One of many,  wildly varying opinions","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've only seen it once,  but I know I'll be watching this one a lot.  I'd never seen a Douglas Sirk movie before,  and this seems like a good starting point for all Sirk novices.  Sirk was a celebrated German director (both of theater and movies) who escaped in 1937 to avoid censorship of his work. Once in America,  he worked his way up the studio ladder and began making melodramas his way - that is to say,  with a subversive twist.  The important thing to remember when watching his movies is that his movies are really wholly dependent upon him,  what with their usually stiff performances and stiff dialogue.  All That Heaven Allows is no exception, as widowed Cary Scott (Jane Wyman) falls in love with a younger man (Rock Hudson).  And he treats Walden like his Bible.  Horrors!  The community reacts with predictable outrage,  and that's when the melodrama unfolds. All That Heaven Allows is full of garish symbolism which you can't miss - I didn't understand most of it,  but thats because of the quick pace of the movie.  You can always tell which objects are symbolic by the way Sirk's camera lingers on them.  His color scheme is bright and different.  The music is unabashadly romantic,  Rachmaninoff-style.  Rock Hudson is stiff as a board,  which comes off as underplaying against everyone else.  All That Heaven Allows also contains one unintentionally hilarious moment in which Rock Hudson's character is discussing courage with Jane Wyman.  The homosexual Hudson tells her that a friend of his had to be a man.  Wyman responds,  You want me to be a man too?  Well worth multiple viewings.  "},{"Title":"Dazzling to look at","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this film for the first time on TCM last night. I was struck by the similarity to Far From Heaven which I loved. I kept saying to myself, This is so corny!!! Yet I couldn't turn it off.Part of my admiration came from looking at the movie. It is simply dazzling. The brilliant colors, shadows, reflections, etc., are enough to keep you watching. However, that's not all.I liked the story. I too (like others who have written here) thought that the story was ahead of its time. The 50's were all about conformity. Doesn't anybody remember McCarthyism? Here is a woman who is following her emotions and bucking the social system. That is amazing. A woman of the upper class who would even look at a gardener as a person is unusual. I liked Jane Wyman (Cary). She didn't show passion, but she communicated deep feelings. I felt her reserved manner was in character. I liked her dignity and her plain way of speaking. She was a genuine person. It's unfortunate that she felt she had to give up her romance with Ron (Rock Hudson) for the sake of her children. Sheesh. I knew how that was going to turn out. The ending was....well....yikes, the deer!!! Still, I'm glad the lovers ended up together. (I was brokenhearted at the end of Far From Heaven!!) And as for Rock Hudson....what a hunk! There was quite a bit of jealousy among Wyman's female friends for obvious reasons! "},{"Title":"Love that Rock","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I always liked this movie. Sure, it might be over blown, over acted, and over the top but sometimes movies like this are like putting on a warm mink coat! I recently saw this after not seeing it for many years, and was stunned by the beautiful restoration of the film. It's a virtual feast for the eyes with that glorious Technicolor. To the detractors of the film who say it's unbelievable, perhaps it is, but not having been around in 1956, it's possible that a wealthy socialite would certainly raise stylized eyebrows by planning to marry her hired help. The sets are also wonderful, from Cary's two story colonial, to Ron's restored grist mill and the Anderson's cozy walk-up. It may be old fashioned, but give me these movies over the majority of what is cranked out today. "}{"Title":"One of those must see romance movies","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Douglas Sirk's All That Heaven Allows is a very well done romantic movie that tells the story about a woman named Cary (played by Jane Wyman) who falls in love with a much younger man named Ron Kirby (played by Rock Hudson) with a chorus of disapproval by her friends, as well as her children because they don't think it is right to move away from a house that they have lived in for many years, mainly because of their age difference. The movie in my opinion is one of the best romance movies ever made, especially the performances by Wyman and Hudson are very convincing. Sirk really does know how to execute a wonderful romance movie like this one but it is certainly not the best to put it that way.The movie also features an excellent supporting cast which includes Agnes Moorehead as Cary's best friend Sara who is very skeptical about the marriage at first but then says it is up to Cary to decide for herself, Gloria Talbot and William Reynolds as Cary's two children who disapprove of the marriage the most even more than Cary's peers combined. But in the end it is till a great movie that should be watched, treasured, and never forgotten by all movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Douglas  Sirk","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" he is the star of movie. for the precise science of detail. for the exploration and define of beauty. for the charming air, delicacy of drama, inspired cast and final feeling. a film who seduce. and that is not a really surprise because it represents only slice from Sirk's magic. that is the floor for the good job of Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson, the splendid role of Agnes Moorehead and for the lovely last scene.sure, an old sentimental film has its status but something does each Sirk movie a rare enjoy for a large window, for a fresh emotion, for old fashion manners, for the art to surprise a hided memory of viewer. or, maybe, for an important ingredient who seems be honesty. "},{"Title":"Unhappy life in a picture perfect village setting","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1955 89 minute movie movie depicts Jane Wyman as an unhappy widow in a picture perfect New England town photographed with lyric beauty and calm exteriors as contrast to her character's lack of interest in any local pursuits melded to total personal boredom. Rock Hudson, who was only 8 years younger than Wyman at the time, plays a much younger, self made man who lacks her social standing, personal wealth or community acceptance yet can bring out her human side and create for her the fulfulment and inner peace her grown children and country club friends and potential beaux cannot. Agnes Moorehad, who is not usually cast in this sort of internal personal conflict romance soaper, plays her best friend who seems convinced making her more active in local country club life and accepting local beaux of her social standing is her ticket to happiness. Wyman's personal conflict, stilted as it is for fiction, plays out against the calm visual beauty of the elegant photography and editing - should she find enjoyment in her local wealth and local society acceptance as her friends look down on her and her grown children finally fly the nest or should she seek idealistic movie romance? "},{"Title":"Translucent suds","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The question here is why can't it be a simple thing, love? It should be; but she is an upper-class widow and he's too young and her own gardener so what will people say. We have here a crushing indictment of the hypocrisy of people, the small-minded dead-ends of social life where our self has to extend over; we can't just be locked in our house falling in love, it has to be aired in the open, nurtured in the approval. So it's no small question the film poses; it's all too easy to condemn the fragile woman who's deathly afraid of opinion, easier said than overcome. But he's too pure; at one point a deer is seen eating out of his hand! The falling in love is never quite fleshed, believable, it just happens so we can skip to the dilemmas about love so the whole foundation is shaky. Her anxiety is palpable, but only her side of the hurt. It's melodrama dished straight, too creamy and simple for me, holding only a habitual power. Scenes roll one into the other like someone stirring his martini. What remains is the translucent gloss and color, the halos of anticipation around the faces, the glassdoors and windows of aired emotion.You can sense the rejection of complacent formality that is to come. A TV is already seen as a mirror of quashed dreams; Walden is picked up and quoted. "},{"Title":"All That Heaven Allows","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Douglas Sirk eschews the need for the banal, stilted dialogue provided by Peg Fenwick's screenplay (from a story by Edna L. Lee and Harry Lee), instead focusing on lighting and point of view to express his disgust with the shallow and moralistic society that condemns a May-December romance between soft-spoken gardener Rock Hudson and widow Jane Wyman. Sirk's world is harsh, austere and fraudulent images of caroling children in sleighs are offset by dark arguments between Wyman and her son (William Reynolds) and the gossiping and infidelities by members of her country club. It's to his credit that the film makes sense in the context of these images; his frequent apple-red lighting of Wyman highlights her shame under the glare of a Puritan God peering down from the church steeple in the center of town. A good film. "},{"Title":"Decent, but not as good as Magnificent Obsession","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A little soapy. A little sudsy. But it's first class spa quality soap and suds! This is not as good as Magnificent Obsession, which preceded it, but it's still top notch in terms of production values and acting. The one thing that the film suffers from is the different world we live in today. Small towns are still small towns, but the almost town-wide peeping into Jane Wyman's life would be so much less today than it was back in 1955. Nevertheless, it's a fairly good story if you put it in perspective of its era.For the most part, the critical players here do fairly nicely. Jane Wyman was too young for the part as the older woman, but she actually pulls it off quite well. Rock Hudson is just fine as the younger love interest. Agnes Moorehead is sort of torn between a character with a heart, but still a town gossip...but she handles it well. Conrad Nagel does nicely as an older love interest, although it's a small (though critical part). Virginia Grey is quite good as Wyman's friend...an underestimate character actress in my view. Gloria Talbott was decent as the daughter, although most will perhaps remember her more as an early television actress. I can't quite decide if William Reynolds, as the son, was just a lousy actor or if he was directed poorly...but his performance is totally unconvincing. Donald Curtis as a letch...thumbs down.If you can only watch one, opt for Magnificent Obsessions, but this is a fairly good film with a relatively interesting story. "},{"Title":"Satisfying Sirk melodrama","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Douglas Sirk takes a story by the obscure writing team of Edna and Harry Lee, puts it together with two big stars in Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson, and emerges with a first-rate critique of the class prejudices and soul-crushing expectations in Country Club America. There aren't many surprises along the way, really, but the thing doesn't just sit there either.... if we, the audience, are allowed to come up for air, then we would lose some of our identification with the superficially unimportant tribulations of the heroine, Cary (Wyman). As for Hudson's character (Ron), he doesn't just read, but lives, Thoreau... yes, a character in the movie actually says that. Let's not pretend the movie is any more subtle than any of Sirk's other work.We could pick it apart for all its unreality, but in my opinion the film was never designed to be real. It's a sort of expressionist take on American culture, one which Sirk would follow up with even more broad strokes on the subject in following years. I do think that the film's discussion on class division would have more weight if, for example, Ron's supposedly rustic hideaway didn't look like something out of Woman's Home Companion's winter guidebook. The Ron Kirby character is a bit too far out of the realm of reality, perhaps because his persona had to be twisted in such a way to make him totally acceptable to the types of people in the audience who might, in their day to day lives, represent the characters in the film who reject him on social grounds. So, it's all very harmless, and when we meet Ron's working class friends they come complete with the friendly Greek fisherman, bird-watching old lady, etc. One wonders what the effect would have been, for example, if one of Marlon Brando's early 50s characters had walked through the door.But again, let's never mind reality, and let Sirk have his own little pretensions. My main real criticism along those lines is that the film did not show any kind of social pressure coming from Ron's friends against his settling with Cary. Indeed, Ron's best friends (played by Virginia Grey and William Reynolds) are practically gurus of philosophy and tolerance. In actuality, it is not just the rich who perpetuate class division in America. Not to mention, the fact that she was obviously approaching 40 and already had children would have made her an unacceptable wife to many of his young friends, or so we might imagine. The film steers clear of any such criticism and as a result it's take on class (and age-ism) in America is lop-sided.The most cunning and memorable shot in the film is, of course, the one with the TV set turned into a mirror of Cary's loneliness, after she has succumbed to social/family pressure and ended her relationship with Ron. It deserves praise, but Sirk does not just fashion memorable images, but convincing scenes often, from the most conventional and predictable situations. For example, the big party thrown by Cary's friend Sara (a fire-redhead Agnes Moorehead) -- everything about the scene is already known to the audience; we've seen it in a dozen films. What makes this one memorable is the depth of sleaze to which Donald Curtis' character descends, and his drunken self-conviction. Cary was a tramp all along, he figures, and it's his male prerogative to assume that he can now take her whenever he pleases. As Ron and Cary leave, we hear a voice from amongst the crowd telling us that poor Harvey (Curtis) was fortunate to survive an encounter with such a beast as Ron! It's a better film than it deserves to be, and credit can go to a very solid cast being directed with purpose and intelligence by Sirk. "},{"Title":"A Strange Film By Today's Standards","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An upper-class widow (Jane Wyman) falls in love with a much younger, down-to-earth nurseryman (Rock Hudson), much to the disapproval of her children and criticism of her country club peers.Today (2013) we live in the world of cougars and a very laissez-faire attitude to relationships and sexuality. For the most part we do not care who sleeps with who, who lives with who, and whatnot. Of course, not long ago, it was taboo to be openly gay or sometimes even to embrace cohabitation.In 1955, what were the standards? Apparently even to date a younger man was frowned upon. They did not live together or have an intimate relationship... and yet Cary's children practically disown her. Why? Perhaps it could be more the class issue than the age issue, but regardless it comes across as silly by today's standards, considering the children are grown and this is not their business.The film's use of color is impressive. In some ways it reminds one of Black Narcissus (1947), though the color palette makes the characters and backgrounds seem almost like stained glass. Cinematographer Russell Metty had a long career, dating back to the 1920s and earning an Oscar in 1960 for Spartacus. Perhaps he should have received an award here.In this film, Rock Hudson is shown as an object or a spectacle, somewhat reversing traditional gender roles. This, of course, is quite intentional, as it would hardly be taboo for an older man to pursue a younger woman. But in some ways it is more than age, with his very body being something to admire, not a common male trait. (Cary's son flatly says that he is nothing but muscles.)Much can be said about the replacement of a lost love with television and what the film was trying to say with this. Television was still a relatively new medium at the time, so in some ways this is prescient in how it suggests that we could fill our lives with such a thing.The Criterion commentary discusses whether or not Sirk's approach was Brechtian and how his shots were largely claustrophobic. Much of the discussion is helpful, though they do tend to get a bit too academic at times, seeing symbolism where it likely is not. And there is a long tangent on trying to define melodrama and whether or not it is a gendered term. "},{"Title":"That Heaven Allows All","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It might not be a masterpiece of visual storytelling - most of it comes from plot and acting - but emotionally it's top notch, especially in the second half the film gains a seemingly unstoppable momentum. This being said it's certainly a nice-looking film with vibrant colors and surprisingly much shadow work that in films from this period one usually only sees in film noirs (which most of the time were in black and white). But one memorable visual cue is Cary's (Jane Wyman) reflection in the TV set (a gift from her children) which is effectively used as it traps her into a box and recalls what Cary's daughter said earlier about wives in Ancient Egypt getting put into a tomb together with their deceased husbands. Funnily in RWF's 'Ali Fear Eats the Soul' the son kicks in the mother's TV set when she introduces the children to the man she intends to marry.Amidst all the melodrama there also is much humor, even up to the last frame with the deer in the window, though none of it suggested to me that Sirk was just a hipster who never actually meant anything what he put on screen, he just keeps things humorous, so I thought the giggles in the theater were mostly justified.Sirk, who made melodramas for Universal, where most films of its ilk eventually could probably be seen as confirming to consumerism and generally to what might be called the American way of life, didn't subscribe to those things. Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson) is an outsider who found his own way in 50's America and Cary eventually follows him, mostly for his sake, but she is attracted to his way of life as well. Not to mention that most of Cary's friends and her children are pretty much exemplary Americans in theory, yet what shines the brightest in the film is their ignorance, their selfishness, and their compulsion to follow the herd by reacting the way they think they are supposed to react out of fear not to fit in. Those are probably not the first things one thinks of when one is invested in the romance that concludes with an emotionally satisfying happy ending. I'm not sure that this makes Sirk's work a prime example of subversive cinema, but likely a prime example of subversive works produced within the studio system.When Cary picked up Henry David Thoreau's book Walden my eyes almost fell out of my skull, just two days ago 'Upstream Color' brought the book to my attention and now again it was an important part of a film that again didn't fail to quote from it.I liked most of what I have seen from Sirk and I wouldn't say that 'All That Heaven Allows' is necessarily his crowning achievement but I had nothing to complain about and it's certainly up there with his best work, it sure is an excellent film and representative of Sirk's oeuvre at large. "},{"Title":"1950s movie fans...will like this richly colored film!","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The may December movie is more a Working Class Guy vs Slightly Older Well-off Widow.Jane Wyman was only 8 years older than Rock Hudson, and she looks great in this movie...barely old enough to be mom to her 17 year old girl and college age boy. So what's the REAL obstacle? The contrast is... rich widow with know-it-all college kids versus the creative working class guy.The dialogue and some of the so-called obstacles just a bit corny, but is beautifully lit. Mr. Sirk--the director--was a master of color and scene layout!Young filmmakers can learn from this wonderfully lit and shot film. Note the use of shadows also!!! "}{"Title":"A social critique of the conformity obsessed 1950s.","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A sad widow (Jane Wyman) falls in love with the gardener (Rock Hudson) at her winter home, and marries him despite local prejudice when she returns home.All That Heaven Allows is a standard tearjerker in the tradition of Magnificent Obsession (1954), reuniting the same stars, producer Ross Hunter and director Douglas Sirk. At the time, critics failed to grasp the suggested gay subtext in the story, and dismissed it as a routine soap. But modern audiences get the point, through its atmosphere of barely suppressed hysteria and the framing of Wyman as a prisoner in her own home. In 1995, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant. "},{"Title":"Sirk & permanent sympathy with women","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Doughlas Sirk is famous for directing a couple of flicks in the most dishonored genre in cinema history,called melodrama.usually intellectuals (those broad-minded guys who wear glasses) are not interested in melodrama. they find them cheap,shallow & out of any dept to take seriously. but that's not convincing for me & i'm afraid each genre has its own highlights & failures & Sirk's samples are definitely among the best in this particular genre.he always had a great sympathy with women in his movies & here he truly sympathizes with a widow surrounded by a mannish public.I should mention that Douglas Sirk always reminds me Pulp Fiction,too! i mean the scene where Vincent(Travolta) & Mia(Thurman) go to dine in a place full of 50's atmosphere & when the garçon brings the menu, what Vincent orders is  Douglas Sirk Steak!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully filmed","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The color in All that Heaven Allows is phenomenal. The soft, light colors really help accentuate the actors complexion. Along with the beautiful lighting, the actors look flawless. The photography of this film is wonderful and exceptionally executed. The camera work is very well done. I loved the second scene where the woman was sitting at her makeup table and she was being shot from behind to where you could see her through her mirror. As she got up to greet her company, the camera zoomed in on the mirror to show her talking with her company. I found it very effective and unique. The locations are well picked out, especially where the maintenance man's house is beautiful and inviting. The music is well picked out for this movie. It really emphasizes and supports the movie! Great movie! Great plot! "},{"Title":"Good movie with great visuals","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All That Heaven Allows was a typical plot line with the upper class falling in love with the lower class, and the rest of society frowning upon it. Cary (Jane Wyman), a well-to-do upper class widow, and Ron (Rock Hudson), the gentleman landscaper of Cary, fall in love over a silver tipped spruce. Word spreads like wildfire in the small town, and most frowned upon their love, and Cary's children even despised Ron, because he was a lowly landscape gardener. But there story is beautiful, and they end up together in the end, like always.The most beautiful aspect to this film though was not the love story, it was the photography and the color. Set in a beautiful New England town at the height of colorful autumn, we see Technicolor at its best, capturing the beauty of Jane Wyman with her bright lips in every scene and ginger hair, and the beauty of the mountains and forest as the foliage changes. Not only that, but winter comes, and we see the beautiful snow-capped trees, with a beautiful shot towards the end of Ron's cabin surrounded by the snow, trees, and beauty of nature.The story contained a profound message, that we must be true to ourselves, which added to the beauty of the plot but mostly to the beauty of the picture and color. "},{"Title":"All That Heaven Allows (1955)","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie starts out at an all right speed. They don't really tell you anything about the movie it's one of them movie that you have to pay attance to. As the movie goes on it gives you little hints of what happen with this lady in the movie. One of thing they do make oveles is something happen to this lady that makes people look at her in a different way. The town she lives in seems to try to control her and who she is with. This movie show how much your kids can make you give up even give up the one you love because of how they feel about something even if the person makes you happy. You can tell this guy love's and after anything else and she loves him. "},{"Title":"All That Heaven Allows","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had seen this film listed as being on many times, but not once had I seen it in the daytime slot, or without sign language accompanying it, when it finally was I wasn't going to miss, from director Douglas Sirk (Imitation of Life). Basically widow and mother to two adult children Cary Scott (Stage Fright's Jane Wyman) had lived a quiet life since the death of her husband with only a small amount of particular friends. The grown up children don't live in the house full time anymore, but they come home every weekend, but it is obvious she is unhappy because she is so bored. She is encouraged to get a television by Sara Warren (Agnes Moorehead) as virtual company, but isn't really interested in that idea, she instead finds a friend in much younger springtime tree trimmer and nursery owner Ron Kirby (Pillow Book's Rock Hudson). Slowly Cary's friendship with him turn into love, and there is surprise from her circle of friends at her being with a younger man, but she ignores anything they and others say, and Ron doesn't have a problem with the age gap either. Her son Ned (William Reynolds) and Kay (Gloria Talbott) find out however and are overly against the love between them, so she decides for the sake of her family's happiness to sacrifice Ron. As time goes by it is obvious though that her children are spending much less time with her and at home, Cary is encouraged to do what she wants to do, so she does feel the urge to go back to Ron. In the end Cary does truly commit to and get back with Ron after he fell off a cliff, a near fatal accident, and she seemingly finds the happiness she had longed for. Also starring Conrad Nagel as Harvey, Virginia Grey as Alida, Jacqueline De Wit as Mona Plash, Charles Drake as Mick Anderson, Leigh Snowden as Jo-Ann, Donald Curtis as Howard Hoffer and Alex Gerry as George Warren. Wyman gives a really good performance as the emotionally up and down lonely mother, and Hudson does well as the man who brings some happiness into her troubled life, the use of bright colour really works as juxtaposition to all the misery, tragedy and ugliness of the real world, it featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, it is a most watchable melodrama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Look closely, you can see the shimmering plastic.","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All That Heaven Allows is a darker, more cynical film than Douglas Sirk's previously more conventional and successful Magnificent Obsession. Because of that film's attraction, Sirk was reunited with the two leads, Rock Hudson and Jane Wyman. The result is a more potent story and much stronger social criticism. From the opening shot, in all its Technicolor glory, we see an overhead view of a small, self-contained American town, idyllic in its existence with all the right colors and characters in their proper place. However, look a little closer and you will see the glistening of the plastic leaves and matte paintings as backdrops. Sirk shows us the surface of a seemingly perfect society while slightly skewering it by also revealing its artificiality and decadent skeletal structure. To continue this deconstruction of 1950s America, we see a newly made widow, Cary Scott, who is now resigned to living her life according to the pleasures and approval of her ungrateful children and her condescending circle of friends. On the surface, this appears to be nothing more than fodder lifted out of typical gossip magazines of the era, but Sirk with his wildly imaginative visual style gives us something more to chew on. It soon becomes clear, especially once she strikes up a romance with her muscular gardener (Rock Hudson), she is unable to truly break free from the bonds of social convention and have a true sense of understanding the world Ron gives to her. Sirk won't even let Ron off the hook. As in Magnificent Obsession, none of the character are so wonderful and virtuous that we should completely enamor ourselves to them. He himself is rather forceful, unmovable in his intentions to wed Cary without any understanding of her situation. Simply put, they both have deeply embedded flaws to deal with, a most shocking and unfortunate conclusion Sirk flaunts in front of us.If you are in the mood for a good old-fashioned melodrama, Douglas Sirk is certainly your most popular option and just might be the best. Unlike other films of its type and time like the enormously successful Peyton Place or A Summer Place, Sirk goes much deeper than anyone else. Often, his films require several viewings to get a true understanding of what he is saying about these people, this time and this place. One final note; the ending will seem to many modern audiences as simple contrivance by the studio to assure profits. However, whether or not it was what Sirk intended, looking closer may result in seeing exactly what he wants us to see unbridled selfishness for various reasons by all types of people. "},{"Title":"Lady Chatterley, American style","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A nice small film that deals with love of course, the love of a widow, with two nearly grown-up children, for the gardener of the little town, the one who is trimming and pruning their trees and hedges. The film deals nicely with social prejudice from the establishment of the city toward this gardener they consider a social climber with no value whatsoever. Apparently the children follow suit though within months they are on their own roads and don't have to give the slightest damn. Only her doctor encourages her into her project to marry the man and yield to love. And yet she breaks it up and then she suffers and she makes up her mind to bridge the gap but does not have enough courage at the last minute and then we come to the end and of course it has to be dramatic to make the happy ending really happy. There is something funny in the film that makes it entertaining, and even instructive. It is the exploration of this absurd social discrimination that has really no legitimate basis at all. These little important people in a small little city like this in upstate New York enjoy humiliating those that are stepping out of their line or those who are trying to live their lives freely and without depending on no one. A good moment of cinema, even if it has aged a little of course. One funny moment, when the woman asks the gardener, played by Rock Hudson, Would you like me to be a man? and the young man, played by Rock Hudson, answers Of course not! Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Sirk at work","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've only lately got round to going out of my way to watch for Douglas Sirk's grand melodramas in the TV schedules and was delighted to snare this fine example of his repertoire at close to its peak.Present and correct are favourite leads Wyman and Hudson. Ditto the consummate cinematography (red is the dominant colour in his palette this time), lush soundtrack music and staple setting of Mid-town America and its hybrid of class divisions and seriously disagreeable townsfolk.The story is as far-fetched as any posh soap opera can be as we witness far-from-merry widow Wyman's burgeoning affair with her younger, certainly poorer but definitely handsome gardener Hudson. Sirk takes this basic plot and uses it to expose the viewer to many of the conceits and deceits of 1950's Eisenhower-era American society, where despite wearing fancy clothes, talking in cultured tones and living in fabulous houses where the focus every week is on who's throwing the biggest party for the smart-set, the would-be good citizens (including Wyman's own spoiled and self-centred children) of Stoningham betray their propensities to gossip and philander under the cloak of external respectability. It's truly shocking, early on in the film,for example, to see Wyman, a recently bereaved widow, have herself forced upon by a middle-aged neighbour who crudely attempts to set her up for a clandestine one-night-stand.Contrasted against this immoral background chorus is straight-arrow Hudson who exhibits an almost Zen-like inner-peace and tolerance for life and his fellow-man, who with Thoreaux as his Bible and with his particular set of unaffected, avarice-free life-loving friends in tow, takes Wyman on a voyage of sometimes tortuous self-discovery and ultimate fulfilment.Sirk gives us many symbols of innocence, hope and rebirth, sometimes a little obviously (Rudolf the red-nosed reindeer gets a look-in!), representing Wyman's journey back to innocence, away from the decadence and hypocrisy of her so-called friends in society. He also gets in his favourite season Christmas, in scenes which surely inspired a thousand Christmas card designers and even gets in a not too subtle dig against the new intruder in many an American consumerist living room, the dread television.Okay, so there's a little too much sweet home-spun philosophy on the go, Hudson's character, in particular, is just too impossibly good and the ending sappy in the extreme, (at least the trademark next-to-last- reel tragedy redolent of so many Sirk epics is for once a false alarm) but it's beautifully acted by one and all, especially the leads, while the photography is stunningly beautiful, particularly some of the dolly shots looking down on Hudson's recreated mill-house. Location location location indeed, no model-work here.Films like this are what great cinema is all about for me, taking the viewer far outside their everyday experience, but yet retaining some grounding in the here and now, expostulated with intelligence, flair and above all, style. "},{"Title":"All that Heaven Allows","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film not only challenges stereotypes about social status, age, and love, but also shows how the older woman/younger man affair can be considered a damning indictment of the upper middle class in America at the time. Sirk's use of light, color and carefully staged camera work as seen in the snowy window scenes, the mirror shot and angles that give the film a unique look of a room while holding all of the characters together,and the overall strong set compositions are all perfected techniques that create a meaning full and emotional film. I feel that this film unlike singing in the rain, would of been better off in black and white. I don't know it its because of the mood of the film, or if its because I feel that the cinematography would of held more depth in black and white, but the Technicolor just wasn't as intriguing this time around. "}{"Title":"Jane Gets A Piece Of The Rock","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All That Heaven Allows is a piece of cinema romance as slick as it comes from Douglas Sirk who is one of the best directors for these films. For its time it was a daring film involving the younger man with an older woman. But couples like that from Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine to Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore should be inspired by this film.The film opens with Jane Wyman as a recent and well provided for widow with grown children Gloria Talbott and William Reynolds. They're all in favor of mother getting married again, they've even got a husband in mind for her, attentive neighbor Conrad Nagel from their country club set.But when she announces that she'd like to marry their gardener, Rock Hudson, this scandalizes everyone in their very WASPy and respectable suburban town. Rock's a rather unusual gardener however. A Korean War veteran who did attend agricultural college at one point, he's developed a Thoreau like philosophy of life, he even has his own Walden Pond where he keeps the tree nursery and spends all his time. He's even fixed up the old mill on the place as a honeymoon cottage.After such fare on television as suburban housewives, stuff like All That Heaven Allows is pretty tame and pretty dated. Still the players are earnest and sincere and it's a film where you can for once see Agnes Moorehead as a nice lady as Wyman's best friend and supporter. "},{"Title":"So-So Soaper","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A rich widow falls in love with her gardener, leading to ridicule and disapproval from her children and friends. Good-looking soap opera has Sirk pulling all the right strings. The film is particularly effective in its use of Techincolor in conveying the New England winter. Hudson is well cast as the hunky and philosophical gardener. However, Wyman seems miscast as the widow. She is rather bland and unappealing, making it hard to believe that Hudson would fall for her. Moorehead is fine as Wyman's best friend. In light of what we now know about Hudson, there's a chuckle-inducing line where Wyman asks him if he wants her to be the man in the relationship. "},{"Title":"Charming, intense, emotional","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Wyman plays the reluctant coquette, Cary, a well-to-do widow who attracts the attention of her much younger gardener, Ron (Rock Hudson). Shortly after Ron makes his intentions clear, Cary's conflicts begin to surface. Ron's age is but one of the complications that has Cary in a state of confusion. She must also contend with town gossip and familial disapproval. This is a film that conveys the often painful battle between 'head and heart'. Sirk aptly applies the concept of 'paradox'- Cary goes through the motions of 'saying' one thing, yet 'meaning' another. Ultimately, she must decide whether to take a risk and marry Ron or opt for the lonely, but 'safe' path of solitude (accompanied by a television set). Hudson's pain, when Cary initially decides to end their relationship all together, is understated and convincing. This film would be interesting if it was remade as an art film and set in the present. I wonder if the relationship would be resolved so easily? Would fate step in as it does in 'All That Heaven Allows' or would Cary obey the rules of a judgmental society and continue her life as a grief-stricken widow? Sirk leaves us with many questions about the future of the two protagonists. He also leaves us with questions about life and remaining true to oneself. 'All That Heaven Allows' is a picturesque social commentary that is a 'must-see' for all romantics.Natalie A. Trott "},{"Title":"Cheesy but funny.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having been forced to watch this film through college I was surprised to find that I, and my fellow students, found it very enjoyable.  We all hated the children, who we thought looked older than Cary.  The fact that this film was very cheesy make it funny even though it was not a comedy.  It was a good example of class differences at the time the film was set.  Its the sort of film that could be watched again and again.  We all found the end scene to be the best of the whole film. "},{"Title":"Far from Heaven","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the opening shots of a small (presumably a New England setting, although I am not sure where this was actually filmed) town during fall, to the bright blue car that pulls up to Jane Wyamn's home, to Agnes Morehead's head turning shade of lipstick, you know that All That Heaven Allows is firmly rooted in the 1950s. It's nice to see Douglas Sirk getting the critical appreciation he deserves (most recently with the full length Sirk homage Far from Heaven.) This film is gorgeously photographed (pay attention to the scene where Wyman and daughter confer in the light of the stained glass window) and well told. While this film can hardly be called a hard hitting look at 1950s society at first glance, the more you watch it, the more the subversiveness comes through. One of the most telling moments is the conversation between Jane Wyman and the wife of Rock Hudson's friend who talks about realizing how caught up she and her husband were in material trappings and how they opted out of that lifestyle. This conversation (and indeed this film) is just as resonant and important today where materialism is rampant and the longings underneath the surface are never explored.Rock Hudson is fine as Jane Wyman's landscaper/love interest. He's an incredibly good-looking man and is the recipient of one the film's funniest lines when Wyman asks him Would you prefer I was a man? Of course, this line is only funny in hindsight now that we know what we do about Hudson's life. Agnes Morehead (pre-Endora) is also very good as Wyman's best friend.As somebody who was only familiar with Jane Wyman from her work as the devious Angela Channing on Falcon Crest (a role she truly must have relished), it is nice to see her playing much more sympathetic characters in her heyday. The eeriest thing is that despite a few wrinkles as she got older, Wyman always looked the same. Wyman is very good in this film as she vascillates between the financial stability of the upper crust and the emotional satisfaction of life with Hudson. I highly recommend this film, and cant say enough good things about it. If you're not a fan of soap opera melodrama, you may want to stay away, but it's your loss as this is a gorgeous film that deserves the respect years of scrutiny have given it. "},{"Title":"The suds don't get any thicker than this...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except, perhaps, for another Hudson-Wyman movie called 'The Magnificent Obsession'. There are some genuinely moving moments in this Douglas Sirk film and most of them are supplied very effectively by Jane Wyman, Rock Hudson and Agnes Moorehead. But it's all so picture-perfect, so Cosmopolitan magazine style of story-telling that it soon starts floundering in its own soapsuds. The script has us believe that Jane Wyman's only chance for true love comes in the form of her handsome gardener (Hudson) who is not quite up to the social standards set by her friends and her two spoiled children.It's all very predictable and very romantic, with Frank Skinner's music and the lovely technicolor cinematography letting us absorb all of the emotions while Hudson and Wyman (at their most photogenic) convey the proper glances, talk and embraces. All the while we know we're watching a superior soap-opera that comes to life mainly because of the chemistry between the two stars and an outstanding supporting role performance by the ever reliable Agnes Moorehead. And it's nice to see Virginia Grey in a good supporting role.No, the suds don't get any thicker than this...but as tear-jerkers go, this is a fairly respectable one with some social commentary thrown in for good measure.  "},{"Title":"All That Heaven Allows review","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If a widow's ex-husband currently in the highest of the unknowns disapproves of her life that soon lies ahead, then it could only equate to All That Heaven Allows. In the featured-film, presented during the classical-cinema-to-trash-romantic age, Cary Scott (Jane Wyman, a delicious looking 38 years young) faces the very dilemma aforementioned. Everything Cary had stood and worked for would now be put to rest for the simplicity of a romance with an earthier and younger, lower class man. With modest charm and an Elvis-like presence, Ron Kirby (Roc Hudson) has a mystique that intrigues the likes of Cary a love for nature and the less-socially formulated things in life.Director Douglas Sirk uses many elements of nature to relate the emotions revolving this supposed abnormal relationship. From the leaves of admiration, to the trees of beauty that became dormant in its (the relationship's) growth, back to the silver-tipped spruce that concludes their love. all add up to metaphoric elements not present in your usual soap dish. The color palette of the ever-changing seasons in New England is indeed admirable, if not beautiful. For Sirk, color has a deeper meaning. Ron's cabin secretes of passionate oranges and reds-which later unfold into Cary's own household-yet blue and white pastels remind her of a past that could still remain.Sirk also routes to fine use of the mise en scene, using such reflections as the television screen of fire to Cary's in tea-kettle and mirror. Again these inanimate objects and their placement ask the question of what Cary Scott truly wants for her self. A whole salvo of shadowing also appears frequently, whenever disparity is on the arrival. As Ron introduces the idea of marriage inside of his woodland home, you can't help but notice the dawning darkness that covers his face. Later, when Cary admits her love for Ron, these shadows dissolve into fine and bright colors.Cary Scott is a commendable figure, even if the plot doesn't allow us to know much about her as a mother, or even before this gardener guy came into the picture in the first place. That's before she does the lamentable, in ditching poor Ron for the good of her own reputation. Cary's children are constantly on her back about certain issues dealing with the age and equality difference, as quoted by Kay, her overly Freudian-obsessed daughter `As we reach a certain age, sex is incongruous.' Along with her brother, Kay seems fairly capable in handling her own; leaving the old house of father isn't the end of the world, and having a mom who is no longer yearning for high society isn't either. But of course, All That Heaven Allows is a 90-minute romance novel turned soap movie. Like many Hollywood melodramas today, this whole sob story comes with a twist; one that's not exactly a shocker, but a slight improvement over much of what goes on in daytime drama.3/5 "},{"Title":"Marvelously emotional story and chemistry","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Are you sure Rock Hudson was gay?  Well, unless Jane Wyman was a great female impersonator, you could never tell it from the sparks flying between them in this quintessential love story.  Filled with all the complications and detours you'd ever want to see, the acting and direction and background music and cinematography are all impeccable.  Lots of fun, lots of weeping opportunities, a tad overlong, but worth it. "},{"Title":"An example of what it criticises--awful but fascinating","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While it doesn't rank very high by the usual criteria of dialogue, plot, characterisation, or acting, this film is utterly fascinating as a portrayal of the small-mindedness and hypocrisy of Fifties America--and of Fifties American films. The other characters ridicule the idea of Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson as a couple, but almost entirely on the grounds of class--she is a widow from one of the old families of the town, living in an old house, while he is a gardener. But how many gardeners (he actually owns a nursery) live in a huge, gorgeous converted barn in the middle of rich, beautiful countryside (ie, a property that would now be worth several million dollars, and even then, because of the land, must have been worth much more than Wyman's old house)? Of course, the more incendiary reasons for everyone's disapproval are age, sex, and money. There are only a very few, very brief, and very discreet allusions to these. Wyman never behaves in a sensual manner or trades her prim, tailored, buttoned-up clothes for anything more womanly, even though we see her having a good time at a party given by the only people in town who are jolly and informal and allow non-Wasps into their homes as guests rather than servants. Neither of Wyman's children says a word about their discomfiture that she plans to marry such a young, handsome, and, as far as they know, virile man as Rock Hudson--though, as we now know, children of whatever age are embarrassed by knowing that their parents are sexually active--even with each other. Nor do they mention their displeasure at the fact that, when she dies, their inheritance will be shared with a much younger widower (they are not troubled at the idea of her marrying a man old enough to predecease her and therefore not cut into their share).Not only was Hudson, as we now know, poor casting for an ardent lover of a woman, he is given a personality that makes him asexual and too good to be real. In their dialogues about Wyman's fears that her children and the townspeople will shun her, he is always wise and calm, despite being much younger than she, and always has a loving, sensible, word of advice. He acts so much like a guru or priest that he becomes desexualised as he takes on the role of a detached, all-knowing observer of life. In real life, surely a young man, one who knew he was antagonising all the townspeople (his customers), would be nervous and insecure and would be angry at Wyman for taking the attitude that all the risk and sacrifice were hers. She would seem to be too old to have children--doesn't he want any? Wyman claims to have been seventeen when she married, which, since she has two children in college, would make her at most 38. Yet she looks at least seven years older. I assumed this was Hollywood's typical flattery of its star, but looked her up afterwards and she WAS 38! It just shows how those hideous, prissy clothes and hairstyles of the period made women look much older than they were, as if youth was in itself an embarrassment. (Many women, ten or twenty years later, actually looked younger than they did in the Fifties because of the change in styles.) But everything that makes this a poor movie in conventional terms makes it fascinating as a document--not, perhaps, of what Americans were like in the Fifties but of what they believed, or at least wanted to believe or felt they should believe. After deciding not to marry Hudson, Wyman has terrible headaches, which her doctor diagnoses as her body taking revenge (though of course the word sex is not mentioned). This movie conveys, in its every aspect, the pain caused at that time by hypocrisy and repression. In emotional moments, the music rises to cue our feelings, a lot of slushy strings, poor-man's Tchaikovsky. The colours and lighting are often harsh and lurid--in one scene in a bedroom in Wyman's house, what looks like fluorescent light illuminates a headache-making blue-and-orange colour scheme. Everything is artificial and confining while pretending to be natural and realistic.It is hardly surprising that this awful decade, in which most people in serious movies seemed to be having a walking nervous breakdown, was followed by the let-it-all-hang-out Sixties. All that repression and dishonesty finally exploded, some of it into cleansing honesty and passion, some into hysteria and chaos.There's some more hypocrisy in the title, though only for those knowledgeable about seventeenth-century literature. The title seems to refer to untrammeled, raging passion. It makes one think of the phrase everything under the sun. Yet, though it comes from a poem by one of the most famous libertines in history, the Earl of Rochester, it treats passion lightly, even contemptuously. The rakish speaker of the poem tells his lover not to nag him about being unfaithful to her or breaking his promises, saying that if he can manage for even a minute to concentrate on her and only her, 'tis all that heaven allows, because that's how men are.It makes one wonder whether the filmmakers gave the film this tile in all innocence, just thinking it was an exciting and romantic phrase, or whether they used it knowingly, as an inside joke, to imply that Rock Hudson isn't going to be faithful to Jane Wyman after they get together--that, perhaps, the excitement for him is in winning rather than having her, making a conquest of someone thought to be above him. "},{"Title":".. you've got to take it.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You do not change a winning teamthe trio Hudson-Wyman-Moorehead is reunited again after the success of the remake of Stahl's magnificent obsession.And however,these two Sirk works are completely different.The first one is full of unlikelihoods,the plot is so maudlin that ,had Wyman not recovered sight,you would have spent the entire night sobbing .It's an exponential tear-jerker.Do not get me wrongI do love magnificent obsession,because I do love melodramas,but I want to point out that,in fact,All that heaven allows is closer to the psychological drama,with a social satire thrown in.A whole scene is given over to a discussion about THoreau's philosophy ,who ,like Jean-Jacques Rousseau,lauds a return to a simple life,close to the nature. And the hero is a gardener ,who's got his simple values and who does not care if Wyman's chic clique snubs him.Besides,the widow 's children cannot stand that their mother dare love a man who's not part of the elite of the small town ,and who's younger than her,at that!The plot in all that heaven... is simple and clearthe pursuit of happiness sometimes takes roundabout roads,but you 've got to get rid of social conventions,of so-called friends who think they got it made,of the mask you hide behind.That's the gardener 's strengthhe's himself,strong as the proverbial rock.The heroine will find her way,when she's offered a TV set by her children(to help her to forget his impossible love).Sitting alone in front of the empty screen,she sees her reflectionis it the real me? she seems to think. "}{"Title":"Probably Sirk's best US melodrama","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The dialogue and social observation in this movie seem more intelligent and pointed than in Sirk's three other big technicolor successes, but the movie cops out at the end with yet another mawkish and overblown ending.Hunter is well-suited to his role, but it's hard to see why his character would be attracted to Wyman's.  Sure, she's a capable actress, but she projects no persona or spark -- instead, she's a well-bred, sympathetic, reasonably intelligent woman of conventional spirit and somewhat dowdy appearance, despite her expensive clothes.  Hunter brags that she has great legs, but we never see them.It's ironic to see Frank Skinner credited with original music, since his one big melody, repeatedly used to symbolize domestic bliss at the old mill, is an uncredited outright steal of a poignant theme from the finale of Brahms' 4th symphony.Cinematography and lighting are predictably virtuosic, but there's also some bizarre lighting in crucial a bedroom scene between Wyman and her daughter, with the daughter's face alternating between red, green, and heavily shadowed in an awkward way.Sirk was a wickedly adept commentator on affluent American suburban mores of the 1950s, but ultimately the presumed tastes of his '50s audiences dictated sentimental cop-outs at the end of most of his films.  A fine 4/5ths of a movie, undermined by an all-too-easy resolution.  "},{"Title":"All That Heaven Allows","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sirk. Sirk Sirk Sirk. I should just write his name over and over. And I should capitalize it and blow up the font and set each letter in a different clashing color. And you will see this, and it will be loud and weird and off-putting, and you will wonder what the hell I was trying to convey, and that will accurately recreate my experience watching All That Heaven Allows.On one hand, Sirk's penchant for trivial suburban plots and bombastic melodrama alternately bores me stiff and drives me crazy. On the other hand, Sirk has been being reclaimed by the cinematic beau monde for decades, beginning almost immediately after his dismissal. The excess of All That Heaven Allows is borderline Brechtian, his portrayal of suburban America is ironically subversive, there are thoughts in the film and politics to discuss and a defense to be made.It's a major work from an important director featuring a countersuburban gospel of self-acceptance that I totally sympathize with, and yet I personally didn't enjoy watching All That Heaven Allows, and I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone, because it's just a really annoying movie. Its characters are shrill and one-note, its score and palette are uncomfortable and overwhelming, its central problems are all pointless. There's a politics to all of this, sure, but I just don't want to spend ninety minutes diving into it.All That Heaven Allows is ultimately a film that presents one cinematic method of making a political point. It's a method that I find annoying--really really annoying--but it probably deserves some space in the Great Canon of Things That Film Can Do. If you're interested in exploring that canon in its entirety, All That Heaven Allows is required viewing. Required, but not, in my opinion, particularly enjoyable. -TK 9/15/10 "},{"Title":"Nice different take on the genre.","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Basically this movie is being like lots of other romantic movies from the '50's and earlier on but with as a difference that it takes a different angle on the story. You could say that the male and female characters switched roles in this and it's about someone wanting to marry someone down her class rather that up her class. It are things like this that make All That Heaven Allows an original movie to watch, despite the fact that nothing in it really happens as a big surprise.Saying that its not very surprises doesn't mean that the movie is an ineffective one. It's a movie that does work out very well, due to its different approach and story but also due to its sincerity. It doesn't all feel too melodramatic and the characters are all ones that are not without their human flaws. It makes some of them likable, or at least recognizable. It's just easier to identify yourself with these people than with a couple of teens that are in the prime of their lives and look perfect in basically every way. In this movie the couple is not such a likely one actually, since the woman is not only older she also is a upper class member, while the man is a simple gardener. Yet the love between them feels sincere and you actually never think about their age different or the difference in class but the people around them do. This is were the movie its 'conflict' enters. The woman must choose between her safe and secure life as a respected woman, with friends in the right circles and a loving family around her or the love of a man that has not much to offer and will make her friends and family look down at her once she will marry him. This in a nutshell is its story and it's a story that simply does work out well within the movie.It definitely helps the movie and its story that the characters are not perfect ones and they are also not perfect looking ones, though Rock Hudson was still an heartthrob at the time, years before the world knew that he was actually an homosexual. Something that just wasn't accepted at all in Hollywood at the time and he actually was married to a woman at the time, to keep up appearances. Quite sad but apparently also really necessary at the time. Makes you wonder if he would had still gotten this leading type of roles in this kind of movies if he was openly homosexual. Probably not. Luckily a lot has changed over the years, even in Hollywood.The movie is an absolute charming looking one. It's funny how these early color movies are way more colorful looking then movies now days. It really gives the movie some charm and warmth. It's simply a great looking one, that got well directed by Douglas Sirk, who besides the visuals also had an obvious eye for its actors, characters and story. It's simply a greatly done film.A movie without any real surprises but still one that is greatly original with its approach and has a great story and charm in it as well.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Heaven Allows Too Little...","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cary Scott (Jane Wyman) seemingly has everything. She has two successful children, a lovely home and nice friends. She also has Harvey (Conrad Nagel) a man who is fond of her and suggests marriage to make up for the loneliness of Cary's widowhood. Into Cary's world enters Ron Kirby, a younger landscaper, with whom she falls in love. This is the main problem of the movie as Cary lives in a town full of vicious busybodies who have nothing better to do than gossip about her and her younger man. Cary's children are even worse, treating Ron coldly and having the audacity to treat their mother as a child incapable of making her own decisions. The question then becomes as to whether Cary and Ron can overcome these obstacles, and find happiness together.This is an excellent movie. The only real issue I saw was that for all the fuss made over Cary and Ron's ages, they really don't look all that far apart in age, and it seems this was noted by the costume people who dress Wyman in a much more matronly fashion than her age at the time would dictate. However, the movie hits on all the right themes, societal pressure to conform, the viciousness of gossip and the joy of love. Agnes Moorehead is particular stand out as Cary's friend Sara, who sticks by her through thick and thin. "},{"Title":"Wyman and Hudson's Best Hour","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson, upon the success of Magnificent Obsession, reunited for this stunningly beautiful film which glows with its simplistic view of life and what's important.Miss Jane is a widow who has lived for her children and when she befriends her gardener and starts to have feelings for him, she sees how it affects her children and even her country club friends. (This obviously was the direct inspiration for Far from Heaven, which definitely updated it and didn't keep the original concept at all.)I can not express how much I love this film. Running at only 90 minutes, its story speaks for itself. The seasons of the year are brought to life here in all their full grandeur and you're not likely to see them so gloriously captured again.Wyman and Hudson's acting and the feelings conveyed in the film are so understated, you will need to see this over and over again. "},{"Title":"A little satire, a little seditious","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having turned the melodrama dial down from 11 in Magnificent Obsession, the story and the style is assured and much more interesting, and while the story is fine enough its the between the line meaning that really surprises. But after fifty years our interpretation has probably overwhelmed the original picture, that is to say it has significance above its existence as a film from the 1950s.In any case the acting is better - though the men are just props and Hudson's muted low whisper is a strange version of masculinity.But the design, photography and intelligence of the direction really strike through. "},{"Title":"One of Douglas Sirk's Best","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are in the mood for a wholesome, endearing love story, this is a great one. This is a satisfying, timeless story about the price of love and happiness. This is a story about guilt, longing, loneliness, sacrifice. It is a classically written and immaculately well crafted movie. Douglas Sirk was a highly intelligent film director and similar to Howard Hawks, he had a great ability to say much in small details. Also similar to Hawks, Sirk was impeccable in his attention to stylistic presentation and consistency of tone. This is a heavily stylized melodrama, with vibrant colors, set pieces, and costuming, but in such presentation, it allows us to focus on the characters and the situation, detaching us from the mis-en-scene as a period piece. In this way, All That Heaven Allows becomes a timeless love story. This is a film made for wide appeal, and it might surprise you a bit with the power of its simplicity. If you enjoy classic love stories, All that Heaven Allows is a platinum choice. Recommended. "},{"Title":"The Best Sirk Ever","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A cursory glance at the plot-line would suggest that this is a frankly feminine fiction Drenched in stunning Technicolor, shadows, images, mirrors, with an uncanny glow, the movie stars Jane Wyman as a widowed suburbanite with 2 grown offspring who slowly falls in love with her handsome gardener (Rock Hudson), to the ire of her kids and friends. The snobbery of her society is sharply contrasted with Hudson's friends (including Virginia Grey and Charles Drake). Gloria Talbott is perky as the daughter, William Reynolds plays a hunky, but selfish son, Agnes Moorehead is her usual competent self, with Jacqueline De Wit a riot as a town gossip and Donald Curtis a persistent playboy. Leigh Snowden scores as a stunning blonde guest in 2 party scenes. But the stars are exceptional here, with Wyman displaying true anguish and torment (check out the famous scene with her reflection seen in the television set gift) and Hudson, soft spoken and impossibly handsome, earnest and soothing. Apparently Criterion thought more of this than the lesser Written on the Wind(1956) for the DVD costs $10.00 more and has additional supplements. The picture quality is as superlative as the drama. "},{"Title":"Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson in top sudser","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Following the success of 1954's melodrama, Magnificent Obsession, Universal had director Douglas Sirk churn out this glossy soap-fest. Reuniting Jane Wyman, Rock Hudson, and Agnes Moorehead from Magnificent, this film is so good and emotion-packed. Rich widow Wyman falls for her gardener Hudson, losing the respect of her children and conservative community. The visual metaphors (that Sirk was famous for) abound and it all makes for an incredibly beautiful film. Plus, Wyman looks elegant and is at her best. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile movie for its significance in development of cinema.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Wyman (38)plays an older widow who falls for her gardener played by slightly younger Rock Hudson (27). This is the film that inspired the title, and much of the content, of the recent Far From Heaven, and that was my main reason for seeing it. I wanted to mentally connect the two. The film deals mainly with the outfall of their romance, the impact on her two grown children and her socialite friends. There is gossip about the age difference (supposedly 15 years) and about his 'common' status, merely a gardener.But he wasn't really a gardener, he had only temporarily, for 3 years, served his dad's former clients after dad passed away. He really was a nurseryman, 'you have to be patient to grow trees', he asserts. And she wasn't, deep down, really the socialite that she appeared to be. Dated, but still an interesting study of social and family dynamics.I saw it on the Womens Entertainment (WE) network, I don't know if any parts were cut. "}{"Title":"Gorgeous, perfect","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gorgeous romantic story about love between a wealthy older woman and a young worker. All kinds of obstacles arise, but in the end, love triumphs. It sounds like soap opera, but it is gorgeously made, and had me wiping tears. It firmly espouses a philosophy of live-and-let-live (the opposite of `My Reputation', also a fabulous film). The dialogue is highly intelligent. There isn't a boring or vulgar moment. And the ending is one of the most beautiful and touching I have ever seen. To sneer at such a beautiful movie and such gentle feelings would be sacrilege. There was one very poignant moment the woman's children, who talked her out of marrying the lowly laborer, buy her a big TV set and say to her This is all the company you need. Here you have life's spectacle at your finger tips. The woman's horrified face is seen reflected on the set's unlit screen. That's cinematography! I don't care what the critics say, this is a truly great movie that never misfires.   Footnote When I saw the film again with my brother, we laughed uproariously as we talked about possible plot twists (why not break not just the age taboo, but also the height taboo - make Wyman's lover very, very short!). But such laughter doesn't invalidate the movie's great merits. There are countless people living confined, lonely lives, victims of ageism. It is for those (and for us) that we must shed a tear.  "},{"Title":"Post - Modern Irony is making a silk purse out of a sow's ear.....","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Come on....All that heaven allows was cheesy in 1955 and its cheesy now.The difference is, cheesy is regarded as cool in 2012 in a post - modern - ironic kinda way;but that doesn't change the fact that it is and always will be an overheated melodramatic piece of kitsch with very little to commend it. How Douglas Sirk's admirers have conned critics into considering him as a major auteur is beyond me.But I guess if you stand on a street corner and shout long enough that the moon is made of cream cheese somebody is going to believe you. We have a Lady Chatterley thing going here with Mr R.Hudson as the gardener becoming involved with the socially superior Miss J.Wyman. When they decide to marry, her children - a twenty going on fifty five boy and a girl who makes a lot of speeches but absolutely no sense - strongly disapprove,as do her friends. She dumps the young Rock so hastily it almost seems rude,but,as you know,love will find a way - and it does,but not before he falls down a cliff.Don't ask. So there you have it.And I read that this film is in the Library of Congress.It's almost enough to make me want to withdraw my subscription. "},{"Title":"Pinball Wizard","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This self-styled acerbic critique of 1950 American Middle-class mores is viciously relentless in its insincerity. Drowning in depths of fluff and littered with cliché piled on cliché and half-baked, pseudo-intellectual characterizations it's an hour and a half of sophomoric preaching shouted over a paint-by-numbers backdrop with all the technique of a high school production of a Greek tragedy. About the only persons not to get the message are those who desperately want to see a glossy romance. Even so, the presentation is so cockeyed as to make the most self-indulgent viewer uncomfortable. The acting is similar to a sick joke that makes you wince in embarrassment when it's told She walks around like a nasty little kid from broken toy to broken toy; he talks as if he's some robot alien who is new to human emotions and language. They both act like pinballs frantically bouncing off gaudy bumpers and flashing lights&#x85; come to think of it, a pinball machine is a perfect metaphor for this movie Bright, noisy, empty, senseless. "},{"Title":"All that A Good Movie Allows","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In honor of their 1954 hit, Magnificent Obsession, Hollywood decided to team Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson again for another tear-jerker.This one is All that Heaven Allows. Jane is a widow again who falls for the town gardener, nice played by Rock Hudson.Since Ron is much younger than the Wyman character, the town gossips led by Mona, an excellent Jacqueline de Wit, have a field day. The inference immediately is that the two must have had a relationship while Wyman was still wed. deWit is fabulous here. She is a woman who gets her kicks out of spreading gossip and the more vicious it is, the better she likes it. Probably bored to death with her life in general, deWit etched a character high in the classification of town yentas.As was the case with so many Jane Wyman films, Agnes Moorehead is part of this one too. She again plays an understanding friend, Sara. She attempts to warn her friend of the gossip with its ramifications. I found Moorehead to be weak here. Sirk would have been better served to have her in the Mona role. Moorehead could play real vicious when prompted to.Bowing to the town gossip and her adult children, Wyman breaks off with Ron only to find herself alone with her new television set. It has to take an accident for true love to intervene as the film ends.*** for Wyman and Hudson lovers. This film deals well with societal problems of a younger man with an older woman as well as status in social relations. Why must Carrie be concerned with how others shall view Ron? Her children prove to be selfish individuals, for as soon as their lives are complete,they are ready to dump their mother, the woman they made end her relationship so that they could maintain their status in town with their heads up high.Perhaps, the doctor has the best line in the film when he says to Carrie that you were ready for remarrying but not ready for love.All that Heaven Allows is an adequate movie but Magnificent Obsession, made 2 years was far better. Wyman was allowed to show more depth there as well as Hudson.Douglas Sirk sure was fortunate to have such great musical scores accompany his treasured films.As Jane Wyman in well into her 90s now, wouldn't it be nice if her masterpiece picture of 1951, The Blue Veil, were shown? The film is currently in litigation. Time to get this gem of a film out of mothballs. "},{"Title":"What a load of sentimental slush","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... and I loved every minute of it! Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson team up again in another weepie that is sure to have you crying into your afternoon tea! Douglas Sirk was the master of the weepie and in this one he pulled out all the stops. Rock Hudson plays the handsome gardner and Jane Wyman the lonely widow who is also the mother of two All American Brats! Fortunately Rock wins and the brats are left watching mothers christmas present, a television set! Brilliant acting, stunning photography, a film that nobody should miss. "},{"Title":"Sirk Saves Bad Material","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first thing a viewer notices about All that Heaven Allows is the startling widescreen, gorgeous color of a fantasy American autumn of an indeterminate region, a 1950's Disneyland interpretation of 1955, an updated Currier and Ives back lot. I'm not sure the print is totally preserved; it seems that the reds prevail on leaf and women's hairdo. Nevertheless, for the entire production, color is the star.The documentary about Douglas Sirk didn't say much other than the fellow ran from the Nazi's to direct Hollywood melodrama's of dubious artistic merit. If we compare the greatest film of the period by Hitchcock, Vertigo, and put it along side ATHA, there's no contest. Vertigo clobbers the melodrama in every department. The best we can say about Sirk, he has been given crummy material, and he makes something of it. Hitchcock is working with fabulous material and he makes the Mona Lisa out of it.Cult classics connect with audiences in unintended, ironic ways. ATHA is essentially a saga of Jane Wyman's widowhood and reawakened sexuality. The object of these affections is the ultimate 1950's irony, the most beautiful virile man in Hollywood, Rock Hudson playing an Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged type of philosopher, a blue collar stud. So, we know Rock died of AIDS years later as his career declined behind a screen of clucking gay bashers. Our present knowledge ads bizarre relief to otherwise envious males or women with less confidence; they know he's a fake.Since the original audience took this material about rigid class structures in the 50's seriously, something must be said about 50's sociology. After the disasters of Depression and War, Americans wanted to settle down, have babies, and make money, which they did. Affordable financing and the automobile made the suburban tract home dream possible. Little towns of New England, anywhere USA, were mythologized. The train ride to work in the big city, the ladies homemaking, clubbing, and for the well to do, the certainty of the country club and folks just like us, the right kind of folks, all this was coveted by all classes and curiously simulated by blacks, but that's another story. Read Ralph Ellison's, Invisible Man.This was the hay day of Freudian influence fifty years after the old man discovered what made the noodle tick. Everyone in Hollywood was on the couch with Freud's dubious descendants. So Wyman's daughter spouts school book Freud and Wyman looks deadpan constipated through most of the film. Her Betty Crocker hairdo doesn't help. No wonder Ron Reagan let her go. Jane Wyman in the White House, ha ha. The French ambassador would be running America. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"One of many films that inspired FAR FROM HEAVEN","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Haynes' FAR FROM HEAVEN is a NOT a remake of this film, though ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS is one of the many films which inspired the similarly titled Julianne Moore vehicle. Todd Haynes looks back at the films of Douglas Sirk in his contemporary homage, recreating the oversaturated colors, the soapy (but strangely touching) plots and highly theatrical, but intense acting style. ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS is a fascinating film and should be viewed alongside MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION, WRITTEN ON THE WIND and the Lana Turner remake of IMITATION OF LIFE, as well as other highly watchable films from the Douglas Sirk's oevre. "},{"Title":"The heart has reasons that Reason does not understand","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I don't read romance novels I do have a warm spot in my heart for this movie as it reflects the strengths and weaknesses of human beings and the general attitudes of society which is always quick to judge before it understands.Jane Wyman, as widowed Cary, leads a lonely life until Ron (Rock Hudson) enters her life bringing genuine love and a promise of happiness, but her children are against it as well as the townsfolk. Much of this is because Ron is not from the same social milieu which only judges with their artificial standards and pretences.For me it represents a lesson in life of not allowing others to lead one's life but to follow your heart in all ways, of doing what you feel is right for you irregardless of outside opinions.For some critics this movie might seem overly sentimental but I daresay the intellectuals have yet to know the power of Love that can move mountains. There is a saying, What is justice without mercy (i.e., intellect versus heart), meaning that what is in the heart is to be more valued than intellect in the final decision.It's a movie with great warmth well-tailored for those who appreciate romance, tenderness and the working out of personal dilemmas. It has a timely message about social behaviour and I always look forward to seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Silly soap opera--but I LOVED it","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 40ish Cary Scott (Jane Wyman) a wealthy widow falls in love with 20ish Ron Kirby (Rock Hudson) who is a gardener. They intend to get married but Cary's rich friends are horrified (saying he just wants her for the money) and her college-aged children are totally against it. Will they marry or will all this tear them apart? OK--it's glossy, lush, has gorgeous color cinematography, beautiful settings and costumes and wonderfully directed by Douglas Sirk--but it's NOT a good movie. All the beautiful production values couldn't cover up that this is a very dumb and silly movie.For starters, Hudson and Wyman are pretty lousy. Wyman has the same expression in EVERY shot (she looks mildly constipated) and Hudson just stands around looking stunning. Also there's a truly astounding lack of sexual chemistry between the two--I didn't believe they were in love for a second. The reactions of the friends and family to the wedding was, to say the least, overdone. I couldn't help but smirk at some of the dramatics I saw. Then they threw in a couple of jaw-dropping twists at the end which had me gasping--in disbelief! When the deer appeared at the window at the end I completely lost it--I almost fell out of my chair laughing! Audiences took this seriously?????There are some good things about the movie--the color and a VERY strong supporting cast headed by Agnes Moorehead. I am giving this film an 8--but that's mostly for the camp value. I can honestly say I was never bored--but I never believed it for a second. Very good for laughs. "},{"Title":"Precursor to All Unconventional Relationship Films","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A 40-something widow falls for her 20-something gardener. As a couple of an unconventional combination, their decisions are affected by the others surrounding them. Note the ironic conflict between conservative children and a liberal parent. Made in the 50s in America, this film is a precursor to all following films about unconventional relationships, including age-gapped, interracial, homosexual, and so on. Among them, Todd Haynes's Far From Heaven is almost a remake of All That Heaven Allows, with more contemporarily aggressive tastes, which shows how much our society has progressed in the past five decades to allow Haynes to make his masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Hasn't aged very gracefully...","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First, the directing is great. The lighting, the colors, it all brings a fake, yet cosy feeling to the movie, like that from an Christmas card. I actually liked it, and was reminded of Micheal Powells films. The acting is good, except in the emotional parts where the melodrama goes a little overboard. I usually tolerat this in older movies. Not here. The story and the melodrama just played out to conveniently, and even though the subject was handled nicely, i never felt quite convinced. The characters were to sharply drawn. Especially Ron, who never felt very believable.In hindsight the movie does feel better, but i was pretty irked during its running time, and the ending shot of the dear sure didn't help. "},{"Title":"Thick with gloss and lustre","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Calling this film 'glossy' is an understatement...it's a perfectly-packaged cauldron of soap opera clichés served in a lustrous, simmering brew. Upper-class widow falls for her groundskeeper--a much younger man!--to the dismay of her friends and now-grown children. Director Douglas Sirk knows how to mount this production so that the audience's eyes are as wet as Jane Wyman's. Trouble is, if you aren't attuned to this kind of melodrama-deluxe, you're likely to be left yawning by reel two. Lots of hand-wringing and nose-dripping, but over what? This handyman is clearly a handsome, fine choice for the woman, who comes off as something of a cold fish. The widow's children are amusingly selfish and annoying, but the widow herself is prudish. Against these odds, Wyman does manage a respectable performance, Rock Hudson is fine as her guy, and the film's super-plush production is definitely worth savoring. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"weird!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was my first Rock Hudson movie, and all I can say is, he is weird looking. His acting is very wooden and artificial, and it looks like he has false teeth.As for the plot, it is more Hollywood holier-than-thou self-righteousness. Clearly, all of the neighbors are ugly people, but Kirby is presented as a saint because he inherited his father's landscaping business and now gets to grow trees and read Thoreau.Jane Wyman is lovely, but her children are monsters. The only amusing thing was when her know-it-all daughter the psychology student weepingly admits that (paraphrase) I don't understand human nature at all!Skip this one except for academic interest. "},{"Title":"Entertaining time capsule is unintentionally hilarious","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pouty Jane Wyman sporting the worst in woman's hair fashions...pompadoured Rock Hudson...day-glo technicolor, syrupy soundtrack, impossibly bright interiors with light sources illuminating the actors from twenty directions (how can a face not have a shadow???), not to mention of course the soapy, sappy script and plot...add it all up and you get the pinnacle of achievement in fifties melodrama.Parts of the story are actually not too bad with its themes of acceptance and tolerance of the unconventional, and I actually don't mind the fact that the film is definitely not what you would consider timeless. As such, All that Heaven Allows can be regarded as an entertaining 1950s-era time capsule. Many of the scenes that one would be expected to take seriously fifty years ago are now unintentionally funny.Example and favorite scenes Widow Cary's rejection of advice to purchase the latest thing for companionship and something to do...the television set! Later it becomes a predictable Christmas gift from her son. The camera zooming in on the TV tube with Jane Wyman's disappointed face reflected in it is a real hoot...especially coming on the heels of her just learning that the selfish children she foolishly sacrificed her happiness for are now leaving the nest.Worst scenes inevitable, contrived physical calamity that occurs near the end of the film, all too reminiscent of films like the oft-mentioned Magnificent Obsession and Affair to Remember. Also, any scene involving Agnes Moorehead and her blinding, technicolor red hair.Worth watching...but it helps if you are in a hopelessly vegetative state on your couch and there is nothing else on! "},{"Title":"Little known medical fact Headaches are natures way of protesting life","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That little nugget of wisdom is brought to you by Douglas Sirk.Where to begin...Rather than waste my time attacking the latter day films of Douglas Sirk in several different places, I'll confine my comments to this location.Obviously, if you like these films, Magnificent Obsession (1954), All That Heaven Allows (1955), Written on the Wind (1957) and Imitation of Life (1959), you're probably a big fan of trashy romance novels and soap operas.  And I'll limit my comments to these four films.  I can't speak for Sirk's early filmmaking career in Europe, but I'm almost curious to see one of his earlier films to see if it's as bad as these are.Now I'm well aware that soap operas and trashy romance novels have a considerable audience, as do these films.  They must be providing some sort of substance to their audience.  My question is what kind of substance are they providing?  I'm reminded of a line in The Naked Gun by Leslie Neilson  It's like eating a spoonful of Drano.  Sure, it'll clean you out.  But it'll leave you hollow inside.  That's how I feel when I watch these films  nauseated.  In other words, these films are WRETCHED!Take the same basic stories, writing and acting and make them like most of the other films were made in the 50s, and you've got a pretty bad movie.  Even in black and white they'd be bad.  But add a palate of background color that would rival a spectrum, a full soundtrack of cheesy romantic classical music, increase the light, make the shadows darker and overdo the closeups, and the result is almost unbearable.These films are full of unlikeablle heroes and heroines (Jane Wyman in this film being the exception).  The villians are a heinous society whose only real crime is being sub-human.  If you had to choose one word to describe ANY character in any one of these films, you couldn't do it.  You'd need two words  VAIN and SELFISH.  So what is the end result?  You get films full of unrealistic characters doing unrealistic things in unrealistic situations who are trying to be thwarted by more unrealistic people in unrealistic ways.  Hmm...remind anyone of an episode of All My Children?Of these four Sirk films (his most notorious four), this (All That Heaven Allows) is actually the best one.  If I had to grade it, I'd give it a C-.  Again, only because you can see flashes of real humanity in Jane Wymans character.  But how much real humanity can she or anyone possibly display in one of these films?  Let's see, a widow (of three years) falls in love with her earthy gardener (an entrepreneur, really) but is pressured into giving him up because of the pressure put on her by her dispicable society friends and horrible children.  In Magnificent Obsession, you've got a selfish millionaire playboy who first indirectly causes a popular local doctor's death, then indirectly causes his widow to lose her sight.  Then, he dedicates his life to becoming a physician and finding a cure for her!  And, all the while, he falls in love with her!In Written on the Wind, you've got four of the more dispicable people you'll ever see on screen falling all over each other, their money and their lives.And in the topper of all of them, Imitation of Life, you've got one of the single worst films ever made.  Start out with all the same elements of any Sirk film, then add some of the worst acting you'll ever see.  Lana Turner was not a very good actress on her best days, but she is truly abominable in this film.  Also, this film has the distinction of having the two most annoying child actresses in film history, Terry Burnham and Karin Dicker playing Susie and Sarah Jane.  And the Susie character grows up to become the most annoying teenage actress in film history, Sandra Dee.  The Sarah Jane character (Susan Kohner) grows up to become cut out of the Jennifer Jones/Natalie Wood mold, being played by a beautiful white actress even though her character is partly black.  Though that's not really Sirk's fault.In a quest to try and find something redeeming in these films, you could obviously point out that they're photographed very well.  I said you COULD point that out.  I won't, because all I think that excessive and unrealistic color does is add to the overall excess and unrealism of the film overall.  Hmm...I can't think of anything.Again, I'll bring up the comparison to trashy romance novels and soap operas.  It's actually kind of ironic that, in All That Heaven Allows, Sirk actually tries to take some (very weak) jabs at television and what it might do to a lonely widow (or anyone).  To think just a short time later those televisions would be filled with the offspring of his own films, the daytime soaps.  I won't fault someone for liking these films, or soap operas, or trashy romance novels.  Hey, whatever makes you happy.  Some people love Pauly Shore movies.  Some people like Creed.  Some people like to color their hair bleach blonde.  And still others like to put velvet pictures of Elvis up on their wall.  That doesn't change the fact that these films/things are BAD and in BAD TASTE.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie for two reasons it starred Jane Wyman and it was directed by Douglas Sirk. I had heard that this was signature Sirk very camp production and situations which influenced one of my favorite directors, Pedro Almodovar, an artist who is head & shoulders above Sirk in his ability to tell a story with panache. Wyman was a good actress in her peak years, usually dependable with a good role; her Cary in this film is not one of them. She seems distracted, perhaps because of the almost complete lack of chemistry between herself and Rock Hudson. I previously thought that Hudson's worst performance on film was in Giant; I now stand corrected. He's tall, handsome, and looks great in tight pants, but he's a total cipher here; there is not one genuine moment of drama in his acting, all paint-by-number emotions. Best element in this production is seeing Agnes Moorehead *not* play the role that went to Jacqueline DeWitt that of the spiteful town gossip; Moorehead is warm, smart, & supportive all through the stilted May-September romance her pal Wyman has with the younger Hudson. What gets me most about the situation is that it was okay for Jane -- who was only 41 at the time -- to date a man who was at least 20 years older than she, but her peers go ballistic when *she* dates a guy just 15 years her junior! Sexist double-standards 50's style. "},{"Title":"This movie is very hard to digest","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm translating this movie right at this moment and I have to say that it is impossible to watch. Don't get me wrong, I'm 43, and old school movies don't scare me, but watching this one is a gruesome experience. Her son tells her that the house is a tradition of the family and therefore she couldn't sell it, and two scenes after he tells her they should sell it because it's too big. How are we supposed to eat that one? Are we supposed to believe that these are real people? And although one should put movies in it's historical context, she looks like a fat little boy. It's very hard to believe that so few years ago that woman might have been considered a beauty or classy. And she isn't a very good actress either... I don't know. Maybe this movie makes me angry because if it wasn't that I HAVE to translate it I would've never watched it. "},{"Title":"this movie was horrible","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the plot of this movie was so predictable, the drama was trite and melodramatic, the so-called social commentary was so straight-forward and obvious, the dialogue was so lame and the portrayal of the woman protagonist was that of the stereotypical helpless woman who can't make a decision without a man. I watched this for a film class and everyone was laughing outloud because it was so bad. Rock Hudson was the stereotypical rugged, individualist male so lauded in the 1950s. There was so many unintended comedic moments in this film because it was so bad.Don't see this film, it sucksit sucksit sucks "}]